K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about the increased  charges made by Embark Services  Limited on 
the self-invested personal pension (SIPP).  They say Embark are not entitled to impose  these 
charges under the terms and conditions  of the SIPP. They  also say they werent made  
aware of the option to transfer their SIPP elsewhere  at no cost.  
background
Mr and Mrs P started a SIPP in 2006  with Hornbuckle Mitchell  Trustees  Limited (now called 
Embark Services  Limited).  The only asset held within the SIPP was a commercial property, 
which I understand is Mr and Mrs Ps place  of work. 
Embark wrote to Mr and Mrs P in 2013 and 2015 about changes  to the charges applying to 
the SIPP. It also issued  an email in 2016 with reference to further changes. 
Mr and Mrs P complained to Embark  in March 2017  about the application  of property fees to 
their SIPP. In particular, they were  unhappy about the non-block insurance fee and self-
managed risk premium.  They also said theyd  not been given adequate notice of the new 
fees. 
Embark didnt uphold  the complaint. It referred to the notices it has sent to Mr and Mrs P 
about the new charges, and said it was entitled  to make the changes in accordance  with the 
SIPP terms and conditions. It also explained why it had become necessary  to add the non-
block insurance fee and self-managed risk fees.  But Embark also noted that it hadnt 
provided a block  insurance  quotation, and so agreed  to refund the fees for 2014 and 2015. 
In addition, Embark said it had noticed that no property administration fees had been raised 
between 2009  and 2013. These would have come  to £1,000 plus VAT. But Embark agreed 
to waive  these fees. 
Mr and Mrs P remained dissatisfied and referred their complaint to us. They said the fees 
Embark had imposed  had nothing to do with improvements to their SIPP.  Rather, the 
objective was to pass the burden of costs  from Embark  to them.  As such,  Embark  should 
have offered Mr and Mrs P the option  of a free transfer to another SIPP provider.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  succeed. He said the terms and conditions 
allowed Embark to increase its charges. He also noted that the terms and conditions  
confirmed that where charges were increased Embark wouldnt charge a fee for transferring 
the SIPP, although there may be costs involved in setting up a new SIPP.  
Mr and Mrs P didnt  accept the adjudicators view. In response, they said:
In addition to what theyd said already, Mr and Mrs P wanted  to draw attention to a 
previous decision  issued by this service.  In the decision, the ombudsman  found that, 
in increasing its fee, Embark had passed the burden of the costs for administering  a 
property to the consumer. The ombudsman ordered Embark to refund the fees and 
offer the consumer  a free transfer. 
There are direct  similarities between the previous case and their current complaint. 
The matter  has now been passed to me for consideration. 
Ref: DRN55337932my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint concerns new fees imposed by Embark  on their SIPP  in 
particular, the fees for non-block insurance and self-managed risk. 
I note Mr and Mrs P have referred to another complaint about the charges imposed by 
Embark. In that case, the ombudsman upheld the complaint. But I should  explain that each 
complaint referred  to this service is considered on its individual merits. So while  Ive taken 
account of the previous decision,  I have determined this complaint on the relevant 
circumstances. 
The SIPPs  terms and conditions set out how Embark may increase the fees it charges. The 
relevant section states:
28.1 Changes under  specified circumstances
We can change these  terms and conditions (including the fee schedule and permitted 
investments schedule)  for any of the following reasons:
to respond proportionately to changes in general law or decisions  of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service or The Pensions Ombudsman or the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme or a court;
to meet  regulatory  requirements;
to reflect  new industry guidance and codes  of practice which  raise  standards  of 
consumer protection;
to reflect  a change  in our corporate  structure  that does not have a significant 
unfavourable effect on your rights under the scheme but which does require us to 
make certain changes to the terms and conditions;
to respond proportionately to changes in the Bank of England  base rate, other  
specified market  rates or indices or tax rates;
to proportionately reflect other  legitimate cost increases or reductions  associated with 
providing the scheme;
to provide for the introduction of new or improved systems, methods of operation,  
services or facilities associated with providing the scheme;
to correct any mistake in the terms and conditions, provided the correction does not 
have a significant unfavourable effect  on rights  that you have as a result of the 
mistake; or
to reflect  the appointment  by us of alternative third parties to provide the services 
under the scheme  or to respond  proportionately  to changes in the terms or charges 
of any third parties appointed under the scheme.
28.2 Other changes
Further, we can change  the terms and conditions including  the fee schedule and permitted 
investments schedule if we have any other valid reasons for doing so. We will not charge for 
transferring out your individual  funds if:
a change under this section 28.2 has any unfavourable effect on your rights under 
the scheme; and
Ref: DRN55337933we receive your written request  to transfer within 30 days of notice of the change.
Although, in these  circumstances,  we will not charge for the transfer,  any outstanding 
charges will still be payable and any fees and charges for cashing in or selling assets, or for 
making an in specie transfer of any asset (see section 10.1) will still be charged. We will give 
you at least 30 days notice of any change under this section 28.2.
The non-block insurance fee and self-managed  risk premium  didnt  fall within  any of the 
examples set out in 28.1. But 28.2 permits  Embark to vary the fee schedule if it has valid  
reason for doing so. 
I note Embark sent Mr P an email in November 2015 when he initially  queried the new 
charges, in which it explained why these had been applied  to the SIPP.  It said the self-
manged fee was charged where  property  held within a SIPP  isnt being managed by a 
professional property manager. Embark  believed that non-appointment of a professional  
manager materially increased the risk of non-compliance with HMRC rules. In such 
circumstances, additional due diligence by Embark  was required.
Mr and Mrs P say this is unfair  because  they are capable  of acting as property managers, 
and they are the owners and tenants  of the property in question. But Im aware that property 
management is not their main occupation. So I think Embark is entitled  to apply its usual 
criteria when deciding if this fee is payable. 
In relation to the non-block insurer risk premium, Embark said this was charged when the 
building insurance  was arranged outside  its block policy. So while Mr and Mrs P were 
entitled to arrange their own policy,  checking  this meets  the necessary level of cover entails 
a cost to Embark.  
I note Mr and Mrs P think they are being penalised for arranging their own insurance,  which 
is more suitable  than Embarks block policy. I dont agree. As Embark as noted, the fee is 
required in relation to the cost that will be incurred in checking  that Mr and Mrs Ps policy  is 
suitable.
On the whole, I think Embark has given  valid reasons for the increased charges it has 
applied. Im also satisfied  Embark gave Mr and Mrs P appropriate notice of the proposed 
changes. Im therefore unable to find that Embark acted outside of the terms and conditions.  
Mr and Mrs P say they should  have been given  the option of a free transfer as a result  of the 
increase in charges, in accordance with 28.2. This is because the increased charges had an 
unfavourable effect on their rights under the scheme. 
I appreciate Embark didnt  refer to the option  to transfer away from the SIPP  as part of its 
notice of the new charges. While it may have been helpful if such reference had been 
included, there was no obligation for Embark to do so. But this facility  was part of the terms 
and conditions from the outset, and so was always available to Mr and Mrs P. 
Im also mindful that Mr P is a professional financial adviser, who I think it would be fair to 
assume is familiar  with transferring pension  schemes. As such,  Mr and Mrs P should have 
been able to verify the options  available to them under the SIPP,  and to make the relevant 
enquiries of Embark.  Overall, Im not convinced Mr and Mrs P were disadvantaged because 
Embark didnt make specific reference  to the option  to transfer the SIPP  when notifying them 
of the charges.  
Ref: DRN55337934As noted above,  Embark agreed to refund some of the fees it charged,  and not seek 
payment of other  fees it had omitted  to ask for. As such, the impact of the higher  fee 
structure has been reduced  for Mr and Mrs P. In the circumstances, I dont think  Embark is 
required to do anything  more. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint and make  no award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 April 2018.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5533793