K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Bank of Scotland plc trading  as Halifax  has been sending  
correspondence related to the mortgage to her ex-husbands former  address. Mr and Mrs T 
want to insure that this doesnt happen  to anyone else and that they are fairly compensated 
for the stress  they suffered.
background
Mrs T phoned Halifax in May 2019  about a payment  plan for her mortgage and it became 
clear in that call that Halifax had been sending their correspondence to both their and Ms Ts 
ex-husbands address. Mrs Ts ex-husband has nothing to do with the mortgage.
Halifax says that the address for Mrs T was correct on its system until 2015 when it was 
changed to her ex-husbands address. Halifax cant explain  why this happened  but offered 
compensation of £500, £50 for protective registration with CIFAS  for two years and £20 for 
Mrs Ps taxi fares. Our investigator felt that the compensation offered seemed appropriate. 
Mr and Mrs T disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Something went wrong here when  Mr and Mrs Ts mail about her mortgage was sent to the 
address of her ex-husband and Mr and Mrs T are understandably upset about  it. 
Unfortunately, Halifax cant tell us why it happened but there  seems  to be a data breach 
where information held by Halifax  has been  passed to a third party.  I see that our 
investigator has passed on details of the Information Commissioners  office to Mr and Mrs T 
who is the regulator in such matters.
Halifax has accepted  that it shouldnt have  done this and says it has taken the appropriate 
steps to insure  it isnt repeated in the future as we would expect it to do. Mrs T makes the 
point that this shouldnt have gone  on for so long and clearly  it shouldnt Mrs T also makes 
the point that there may be other  people like them going through the same thing if its so easy  
to change an address  on the system  without  explanation. But whilst  I believe that the point is 
well made we arent the regulator nor is our role to punish financial businesses for the way in 
which they operate their systems.
I have to consider  the appropriate level of compensation  due to Mr and Mrs T. Ive looked  at 
whether I can compensate them for any financial loss but there  is no evidence that this 
caused Mr and Mrs T financial  loss or any evidence  that the information provided  to a third 
party has been  used  against them as is sometimes the case-so  I cant  compensate  them 
financially for any loss.. Although Mr and Mrs T refer to stress  and anxiety they dont refer to 
any medical intervention  as a result. 
I can compensate them  for their trouble and upset. I of course recognise the upset that has 
been caused to them by the possible disclosure of personal information about  their arrears 
to a third party on several occasions. I realise that money cant  truly compensate for such  
upset. Mr and Mrs T have  referred  me to other decisions made  by this office. I have indeed 
Ref: DRN58389082reviewed several but Im of the view that the amount offered by Halifax is appropriate and on 
that basis I cant fairly uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5838908