K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is about  the service  received from Ascot  Lloyd Financial Services 
Limited (Ascot) between  2017 and 2018.
background
History of the complaint begins  before 2017. However, both parties  reached  a settlement in 
January 2017.  The settlement was for service related issues prior to that. At the time of the 
settlement Ascot  proposed a meeting to review Mr Bs investments. It also clarified  that his 
previous expectation  of quarterly review meetings would not be met and that he would 
receive no more than one review meeting  per year  in addition  to which he was invited to 
contact Ascot whenever he needed assistance.
Mr B says the present complaint is about  service  related issues  after the settlement  during 
a period of around 18 months  between 2017 and 2018. He summarised the issues  as 
follows:
He sought  to terminate Ascots appointment in 2017 and gave instructions to this 
effect, but Ascot ignored this and continued  to charge fees for his portfolio.
Despite the considerable  revenue it received from fees (based on his sizeable 
portfolio) Ascot unreasonably  quoted him a fee of around £5,000 to transfer a trust 
fund to his daughter.  It reduced  the quote  to £2,500 but that too was unreasonable.
He was not told that Ascot had merged with another firm and had moved offices. 
Despite historic problems with changes of advisers, his adviser left in 2018 but Ascot  
did not inform  him about this. He subsequently spoke, over the telephone, to a new 
adviser who told him he was no longer a client of Ascot. This was premature, given 
that he did not transfer his portfolio away from Ascot until 2019.
He should  have received two review meetings in 2018 but did not.
Ascots position is mainly  as follows:
The matter of review meetings is historic and it clarified to Mr B, in January 2017,  that 
he would  receive no more than one review  meeting per year.
It engaged  with Mr B in 2017 with regards  to his request to transfer his portfolio. It 
wrote to him in July and October that year to confirm that he could do so without any 
fees. He thereafter  decided  not to proceed with the transfer. He then changed his 
mind in 2018 and around the time of his complaint. His transfer out request was then 
processed and in October 2018  he was given  information  about  fees received.
The historical issue about changes in advisers  was resolved in the 2017 settlement. 
It apologises for any misinformation  given  in the alleged telephone conversation but it 
cannot verify Mr Bs account of the conversation without hearing it.
It did not do anything  wrong by quoting fees in response to Mr Bs enquiry and it 
could find no evidence  that the proposed trust fund transfer ever proceeded.
News  of the merger was given in writing to all clients in July 2017  and it apologises  if 
Mr and Mrs B did not receive  this. It also spoke to Mr B in October  2017  about the 
changes. [There  is also a letter  to Mr B dated 2 October 2017  in which  it clarified that 
a particular office in his region remained open.]
It should not have to propose another settlement after the settlement in 2017 and in 
light of its responses  to the present  complaint issues.
Ref: DRN57520992One of our adjudicators considered the complaint. He initially took the view that the 
complaint should  not be upheld  for reasons broadly similar to those initially given by Ascot  
 then he sought, without success,  to mediate between the parties. The matter  was then 
referred to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  agree  and so do I  that all matters  prior to and resolved within  the settlement 
of January 2017 are beyond the present  complaint.  I do not address any of those  matters.  
This applies to the historical issue about changes  in advisers. With regards to the change  of 
advisers in 2018  I empathise with the inconvenience Mr B has described.  However,  he 
appears to accept that a new adviser made contact with him at the time. I appreciate that the 
departed adviser  was his preference, but the implication is that Ascot  provided  him with a 
substitute adviser as it arguably should have.  
I have not seen enough evidence about the substitute advisers alleged statement that Mr B 
was no longer a client of Ascot. I consider  that Mr Bs description  of the telephone call is 
sincere. However, that does not mean it is complete. Even  if the statement was made it is 
more likely (than not) that it would have been  supported by context.  In the absence  of 
evidence of that context and given  that the substitute adviser appears to have initiated the 
contact with Mr B, I am not persuaded to conclude  that Mr B was not considered an Ascot 
client at the time.
The matter  of the trust fund transfer does  not appear  to have caused a tangible financial 
detriment. I have not seen evidence that the transfer proceeded. I understand Mr Bs 
reasons for objecting  to the fees that were quoted by Ascot,  but Ascot  was entitled to quote  
fees for the specific  services it provided   and Mr B was entitled to decide not to proceed on 
the basis of such  quoted  fees, which is what he appears to have done.
There is evidence in Ascots January 2017 letter  to Mr B that the arrangement for no more 
than one review meeting  per year was confirmed to him.
There is also evidence in Ascots  letters to Mr B in July and October  2017  that he was told 
he could transfer  his portfolio without outstanding fees. I appreciate Mr Bs explanation about 
instructing this transfer further in writing  but, due to confusion about Ascots office address, it 
appears to be suggested  that his instruction was hindered in transit. In any case, the balance  
of evidence suggests that Mr B changed  his mind about the transfer. I have not seen 
evidence of him persistently pursuing  it after Ascots letters  which would be reasonably 
expected from a client who was insistent on leaving a firm  and evidence  of subsequent 
events in 2018 shows that he knowingly remained a client  at the time (and after 2017).
I consider that Mr B was probably unaware  of the merger, but I have  not seen enough 
evidence to suggest that Ascot did not notify  its clients as it says it did. In addition  and with 
regards to the matter  of an office move, Ascots letter to him on 2 October 2017 notified him 
that an office in his region  remained open.
Ref: DRN57520993my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Under the rules  of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my 
decision before  10 January  2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5752099