K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that Barclays Bank PLC mis-sold her a Help to Buy ISA by not telling her 
that it could only be used to buy a property  up to £250,000 outside London.
background
Miss R says she opened the account  in October  2016. But at no stage was she told that she 
wouldnt be entitled to the Government bonus  on the ISA if the property she bought was over 
£250,000(outside London). Miss R says she bought a flat which  cost more than the limit and 
didnt receive the Government bonus she was expecting.  And if shed been told about the 
limit then she wouldve  invested her money  elsewhere and invested in a Lifetime  ISA
Barclays says its staff member that dealt  with the application no longer works for it and cant  
establish exactly what was said. But it says it gave Miss R the account terms and conditions 
as well as a link to the Government website  which contains further information on the Help to 
Buy ISA rules. It also says its not responsible for those  rules or the bonus.
Miss R didnt accept that view and brought her complaint to us. Our adjudicator thought  that 
Barclays had dealt  fairly with her complaint.  She thought Barclays  had given Miss R the link 
to the Government  website  on this type of ISA and so couldnt say the product had been 
mis-sold. The adjudicator  thought Miss R had benefited from the tax free status of the ISA 
and didnt think she wouldve been able to have received  the equivalent amount to the bonus 
if she had invested  in another type of product.
Miss R doesnt accept that view and says she shouldnt be expected  to look through the 
terms and conditions on this important point. She says she couldve invested in a Lifetime  
ISA and wants either Barclays or the Government to pay her the money she lost. Miss R 
also says the interest she received on the ISA was minimal and she made it clear  to 
Barclays that she intended buying a property over £250,000.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for largely the same reasons. I realise Miss R will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly she feels  about  whats  
happened.
Im satisfied that this was Miss Rs decision to take out the Help to Buy ISA and Ive not seen 
any evidence that this was an advised sale. I can see that Miss R was given the account  
terms and conditions as well as a link to the Government website for further information on 
this type of ISA. Im satisfied that Barclays  doesnt set the eligibility rules here but the 
Government and that those  rules  would be subject to change.  So Im satisfied Barclays has 
provided sufficient information  about  the ISA and directed Miss R to the website to find out 
further information about it and if it met her needs. I also think  that its up to Miss R in these 
circumstances to decide on the appropriate  type of account she wanted.  And that she 
couldve cancelled it if it wasnt suitable for her.
I appreciate Miss R says that if shed known about  the limits, then she wouldve  opened  a 
different type of account  a Lifetime ISA, in order to obtain  the bonus  and assistance from 
the government  for first time buyers. But I dont think a Lifetime ISA was available  in 2016 
and were not brought in until April 2017.  And it was some considerable time after they were 
Ref: DRN54933932introduced before any of the banks  and building societies offered them. So Ive come to 
conclusion that even if Miss R had been aware  of the restrictions in 2016 then she wouldnt 
have been able to take advantage of this alternative  product.
Overall I dont think Barclays has made a mistake  here or acted unfairly. I also make clear  
that I couldnt order the Government to pay the bonus Miss R would like in any event.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5493393