K822xcomplaint
Miss G complains  that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  failed  to treat her fairly when she got into 
financial difficulty.
background 
Miss G had a loan with BoS and had been making monthly payments for several  years. 
However a change in Miss Gs personal circumstances meant she was no longer able to 
keep up with the repayments.
BoS wrote  to Miss G about her missed  payment, and also sent a default notice around six 
weeks after shed made her last payment. The default notice told Miss G she needed to pay 
arrears of just under  £450 by 28 August. And it set out what might happen if she didnt. 
On 28 August Miss G emailed the address BoS had given in its letter. She explained  shed 
just received the letters and had been struggling financially. Miss G said shed made 81 of 
the 84 repayments of her loan. She proposed a repayment plan of £200  per month to clear 
the last three instalments, starting  with the payment  due on 15 September.
Miss G didnt  hear back from BoS,  so she sent a second email on 13 September. Miss G 
said she wanted to set up a repayment plan to address the outstanding balance.  She 
received no response  from BoS,  so she next sent an income and expenditure form through 
the post.
In early October, BoS wrote to Miss G. It said itd received the income  and expenditure form, 
but said it couldnt consider a repayment plan until itd received an offer of payment. This 
letter showed Miss Gs balance to be £130.50,  and BoS later confirmed the same  amount on 
a call.
Miss G offered  to pay £60 per month starting  in January, proposing  a review in two months. 
She didnt  receive  a response to her offer and later that month, BoS defaulted her account. It 
went on to pass Miss Gs balance to a debt collection  company.
BoS has said the email  address Miss G used wasnt being monitored.  And that was why she 
hadnt received  a response. And rather than owing  £130.50, it said her true balance  had 
been £1,230.50.
Miss G complained to BoS. She said it was unfair  that her account had been defaulted, 
given that she had been trying to enter into a repayment agreement.  She also expressed 
confusion over her outstanding balance and said the situation had impacted her mental 
health. 
BoS accepted it had made mistakes with the account balance and gave Miss G £200 in 
recognition of the poor service shed experienced. But it said it wasnt willing to remove  the 
default it had recorded, or to recall the balance from the collection company. Miss G was 
unhappy with this outcome and brought her complaint  to us.
One of my ombudsman colleagues considered Miss Gs complaint and issued  a provisional 
decision. It outlined  her conclusions which Ive summarised below.
Ref: DRN55141112Miss G missed  out on the opportunity to discuss entering into an agreed repayment plan 
with BoS due to its error in not reviewing and responding  to her email correspondence;
Although Miss G was unable to meet her contractual monthly payments, it doesnt 
necessarily follow that the only outcome would be that her account would be recorded as 
being in default;
Miss G has been compensated for the poor customer service she received. The 
ombudsman thought the amount given was fair with regards to the distress and 
inconvenience caused. But said the banks actions resulted in a default which might have 
been avoided.  So she thought BoS should  remove the default from Miss Gs credit file; 
and
The ombudsman concluded it may be possible for Miss G to pay more  than £50 per 
month and said BoS should discuss this with her. And she said no further charges 
should be added to the amount  to be repaid.
BoS responded accepting  my colleagues  provisional conclusions. Miss G also responded 
and accepted the provisional decision. She said she had concerns about  the affordability  of 
the lending, but said she would contact  BoS directly to raise a new complaint about  this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive also considered the relevant regulatory  guidance set out in the FCAs Consumer  Credit  
Sourcebook (CONC). CONC 7.3 sets out the considerations a lender should take into 
account when  dealing with a customer in arrears. And this includes the need  to treat the 
customer fairly, to allow a period of forbearance where appropriate, and to allow  the 
customer reasonable time and opportunity to repay the debt.
I agree  with my colleague that Miss G missed out on the opportunity  to discuss  entering  into 
an agreed repayment plan with BoS due to the email address it provided  not being  
monitored. Although  there were other ways Miss G could have got in touch, BoS should  
have foreseen  the possibility that some customers would use the email address it provided. 
And Ive seen no evidence which leads me to think Miss G should have been  aware  the 
email address she used  was one that wasnt monitored, or that her correspondence wouldnt 
be received.
I also agree  that had BoS reviewed the emails Miss G sent,  it would have seen that she was 
making repayment proposals, which might have avoided the subsequent actions that led to 
the default being recorded. I say this because,  although Miss G was unable to meet  her 
usual monthly payments,  it doesnt automatically follow that her account would default. In 
line with the regulatory guidance  set out in CONC 7.3, BoS was required to treat Miss G 
fairly, to allow a period of forbearance  where  appropriate, and to allow her reasonable time 
and opportunity to repay the debt.  And I dont  think BoS did this, due to Miss Gs repayment 
proposals not being acknowledged. I cant say whether or not Miss G would have kept up 
with the repayment plans  she suggested,  as BoS didnt  enter  into a repayment plan with her, 
so this wasnt tested.  
Ref: DRN55141113Finally I agree that the amount of compensation BoS has already offered is sufficient to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss G in its handling  of her 
correspondence and the incorrect information  it gave  about the balance she owed.  
And I agree the default should be removed from Miss Gs credit  file. I say this because 
Miss G made efforts to set up a repayment plan with BoS, and has been  making  payments 
whilst waiting for her complaint to be resolved. And as Ive explained, I think  BoS should 
have done more to consider Miss Gs proposals and her situation, in line with the relevant 
regulations. 
I dont think any further charges  should be added to the amount Miss G owes,  due to the 
distress caused to her by BoS failing to consider her repayment offers. And because all 
interest has been factored into the total sum to be repaid. 
It may now be possible for Miss G to pay more than £50 per month  and BoS should discuss 
this with her directly.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold this complaint and direct Bank  of Scotland  plc to:
remove the default from Miss Gs credit  file;
refund  any missed payment charges applied after 28 August 2018; and
discuss a new affordable repayment  plan with Miss G, taking into account her current  
and anticipated  future  financial  position .
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Gemma Warner 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5514111