K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains on behalf of her late husbands (Mr Ts) estate. 
She says Mr T should have been advised by Bon Accord  Life, a predecessor of Lifetime  
Protection Services Ltd (the business), to put the life assurance  policy  he was taking in trust.
background
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said this was a non-advised sale and the business  made  clear  to Mr T that it 
wasnt giving  him any advice and didnt advise  on trusts in any case. 
Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators view and in short, said:
Shes aware the business didnt give advice  to take out the policy,  but she still 
believes that it had a duty of care, to explain how putting a policy in trust would work.
Mr T was the sole director of his business,  and Mrs T believes hed have made  this 
clear to the business. So had the business advised  him about the trust, hed have 
followed this advice  and avoided any financial disadvantage. 
Shes disappointed that the business didnt  have any of the relevant call recording 
despite saying  it records all its calls.  
The Citizens Advice said the product  was mis-sold, so shed like an ombudsmans 
decision on the complaint.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusion for much the same reasons. On 
the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs T says Im unable  to safely  
conclude that the business was wrong not to advise  Mr T about the benefits of placing the 
policy in trust.   
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mrs Ts strength of feeling  about this matter.    
She has provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  she wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mrs T and the business,  and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by this. Its for me to decide, based  on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Ref: DRN54518912On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that the policy was taken out on a 
direct basis. In other words it was sold without financial advice.  
I think its likely that Mr T bought the policy of his own volition  its possible he thought  it 
would provide adequate  cover for his mortgage   but Im unable  to consider the suitability  
of the policy. I believe  the onus was on him to make sure the policy  including  whether  to 
place it in trust  was suitable for his circumstances. 
I note the product itself isnt generally  considered  complicated and it could be possible 
thatMr T wouldnt  have needed advice to take it out. 
Its possible Mr T, as the sole director of his business, and seeking  to protect his mortgage  
mightve placed the policy in trust if he was advised to do so. And in hindsight  it mightve  
been a sensible  course of action for Mr T given his outstanding business debts. But in the 
circumstances I cant blame the business for not advising him to do so, because  it wasnt  
under an obligation to.
I think the business provided  sufficient information that suggested  he ought to get advice if 
he wanted to place the policy in trust  whether  or not he referred  to his mounting business  
debts. Even  though I understand its regular for policies of this nature not to be in trust. 
Mrs T doesnt disagree that the business  didnt offer advice or set up the trust. But she feels 
it should have  just told Mr T to put the policy in trust and/or  advised  him of the benefits of 
doing so in his circumstances. But in this instance on balance  I dont think  the business was 
obliged to tell him this, and it hasnt done anything wrong by not doing so. 
Having taken all these  factors  in to consideration, Im unable to safely conclude  this was an 
advised sale. Given I dont think the business  was under any obligation  to advise Mr T to put 
the policy in trust. I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Whilst I appreciate Mrs Ts frustration Im unable to require the business to do anything  
because I dont think it has done  anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5451891