K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs S says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Mrs S took out in 1994. It was 
sold to her in-store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ss case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL should have  taken  reasonable steps to make  it clear the PPI was optional.  Mrs S says 
she wasnt aware she had PPI. 
FICL has provided a copy of Mrs S application form. The form has a section for the PPI and 
applicants have to tick a box to say yes or no to taking out the PPI. On Mrs S form, the 
yes box has been ticked.  Mrs  S has signed the overall credit  agreement so I think  if there 
was anything on the form she wasn't  sure about or hadn't agreed  to, she would've had the 
opportunity to question  it at the time.  
On balance I think FICL made it clear that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt  have  to check if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs S got the information  she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. Mrs S says she had a medical condition at the time.  Looking at what  shes told us 
about her condition, I think its unlikely Mrs S would have thought this would be the main 
reason she might have  needed to claim on the policy in the future. And the policy would 
have covered Mrs S for other things. And based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover.  
The PPI wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay Mrs S was entitled  to, as well as helping 
her cover payments if she lost her job. Mrs S says she had savings but having the PPI 
wouldve meant her savings could have been used for other essential costs if she was 
Ref: DRN59860112unable to work due to illness or become unemployed. So I think it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs S has said, but for the reasons explained above 
these points dont  change my decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5986011