K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with her travel  medical  insurance  
claim. My references to Aviva include its emergency  assistance  service and complaint 
handler.
background
Mrs G had travel insurance through a bank account, the insurer  is Aviva. While she and her 
family were on holiday abroad  her son became ill. Mrs G contacted  Avivas  emergency 
assistance service who arranged for a local on call doctor to see her son and tonsillitis was 
diagnosed.
Mrs G complains that the attending  doctor  prescribed inappropriate medication  for her son. 
She says it was only because the pharmacist queried the prescription that the correct  
medication was prescribed. 
Aviva looked  into Mrs Gs concerns about the incorrect  dosage. It was told the pharmacist  
spoke to the doctor and the doctor's  management and the dosage was correct.  Aviva gave 
Mrs G details about the dosage. Aviva said its assistance team hadnt made an error but it 
made a goodwill offer to waive the claim excess and pay Mrs G £100 for her distress and 
inconvenience.
Mrs G complained us. She doesnt  agree the doctors prescription was correct.  She would  
like more compensation as she says her holiday was ruined with worry about what  might 
have happened. She also wants Aviva to confirm  the doctor is held accountable for the error 
and that it wont  use the doctor in future.
 
Our investigator said Aviva wasn't responsible for the attending doctor advice and actions. 
Mrs G disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans  decision. She said Aviva should vet doctors  it 
used and it hadnt confirmed to her it wouldnt use the doctor again. It also hadnt  refunded  
the excess or paid the £100  it offered although she thought the offer insulting.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G feels very strongly about  her complaint and I understand  how distressing it must have 
been for her when  the pharmacist said the prescribed  medication wasnt  suitable  for her son. 
But I dont uphold this complaint as I dont think Aviva did anything wrong. Ill explain why.
Aviva made enquiries about Mrs Gs main issues, which was reasonable, and its evidence is 
an appropriate dosage  was prescribed.  Mrs G doesnt agree its findings.  But even if the 
doctor did prescribe  the wrong dosage Aviva isnt responsible for any incorrect  medical  
advice the doctor gave.  The doctor isnt employed by Aviva. 
Under the policy Aviva provides emergency  medical  assistance. It did so by using a service 
to arrange for a local doctor, which was reasonable. Aviva needed  to use a suitable service 
with an appropriately  qualified doctor, and she was. Aviva can reasonably understand that a 
Ref: DRN57292152suitably qualified doctor can provide the required service. As our investigator said,  if Mrs G 
believes the doctor was medically negligent  she can complain to the doctor and the doctor's 
professional body. 
As our investigator also explained, were not the regulator so we cant  tell insurers  how to 
run their business. That means we cant tell an insurer which doctor it can and cant  use in 
the future  to provide a medical service.
Avivas offer to Mrs G was on the basis of goodwill, and not an acceptance  that it had done 
anything wrong. I dont think Aviva has done  anything wrong. I note what Mrs G says about 
the offer but she may want to contact Aviva direct  to see if its offer is still available.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5729215