K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says HFC Bank Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
alongside a personal loan.
background
Mrs B applied for a loan to buy electronic equipment in 2000. At the same time, she took out 
a PPI policy to cover  her monthly repayments if she was unable  to work due to disability or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. Mrs B disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The PPI was sold in-store.  Mrs B says she wasnt told the PPI was optional  and that she was 
led to believe she had to have PPI if she wanted  the loan. Its been  almost 20 years  since  
the sale so understandably there  are some gaps in the information  thats  still available.  
However, HFCs been able to provide a copy of Mrs Bs signed loan agreement. 
The loan agreement  included  a section on PPI and stated that a cross in the relevant box 
indicated that Mrs B wanted to apply for cover. The cross on Mrs Bs form was printed. While 
I cant say for sure how it came  to be added, Im satisfied there probably was a discussion 
between her and the adviser about  PPI before  it was added. 
Overall, I think it likely Mrs B was aware the PPI was optional  and agreed for it to be added, 
knowing she didnt have  to.
Had HFC advised Mrs B to take PPI, it should have checked to see if it was right for her. I 
dont know what checks HFC carried  out but, even if it didnt do any, I think the PPI was right 
for her in any case. I say this because, from experience of the typical  features of HFCs 
policies and from what I know of Mrs Bs circumstances at the time:
Shed have been  eligible  for the PPI. And it doesnt look like shed  have been  affected 
by any of the main  things the PPI excluded  or limited  cover  for.
Mrs B says she was entitled  to enhanced sick/redundancy pay that meant she didnt 
need PPI. But the PPI benefits were considerable and would potentially have covered 
her repayments for up to 12 months  per claim.  So I think  shed have valued the 
additional protection the PPI provided. Although Mrs B says she held life and critical 
illness cover, this wouldnt have helped her if she wasnt  critically ill but was 
nevertheless too sick to work,  or if she became unemployed. The PPI would  have 
helped in those  circumstances.
Ref: DRN53986642Theres nothing to suggest the PPI  at just over £5 a month  wasnt  affordable to 
Mrs B and she could have cancelled it at any time if she no longer  wanted it.
Its possible the information HFC gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have 
been. But as Ive already  explained,  its likely she chose to take it out  so it looks  like she 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been  useful for her if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information about the 
PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mrs Bs lost out because of how HFC sold her 
the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5398664