K822xcomplaint
Mr T had complained about the amount Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited 
settled his guaranteed asset  protection (GAP) insurance claim for.
Reference to Red Sands  includes its agents.
background 
Mr Ts car was vandalised and deemed a total loss. His motor  insurer settled his claim for 
the loss of his car, valuing it at £6,760. Mr T claimed on his GAP policy.  Red Sands  settled  
the claim paying £1,745. Mr T didn't think that was enough  and brought his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 October  2019.  For ease  I've copied the keep points 
from my provisional findings  below.  I said:
Its clear  that Mr T had an expectation  that his GAP policy  would pay out more than Red 
Sands settled his claim for. And, as I go on to explain, I don't think Red Sands has settled 
his claim fairly. But my reasons for that are not the same as the reasons Mr T complained.
It seems  to me that Mr T hasn't fully understood the benefits of his policy. But I don't think  
thats because  the policy is unclear or that Red Sands misapplied the policys  terms as they 
appear in Mr Ts policy documents. .
Mr T bought  his policy roughly two and half years  after he bought his car. And the policy  he 
bought is a return  to value policy. And what it covers is set out in the policy  as follows:
If within the period  of cover the vehicle is classed as a total loss we will pay the difference, 
up to the claim limit, between the vehicle value and loss value.
And it goes  on to define vehicle value and loss value  as:
Vehicle Value: The lesser of the current value declared by you on the schedule or [a well-
known trade  guides  (the Guide)] mid-book value  for a vehicle of the same  make,  model 
specification level, age, book mileage and overall condition  on the inception date.
Loss Value: The motor  insurers settlement or, if greater, the  Guide retail value for 
purchasing or replacing the vehicle  with one of the same make, model, trim level,  book 
mileage, service history  and overall  condition.
In other  words the policy is designed  to pay the difference  between how much  Mr Ts car 
was worth at the time he bought his GAP policy and how much it was worth  at the time it 
was deemed a total loss.
In Mr Ts case, using the Guides mid-book valuation the vehicle value at the time Mr T 
bought his policy was £8,535. And the loss value  was £6,790  as given by the Guides retail 
value at the time Mr Ts car was deemed  a total loss. So Red Sands paid him the difference 
between the two valuations, which was £1,745.
Mr T doesn't  think that calculation was fair. That's because Mr Ts motor insurer said the 
cars valuation at the point of loss was £6,760.  And from that it deducted Mr Ts £250 
excess. Then from the remaining  £6,510  it deducted  roughly £1,492,  which was the amount 
Ref: DRN51657842of finance Mr T still owed on his car, and it paid that sum directly to the finance company. So 
Mr Ts motor insurer actually paid Mr T around £5,017  and not £6,790. So it seems  that Mr T 
thinks Red Sands should  have paid him the difference  between his motor  insurer settlement 
of £5,017, and the vehicle value of £8,535, which would have been £3,518. 
But the policy doesn't say at any point that it will pay an extra  benefit  to cover any sums still 
owing to the finance company. It covers  the difference in his cars value between the date he 
took his policy out and the date of loss. And I think it's clear that it will base the loss value on 
the greater  so the highest amount  of the motor insurers  settlement  or the Guides 
valuation. And as the Guides valuation was higher than the motor insurer's settlement it was 
appropriate that Red Sands used the Guides valuation, rather  than the actual amount Mr T 
received from his motor  insurer,  when  calculating the GAP  settlement. So I think  Red Sands 
calculated its settlement as described in the policy.
But that doesn't mean Red Sands has treated Mr T fairly. Red Sands settles claims by 
deducting the loss value  from the vehicle value. That means that its settlement will be 
smaller when the vehicle  value is low and the loss value  is high. And I think the way the 
policy is worded works unfairly in Red Sands favour.
Red Sands starting  point  when settling a claim, is to find the vehicle value. And in this case 
that is the mid-book valuation  from the Guide. But I don't think it's fair for Red Sands to use a 
mid-book valuation for the vehicle value but the retail valuation for the loss value.  It might  
help if I explain that, as I understand it, the Guide doesn't currently provide its own mid-book 
valuation. Instead  it provides  two separate valuations for every car, those are: a trade value 
and a retail value. The trade value is based on what a car will sell for on a wholesale basis, 
for example at auction  or between motor traders.  In contrast, the retail value is based on 
how much  a dealer  is likely to receive  if they sell the car on their forecourt. 
So the retail value will always have  an element  of profit built into it by the dealer. That means 
that the Guides  retail  value will always be higher than its trade value. And to calculate a mid-
book figure  Red Sands  simply takes the average of the trade and retail values. That means 
that the midbook valuation will always be lower than the retail value. And in Mr Ts case the 
retail value was £9,430,  but the trade  value was £7,640, producing an average  of £8,535. In 
other words the mid-book  valuation of £8,535 is £895 lower  than the retail  value of £9,430.
The next stage  for Red Sands is to calculate  the loss value. And it does so by choosing the 
higher of the Guides retail value or the insurers  settlement. In Mr Ts case  the Guides retail 
value is higher than his motor insurers settlement. So it used the Guides retail  value as the 
loss value. But its notable  that Red Sands doesn't use the lowered mid book valuation  at 
this stage. And, as described above, the Guides retail value will always  be higher  than the 
mid-book valuation... And by doing  that its skewing the calculation in its favour  to artificially 
lower its settlement. I don't think thats  fair or reasonable as thats approach will always  
reduce the amount that it pays out to an eligible  policyholder.  And thats whats happened  in 
this case.
So in order to put things right for Mr T and to address any imbalance Red Sands current  
policy wording presents, I think it should use the Guides retail  value both when calculating  
the vehicle value and the loss value. In this case that would produce  the following figures:
vehicle value £9,430
loss value £6,790
balance £2,640
Ref: DRN51657843So, it might have been reasonable for Red Sands  to have paid Mr T a settlement of £2,640, 
which is £865 more  than it actually settled his claim for. But in this case  I don't think that 
goes far enough.  Thats  because Mr T told Red Sands  that his motor  insurer had valued his 
car at £6,760. Thats some £30 less than the retail value Red Sands planned to use when 
settling Mr Ts claim. But Red Sands didn't point that difference out to Mr T and instead told 
him to accept his motor  insurers  offer.  That meant that Mr T was a further £30 out of pocket. 
Instead, I think Red Sands should  have told Mr T not to accept  his motor insurers  offer,  as 
Red Sands  intended to base its settlement on a higher figure.  And Mr T or Red Sands could 
have negotiated with the motor insurer to increase its offer by £30. But Red Sands didn't  do 
that. And I don't think its fair that Mr Ts out of pocket as a result. So I think  Red Sands 
should reimburse Mr T for that loss.
So, in order to put things right I think  Red Sands should pay Mr T a further £895 based  on 
the Guides retail vehicle value  when  he took out his policy. It should add to that the £30 
difference between  his motor insurers valuation and the retail  value  Red Sands used when 
settling Mr Ts GAP  claim.  Thats £925  in total. It should add simple interest to that sum at a 
rate of 8% a year from the date of Mr Ts claim to the date it makes  settlement.
I think the above is a fair outcome to Mr Ts complaint. But for completeness Ill add that 
Mr T raised  some other complaint points and I've addresses the key issues  from those 
below. 
Mr T commented that the policy  says its suitable  for financed  cars. It appears Mr T thinks 
thats not the case. But I disagree.  As I've said above it appears that Mr T might have 
thought the policy would  cover both any outstanding finance and the difference  between the 
cars value  when he bought it and his motor insurers  settlement. But the policy  doesn't say 
or imply  that. However, if his motor insurers valuation had been less than the finance  owing 
on his car then its likely  any settlement would have covered the remaining finance  owing 
after his motor insurer had paid its settlement. And thats why I think  the policy  is suitable for 
financed cars.
Mr T made the point  that his policy says that it would pay out up to £10,000. But thats the 
maximum amount payable under any claim. So the £10,000 figure is a ceiling amount and 
doesn't mean the policy will pay that amount in the event  of a claim.
Mr T said that there was no communication  between Red Sands and his motor insurer. But 
I've seen that Red Sands did phone  Mr Ts motor insurer. The motor insurer  confirmed the 
circumstances of the claim and how much  it had paid out and the deductions it had made. 
But as indicated above, as the motor insurers settlement was less than the Guides valuation 
Red Sands  used the valuation from the Guide to calculate the settlement. So I think it did 
communicate appropriately. 
Mr Ts also made a point about how much Red Sands would have  had to pay if his car had 
been deemed a total loss two years  earlier. Hes said Red Sands would have had to pay him 
£8,535. Im not sure how Mr T has arrived at that calculation. But in any event Mr Ts car 
wasn't deemed a total loss two years  earlier. So what might or might  not have happened 
then is irrelevant to this complaint. So I don't intend  to comment on that point  further.
developments 
Ref: DRN51657844Red Sands  accepted my provisional  decision.  Mr T said he still felt hard done by. He said 
his wife had previously made a GAP claim which had a more generous settlement. He said 
the settlement  hed received in this case meant he couldn't  afford  to buy a replacement car 
of the same  quality. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to amend 
my provisional decision.
It seems  that, given his wifes earlier experience of making a GAP claim,  Mr T was expecting  
his GAP settlement  to put him into a better position. But there are different  types  of GAP 
policy, which have differing benefits  depending  on when they are bought and the premiums  
paid. So the type of settlement a consumer receives  will depend on the type of policy theyve 
bought. And its possible  that Mr Ts policy was significantly  different  from the policy his wife 
successfully claimed against, which is why the settlement is different. But as I said in my 
provisional decision Im satisfied that Red Sands  settled Mr Ts policy  in line with the terms 
as set out in the policy. 
Neither Mr T nor Red Sands has objected to the rest of my provisional  findings, so I see no 
reason to change  those.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I partly uphold this complaint. I 
will require Red Sands Insurance  Company  (Europe) Limited  to pay Mr T a further £925 to 
settle his GAP claim. It should add simple  interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the 
date of Mr Ts claim to the date it makes payment.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Red Sands considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give Mr T a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5165784