K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about the roadside recovery service provided by Liverpool  Victoria  
Insurance Company Limited  (LV).
background
Mr H called LV to report a problem  with his brakes.  An agent attended and carried  out a 
visual inspection. He noted that the brakes  were working, but that there was some  noise 
when they were operated. The agent  didnt consider that it was necessary  to offer recovery 
to Mr H, and he continued with his journey that evening for a further  two hours.
Three days later Mr H took his car into a garage  to be serviced. The garage discovered that 
the brakes were  completely worn  and needed to be replaced. They expressed surprise  that 
Mr H had been told he could drive his car in that condition.
Mr H complained to LV that its agent hadnt  identified that his brakes were completely worn. 
He considers that it allowed  him to continue  driving a dangerous vehicle until he took it to the 
garage. Mr H has said that he would like to be properly compensated for this failure.
LV offered  Mr H £25 as a goodwill gesture, and it later increased this offer to £100. Mr Hs 
view was that this insufficiently reflected that LVs agent had allowed him to continue driving 
an unsafe vehicle,  and so he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigators view was that LVs offer of £100 was reasonable.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He has said that the policy  was sold to 
him on the basis that if his car was not safe to drive, roadside recovery would  repair it or take 
it to a destination in the UK. Mr H has indicated that he has raised this matter  with his bank 
who sold him the policy, but it has refused  to refund his monthly  payments.
Mr H has also highlighted  that LV has already admitted that it was at fault when handling  his 
roadside recovery claim. He considers LV put his and other road users  lives at risk. Mr H 
has questioned  whether  the compensation he has been offered is a fair reflection of this. He 
has also commented that in similar  circumstances, when using a different roadside  recovery 
service, his brake pads  were replaced at the roadside. Mr H has said that he spent hundreds 
of pounds getting his brakes repaired.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At outset I note that Mr H has indicated  that he has separately complained to his bank  about  
what he was told about this roadside assistance policy when  it was sold to him. I should 
clarify that this complaint against  LV relates only to the way in which Mr Hs claim was 
handled when  he called  LV to report his concerns about his brakes.
Mr Hs policy  covered  him for breakdown and recovery assistance at the roadside. LV has 
accepted that it took too long for its agent to attend Mr Hs vehicle following his call. As Mr H 
has pointed out, LV has also accepted  that it would expect its agent  to make as detailed 
Ref: DRN55636742inspection of a vehicle as possible in an attempt to diagnose any fault with it, and that this 
doesnt appear to have  happened in this instance.
However, the policy terms confirm that cover was not provided for amongst other things, the 
repair of faulty  brakes. This would indicate  that even if the problem with the cars brakes had 
been fully diagnosed by LVs agent, the policy would not have covered the cost of repairing 
them. It is also the case under the policy terms that the cost of replacement parts is not 
covered.
I acknowledge Mr Hs comments that he has previously benefited  from a repair  of his brake 
pads under a roadside assistance policy that he held with another  provider. However, in 
considering this complaint, I need  to take into account the policy  that Mr H had at this time.  
My view is that, had the condition of the brake pads been found by LVs agent, the policy  
would not have covered this repair.
LVs agent  did not consider it necessary to offer Mr H recovery  for his car. As a 
consequence, Mr H drove  for a further two hours, and it was not until three  days  later that he 
received a report from his garage about the state  of his brake pads. Mr H has explained the 
distress that this caused him, both in terms of his own safety and that of other road users.
I cannot be certain the extent to which Mr H may have been at risk when driving his car 
following the roadside call out of LVs agent. In determining  what  appropriate compensation 
might be for any failing on the part of LVs agent to diagnose the condition of the brake  pads 
and inform Mr H about this, I have to consider  the level of distress  that Mr H is likely to have 
felt when told about the true state of his brakes.
I have listened  to the call that Mr H made  when he notified LV about his roadside  recovery 
claim. Mr H explained to LV that he thought his brake  pads were  worn out. He also 
reported that the brakes had been  making  a grinding noise for a couple  of days. Overall, 
having listened to this call, it seems to me that Mr H had been aware that his brakes might 
not be functioning as they should  be for a few days before  he called LV for assistance.
I appreciate that finding out the extent of wearing  to the brakes when they were replaced has 
caused Mr H concern. I have also thought about what  Mr H has said when questioning the 
safety of driving  his car following his call to LV. However, I am mindful  that Mr H was willing 
to drive his car for a few days  before  the LV call out, aware that the brakes were making a 
grinding noise  and, as Mr H described them,  that they were  potentially worn.
In my view, finding out that the brake pads were worn to the extent that they were once they 
were inspected by a garage  would clearly have caused Mr H some upset that he had driven 
the car with these  in place. But I have taken  into account  that Mr H drove his car before 
contacting LV, aware that there  was a grinding  noise  coming from the brake  pads. Overall,  I 
consider that the offer of £100  compensation made  by LV in respect  of the distress  it caused 
Mr H in its handling of his roadside assistance claim is a fair one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Ref: DRN55636743John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5563674