K820x#14complaint
Mr B, who is represented by a claims management  company (CMC) complain that The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) rejected  their claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit  
Act 1974 in respect of a holiday  club. 
background
In June 2015 Mr and Mrs B took out holiday club trial membership with a company I will call 
D. It cost £3,950 of which £600 was paid using a RBS credit card. The balance  was funded 
by a loan with another provider. 
In February 2017  the CMC contacted RBS seeking return  of what  was described as a 
useless investment. They said that D had been taken over by another  company which had 
made all the staff redundant. The CMC also said that Mr and Mrs B were  unable to book 
holidays as they were told there was no availability despite holidays being available  on the 
internet. 
RBS rejected the claim and said that the payment had been made to an intermediary so the 
required debtor-creditor-supplier  chain had been  broken. The CMC disputed this and said D 
held a share in the intermediary, but the bank maintained its position was right.  
The CMC brought  Mr Bs complaint  to this service where it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. 
He considered the paperwork Mr and Mrs B signed  and the sales aids and training used by 
D which gave some insight into the sales process. He said the aids highlight  an imbalance in 
information, favouring the emotional and tangible benefits of membership. He thought  it 
possible that they may have been slightly unclear about the product  they were  buying.
However, he hadnt seen sufficient information  to suggest the product was described  as 
having unlimited  availability,  or that it was exclusive to members. Instead, the information 
seems to suggest members would  have to book in advance and holidays would be subject to 
availability, customers would be shown pictures  of some of the resorts  in the portfolio and
told they may visit some apartments to get a sense of the quality offered by Diamond.
He concluded  that although  the sales process  was constructed to focus on
the benefits the product  would provide  he didnt  believe this amounted  to misrepresentation.
He also considered if the loan and sale were brought  about  by selling methods on the part of 
D that were unfair or misleading. Having done  so, I believe it is unlikely a court would  
conclude that Ds actions as an agent of RBS generated an unfair debtor  creditor  
relationship.
He explained  the of a holiday  membership by a timeshare supplier is not an activity  that this 
service can investigate directly or in an all-encompassing manner. We are limited to
reviewing how the lender  responded to the consumers claim and in doing  so, we have to
limit our investigation into the protections set out in the CCA which are narrow and require
us to consider  how a court would  weigh up the evidence being presented.
While he empathised with the situation  Mr and Mrs B now find themselves in, he thought 
RBS had fairly investigated the claim. The CMC didnt agree  and asked that the matter be 
considered by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN54123392my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr B and his wife, but I find myself in agreement  with our 
adjudicator. I will explain why.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
RBS has said the required chain is not in place with an intermediary inserted into the 
transaction. The CMC has said that they were  linked with D holding a share  in the third 
company. It is necessary  for the two to be associated which  requires control to be exercised 
directly or indirectly. The CMC has not established  the two companies were associated, but I 
have not discounted the possibility that they were.
However, as I consider  the claim fails for other reasons, I have not pursued this line any 
further. To allow me to uphold this complaint I have  to be satisfied  that there was either 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract. The CMC has submitted little in the way of 
evidence in support  of its claim.
It seems  that the two main points they raise are that D was taken over by another  company 
and Mr and Mrs B found it difficult to book  a holiday. I have not been  told if they were able to 
book any holiday,  or what  efforts they made  to book one. The CMC simply asserts  without 
evidence that they can never book holidays.  Given the CMC  is seeking  a significant refund it 
is not unreasonable to expect it supply some  evidence in support  of the claim. 
As our adjudicator has pointed out the sales pitch stressed the benefits, but it is clear that Mr 
and Mrs B were informed that holidays would be subject to availability. It may be that the 
dates which  Mr and Mrs B chose were in peak  season. But based on what I have seen I 
cannot conclude  that there was either a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
 
Ref: DRN54123393my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision 
before 22 May 2021.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5412339