K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Ks complaint is about  Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs  (RSA) decision to 
turn down a claim  they made on their business  interruption policy.
background
In January 2018 Mr and Mrs Ks business  had to stop trading for a day and a half as a result 
of a fatal incident which took place outside the premises.  This was because the police 
cordoned off the area preventing anyone from entering or leaving the shop.  Mr and Mrs K 
say they were told the shop couldnt stay open  during that time as the area was being 
investigated as an active crime scene.
Following the incident  Mr and Mrs K made  a claim  on their business interruption  policy  for 
loss of earnings during the period the shop was closed. RSA said that whilst  there  was cover 
available for the type of claim they wanted  to make, the fatal incident hadnt taken place on 
shop premises so the claim wasnt one they were prepared to cover.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ks complaint  about  this and concluded it should be 
upheld because it wasnt fair for RSA to apply their policy terms in this way and in any event 
the policy terms said the event was covered as long as it occurred at the premises.  She 
said that because  the incident  happened in the vicinity of the premises, the policy  terms 
could be interpreted to mean the claim was capable of being covered. RSA dont agree so 
the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think Mr and Mrs Ks 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
The starting point  is the policy terms. They acknowledge the type of business interruption 
Mr and Mrs K were  claiming for is covered. But they also say that the event needed to occur  
at the Premises. Premises is defined  as the address  shown in the policy schedule which is 
the business address Mr and Mrs K are claiming  for in this case.
RSA says that the incident took place on waste ground which doesnt belong  to 
Mr and Mrs K so it cant be said the event occurred  at the premises. I appreciate what they 
say but like the investigator, I dont think that in the particular  circumstances  of this case, its 
fair or reasonable  for RSA to apply  the policy terms so strictly. 
The policy envisages and provides cover for an incident like the one that interrupted  
Mr and Mrs Ks ability to trade. They werent able to trade because  the incident  happened 
within very close proximity to the premises such that it was cordoned  off and treated  as a 
crime scene by the police. And Mr and Mrs K were  denied  access to their shop so werent 
able to trade as a result. In these circumstances Id expect  RSA to take a pragmatic 
approach to the claim and consider it within the remaining policy  terms. 
Ref: DRN55672992my final decision
For the reasons  set our above I uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint  and direct  Royal  & Sun 
Alliance Insurance  Plc to consider their claim  in accordance with the remaining terms of the 
policy.
If Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc do make  a payment to Mr and Mrs Ks claim in respect 
of their claim  then they should also pay simple interest of 8% per year* one month after 
Mr and Mrs K originally  made their claim until the date the claim is paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 March  2019
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
* HM Revenue & Customs  requires Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc must  give Mr and Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off 
if they ask for one. 
Ref: DRN5567299