K821x#15complaint
Miss J and Mr B complain  that Bank  of Scotland plc wont agree  to an extension  of the term 
of their interest only mortgage, and wont agree to reduce the interest rate.
background
Miss J and Mr B have a mortgage with BoS. Its on interest only terms, and the term came  to 
an end in 2016. Miss J and Mr B had, at the time, separated  theyre  now back together  
and had no means of repaying the capital.  Miss J told BoS that Mr Fs business  had recently  
failed and as a result they had lost money  intended  to repay  the mortgage.
Miss J contacted BoS several times to ask for the mortgage term to be extended. BoS 
refused and said it wouldnt be affordable to do so. Miss J had recently  moved from working 
part-time to running her own business  and, although the business is successful and shes 
able to meet  the mortgage payments (Mr F is retired and doesnt contribute  financially), she 
doesnt have three  years  worth of accounts.
Miss J also asked for a new interest rate product because she was paying the standard  
variable rate (SVR), which she could afford  but would rather  pay less. BoS said no rates 
were available beyond  the end of the term.
Miss J and Mr F complained. Miss J said it wasnt fair, and not in line with the rules  of 
mortgage regulation,  that she wasnt allowed to extend the term. Our investigator didnt think  
BoS had acted unfairly, so Miss J and Mr F asked for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint. I reached  a different  view, so wanted  to allow the parties the chance to comment  
before I make  my final decision. 
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
I can see Miss J and Mr F are in a difficult position. Theyve said they believed the 
mortgage term was much longer, based  on an illustration they were given when it 
was taken out. And theyve said they were  led to believe the term would roll over.  
They also dont agree about  what was recorded  about their repayment strategy when 
they first took the mortgage  out. All of these are matters that will need to be raised  
with the broker  that sold them the mortgage;  as BoS didnt  sell it to them,  its not 
responsible for what they were told at the time of the sale.
Whatever they were  told, the fact is that they have reached the end of the term  and 
BoS is responsible  for what happens now. 
The term has ended,  and the mortgage  must  be paid back. I dont think its 
unreasonable for BoS to expect that to happen,  and thats the starting point  from 
which I approach this complaint. But its not the only factor. While its entitled to its 
money back, BoS must  treat Miss J and Mr F fairly, taking account of their individual 
circumstances. Taking  action to repossess the property  must be a last resort, and 
other options to reach repayment  should  be explored first.
BoS has said it wont consider a term extension,  because it doesnt consider it to be 
affordable. 
Ref: DRN52276742The rules  of mortgage regulation changed in 2014  following the mortgage  market 
review (known as MMR).  The new rules said that lenders had to carry out strict  
affordability assessments  and assessments of how interest  only mortgages would 
be repaid  before lending, or before making  changes to an existing mortgage 
contract.
However, the regulator also included flexibility in the rules,  to ensure that borrowers 
who already had a mortgage, taken out before  MMR,  werent trapped by tests they 
could no longer satisfy.
Miss J is in her early  fifties. But Mr F is around  70, and already retired.  Extending  the 
term would  take the mortgage further  into his retirement. Thats a material  change, 
and means that BoS should  generally  assess affordability. But even where theres  a 
material change,  it doesnt have to refuse  based  on affordability where a term 
extension would otherwise be in the borrowers best interests.
I cant see that BoS has given this part of the rules  any consideration. It simply 
refused to consider an extension because of affordability. 
Mr F isnt contributing to the mortgage. Its being met from Miss Js resources. And  
even though BoS concluded she wouldnt pass affordability,  she is in fact affording  it. 
It seems  the difficulty is that her relatively  new business doesnt yet have three  years  
worth of accounts.
The problem is that other lenders are likely to take the same  view. And as Miss J and 
Mr F arent existing customers of theirs, other lenders wouldnt have the power to set 
aside an affordability  assessment.  Only BoS can do that. So I dont think  its feasible  
for Miss J and Mr F to move their mortgage  to another  lender  or, at least  not yet.
Because of Miss Js age, equity release or a retirement interest  only mortgage isnt 
an option here either. Miss J has said Mr F may be able to sell some land his former 
business was based on, but nothing has come  of that either.
So its difficult to see how this mortgage can be repaid at present, short  of selling  the 
property. But that might well not be the case for ever. Miss J says her business  is 
doing well, and growing. Its paying  her enough to manage the household and the 
mortgage now. It may well be that, in a couple  of years, she has enough income, 
track record and accounting  history  to be able to apply for another mortgage   
particularly if, as shes suggested she may do, she applies  on her own and so Mr Fs 
age isnt a factor.
I think BoS could  have thought more about  Miss J and Mr Fs circumstances. It 
recognised passing an affordability  assessment was a problem because  Miss J was 
newly self-employed. But it didnt go on to consider whether it would be in their best 
interests to set aside  the affordability  test and extend the term anyway. 
In the circumstances of this case,  I think BoS fairly  could and should have done so. A 
relatively short term extension, to allow Miss J to build up enough of a track record  to 
be able to explore  re-mortgaging  elsewhere,  would in my view have been in their 
best interests. And while  it would mean  some  delay in BoS being repaid, Miss J was 
able to keep paying the interest and theres  to be equity in the property, so theres  
little additional  risk to BoS. I think it should have  agreed a term extension  once Miss J 
Ref: DRN52276743explained her situation in February 2018.  Miss J told BoS she would have her first 
years accounts complete  in April 2019   so her third year would be April 2021. If 
after that point  Miss J isnt able to re-mortgage to another  lender, this loan will have 
to be paid back in some other way. Thats likely  to mean sale of the property. But I 
think its fair to explore  other options first.
Once the term ended, Miss J and Mr F werent eligible for new interest  rates and 
went onto the SVR. I dont  think thats  unreasonable. A mortgage  thats  out of term is 
overdue for repayment  and not eligible for interest rates that last two or three, or 
even five or more,  years. 
But if I think BoS ought to have agreed  a term extension in February  2018,  it follows 
that from then on Miss J and Mr F wouldnt  be out of term, and so would be eligible 
for a new rate. I think BoS should identify what rates would have been available  to 
them at that point, and re-work the mortgage  on that basis.  This will reduce Miss J 
and Mr Fs monthly payments. In order to assist  them in re-mortgaging  in the future, I 
think the past overpayments they will have made as a result  should be used to 
reduce the mortgage balance. And while their payments will be lower  as a result,  
Miss J and Mr F may want to consider  making higher payments into the future for the 
same reasons.
Finally, I think  BoSs failure to apply the rules of mortgage regulation, using the 
flexibility they regulator gave it to think beyond  the automatic need for an affordability  
assessment, caused Miss J and Mr F trouble and upset, and I think £350 is fair 
compensation for that.
BoS accepted my provisional decision.  Miss J said BoS should have thought about the rules 
I talked about  in 2016 when the previous interest rate ended,  and any new rate backdated to 
then. She asked if I would  extend  the mortgage  for five years rather than three, as by then 
she would  be old enough to apply for a lifetime mortgage if a new mortgage didnt prove  
affordable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the responses to my provisional decision. But having done so, I havent 
changed my mind about what  I think is a fair outcome. A longer extension will mean Miss J 
would reach  the minimum age for a lifetime  mortgage. But it doesnt seem to me to be very 
likely that she would  be able to borrow enough  at that age to clear the mortgage, even 
making overpayments in the meantime, because of the loan to value.
Having thought again about this, I still think the original  end date I proposed strikes a fair 
balance in the particular circumstances of this case. 
Its fair for BoS to expect  the mortgage  to be repaid.  Miss J and Mr F dont currently have a 
way of doing that without  selling their home  but they have a plausible  means of doing so in 
the near future.  I think its fair to extend  the term enough to allow  them to reach that point. 
And if Miss J isnt successful  in re-mortgaging, she will need to discuss  with BoS how the 
mortgage can be brought to an orderly end at that point  which I hope wont  be necessary.  
Ref: DRN52276744Ive selected 2018 as the point to which  to backdate  my award,  because  its at that point that 
BoS became aware of Miss Js situation and plans  so its only then that it could have  
considered the factors  Ive set out above.
Taking everything into account,  I think the resolution I proposed in my provisional decision is 
fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct Bank of 
Scotland plc to:
Extend the term of the mortgage to 30 April 2021;
Apply the best available  fee-free three year fixed rate as at 1 March 2018 to the 
mortgage and re-work the balance accordingly,  with the resultant overpayments  used 
to reduce the balance; and
Pay Miss J and Mr F £350.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 January 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5227674