K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC refused to take payments to his credit  card via 
its on-line payment system.
background
Mr D has a credit card with Lloyds. In May 2019 he wanted to make  an on-line payment to 
his credit card using a debit card he holds with another bank. He says he first tried to make  a 
payment for £4,260 which was rejected because he incorrectly input the expiry date of his 
debit card. He then attempted to make a payment  for £2,500 which went through  
successfully.
Mr D says he then made  several attempts  to make an additional payment for £1,760 but the 
payment kept on being rejected despite him having  input the correct details for his debit 
card. He telephoned  Lloyds and it offered to take the payment from the debit card over the 
telephone. Mr D didnt  want to do this. Instead,  he made more unsuccessful  attempts to 
make the payment on-line.
Mr D complained to Lloyds and sent it a link to a video recording he says shows he was 
entering the correct  details for his debit  card. He also sent it a link to recordings of his 
telephone conversations  with Lloyds and with the bank that issued his debit card.
Lloyds didnt uphold  Mr Ds complaint. It said it couldnt open the links to the video and voice 
recordings hed given  it for security reasons. It asked him to send a screenshot showing the 
details hed entered for his debit  card. It said its IT team had confirmed the details  entered 
werent correct.
Mr D wasnt happy with Lloyds response to his complaint and he referred it to this service. 
He says the service  he received from Lloyds in relation to his complaint was unhelpful, 
repetitive and unjustifiably lengthy.  He thinks Lloyds should compensate  him for its poor 
handling of his complaint.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. They thought Lloyds  had 
attempted to find the cause of the problem Mr D had encountered  and had offered him an 
alternative means to make the payment. They didnt think Lloyds customer service had fallen 
below the standard Mr D was entitled  to expect. Our investigator also said we couldnt  
consider Lloyds handling of Mr Ds complaint as that was outside  our jurisdiction.
Mr D didnt accept out investigators recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered  the issues Mr D has raised about the customer service  he received 
from Lloyds. I think  Lloyds  made reasonable attempts to resolve the problem. In particular it 
offered him an alternative method to make the payment which  he chose  not to accept.  It also 
suggested an alternative method for him to send  it evidence  of the details of his debit card 
Ref: DRN55083362that hed input onto the payment  system.  In all the circumstances,  Im satisfied the service 
Lloyds provided  to Mr D was of an acceptable standard.
This service operates under rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority. These specify  
the types of complaints we can and cannot consider. The rules say we can consider 
complaints about  regulated activities. But complaint handling isnt, by itself, a regulated 
activity. This means we cant consider how a complaint has been handled by a business if, 
as in this case,  we havent upheld the original complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make no 
award against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5508336