K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  concerns their attempt  to open two ISAs  with a provider for which 
Link Financial Investments Limited provides administrative services.  In brief, theyre  unhappy 
Link didnt accept their identity verification documents and, further, when they decided  not to 
proceed with the accounts there  was a delay in their money  being  returned to them. 
background
Link received Mr and Mrs Ws application forms and cheques on 29 March  2018. The 
identity documents  accompanying  them had been signed by Mr W. Because of the potential  
conflict that Link felt this created it didnt accept the documents and asked that alternatives 
be provided. The ISAs  were nevertheless opened  and the money invested. 
Mr W didnt accept Links view of the identity  document situation and asked that the 
applications be cancelled  and the money returned.  However, as the investments had already 
gone ahead, it was necessary for Mr and Mrs W to complete cancellation forms. This was 
eventually done  in early May 2018 and the money paid back. 
Mr and Mrs W made a complaint but Link didnt uphold it. Link considered that it had acted 
reasonably in rejecting the identity  documents and that it wasnt  responsible for the delay in 
the money being returned. It maintained that it had acted promptly once  the cancellation 
forms were received and that any delay in them being received or completed by Mr and 
Mrs W wasnt its responsibility.   
Mr and Mrs W didnt  accept this and so referred the matter to this service. Our adjudicator 
also didnt think the complaint should be upheld as he agreed that Link had acted fairly and 
reasonably. 
Mr W continued to disagree  and said that Link had breached Money  Laundering  Regulations  
by carrying out a transaction  the investment of the money into the ISAs  without having  
completed the identity  verification. He considered that Link shouldnt  have  done  this and if it 
hadnt the money wouldve have  been available to be returned immediately, without the need 
for cancellation forms to be completed. Mr W also felt that Link had failed  to provide 
additional cancellation forms when asked by the ISA provider.
As the adjudicator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion,  the matters  been referred to me 
to review. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service isnt the industry regulator  and its not our role to set the rules  for financial 
businesses, or to police  the industry  to ensure those rules are followed.  Thats  the role of the 
industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA). Our role is instead to consider  
individual disputes and to reach an outcome that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of each case. In doing so, I must have regard for the law and relevant industry rules and 
regulations, but Im not bound by them.
Ref: DRN59351872I stress this because much has been said in both parties submissions  of the related  rules 
and regulations and how Links action may or may not have breached them. But ultimately, 
looking impartially at what happened in the context or whats fair and reasonable, as Im 
required to do, I dont think what Link did was incorrect in the circumstances.
It received acceptable  application forms and cheques and proceeded to open the ISAs.  As 
part of that process,  it considered the identity documents and concluded that they couldnt 
be accepted because Mr W had signed them. I dont doubt  for one moment that 
Mr W was acting entirely in good faith when he did that. But equally, I think  it was 
understandable and reasonable that Link made the decision  not to accept  the documents 
and seek alternatives.   
At that point Link couldnt have known that Mr Ws response would  be to stop the process 
and request the money back. It was holding client money along with a clear instruction  to 
invest. As such,  I think it was reasonable for the account opening  and investment process to 
continue, pending receipt of new identity documentation. There  was no reason to think  it 
wouldnt be provided. 
In respect of the return of the money,  as the money  had been invested  it could only be 
returned upon receipt of signed cancellation  forms. I recognise that theres  a dispute about 
the provision of these  forms and related  delays.  
But from what Ive seen,  the confirmations  of the investments  issued to Mr and Mrs W 
included cancellation  forms that couldve been  used.  And failing that, when Link eventually 
received a request from the ISA provider to send replacement forms to Mr and Mrs W, Link 
did so promptly and administered the process correctly.  So I dont think  it can reasonably be 
held responsible for the money not being returned  sooner.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5935187