K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled a claim 
under their buildings  insurance policy.
background 
I set out the background  in a provisional decision, which is attached  to this decision, but in 
summary the complaint is about  the way UKI has dealt with a subsidence claim.  My 
provisional finding was that UKI should pay Mr and Mrs A £1,750 compensation for the poor 
way in which their claim had been  handled  and the resultant impact  on them.
 
replies
UKI accepted my provisional decision but Mr and Mrs A did not. In summary their reply 
contains the following points;
No previous complaints were made to UKI but correspondence was sent to UKIs 
agent and the issues therein form part of this complaint against UKI
Despite some monetary compensation nothing really improved and not all issues 
have been answered  satisfactorily by UKI
There was no further occurrence of subsidence
Repairs are now said to start in late spring
They are in financial difficulty
Issues prior to August  2017 are part of this complaint
Had the works been completed in a timely  way they may have been able to rent their 
home out
Theyre disappointed  the decision doesnt require UKI to respond  in full to their 
complaint and would wish a specified  time within which UKI must respond to them
The amount  of compensation is nothing to an organisation like UKI and is unlikely to 
force a positive change to them or other customers. And if they charged their usual 
hourly rate for time spent on this matter compensation would be much higher.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including Mr and Mrs As reply.
Like most insurance policies similar  to Mr and Mrs As when a claim is made  under their 
policy UKI will appoint agents to investigate and then, if covered, carry out repairs. Its often 
the case that an insured will have little contact with the actual insurer  because the agent will 
effectively deal with the claim for UKI. That being said, the insurer  remains  ultimately 
responsible for the claim, its handling  and any repairs carried  out under the policy. 
Therefore, its correct that UKI is held responsible  and why Ive used UKI throughout.
The rules  applying to this service say that, where a business doesnt agree (as UKI doesnt 
here), I cant consider a complaint referred  to us more than six months after the date it sends 
the consumer  its final response letter telling them they can refer their complaint to us 
(Dispute Resolution  rule 2.8.2R (1)). 
Mr and Mrs A submitted a complaint letter in December 2016. UKI dealt with the complaint 
by way of final response dated 24 January 2017 offering compensation and giving referral 
rights to our service.  Indeed UKI pointed out that if they wanted to complain to us they had 
Ref: DRN52796572six months from the date of the letter, enclosed our complaint leaflet and gave  our website 
address. And if Mr and Mrs A didnt bring  their complaint to us within  that time UKI didnt 
consent to us looking into their complaint. This means Mr and Mrs A had to bring their 
complaint about  those  issues by 24 July 2017.
There is an exception to this where the failure  to comply with the time limit was a result of 
exceptional circumstances.  Exceptional  circumstances  arent defined in DISP although it 
does give an example of where the complainant has been or is incapacitated.  Ive not seen 
any information that suggest there are any exceptional circumstances that prevented  Mr 
and Mrs A bringing their complaint to us within the six months period. And so when Mr and 
Mrs A raised a new complaint to UKI in August 2017  were limited to looking at the impact of 
the issues raised since those by Mr and Mrs A in December 2016.  
Mr and Mrs A have  said that they were expecting UKI to do certain things but these didnt 
happen or were  delayed.  And these arent the issues that are raised in this complaint to us. 
The complaint they made  to UKI in August 2017  concerned, in the main, issues  around 
UKIs agent not providing information  and the general management  of the claim.  The agent 
was clearly not even  updating UKI or providing  it with information and after further delays  
and missed dates for actions Mr and Mrs A escalated their complaint to our service in 
December 2017.  And at that time Mr and Mrs A still hadnt received any meaningful update 
or information about the complaint they had made.
I appreciate the rules  about time limits about when we can and cant look into things can be 
complicated. Mr and Mrs A have been  involved in a claim  situation  that has been ongoing for 
some time and ostensibly dealing with UKIs agent. I fully appreciate the source  of much 
frustration has been a lack of satisfactory  answers / information from UKI and its agent;  
delays have occurred;  complaints have  already been made; and UKI has paid compensation 
or not charged Mr and Mrs A amounts it could have as a form of compensation. 
UKI sent a final response to Mr and Mrs A about issues raised pre-January 2017.  Those  
matters were not brought to us within a 6 month timeframe. And in the absence of 
exceptional circumstances  preventing  Mr and Mrs A bringing a complaint to us about the 
issues raised to UKI pre-January 2017  within 6 months I remain  satisfied the rules under 
which I act mean I cant look at those matters.
However, and for the avoidance  of doubt and clarity, I am looking at the issues  raised in 
August 2017 to UKI from the period after January  2107 and that includes more  delays and 
poor communication.
other issues raised by Mr and Mrs A in reply to provisional decision 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs A confirming that no further subsidence took place. And I 
acknowledge the distress and inconvenience caused as a consequence  of the continued  
poor claim  handling. And its for this reason  I was minded to require UKI to pay £1,750  
compensation to reflect  that.
The core of the problem is that UKI hasnt  carried out the repairs required to settle  Mr and 
Mrs As claim. While good complaint handling  would  see UKI (and/or its agent) answering Mr 
and Mrs As complaint  points to their satisfaction,  that is about  complaint handling  rather 
than the core of the problem being the claim itself. It would, in my view in this case, be 
relatively meaningless  for me to tell UKI to answer  their complaint points to a satisfactory  
Ref: DRN52796573standard. Thats because if Mr and Mrs A arent  satisfied with the explanation  their insurance 
claim is unaffected. 
As I said,  the problem  here is the need for UKI to carry  out the appropriate repairs  to Mr and 
Mrs As home and communicate  with Mr and Mrs A in a meaningful way. UKI has prevailed 
over an unnecessarily fraught claim handling  process that hasnt moved  things materially 
forward. This has led to almost two years  more delay and Im satisfied that £1,750  is fair 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenienced of poor communication  and delays in 
handling the claim promptly and fairly.
Our role isnt to punish or fine businesses (a matter  for the regulator the Financial Conduct 
Authority) and our compensation awards  are to reflect the impact of a business unfairness 
on a complainant. And while  my award might not be much commercially  speaking  for UKI, I 
am satisfied  it fairly reflects the impact of UKIs  failures on Mr and Mrs A in this case.
I strongly urge UKI not to further lose any oversight of Mr and Mrs As claim. While  it has an 
agent handling the claim on its behalf  this does not absolve UKI of the duty to handle  the 
claim promptly and fairly.  UKI is aware  of that and so should take all necessary steps to 
ensure that the required works  are fully scoped and firm dates for works  are agreed to and 
kept. 
I have taken into account Mr and Mrs As point  about financial difficulty. I accept the delay in 
repairs has a potential  impact on the ability to sell or rent the home. What I cant reasonably 
assess is whether their house would sell, if it did at what price and if that would relieve  them 
of their difficulties. And theres uncertainty with the rental market  too; what Mr and Mrs A 
may have  got as a return; what impact  this would have on their financial situation given 
theyd need to live somewhere; and if the property has a period of not being occupied that 
wouldnt necessarily ease  but could compound their situation. So for this reason the distress 
theyre experiencing as detailed in this decision  is, in my view,  more appropriately reflected 
in my compensation award.
my final decision
My final decision is that I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs A £1,750  
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
UKI must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr and Mrs A 
accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN52796574provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled a claim 
under their buildings  insurance policy.
background
There is a lengthy  and detailed background to the dispute between Mr and Mrs A and UKI 
spanning a number of years. They are both aware  of that background and so I dont intend 
to list it in fine detail.  A summary though is that Mr and Mrs A reported subsidence that had 
affected their home in 2015. A claim commenced  and UKI appointed  agents to deal with the 
claim by inspecting the damage, recommending the relevant  repair and then carrying  out the 
identified works.
Mr and Mrs A made a number of complaints to UKI about the progress of the claim, wording 
of letters  and general service. UKI issued final response letters on those matters and various 
levels of compensation  were paid or accounted for by means  of not charging  the policy 
excess £1,000.  For the avoidance of doubt  these  issues do not form the basis of the current  
complaint but are nonetheless relevant contextual background.
In August  2017  Mr and Mrs A submitted further issues of concern to UKI and its these that 
are the relevant issues in this complaint. Mr and Mrs A posed a number of questions to 
UKI and these havent been answered  to their satisfaction. But the crux of whats  going 
wrong, from Mr and Mrs As letter to UKI, is that there has been ongoing lack of adequate 
communication, delays  in response from UKIs agents dealing  with the claim, delays in repair 
works and overall  the claim not being  dealt with professionally.  Mr and Mrs A were told 
repair works would commence in September 2018.  But this didnt  happen and its not 
anticipated that repair works will now commence until spring 2019.
UKI hasnt  sought  to avoid responsibility altogether but has said that it is relying on third 
party agents  in assessing the necessary  repair works and general handling of the claim and 
so hasnt been able to ensure timeliness  and efficiency. There  is also an issue with previous 
underpinning works that require assessment and lawyers are involved. This matter  could 
lead to litigation. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and was of the view that UKI should pay Mr 
and Mrs A £500 compensation for the trouble and upset that the delays have caused and 
the way UKI has handled Mr and Mrs As complaint in August 2017.  UKI agreed to pay but 
Mr and Mrs A didnt  think this was fair compensation.
Mr and Mrs A have  outlined how stressful the situation has been. In correspondence to 
UKI theyve  said the situation has been  intolerable, theyve been left in the dark and that 
they have no confidence or trust in the agents  UKI has used because  of the delay and 
issues with progressing the claim.  Mr and Mrs A have told us theyve had to spend  
unreasonable amounts of time dealing with UKIs agents to little or no avail. And they say 
theyve suffered financial detriment in so far as the delay in repairs  led to a subsequent 
subsidence incident and that theyve not been  able to put their home up for sale.  They  say 
this has led to them potentially losing thousands  of pounds.  Equally though, they 
Ref: DRN52796575acknowledge that it isnt known for sure whether the house would  have been  bought,  and if 
so at what price.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
UKI hasnt  denied delays and issues with the claim. So, the issue  for me to decide in this 
complaint is what fair compensation is for the impact of the delays and poor service in the 
way UKI has handled Mr and Mrs As claim.  Its worth noting that industry  rules  require 
UKI to handle claims promptly and fairly. Whats prompt and fair, in my view, will be 
dependent on the circumstances  of each case.  For example, the replacement  of a stolen 
pair of earrings is likely to be more straightforward than dealing  with a subsidence claim 
such as Mr and Mrs As.
Mr and Mrs A complaint for this decision is about  a period from August 2017 - the contextual  
background before this time that I outlined  above isnt something  that I can make an award  
for as it isnt a part of this complaint. And indeed UKI had already reached a view as to what  
compensation looked like at that time, which Mr and Mrs A previously  accepted. I have to 
look at the impact of UKIs failings and in doing that I think its relevant to bear in mind that 
Mr and Mrs A were  already  in a vulnerable position  emotionally because of what  had gone 
on before  that. In other  words I think its fair that I use an approach that takes Mr and Mrs A 
as they were at the time in August 2017.
Theres no dispute that the claim  hasnt been handled promptly   indeed repair works 
havent commenced and only recently  have UKIs agents began more  meaningful  and 
progressive communication with Mr and Mrs A. Im satisfied that fairness  isnt met where 
UKI or its appointed agents fail to reply within agreed timelines  and keep Mr and Mrs A in the 
dark about  a definitive way forward. The insurance policy  is there for peace  of mind should  
something (insured) go wrong. In this case Im persuaded that UKI hasnt handled the claim  
fairly.
Im persuaded the language and tone of Mr and Mrs As correspondence with UKI about the 
ongoing issues (which  I detailed in the background) evidenced their complete frustration and 
distress with an apparent  brick wall in getting  information and progress. Recently with our 
involvement UKI and its agents have commenced  more meaningful contact with Mr and 
Mrs A. The agents have appointed a new engineer and dates have been agreed for a site 
visit (28 November) and inspection of underpinning (3 December). But repair  works arent 
scheduled to start until spring 2019, which is still not a date with certainty.  And with a 
background of missed  dates previously Mr and Mrs A are understandably  frustrated  that 
theyll now have to wait even more time for repair works to be carried  out. Im satisfied the 
impact of UKIs failure to handle things promptly  and fairly on Mr and Mrs A is substantial.  
Mr and Mrs A may have wanted  to sell their home and expected to be able to do so once the 
repair works were complete and the subsidence  repaired. They  acknowledge that such a 
history of the property  may have impacted the ability to sell; it might  not have  sold at all or at 
a reduced price. And they think the delay in repairs saw another  episode  of subsidence and 
so the impact of selling the house  is frustrated all the more.  What may or may not have 
happened is almost  impossible for Mr and Mrs A, UKI or me to say with any persuasiveness. 
In this case, to try and put a value on any possible financial  detriment isnt something that 
can be reached with sufficient persuasiveness that I could be satisfied of on the balance  of 
Ref: DRN52796576probabilities. So I make no finding  about  what,  if any, financial detriment Mr and Mrs A may 
have suffered.
In all the circumstances I think  a fair and reasonable outcome is reached by making  an 
award of compensation for the distress and inconvenience  suffered  by Mr and Mrs A as a 
consequence of UKIs  failure to handle the claim promptly and fairly  from August 2017. 
While it appears that repair works  may start in spring 2019  there  is no set date and UKIs 
agents have a history  of letting Mr and Mrs A down. It means that Im effectively  dealing  with 
a delay up to spring  2019 which is around 18 months from August 2017. Ive said that Im 
persuaded the impact is substantial and as such Im minded to require UKI to pay Mr and 
Mrs A £1,750.
my provisional decision
I am currently minded  to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint and require U K Insurance Limited 
to pay Mr and Mrs A £1,750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  as a 
consequence of failing  to handle their insurance claim promptly and fairly.
Ref: DRN5279657