K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained about the amount  of time it took U K Insurance  Limited  (trading as 
Churchill Car Insurance) to settle  a claim.  And because of the time that passed, Mr N says 
that he had to pay increased premiums for his insurance with other  providers.
background
In January 2014, Mr N was driving  when a car in front of him (Car A) stopped. Mr N was able 
to stop in time and avoid the collision but unfortunately the car behind  him (Car B) hit Mr N. 
Mr Ns car then hit the stationary Car A in front of him.
Solicitors representing Car A contacted  Churchill to make a claim against Mr N. Car Bs 
insurer had originally accepted liability and the driver  of Car B had initially agreed  with Mr Ns 
testimony. But the insurer then changed its view after considering  the testimony of Car A and 
Car B who were now both saying that Mr N had hit Car A first. This meant that the claim was 
recorded as a split liability claim.
Churchills records show that Mr Ns renewal came  about in February  2014  whilst the claim 
was open. Mr N says Churchill  informed him his premium would be substantially increased. 
And so Mr N chose to leave Churchill  and get insurance elsewhere.
In August  2015  the insurer for Car B admitted liability for the accident. At this point the claim 
was closed as non-fault.  However, Churchill  didnt update Mr N and make him aware of this. 
Mr N had also paid an excess of £100.  And once  Car Bs insurers had accepted liability,  a 
cheque for the excess amount was sent to Churchill.
Then in February  2016, Car As insurers made a claim against Churchill for personal injury,  it 
says was caused by Mr N. Churchill  directed  this to Car Bs insurers as it had admitted 
liability but the claim had to be reopened. However,  Car As insurers proceeded with the 
claim against Churchill and Mr N and not Car Bs insurers. And so in December 2016  
Churchill appointed solicitors  to defend the claim.
After defending the claim, the claim was withdrawn by Car As solicitors in December 2017. 
And in February  2018 the claim was updated as a non-fault accident by Churchill  as the 
finances of the claim had all been  settled.
Mr N complained about the time taken to sort the claim  out and the increased premiums hes 
since had to pay because  of the open claim. 
Churchill issued  its final response,  in regards to the time the claim took to resolve and the 
increase in premiums   Churchill didnt uphold  this part of the complaint. It explained that the 
length of time the claim remained open was largely outside of its control.
It explained once  the claim was resolved  as a non-fault claim it was unable  to refund Mr Ns 
premiums because Mr N had left Churchill  for another insurer(s). However, it said Mr N 
should now be able to claim back from the other insurers any increased premium paid 
because of the open claim. 
Churchill did partially uphold the complaint because it hadnt told Mr N in 2015  that the claim 
had been closed as non-fault before it was then reopened. And it had no record  that it sent 
Mr N the cheque for the excess of £100 which it shouldve done in 2015.  It offered Mr N £50 
for the distress and inconvenience caused  to him. 
Ref: DRN59433582Mr N remained  unhappy and is seeking  a refund from Churchill of the increased premiums 
he paid after the accident.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the circumstances of the complaint, I can understand why Mr N is so 
unhappy with the situation hes found himself in. Through no fault of his own he was involved 
in an accident  and the result of this was increased  insurance premiums across a number of 
years. It seems  the accident was as a result of a less than honest  motorist, so its obviously 
been a very frustrating series of events for Mr N and he has my sympathies. 
With regards to this complaint, I need to consider Churchills role in this and if it acted fairly 
and reasonably in line with its terms & conditions whilst adhering  to industry good practice.
One of the key issues for Mr N is the increase in premiums that Churchill gave  on renewal 
after the accident. Whilst I can understand Mr Ns annoyance at this, I need  to explain that 
were not the industry regulator and so we cant generally tell an insurer how much it can 
charge for its policies..
And our service  generally takes  the view that providing insurers treat people  fairly - and treat 
customers with similar circumstances  in the same way - insurers  are entitled to charge what  
they feel they need to in order to cover  a risk.
What I can consider is whether Churchill has acted  fairly and in line with the industry norms 
in quoting an increased premium on renewal in February 2014.
Mr N has told us that his premium if he wished to renew after the accident went  up 
substantially. At the time of the renewal Mr N had an open claim.  Later  the claim was 
closed as non-fault but before the issue of liability was concluded it was categorised as an 
open claim and this is industry standard practice.  
And because an open  claim, even in situations  such as this, might eventually  end up being 
recorded as a fault claim, for purposes  of policy renewal an open claim is treated as though 
it is a fault claim. And a fault claim does tend to cause a premium  to increase. So whilst I can 
understand Mr Ns annoyance  with this, I dont think Churchill was unfair or unreasonable  in 
increasing the premium.  
However we would expect an insurer, if the liability issue is later resolved in favour of the 
policyholder, as it was here, to make  an adjustment to the premium to reflect the fact that the 
policyholder wasnt  at fault. And if appropriate  refund the additional  premiums  paid.
But in this circumstance, Churchill couldnt make an adjustment to the premium or refund 
any overpayments because Mr N was no longer its customer. And we wouldnt expect it to 
make any refunds for premiums agreed  with other insurers. What  we would expect is 
Churchill to update CUE (Claims  and Underwriting Exchange) so other insurers  can see the 
status of the claim. And for it to provide  documentation if required by other insurers  as proof  
of the situation  with the claim, to assist Mr N claiming any refunds or premium adjustments. I 
Ref: DRN59433583can see that Churchill has updated CUE and offered to and did provide Mr N with assistance 
with other  insurer(s). So I dont think Churchill has done anything wrong here.
It appears from what Mr N has told us that he has moved insurers a number of times  since  
leaving Churchill. I can understand that this will likely make  the process of requesting 
refunds more time consuming. But I cant hold Churchill responsible  for this.
So in terms  of the renewal increase and how to put things right once the claim was closed as 
non-fault, I dont think Churchill has done  anything wrong. 
The other key issue  that Mr N was unhappy  with was the time that the claim went on for.
As mentioned above the claim being open  would  likely have had an impact on the premiums  
Mr N was being charged. And so its easy to understand why this was frustrating for Mr N. 
However, again my role is to determine whether Churchill did anything  wrong,  and whether it 
caused unreasonable delays in dealing with the claim.
Mr N believes  Churchill and its solicitors  shouldve been able to deal with the claim much 
quicker. Hes said the letter from Car Bs insurers which accepted full liability  and explained  
events as they happened, was all the Churchill  needed to refute  any claim. And he says this 
is what Churchills solicitor used to refute  the claim. Hes thinks Churchill shouldve been 
able to use this immediately in 2014  to refute all claims against him.
Whilst Mr N was clear  in what had happened  and the driver of Car B had originally agreed 
and so did his insurer, there was alternative testimony from Car A. And later Car B changed 
his version of events.  Car Bs insurers then changed its position because  of this and it would 
only accept liability for the damage caused  to the back of Mr Ns car, not the front.  It took 
until August 2015  for Car Bs insurers to accept  full liability for the accident and the claim 
was closed by Churchill as non-fault.
But then in February 2016 Car As insurers instigated a personal  injury claim against Mr N 
and Churchill. I can understand Mr Ns frustration here as it had been accepted  that Car B 
was liable for the accident. But I can see that Churchill disputed  the claim and it got in 
contact with Car Bs insurers to say the claim was theirs to deal with. However, Car As 
insurers went ahead with the claim against Mr N in any event. So Churchill  appointed  
solicitors to defend  the claim and it wasnt until December 2017 that Car As insurers  
withdrew the claim. Churchill, once it received its outlay, then closed the claim in February 
2018.
Whilst I appreciate from Mr Ns perspective  the claim was open for a long time, I dont think  it 
would be fair to hold Churchill responsible for this. It had to re-open the claim when Car As 
insurers made the personal injury claim. And whilst it may have had everything it needed to 
defend the claim  at outset, the claim staying  open  was largely outside of its control. It 
couldnt close the claim until either it was withdrawn as happened  here,  settled with all 
parties agreeing  or if required, a decision in court. 
So with regards to Mr Ns two main points of complaint, whilst I can understand why this 
situation has been so frustrating for him, I dont think Churchill was wrong to increase his 
premiums on renewal  whilst the claim was open. And I dont think  it did anything wrong in its 
handling of the claim  that was made against Mr N in 2016.
However, Churchill did make errors in its administration and customer  service. In August 
2015 Churchill had recovered all of its outlay from Car B insurers and the claim was closed 
Ref: DRN59433584as non-fault but it failed to tell Mr N this. And as part of the claim, Car Bs insurers  sent a 
cheque to Churchill to cover the £100 excess Mr N had incurred. Churchill shouldve 
forwarded this onto Mr N but it doesnt appear  that it did this.
So Ive considered the impact that this wouldve  had on Mr N. Mr N has raised the point that 
this mistake wouldve  caused his premiums  to increase as Churchill  didnt close the claim on 
CUE. But Churchill has told us that it didnt start recording claims on CUE until March 2016,  
so this claim wouldnt have been on CUE. And by March 2016 the claim had been reopened, 
so it seems the only consequence  of Churchills error was that Mr N was unaware  the claim 
had been closed in his favour. And the £100 wasnt paid when it shouldve  been.
Potentially Mr N might  have told other  insurers on renewal that he had an open claim, but in 
any event the personal  injury claim came in in February  2016   around the time it appears 
Mr N renews his car insurance. And as the claim has now closed as non-fault, he ought to 
have been able to claim a refund  if his premium was higher because of this claim.
Mr N will need  to ask his insurers  if the open  claim had an effect  on his premium/no claims 
discount. And if it did how much and whether  its prepared to refund this following  the claim 
being resolved  as non-fault. If Mr N has any problems in getting refunds from the other 
insurers, if one refuses  for example, he should refer back to Churchill for assistance  with this 
matter.
Churchill also shouldve  sent Mr N the £100; I understand that it has now done this, 
alongside awarding £50 to Mr N for its error.  Having  considered the consequences of the 
errors Churchill made, I think that the £50 offered seems reasonable. 
In conclusion, I have  sympathy with Mr Ns situation  but I dont think Churchill  were  
responsible for the length of time his claim was open. And I dont think it is at fault for the 
increased premiums Mr N had to pay whilst the claim was open. However, it provided poor 
customer service  to Mr N when the claim initially closed in 2015  and it should  pay Mr N £50 
to compensate him for this if it hasnt already.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint and make no additional award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5943358