K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Zenith Insurance Plc has asked him to pay the remaining policy  
premiums or return the claim pay out after he cancelled his pet insurance policy.  Hes also 
unhappy with Zeniths  service.
My references to Zenith include its agents.
background
Mr M made a claim on his pet insurance  policy for vet treatment for his dog. Zenith  paid the 
claim. Mr M says he then cancelled the policy because of Zeniths poor service  during the 
claim.
Mr M complains that Zenith has told him to pay the outstanding annual policy premiums, 
totalling £121.86, or to return the claim pay out of £109.43. Hes also unhappy about the 
tone in which Zenith wrote to him. He wants to pay no further  money to Zenith and have 
compensation for his stress caused by Zeniths poor service.
Zenith said the policy was clear  that if Mr M wanted  to cancel his policy and hed made  a 
claim the remaining  premiums for the policy year needed to be paid.  It had given him the 
option of paying back the claim amount as that was a lower amount. Zenith said its letters  
and emails to Mr M were  professional and polite.
Our investigator thought that when  Zenith  received Mr Ms email to cancel  the policy it 
should have explained he would still have to pay the entire years premium. He said Zenith 
should either not collect the outstanding premiums or pay for Mr Ms new pet insurance 
policy premiums until his policy with Zenith  would have ended.
Zenith disagreed  and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It said the relevant policy wording  
was also in its Key Facts document and its Terms  of Business  document so was very clear.
Before I made my decision I asked Zenith if it had evidence that it had sent the policy 
documents to Mr M. I also asked it about the service issues  Mr M had raised.  It sent me new 
information that Ill refer to in my findings below.
my provisional findings
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to not uphold this complaint. 
I said:
I have to decide whether Zenith  can fairly and reasonably  rely on the policy  terms to say 
Mr M needs to pay the outstanding policy premium payments,  and I think  it can. I also have 
to decide whether it gave reasonable service, and I think  it did. 
policy cancellation
The policy is clear that if Mr M wants to cancel the policy, and hes made a claim, the full 
premiums for the whole policy  year are payable. The same  information is in Zeniths Terms 
of Business document and Key Facts document. Those latter  two documents  are short and a 
summary of important points. Zenith has done enough to highlight the policy term to Mr M.
Ref: DRN53121322Zenith has now given  evidence to show that it successfully  sent the policy documents  to 
Mr M in December  2017 and that email was opened. The documents were resent by email  
on 29 January and successfully delivered on 31 January. The email was opened on several 
occasions from 1 February. So I think Zenith has shown that it successfully sent Mr M the 
documents.
Mr M has told us that if hed known he had to pay the outstanding  premiums  he would have 
kept the policy for the rest of the year and not taken out a new policy  for his dog. I see his 
point that Zenith didnt  contact him when  it got his email to cancel the policy  to remind him 
cancellation would mean he needed  to pay the premiums. But Zenith didnt reasonably  need  
to do so. It had already  given Mr M clear enough  information in the policy documents.
Zenith can fairly and reasonably say Mr M has to pay the outstanding premium payments on 
the cancelled  policy. Under the policy terms it doesnt have to give Mr M the cheaper option 
of paying back  the claim  amount, and its acted  fairly  in doing  so.
service
Ive looked at the letters and emails Zenith sent to Mr M and I think  its written to him in an 
appropriate tone and language.
Mr Ms also said there was a delay in Zenith  paying his vet. It looks  as if Mr M made the 
claim in February 2018. Zenith said Mr Ms vet had a problem  finding  the settlement  and 
someone from the vets accounts department phoned Zenith. As Zenith didnt  have 
permission to speak  with a third party  it couldnt give any details. Mr M spoke to Zenith  on 
23 March to give permission and it spoke to the vets on 28 March and gave the details 
needed for payment.
I think the claim was paid within a reasonable time frame and overall Zenith  gave reasonable 
service.
responses to my provisional  decision
Zenith didnt respond. Mr M didnt agree my provisional decision. 
Mr M said when  his dog was poisoned  the vet at the pet charity  saw him immediately and he 
was lucky to be saved. The charity contacted Mr M about a week  after he sent in his claim to 
say it hadnt been paid and he spoke to Zenith to chase. A week  later the pet charity still 
hadnt got payment and Zenith promised to sort it out. Mr M also told Zenith the account 
manager at the charity  had put in a complaint about  the delay. Mr M said about two weeks  
later the charity told Mr M he needed  to give Zenith permission to speak to the charity  about 
payment which  he did. He said hed lost all confidence in Zenith and called to cancel the 
policy. He emphasised he wasnt told at that point that it was going to charge him the rest of 
the premiums; if it had he wouldnt have cancelled.
Mr M also said he was frustrated as if he had given bad service he wouldnt expect to be 
paid and it was wrong  for Zenith to want money  from him when it had given poor service. He 
added that for Zenith to make the charity wait for payment  when it had given wonderful 
service was disgusting.
Ref: DRN53121323my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr M feels very strongly that Zenith gave him poor service and hes very 
annoyed about the effect on the charity which gave him such  good service.   
Ideally Zenith would have paid the claim to the charity quicker than it did. But even on the 
more detailed information Mr Ms given I still think it paid the claim in a reasonable timescale. 
Theres no basis for me to say Zenith  needs  to pay Mr M compensation for any 
inconvenience he had having to phone Zenith to chase the payment.  
Zenith asking Mr M for the remaining policy premium is a separate  matter. When he called to 
cancel the policy Zenith  didnt  tell him he needed  to pay the remaining premiums  for the year 
as hed made a claim. But that information had already been made clear to him in the policy 
documents and Zenith didnt have to remind him.
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  findings and these findings Zenith can fairly and 
reasonably say Mr M has to pay the outstanding premium payments on the cancelled  policy.  
Its fairly  given Mr M the cheaper option  of paying  back the claim amount instead of paying  
the premiums, which it didnt need to do. Its for Mr M to decide which option he wants  to 
take.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5312132