K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc didnt  do enough to help her when  she fell 
victim to a scam. She feels Barclays could have  done  more  to prevent the payment going 
through, or to recover the money from the scammer. Shes also unhappy that Barclays  gave 
her incorrect  information  when she spoke to them.
background
On 1 March 2018 Miss M made a payment of £245 via her mobile banking  app, to a 
company who had told her they could help her with a problem she was having.
Miss M later learned that the company she had paid wasnt legitimate, and that shed been 
the victim of a cruel scam. And on 16 March 2018, Miss M contacted  Barclays to tell them  
what had happened, and to see if there  was anything they could do to help. Barclays 
immediately contacted the scammers  bank to see if any of Miss Ms money could be 
retrieved. But on 19 March 2018 the scammers bank confirmed that no money remained, 
and Barclays sent Miss M a letter on 21 March 2018  to confirm this.
Unfortunately, it looks like Miss M might  not have received this letter, as on 23 April 2018  
she called  Barclays for an update  and was incorrectly told that the scammers bank hadnt 
yet replied to Barclays. But Barclays spoke to Miss M again on 24 April 2018,  and correctly 
explained that they hadnt been able to retrieve any of her money.
Miss M was unhappy with how Barclays handled things, so she referred  her complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at what had happened, she explained to Miss M that she felt 
Barclays had done all they could to try and help, so she didnt think  they needed to do 
anything more.
Miss M disagreed; she thinks  Barclays  should refund to her the money  she has lost, so her 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear of whats happened to Miss M, and I can understand why she wants to do 
all she can to try and get her money back.  But what I need to decide  is whether Barclays has 
done anything  wrong that has caused Miss M to lose out.
When Miss M made  the payment, she didnt know she was dealing  with a scammer, so she 
sent the money in good faith. This means  that  at the time  she wanted the payment to go 
ahead, and authorised  it to be made. 
And I dont  think there was anything suspicious or unusual about the payment that would 
have suggested  to Barclays that Miss M was being  scammed. The amount and type of 
payment that Miss M made wasnt particularly out of character for her and nothing about  the 
payment would have  indicated  to Barclays that it wasnt  legitimate. So in the circumstances, 
Ref: DRN53640302I dont think Barclays did anything wrong  by following the instructions Miss M gave and 
sending the money.
When Miss M told Barclays that shed been scammed they acted quickly,  contacting  the 
scammers bank  straightaway to see if any of Miss Ms money was still in the receiving 
account and could be retrieved. Unfortunately, by that time, all of Miss Ms money had gone. 
I note that Miss M has said she thinks the payment might still have been  showing as 
pending at that time,  but having looked  at the transactions logs for her account I can see 
that it had left her account on the same  day she made the payment, 1 March 2018.  So I think 
that contacting  the scammers bank to try and retrieve  her money was all Barclays  could do 
to help Miss M at that stage, it wouldnt have been able to stop the payment as the money 
had already left Miss Ms account.
Its unfortunate that Miss M has lost out, and I understand that this whole experience  will 
have been very upsetting for her. But in the circumstances,  I dont think I can fairly say that 
Barclays should have  acted to prevent Miss M losing  her money. I cant hold Barclays 
responsible for Miss M having  fallen victim to a scam, and I think they did all they could to 
help her once they knew  what had happened. So I dont think it would be fair to ask Barclays 
to compensate Miss M for her loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October  2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5364030