K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Skipton Financial Services Ltd (Skipton) failed to be clear that she 
would be required to actively  manage  her investments.
background
In 2015, Skipton recommended  the monitored  informed investing service  (MII Service)  to 
Mrs W, whereby  Skipton monitored  the performance  of the core funds in which investments 
were made. Regular reviews  were provided as part of the service along with offers  to switch 
funds, where appropriate,  at no additional charge. 
Mrs W says Skipton failed to make it clear  that she needed to take action with her 
investments, she believed Skipton would take steps  to switch funds for her. As a result, 
Mrs W lost out on switching  one of her funds  in 2016.
Skipton say that Mrs W was provided with clear  information about the scope of the service, 
at the time she took it out. Information  was provided explaining that investors  would be given 
the option to switch funds and it was then for each investor to decide whether or not to 
authorise the switch.  Skipton say information about  switches was sent to Mrs W in Fund  
Switch Packs, which explained the process  and provided a switch form along  with a pre-
paid envelope  in which to return it.
Mrs W says she has lost out by not switching in 2016 and she would like compensation for 
this. As a gesture of goodwill Skipton have given Mrs W the opportunity to switch  to the fund 
offered in 2016 without paying a fee. Mrs W has accepted this offer.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She thought Skipton had provided Mrs W with 
clear information about the MII Service and she was satisfied that information  was sent 
about the switch offer in 2016. Our investigator didnt think  Skipton had done  anything 
wrong.
Mrs W disagrees with the view. She feels that Skipton sent too much  paperwork and this 
made her nervous. She thought she had the same service as held with another provider. 
The matter  has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The MII Service  was recommended to Mrs W because she wanted  to be kept informed 
about the performance of her investments. Ive seen  a copy of a MII at a Glance document  
which set out the main  features of the service.  This document was signed and dated  by Mrs 
W at the time she took out the service, so Im satisfied that she was given information at the 
time. It encouraged Mrs G to also read the Promise brochure and Terms and Conditions  and 
to ask the adviser if there  were any areas  she was unclear  about  before signing the form.  At 
section 1 under the hearing  Performance Monitoring,  it said:
If we believe there has been  a significant  change  in a fund since it was made an MII Core  
Fund, we will offer you a Fund Switch and make no additional charge. We will provide you 
Ref: DRN57646712with the information you need to decide whether to take up the MII Fund Switch,  however we 
will not provide advice on the suitability  of the replacement fund for your individual  
circumstances.
The Promise  brochure likewise  explained  under the Performance  Monitoring section that,
We will provide you with the information  you need  to decide whether to take up the MII Fund 
Switch, however  we will not provide any advice on the suitability of the replacement  fund for 
your individual circumstances  . .
The Fund Switch section also sets out that it is for the investors  to return  a simple form by a 
specific date to authorise any switch.
Ive also seen a copy of the detail  set out in Skiptons Fund Switch Offer documentation,  
which is consistent with the information sent to Mrs W in January for a different switch. The 
documents explain the offer and the reasons why it is has been  made.  A highlighted box 
sets out the deadline  date for accepting the offer. The question and answer section explains 
that an offer is being provided  about  the option  to switch into another  fund and the deadline 
date for acceptance is set out again. A telephone number is given if advice is required. The 
consequences of not accepting the offer are also explained. Details  are given  as to how to 
action the offer, namely to complete  and return the fund switch  instruction form in the pre-
paid envelope.  
On balance, I consider  that clear information was provided about the service. I think  Mrs W 
ought reasonably  to have been  aware that a switch could only take place with her 
authorisation. It was for her to decide  whether or not to accept each offer.  Im sorry to 
disappoint Mrs W, but on balance, I cant fairly  say that Skipton  have  done  anything wrong. 
I dont doubt that this was a genuine mistake  by Mrs W and Ive seen that Skipton have 
taken reasonable  steps to help, by permitting Mrs W to switch at a later date, without 
charging fees. I wont be asking them to do anything  more.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs W, but for the reasons given Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5764671