K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that he was provided  with an incorrect settlement figure by Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited when he came  to terminate his hire purchase agreement.  
He wants the remaining  payment waived  and adverse entries  removed from his credit file.
background
Mr A tells us that he acquired the vehicle  in 2015  from a dealer Ill refer to as W. After  some 
preliminary discussions which went on between September 2018 to December 2018, he 
says he agreed to sell the vehicle back to W. Mr A says he was aware that a further  monthly 
payment on the agreement was due on 2 January 2019 but that he was told by W not to pay 
it and that it would be adjusted retrospectively.  He says VWFS tried to collect  the instalment 
(£359.84) but the payment wasnt met due to insufficient funds in his account. Mr A states 
that the terms of the vehicle sale were agreed  on 4 January.  He says this was a settlement 
figure of £19,218.24, including the January  payment. In addition  he said he paid £180 to 
cover the cost of a service and that the vehicle was handed back  to W on the same day. Mr 
A says that soon  afterwards he started  to receive  letters from VWFS requesting  payment of 
the January instalment.
VWFS told us that on 3 January 2019  a settlement figure was requested through  W. By 
which time that months payment  should  have been  made. It said it received the settlement 
payment of £19,218.24 on 8 January. But this didnt  include  the £359.84 which was still 
owing. It said it felt it had acted fairly and that as Mr A was still in arrears  that may reflect 
adversely on his credit file.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He issued two written 
opinions, the second of which was in response  to further submissions made by Mr A after 
the first view. Our investigator  said that VWFS would only be responsible for any 
misrepresentations by W relating to the sale of finance. And he said the settlement figure 
had only been  requested  after the monthly  payment  had been due. He thought  that VWFS 
was entitled to be paid the January instalment.  And he wouldnt be asking it to adjust Mr As 
credit file.
Mr A didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it.
I can see that Mr A feels strongly about this matter.  And I can understand his concern at 
being required to make a payment which he thought had been included  in the settlement 
terms of his agreement  to sell the vehicle.
I note that during this complaint Mr A has made reference to the "legal position  along  with 
his interpretation  of how it applies to these circumstances.  I should explain  that I dont apply 
the law - directly - in the same way as a court might do. But I do take it into account.  
Relevant law here includes the Consumer Credit  Act 1974  (CCA).
Ref: DRN56692392My determination of this complaint is made in line with the regulators Dispute Resolution  
Rules (DISP). These can be found  in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook.
DISP 3.6.1 states:
The Ombudsman will determine a complaint  by reference to what  is, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
DISP 3.6.4R says I need to take into account  relevant (my underlining):
 law and regulations;
 regulators  rules  guidance and standards:
 codes  of practice:
and  (where  appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice  at the time.
Where information is unclear or incomplete or facts  are in dispute  - as is the case  here - I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened  in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I think its helpful to explain whats going on when Mr A is negotiating with W about  the sale 
of this vehicle.  I accept that from Mr As point of view it may appear that the sale of the 
vehicle to W and the settling of the hire purchase agreement with VWFS are all part of the 
same continuous process. But in reality there  are two separate  elements. Whilst both are 
relevant they have  to be viewed as independent  of one another. 
The starting point  is that the vehicle was subject of a hire purchase agreement. This meant 
that it was owned by VWFS and not Mr A. In order to sell it to W, Mr A needed to settle his 
debt to VWFS. How he did so was a matter purely  between Mr A and VWFS. And any 
suggestion that W was acting as an agent  of VWFS  in this process is in my opinion  
mistaken. When W made the payment of £19,218.24 to VWFS  it did so on behalf of Mr A.
The second  element was the deal negotiated between W and Mr A. This is solely  a matter 
between Mr A and W. More importantly as far as this complaint is concerned its not a 
regulated activity. It amounts to no more than a private car sale.  As theres no regulated 
finance agreement  in respect of the transaction its not something that falls under the 
jurisdiction of this service. Mr A couldnt sell the vehicle to W until hed acquired ownership  of 
it. And he didnt own the vehicle  until the hire purchase agreement was fully repaid. At which 
time the agreement terminated. VWFS wouldnt know of, or be concerned about, the details  
of the deal between Mr A and W. All that it required to know  was that the hire purchase 
agreement would be fully repaid. 
Im not able to say what statements  were made  to Mr A by W about the terms of the deal. 
Nor do I know what was agreed. But for the purposes of this complaint that doesnt affect my 
decision. This complaint is brought against  VWFS  and not W. 
Ref: DRN56692393In his reply to our investigators first view Mr A submitted that under the CCA,  VWFS  is liable 
for a breach  of contract or misrepresentation by W. I dont agree with this view in respect of 
how it relates to this complaint. Our investigator  issued a comprehensive  reply  to the various 
points made  by Mr A. And I dont intend  to repeat this in full here. But as far as specific  
references made by Mr A to the CCA  I make  clear my findings.
Section 75 CCA has no application to hire purchase  agreements. And Section 56 only 
applies to antecedent negotiations relating  to certain types of regulated credit agreements 
and the goods supplied  through them. Whatever took place in terms of the negotiations 
between Mr A and W were not covered by the CCA as no regulated finance agreement 
resulted from those negotiations.
Mr A has said that he was told by W not to make his January payment. But I dont think that 
even if this was said - and Im not making any finding on the matter - it would affect my 
decision. Mr A knew that the payment was due to be made on 2 January 2019. He knew  or 
ought reasonably  to have known it hadnt  been  collected at the time W asked VWFS  for 
settlement figure on 3 January.  Its to be expected that there will be a delay in systems being 
updated to take account  of missed payments. So when VWFS advised W of the settlement 
figure it was reasonable to think it hadnt been  aware of the missed  payment on 2 January. 
Its also the case that in advising W of the settlement figure  VWFS was only acting out of 
courtesy. 
As Mr A didnt make  the payment at the required time VWFS is entitled to have that fact 
recorded on his credit file. And it wouldnt be fair and reasonable of me to require it to 
remove any such entry.
In summary,  I find that VWFS is not responsible for any statements made  by W in relation to 
its (W) purchase of the vehicle from Mr A. Under the terms of the hire purchase agreement  
Mr A was required  to make the January payment  and he didnt do so. In those 
circumstances its fair and reasonable VWFS should seek payment of the outstanding 
amount. When making reports to credit reference agencies VWFS is required to report 
account conduct both accurately and fairly. Ive seen nothing to suggest it hasnt done so. 
Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5669239