K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about  the way in which  Blemain Finance Limited has dealt with their 
loan account.  They say that Blemain  has told them  that their monthly payments need to 
increase, otherwise there  will be a deficit at the end of the term. And they say that this is 
unacceptable and that Blemain should honour  the arrangement it has agreed with them.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out an unregulated secured  loan with Blemain in December 2006.
In 2019 they complained that Blemain had asked them to increase their payments to avoid 
having a deficit  of over £40,000 at the end of the loan term. They  said that they were paying  
the amount they had agreed  with Blemain over the phone and that Blemain should be happy 
with those payments.  And they said that they couldnt afford to pay the increased  amount 
Blemain had suggested.
Blemain didnt uphold  the complaint. It said, in summary:
Mr and Mrs C were expected to pay a total of around £110,500 over a period of 180 
months starting in December 2006. At this point in the loan term, which was 148 
months, their loan balance should  be around  £16,800. However, their balance  was 
currently around £42,700. This meant  that they were not on track  to redeem their 
loan in December  2021. 
The reason  for their account being  off track was because not all of their payments 
had been paid on time so costs, charges and interest had been added  to their loan. 
They also had buildings insurance  charges plus associated  interest  on their loan.
Mr and Mrs C had previously complained about the overall outstanding balance  of 
their account. Blemain had written  to them in January 2019 upholding their complaint 
as theyd identified  some incorrect interest that had accrued on the account. This 
amount had been refunded to them.
It had now carried out a further review  of the costs,  charges and interest  on the 
account since January  2019 and could confirm that no further  charges had been 
applied and that the balance of the account  was correct.
It had spoken  to Mr and Mrs C in December 2018 confirming that the payment they 
were making was their contractual  payment  due each month. Within the call they 
were informed  of the approximate  figures  they would need to increase their payments 
to in order to finish  the loan within term.
If Mr and Mrs C would like to discuss how they could repay their off track balance so 
that their loan redeemed on time they should contact Blemains customer  services  
team.
Our investigator felt that Blemain had dealt  with the complaint  fairly.  He said, in summary:
The agreement in question  was an unregulated  agreement and so this service could 
only consider events that have taken place since April 2014, which  is when this type 
of agreement came under our jurisdiction. 
Blemain had explained the situation  regarding the account in its final response letter. 
Looking at the account he could  see that there had been some  missed and late 
payments on the account, so unless Mr and Mrs C could show  him that the figures 
were wrong he had to assume that they were correct.
Ref: DRN53093362The contractual monthly  payment  under the agreement was around  £616, and 
Mr and Mrs C would  need to continue to pay this amount  going  forward  to maintain 
their agreement  as a minimum requirement.  However, if they continued to pay this 
amount the balance  would not be cleared by the end date. It would therefore be 
helpful for them to complete an income  and expenditure form to discover what they 
could afford.  Blemain  had confirmed that it last received an income and expenditure 
form from them in October  2015.
Although Blemain had indicated that it had given Mr and Mrs C an indication of the 
figure that they needed to pay each  month  to clear the loan by the projected end date 
of December 2021, hed been  told that if the loan wasnt  repaid by that date that they 
may be able to carry on making payments  until the loan was repaid.
Mr and Mrs C dont agree with the investigators  view, and so their complaint  has been 
referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as our investigator, and for much the same reasons. I appreciate that this will 
come as a disappointment  to Mr and Mrs C, so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
This loan is a secured unregulated loan. As our investigator has explained, jurisdiction  for 
this type of agreement came under  our control  in April 2014. This means that I can only 
consider events that have taken place since that date in my decision.
Blemain has explained  that Mr and Mrs Cs loan account balance  is higher than it should 
have been at this point  in the term, because not all of their payments have been paid on time 
so costs, charges  and interest had been  added to their loan. And it says that Mr and Mrs C 
also had buildings  insurance charges plus associated interest on their loan. 
Mr and Mrs C agreed  to pay these costs, charges and interest when they signed the loan 
agreement with Blemain.  So I cant say that Blemain  has done  anything wrong in charging 
these amounts. And Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that the charges have been 
applied incorrectly. 
From the evidence Ive seen, it appears  that when Blemain spoke to Mr and Mrs C in 
December 2018  it indicated the amount that they would have to pay each  month in order to 
pay off the loan balance by the end of the term. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C say that they 
cant afford to pay this amount, and that theyve not previously  been asked to complete an 
income and expenditure form. But I agree with our investigator that it would be helpful  for 
them to complete an income and expenditure form now so that they can work out with 
Blemain what they can afford to pay. They should  be aware that if they continue to pay only 
the contractual payments  then there  will still be a balance outstanding when the term is due 
to come to an end.
Finally, I note that Mrs C says that Blemain has received low scores  in customer  surveys. 
But, although I appreciate her concern,  my role is to make a decision on the facts and 
circumstances of this complaint, so this does not change my view.
Ref: DRN53093363my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 July 2020
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5309336