K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that Provident Personal  Credit  Limited was irresponsible  when it provided 
her with two home-collected instalment loans in 2009 and 2010.  She says that it didnt carry 
out proper affordability  checks  when lending  to her. She adds that the loans led her to 
struggle financially which meant that she had to borrow from elsewhere.  
background
As Ive mentioned,  Miss L took two loans with Provident. These were home-collected loans 
which meant that an agent  called at Miss Ls home  for her repayments.
This table  contains  some  of the information Provident has provided about Miss Ls loans.
loan  
numberdate  
takenprincipal 
amountdate  
repaidoriginal 
termweekly instalment  
amount
Loan  1 20/12/09 £300.00 29/06/10 31 weeks £15.00
Loan  2 11/11/10 £400.00 15/11/11 50 weeks £14.00
One of our adjudicators looked  into Miss Ls complaint and recommended that it shouldnt  be 
upheld. Miss L doesnt agree with that assessment and has asked  for her complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost lending, similar to that 
provided to Miss L by Provident - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
At the time Provident  provided these two loans  to Miss L it was licensed by the Office of Fair 
Trading (OFT).  Broadly  speaking it had to act responsibly and it had to carry out checks to 
ensure that the credit  would  be affordable in a sustainable way for Miss L.  
So, Ive thought about whether Provident did complete reasonable and proportionate checks 
to satisfy itself that Miss L would be able to repay  her loans in a sustainable way? If so, did 
Provident make a fair lending decision? If not, would those  checks have shown that Miss L 
wouldve been able to do so?
The checks  Provident  was required  to do, had to be proportionate to the specific  
circumstances of each  loan.  And what is proportionate will depend on a number of factors  
including things like the consumers financial history and current  situation as well as things 
such as the amount, type, cost of the credit  being  sought. What is sufficient for one 
consumer might not be for another, or indeed  what might  be sufficient for a consumer in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same  consumer in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect the required level of checks to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect  a lender to require more  assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. 
Ref: DRN52546062Certain factors might point to the fact that Provident should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the Miss L. These factors include, but 
are not limited to:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Miss L took these two loans around  ten years ago. It isnt surprising that the information and 
evidence which is available is limited  after such a long time. Provident has provided some  
information it obtained at the time.  For example, it seems that it was aware that Miss L was 
working full time and has provided the name  and address of her employer. But it hasnt 
shown us any details  of any income  or expenses declared by Miss L to its agent. And she 
hasnt provided  anything to help me assess what Provident wouldve seen at the time, either.
Both loans  were taken  over a number of months.  Loan 1 was around  seven months  
(31 weeks)  and Loan 2 was due to last for nearly a year (50 weeks). And as Ive mentioned,  
I havent been provided with any evidence about  Miss Ls income at the time by either her or 
Provident. In the absence  of this its difficult to say with any certainty  what  a proportionate 
check shouldve looked like.
What I do know is that Loan  1 was Miss Ls first loan with this lender. She was due to repay 
it at £15 per week  roughly £65 per month and shed told Provident she was working full 
time. I think that in the circumstances of which Im aware Provident shouldve  probably 
sought to satisfy itself about how much disposable  income Miss L would have left each week 
after shed payed all her normal  outgoings  and regular credit  commitments. After  all, this 
loan was committing her to repaying  it for around seven months. But I havent seen enough 
to say that Provident shouldve done  more than that for example by making credit file 
searches or asking  for verification of income  or expenditure.    
It seems  that Miss L repaid Loan  1 a few weeks earlier than planned  in the credit agreement.  
And she didnt then apply for Loan  2 for over four months. 
Ive thought about whether there were any other factors at the point when Miss L took 
Loan 2 which meant  that Provident ought to have done more checks  than were  necessary 
for Loan 1. 
Ive looked at Miss Ls repayment history and - from January 2010 - she appears to have 
repaid Loan 1 about a month in advance every  month  which explains why she repaid it 
four weeks  early. From her statement of account, I havent seen anything  that suggests  that 
Miss L was struggling to meet  the repayments  for Loan 1. I accept that behind  the scenes 
she may have been struggling and perhaps even been borrowing from elsewhere  to meet 
her obligations  on Loan 1. But again, from what Ive seen I dont think it wouldve been  
proportionate to expect Provident  to do a full financial review  for Miss L when assessing her 
Ref: DRN52546063application for Loan 2. However,  in the absence of any information about her income  and 
expenditure I cant fairly conclude that it did a proportionate check for Loan 2 either.
With all this in mind  and based  on the information which  is available,  Im not persuaded that 
Provident did proportionate checks for Loans 1 and 2. But that doesnt mean that I should  
uphold Miss Ls complaint. For me to uphold Miss Ls complaint Id have to be satisfied that if 
Provident had done proportionate  checks they wouldve shown it that the loans werent 
affordable for her. But, for the reasons Ive explained above, in this case, Ive not seen 
anything which suggests to me that had Provident  had done proper checks  it wouldve 
concluded that the loans  were unaffordable for Miss L in a sustainable way. 
There are some situations where the lending history  and pattern of borrowing in itself is 
sufficient to conclude  that the lending was unsustainable. But Miss L took only two loans,  
she repaid Loan  1 early and didnt apply for Loan  2 for over four months. In these 
circumstances I dont  think  that there was a pattern which ought reasonably have led 
Provident to conclude that further  lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
I'm sorry that this isnt the outcome Miss L was hoping for. I realise shell be disappointed but 
taking everything together I havent seen  enough  evidence for me to conclude that I should 
uphold her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5254606