K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained that Phoenix Life Assurance  Limited is proposing to pay his retirement 
benefits in a manner which is inconsistent with the original contract. 
background
Mr E held benefits in an occupational pension scheme. In 1986  he took advice from an 
independent financial  adviser and transferred his deferred benefits into a s.32 buy-out plan 
with National Provident (now Phoenix).  It issued  a document on 14 January 1986. The 
precise status of this document  is important. Phoenix say it is an illustration  but Mr E says it 
was or an offer which he accepted. It stated:
retirement benefits depend principally  on the investment return  As a reasonable indication 
of benefits at normal retirement age the following figures illustrate  the effect of accumulating  
the net balance of the transfer  value at 9%pa with the pensions  purchase on conservative  
terms (the amount of pension increasing  during payment by 5% pa)
The document confirmed that Mr E would receive a guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) of 
just over £2,000.00  per year and a widows pension  of half that amount.
A policy document was subsequently  issued. This stated:
Profit Sharing  Account  each amount which has been credited to the profit sharing account 
secures a guaranteed sum available to provide benefits at the members normal  retirement  
date The members profit sharing account  records the guaranteed sums and the bonuses 
which NPI adds to those  sums as at 31 December  in each  year.
Retirement Benefits  if the member retires  at normal retirement date NPI will pay any 
annuity which is provided by the non-profit  account The values of the capital account and 
the profit sharing account will include any bonuses for the period between  31 December 
which precedes the normal retirement  date and that date. The total value will be used  to first 
make up any difference between the annuities provided by the non-profit account and the 
guaranteed minimum  pension.
After Phoenix sent a retirement pack, Mr E raised  a complaint. His main points were:
The retirement benefits should increase by 5 per cent per annum.
The value of the pension should be adjusted to allow for annual  bonuses.
The adjusted value  should be transferable to another provider. 
Phoenix rejected  the complaint. It ultimately said that only the retirement benefits in excess  
of the GMP would escalate  at 5 per cent, and that this was not guaranteed. It explained that 
no bonuses had been added since 2001  and that the plan could  not be transferred because 
there was a GMP shortfall. It offered £100  for delays.
An adjudicator considered  the complaint and said that it should not be upheld.  He made the 
following main points:
The initial document, which he considered was an illustration, had not guaranteed 
5 per cent escalation  when  considered  as a whole.
Ref: DRN52815192The policy document stated that this rate applied to the excess  over GMP, and there 
was no such excess as there  was a GMP shortfall.
He believed bonuses  had been  applied consistently with the policy document.  As the 
policy value was lower  than the cost of GMP, only the GMP was payable.
The £100 compensation was reasonable.
Mr E did not accept the adjudicators opinion.  There was significant further correspondence, 
which I have read and considered, but do not propose to summarise  here.  He considered  
the initial document to be an offer, constituting  a contract,  and he maintained that his 
interpretation of its terms was correct.
As agreement could not be reached the complaint  was referred to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive read everything but this decision will 
address those issues which I think are central  to the outcome.
I agree  with the views  given by the adjudicators. I dont uphold this complaint. Essentially I 
agree that the document from January 1986  is an illustration. It is not an offer. Secondly, Im 
satisfied that the bonuses  have been applied correctly and do not add to the GMP.
The 5 per cent escalation
By way of background it should be explained  that GMP is the minimum pension which an 
occupational pension scheme  has to provide  for employees who contracted  out of the State 
Earnings-Related Pension  Scheme (SERPS) between 1978 and 1997. The amount paid by 
a GMP should  be 'broadly equivalent' to the amount received if they had not been contracted  
out. The guarantees which must be paid from the GMP are set out in legislation.
I have reviewed the document provided in January 1986 and I dont agree that it was an 
offer to pay an annuity with 5 per cent escalation. Im satisfied that it was an illustration. The 
method by which the annuity would be calculated is within  the policy document.  This set out 
that the amount which exceeded the cost of the annuity would increase by 5 per cent. We 
know that in this case the cost of the annuity to provide  the GMP was more than the policy 
value. So there was no excess which would attract the 5 per cent escalation.
It should be noted that Mr E received advice from an independent financial adviser.  Phoenix  
(or its predecessor) didnt  advise him. It was the advisers responsibility to explain how the 
policy worked. This transfer took place in 1986  and its probably  fair to say that these policies 
were not completely transparent or easy to understand for a lay person. It would have been 
the advisers role and responsibility to explain how the policy  would operate and to guide 
Mr E in his expectations.
The bonuses applied
Mr E says that the value of the GMP should increase in line with the bonuses applied  to his 
plan. Ive considered  all that he has said but I dont agree.
Ive quoted from the policy terms above  but repeat  this extract:
Ref: DRN52815193The values of the capital  account and the profit sharing account will include any bonuses  for 
the period between 31 December which precedes  the normal  retirement  date and that date. 
The total value  will be used to first make up any difference  between  the annuities  provided 
by the non-profit account  and the guaranteed minimum  pension.
This means  that any bonuses allocated are effectively added  to the value of the fund to 
provide an annuity,  but will only result  in an increase in the GMP if that final value  is more  
than the cost of the GMP itself. The bonuses are effectively  used  first to make  up any 
difference between  the fund value and the amount required to pay the GMP.
In this case bonuses  were added, but the total fund value  has not reached the level 
necessary to pay the GMP  and so the bonuses have not had the effect of increasing  the 
amount payable. This policy  meant  that Mr E was always  guaranteed  to receive his GMP 
regardless of investment performance, but he would only ever receive more if the investment 
grew sufficiently and the final value was greater than the actual cost of the GMP.
Im satisfied that this I show  the plan was designed to operate. Im not satisfied that Mr E 
was misled. His advisers ought  to have explained  how the policy operated.
I can appreciate that Mr E may be disappointed  with the pension payments he has been  
offered as they dont meet his expectations. But Im not satisfied that his complaint should be 
upheld. I think the offer Phoenix has made in respect of its delays is fair in all the 
circumstances.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Phoenix should pay £100 to Mr E if it hasnt already done so. I 
make no other award.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5281519