K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about  the rejection of their claim by AXA Insurance  UK Plc. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this case as follows  
Mr and Mrs C hold cover  with AXA for their property, and they made a claim for damage to
their drainage system. AXA rejected this on the basis that Mr and Mrs C didnt get a
specialist drain check  done when they purchased the property some  months  before the
claim. AXA also thought there was a possibility  the damage occurred before they came on
risk. Mr and Mrs C (with the help of a representative) complained to us.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and upheld the complaint. They  thought that
AXA hadnt  proved the damage occurred before  the policy started, and thought they
shouldnt be penalised  for not getting a specialised  report. AXA didnt agree, so the case has
been passed to me for review.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As above I am not currently minded to uphold  this complaint. Ill explain why.
For the claim to succeed the damage  would  need  to be covered by the policy, and occur
whilst the policy is on risk. I cant be sure of either of these things, but in particular the
coverage by the policy.
The policy covers accidental damage, but I havent  seen any proof  of accidental damage, so
I cant ask AXA to meet the claim.  Its clear that the system failed and that in turn caused the
pump burn out damage,  but Ive seen no proof  that the original issue  was accidental
damage.
It might also be argued as AXA did that any damage  accidental  or not, occurred before the
policy began.  But I dont need to make a judgement on that, as the cause of the damage
hasnt been proven.
So, whilst I dont think at this stage  the claim is defeated by the policy start date issue,  or the
lack of a specialist report when the property was purchased, I do think  it fails over lack of
proof of accidental damage.
I have noted the investigators comments that the damage was sudden and unexpected, but
I dont agree that this validates  the claim.  Most  claims are sudden and unexpected but that
doesnt mean they are covered. Many wear and tear issues, or lack of maintenance or
upkeep will have a sudden and unexpected breaking point when the damage becomes
visible or its effects do, but that doesnt mean insurance covers it.
I cant know what happened here, but as it is the claimant who must first prove  their case  it is
for Mr and Mrs C to prove there was clear accidental  damage,  not for AXA to show  there
wasnt.
Based on the evidence  I have I am inclined to make no award.
Ref: DRN58443672Since my provisional decision AXA havent  made  any further comment.  
The consumers representative has submitted a six page response,  which  I have read in full. 
To summarise, they consider that the damage must be accidental as it was not intentional.  
They also state  the policy does not require the policyholder to prove causation, they suggest  
there are no signs of wear  and tear, my provisional decision  is at odds with other decisions 
made by this service,  and that there is no logical explanation for the damage other than a 
significant external  force.  
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not minded to change  the view I expressed in my provisional decision,  Ill explain why. 
I agree  that there is no proof that the damage  was intentional, indeed that has never been 
my view. However that alone is not enough  for it to be covered.  I definitely dont agree 
though that the policyholder doesnt have to prove  causation. Under  any reasonable 
interpretation of an insurance contract  the claimant does need to show the cause of the 
event claimed for is covered, otherwise there would be no need to say what  is and what  is 
not covered. And I still think Mr and Mrs Cs claim fails on this point. 
Whilst the representative contests that there  is no logical explanation other than an external  
event, they dont actually say what this event was. It needs to be something the policy  
covers, and without  some  indication as to what it was I cant be sure that the policy does 
cover it, and cant ask AXA to pay the claim.  
I have also taken note of the previous  decisions the representative has quoted. However, all 
cases differ  and in those  cases  there  are many aspects that arent  contained in the 
published decisions due to space constraints and the need for such  decisions to be 
anonymous, so that consumers cannot be identified. Plus ombudsmen  arent  bound  by 
precedent via previous decisions,  and I am only required to make  what I consider to be the 
fair and reasonable decision in this particular case.  
my final decision
I make  no award against AXA Insurance UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 April 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5844367