K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The policy  was taken  out in 1995 in connection with a 
mortgage
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make  sure the product it
recommended was suitable  for Mr Ds needs?
- Did Halifax  give Mr D the information he needed to decide  whether to take out
the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether
Mr D is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different 
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr D suggests Halifax presented the PPI as part of the overall mortgage package, and that 
he wasnt given a proper  choice about  buying  it. Ive noted everything Mr D has said.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr D and
Halifax when the policy was sold. Im also mindful  that these events happened many  years
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened  can fade over time.
Ive noted that Mr Ds mortgage  application form included a section about PPI which said:
Do you wish to join the Scheme (Y/N).  If Yes please complete the appropriate  application 
form.
So it seems  Mr D had to complete a separate application form for the PPI, and that he 
couldve opted not to take the cover.
Without anything  else to support what Mr D has told me, I dont think I can fairly
and reasonably say that Halifax didnt make him aware that the PPI was optional
Ref: DRN58828142Halifax has accepted  that it advised  Mr D to take out the policy  and it doesnt  look like it
was unsuitable  for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this
because:
- Mr D was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and
conditions.
- Mr D says he was entitled to employer benefits if he couldnt work  due to
sickness or accident, and that he had some savings.  Mr D says the combination of 
his sick pay and savings  meant he could cover  his mortgage payments for an 
equivalent period to the PPI.
But the policy wouldve  paid out in addition to Mr Ds employer benefits. Having the 
policy in place wouldve  meant Mr D could use his employer benefits and savings to 
pay for other  expenses. So I still think the policy wouldve  been  useful to him, despite 
his existing arrangements. 
-Mr D wasnt  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main  benefits,
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical
conditions. As he could have benefited  from the full extent of the cover I think  it 
unlikely he needed  better advice or information  about  the policys  exclusions and 
limitations.
-I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr D before he agreed  to buy
it. But he took out the cover knowing he would have to pay something for it. The 
policy was competitively priced  and apparently affordable. So I think  it unlikely Mr D
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been
provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr D about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr D wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or
limitations and the policy  had a reasonable benefit.  So I think it unlikely Mr D would have
made a different decision if better  information had been provided   overall, I think  he would 
still have taken out the policy.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because  Halifax didnt  tell Mr D, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN58828143my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back  to Mr D any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5882814