K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about  advice  from Pharon Independent Financial Advisers 
Limited (Pharon) when it reviewed their pensions and Individual Savings  Accounts  (ISAs) in 
late 2016/early 2017.  
They say they previously held the pensions and ISAs on a platform that allowed direct client 
access in addition to adviser access and that Pharon gave them  unsuitable advice, after the 
review, to transfer them to a platform that only had adviser access   and no direct  client 
access. They discovered the absence  of direct access in 2018  and subsequently  complained  
and transferred the portfolios, without  Pharons involvement, elsewhere. Pharon  did not 
uphold their complaint.
background
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and concluded  that it should be upheld. In 
the main,  she found as follows:
The review advice  was to transfer  Mr and Mrs Ms pensions  into Self Invested 
Personal Pensions (SIPPS) on the new platform and to move  some of their ISAs to 
the same  new platform. The former was to achieve greater fund choice, flexibility  and 
ease of administration (including regular investment reviews), and the latter  was also 
for ease of administration with regards of having the pensions and ISAs on the same  
platform.
Pharon acknowledges that its review advice  did not explain that the new platform  is 
based on adviser access only (without direct client access), but it says the key 
features documentation for the platform explained  this and that Mr and Mrs M did not 
specify direct access was important  to them. 
In response Mr and Mrs M say they assumed they would have direct  access  on the 
new platform, that they expected no less access  than they had on the previous 
platform, that Pharons description of the new platform suggested it would be easier 
for them to manage their investments  and that their understanding of the explanation 
in the key features was that they should  take advice  for investment  choices.
It was primarily  for Pharon, as part of its know-your-client responsibility, to highlight 
the lack of direct client access  on the platform, particularly as Mr and Mrs M 
previously had such access and particularly as it says it could only suggest platforms  
without such access at the time. 
Mr and Mrs M should have been  told the new platform  did not have direct client 
access, had that been done they would have acted  differently. Evidence  suggests 
that they would not have incurred the initial charges involved in the transfers but that 
they would  have continued  to receive  advice thereafter nevertheless. As such, 
redress should involve  a refund of the initial  charges and other  fees received by 
Pharon in relation  to the transfers,  minus its standard charge for advice  of 0.5% per 
annum plus VAT on the investment values in 2017  plus interest  on the resulting  
sum. In addition, Mr and Mrs M should be given £200 for the trouble and upset 
caused to them.
 
Pharon disputed  this outcome, asked for an ombudsmans decision and, in the main, said:
It retains its stance that Mr and Mrs M did not specify that they wanted  direct access 
and it was their responsibility to do so.
Ref: DRN59038702Mr and Mrs Ms decision not to transfer all of their ISAs indicates that they wanted to 
retain control of some of their plans  and wanted Pharon to manage  the others.
Evidence of the key features documentation actually states that an adviser must  be 
used to manage the portfolios on the new platform.
The redress proposal should take into account that the initial  charge would have 
been due even if Mr and Mrs M transferred to a direct access  platform  and would 
have included a pension transfer advice  fee, so it is unfair to refund this charge to 
them. In addition, they would probably have been  paying  a higher fee  above the 
0.19% it negotiated for them on the new platform  on a direct  access platform.
The adjudicator did not accept the argument  that Mr and Mrs M needed to be specific  about 
wanting a direct access platform, in the absence  of Pharon querying  this. She also referred 
to a previous submission  from Pharon that it did not have direct access platforms to 
recommend at the time so no initial  advice  or initial charge  would have existed if Mr and Mrs 
M specified  that they wanted such a platform.  She considered that its subsequent  argument 
that the charge would have applied in any case conflicts with what it previously  said. Pharon 
said it might  not have made its previous  statement  clear and that what it is now asserting is 
that the redress calculation  should  take into account the fact [it] provided regulated 
pension transfer  advice, which [Mr and Mrs M] benefitted from irrespective of where  they 
then chose to transfer . In response, Mr and Mrs M say they had no such benefit  and instead 
Pharons advice  complicated their position.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M were  existing clients of Pharon  before the 2016/2017 review; their portfolios 
were previously on a platform which had both adviser and direct  client  access; they say 
Pharon knew this because it was the firm that helped to set them up; at no time did they 
indicate that they wished  to forego direct client access  to the portfolios and their expectation 
was that the transfers would retain the same dual adviser and direct client access whilst 
having the benefits advised by Pharon; if, as it appears to them, Pharon knew  that the new 
platform would not have such dual access it should not have recommended it to them  or, at 
least, it should have first given them notice of this; Pharon recommended  the new platform  to 
them without giving  such notice.
Evidence from the relevant suitability report supports the conclusion  that Pharons  advice to 
Mr and Mrs M was given  in the context  of transferring their portfolios to the new platform.  I 
do not suggest that its advice was limited to the transfers in isolation, there is evidence of 
advice on funds and on pensions as part of the advice on transfer.  However, I am persuaded 
that the thrust of Pharons  advice appears to have been the transfer of the portfolios and that 
everything else flowed  from that.
Pharon previously  explained to this service that it did not have platform  products with direct 
client access so Mr and Mrs M  would have had to investigate  and commence the new 
plan independently, as indeed they have done ; and that There  would therefore have been 
no initial fee as we would not have been  involved in the transaction.
Ref: DRN59038703I do not accept that Pharons initial position, as quoted above, can be qualified  as it has 
subsequently attempted  to do. It was clear in telling  us that it would have had no part in Mr 
and Mrs Ms transaction  if direct  client access was required  because it could not recommend 
such a platform, so no initial fee would  have applied. 
Mr and Mrs M sought a review. As stated above, they were existing clients  of Pharon and it 
had familiarity with their previous arrangements. They did not ask specifically for a platform 
transfer or for transfers to a platform that did not have direct client  access. There is no 
evidence of this or of anything from them indicating that they wanted to revise the level of 
access they had to their portfolios. In isolation,  their decision not to transfer one or some of 
their ISAs is not enough to indicate this. There is no dispute that they did not give a specific 
instruction in terms of access. However,  given  that Pharon already knew of the dual access  
arrangement they had on the previous platform and given that they did not say they wanted 
to change that, it was unreasonable  for Pharon to assume that they would want  to change  
that arrangement  without  verifying that first with them.  
Pharon is correct  in saying advisers  are generally led by instructions from clients. It argues 
that this means  Mr and Mrs M should have declared that they wanted to retain direct client  
access. However the point that Pharon does not appear to have addressed is that it changed 
their access  arrangement, as part of its recommendation,  without their instruction to do so  
so, in Mr and Mrs Ms case, it chose not to be led by its clients  instruction. That went  against  
what they wanted and Pharon  holds responsibility for that. I note that there is dispute over 
information from the key features document. The version given to us by Pharon differs,  in the 
relevant parts, to the version Mr and Mrs M say they received  at the time and shared with us. 
The former indicates the platform  is limited  to adviser access but the latter  does not. Overall, 
I do not consider  there is enough evidence  to conclude, on balance,  that the key features 
document informed  Mr and Mrs M about  the absence of direct access.
Had Pharon clarified, at the outset (during fact finding for the review), that retention of direct 
client access was important to Mr and Mrs M, it would have done  as it told us. It would have 
had nothing further to do with the matter because it could not recommend  a platform with 
such access. Mr and Mrs M would have had to look into any transfers independently.  No 
initial fee would have applied. Pharon would not have gone  beyond the fact finding stage. No 
wider advice from Pharon would have followed.  This is essentially what  Pharon  initially  
conceded to us.
I am satisfied that Pharons recommendation to Mr and Mrs M changed their portfolio  access  
arrangement without their instruction to do so, that the recommendation was unsuitable and 
that it did not deliver the advice they were entitled  to  instead  and in terms of access 
arrangement the recommendation  left them in a worse position.  
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusion  that they should receive a refund of the fees 
received by Pharon in relation to the transfers and, for the reasons given above, I do not 
accept Pharons  argument against  this conclusion. As existing clients of Pharon  at the time 
and given evidence  of ongoing  reviews  they sought  from Pharon after the 2016/2017 advice, 
I also agree  with the adjudicators proposal  to discount Pharons charge  for advice. Pharons 
argument about platform fees appears to be nullified by the following  it says it managed  to 
negotiate a beneficial rate of 0.19% for Mr and Mrs M which  they were unlikely to get without 
its involvement; Mr and Mrs M have given us evidence that the platform they subsequently  
moved their portfolios to in 2018 charges 0.2%;  I consider both fees to be broadly  matched. 
For the sake of completeness I also agree  that Mr and Mrs M should  be paid £200 for the 
trouble and upset  they have been  caused in this matter.
Ref: DRN59038704what must  Pharon do?
Refund Mr and Mrs M all fees it received in relation to the transfers  of their portfolios 
 this does not include  its standard charge for advice of 0.5% per annum plus VAT 
based on the portfolios values in 2017.
Add, unto the refund, interest at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date each 
fee was paid to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr and Mrs M £200 for the trouble  and upset  caused to them.
Provide Mr and Mrs M a calculation of the redress in a clear and simple  format.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I order Pharon 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay them redress as set out above and to give 
them a calculation of the redress in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 August  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5903870