K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc (Barclays) gave misleading information  
about the term of an investment fund. Mr and H also complain about the tax certificates 
issued by Barclays.
background
Mr and Mrs H had a liquidity management service with Barclays, set up on a discretionary 
management basis. Barclays wrote  to Mr and Mrs H in April 2007 about  an opportunity to 
invest in private equity funds. Mr and Mrs H invested $100, 000 US in the fund in June 2007.  
Mr and Mrs H say they were aware  that the product was a punt  and they accepted  the level 
of risk. Mr and Mrs H say they were told this was a ten year investment,  which was in line 
with the duration  of other investments they took at the time. 
Mr and Mrs H anticipated that the funds would  mature  at the ten year point. Whilst 75% of 
the investment  matured,  the investment period for the remaining  funds  extended. Mr and 
Mrs H were disappointed  about this extension and say they were  not notified  about this. Mr 
and Mrs H say Barclays adviser did not tell them the investment could be extended  by up to 
a further four years. Mr and Mrs H claim the adviser misled them about the duration of the 
investment and say they would not have invested had they known the term could extend to 
fourteen years.
Mr and Mrs H also complain about tax packs sent by Barclays. Packs were sent in July and 
amended packs were sent later in November, after Mr and Mrs H had submitted their tax 
returns. Mr and Mrs H say this pattern happened over a number of years.
Mr and Mrs H have also asked for clarity  around the latest maturity  date and questioned 
Barclays requests for wealth and source  of funds information.
Barclays maintain that clear information was provided to Mr and Mrs H about the term of the 
investment and the length of possible extensions. They say their questions  about wealth 
formed part of their ongoing monitoring. Barclays accept errors were  made  with the tax 
packs.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She thought the term of the investment had been 
made clear to Mr and Mrs H, namely 10 years  with up to a 4 year extension. Whilst there 
was limited information about  the sending of additional tax packs, she thought Barclays offer 
to cover any additional accountancy costs  was fair. Further, she explained it wasnt unusual 
for a business to ask for wealth information and the source of funds  but if Mr and Mrs H 
encountered difficulty around provision and assessment of information,  that would be a new 
complaint. Our investigator explained  that it wasnt within the remit of our service  to direct  a 
business how to operate  its processes.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its useful to explain at the outset that our service has no regulatory or disciplinary 
role, which means we have no power to tell a business how to operate.  We provide an 
informal, independent,  dispute resolution  service, where we assess  each complaint on a fair 
and reasonable basis.  
Ref: DRN54804342As our investigator has explained it isnt unusual or unreasonable for Barclays  to ask about 
wealth or source  of funds. Mr and Mrs H have raised additional concerns about the 
management of the fund being transferred, the status of their access  to the fund and a 
change in fees. As our investigator has explained,  these are new matters,  so I wont be 
addressing them within this decision.  
information about duration of investment
This investment was made almost  twelve years ago and there is limited information  about 
what was said about the product. Im mindful that memories can fade with the passage of 
time and Ive taken  that into account. Mr and Mrs H have also explained that they held a 
number of investments,  so there  was potential  for recollections about specific products to 
become muddled.  In addition to the parties recollection of events, Ive also considered 
documents from the time in order  to assess what is likely to have happened.
Barclays rely upon a letter  sent to Mr and Mrs H in April 2007. Mr and Mrs H say they 
havent seen the letter before, but Ive seen that is addressed to them and it introduced  this 
investment opportunity, which  they subsequently took up. On balance, I consider that it is 
more likely than not that it was sent at the time.
The letter explains  the nature of the fund and the duration of the investment, said to be, 10 
years, with 4 possible 1 year extensions, so the minimum is 10 years  and the maximum is 14 
years. The extensions are going to be determined by the underlying  Private  Equity  funds 
requirements.
In the summary  section,  the adviser  recommended investing  not more  than 5% of Mr and 
Mrs Hs liquid wealth into the fund, subject to their acceptance of the, illiquidity and the time 
horizon. An investment fact sheet was included, which set out the term on the first page as
10 (+ 4 years with potential extensions). Further, the Key risks section of the factsheet 
explained an extension  to the term was possible at the discretion of the product issuer.
The April letter says that a term sheet will be sent over the next few days. I dont  know 
whether the term sheet  was sent but Ive noted that it would also have confirmed that the 
maximum term would  be fourteen years.
As the investment wasnt made until June 2007, its possible that further  discussion took 
place. The parties havent been  able to provide any further information  about this.
On balance, I consider  that its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H were given clear and 
adequate information about  the term of the investment and the possibility of extension  of the 
term up to fourteen  years. Ive also taken into account that this investment  was 
recommended to Mr and Mrs H. Ive seen that around 5% of their liquid wealth was invested. 
Mr and Mrs H say they were aware  of the investment  risks at the time.  Theyve  been  candid 
in their description of this investment  as a punt. Investing a small amount of their wealth  
into this investment wasnt inconsistent with their attitude to risk. 
It was open to Mr and Mrs H not to proceed  with the investment at that time. Mr and Mrs H 
say they were aware this investment was speculative and they were willing to take a risk. Im 
not persuaded that they would have decided against  investing because the investment 
risked tying their money up for more than 10 years  Given their financial circumstances,  this 
risk wouldnt  have materially  affected  affordability.It may be that Mr and Mrs Hs other  
Ref: DRN54804343investments ran to Mr Hs intended retirement age, but there was no requirement for 
investments to mature at this point. On balance, I cant fairly say that the investment was 
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs H.
tax packs
Ive seen that replacement tax packs were  sent to Mr and Mrs H and some amendments 
were made to the capital gains tax figures. Barclays accept that there was an error. They  
have offered to cover  the cost of any additional  accountancy charges resulting from the 
issue of replacement packs. I consider thats fair and reasonable and Ive taken into account 
that Mr and Mrs H have  not said that theyve paid the wrong amount of tax. Barclays  have 
now confirmed that tax certificates will be provided  until the latest maturity date.
maturity date 
Mr and Mrs H have asked for clarity  around  the maturity  date.  Barclays  have confirmed that 
the maturity date was 19 June  2017. As our investigator has explained, the decision to 
extend the maturity  date is down to the issuer. Barclays have confirmed that the latest 
maturity extension date is 19 June 2021.
service
Barclays accept that they took too long to review this complaint. Theyve offered £250 to 
compensate Mr and Mrs H for any distress and inconvenience caused. I think that is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs H but I wont be asking Barclays to do anything  more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 June  2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5480434