K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Express Gifts Ltd (trading as Studio) refused to change  the payment 
due date on his account.
background
Mr S has an account with Studio. Monthly statements are produced  on the 9th day of each 
month, and payments are due on the 4th day of the following month.  The payments are 
made on Mr Ss behalf by a debt management  company (DMP),  to which  he makes monthly 
payments.
In late 2017 the DMP, on behalf  of Mr S, asked  Studio to change  the payment due date to 
the 10th, but Studio  said it was unable  to change the date as its systems  did not yet allow it 
to. (Studio says this may change in the future, but that is the position for now.)  The reason 
for this request was that Mr S was concerned about the risk that a payment might  be 
processed late, and a late payment  charge incurred.
It is common ground that no late payment charges have  been incurred. But a £12 default  fee 
was charged in January 2018  because  the DMP had made a smaller  payment than 
expected. After that payment, Studio received a letter from the DMP explaining  that it was 
going to be making  slightly  smaller payments from then on. The first two reduced payments 
were marked  on Mr Ss credit file as arrears. When Mr S complained to Studio, Studio 
apologised and accepted that its explanation  about  the payment due date had been unclear. 
It also said that due to a delay  in processing the DMPs letter  about the reduced payments, it 
had allowed adverse information  to be recorded  on his credit  file. It said it would  remove  that 
information from his credit file, but Mr S says this has not happened.  (I think  that the 
paragraph of Studios  final response letter which deals with this point is ambiguous,  and I will 
have more to say about it later.) Studio also sent Mr S a cheque  for £30 for these errors, and 
refunded the default fee as a gesture of goodwill (although it said this had been correctly  
charged).
Mr S was not satisfied  with this response, and insisted that Studio must change his payment 
due date. He said the DMP could not change the date on which  it made payments to Studio. 
He said that the only reason that no late payment  fees had been  incurred was because the 
DMP had repeatedly phoned  Studio to make sure that this did not happen.  He also said that 
he himself had phoned Studio and had been  kept on hold for hours. Studio said it had no 
record of any of these  phone calls (apart from the one I mentioned above).
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. She said Studio had no way of changing the 
payment date on its system. All of Mr Ss payments had been made on time,  and this was 
likely to continue,  but if any were  late in future  then he could complain  if and when that 
happened. Studio had no record of any phone calls being made to it by the DMP about  
ensuring that payments were processed, and the DMP had no such  record  either. The 
adjudicator had seen evidence that Studio had asked the credit reference  agency to amend 
Mr Ss credit  file. She thought Studio had acted  reasonably, and that it did not need to do 
anything else.
Mr S did not accept that opinion. He said the adjudicator had made factual errors which 
compromised her decision. He asked  for an ombudsmans decision, and he asked  for a 
hearing before the ombudsman. Subsequently, he added that Studio  had begun  charging 
him interest,  contrary to an agreement  not to do so while he is on a debt management plan.
Ref: DRN59729922my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Mr Ss complaint about Studio  charging  him interest  is a new complaint. He will have to raise 
that new issue with Studio.  Our Service will not be able to consider it until Studio has had 
eight weeks to resolve it, or (if earlier) when  it sends Mr S a final response  letter about it.
Our Service is governed  by rules made by or with the approval  of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). These rules are those  in the Dispute Resolution: Complaints chapter of the 
FCA Handbook, commonly  known  as DISP for short. DISP  3.5, paragraphs 5 to 7, set out 
the rules about  hearings before an ombudsman. I wont set them out in full here, but I have 
considered them all. To summarise, the test I must  apply in considering  whether to have a 
hearing is whether  the complaint can be fairly  determined without convening  a hearing, 
having regard  to the European Convention on Human Rights.
I think this complaint can be fairly determined without a hearing, so I have decided  not to 
have one. Mr S has been given ample opportunity to say everything  he wishes  to say in 
writing, both before and after the adjudicator issued her decision.  Since  the adjudicators 
decision, I have  written to Mr S four times  to ask him if there is anything else he wished to 
add before I began  considering his complaint. He wrote a nine-paragraph reply, which Ive 
read, but this included  a sentence in which he alluded to some  other  facts  which  would take 
too long to list. In my fourth email to him I asked him to tell me about those too, since  
otherwise I could not take them into account, but he declined. I dont think Mr Ss reluctance 
to describe in writing  whatever other  points he may have means that the only way I can fairly 
determine this complaint  is by having  a hearing. So I have based  my decision  on everything 
I have been told by the parties.
Mr S is adamant that Studio must change his due payment date, but Studio is equally 
adamant that this cannot be done.  It may update  its systems in future to allow  this, but that 
hasnt happened  yet, and I cant require it to do so. Since Mr S has explained that his DMP 
cant change its own due date either,  Im sure he will understand.
No payments have  been received late, and no late payment  fees have been incurred. I do 
not accept that the only reason for this is because Mr Ss DMP had to keep calling  Studio  to 
ensure that the payments were processed properly, because both Studio and the DMP deny 
that this happened.  Instead, every  month, a statement was generated on the 9th, and the 
payments were processed  by Studio and applied to Mr Ss account on the 12th or 13th, well 
in advance of the due date of the 4th of the following month.  I can understand that this was 
not obvious to Mr S at the time, because he actually made his payments to the DMP on the 
1st of each month,  and then the DMP paid Studio  on the 5th or 6th of the month,  shortly  
before the statement  date and after the previous due date. So that created the impression 
that the payments were arriving  late, which led to the request to move the due date from the 
4th to the 10th. This was not very well explained by Studio when  this request was first made, 
so it paid Mr S £30 by way of compensation. I think that was fair. The matter  was adequately 
explained later on in Studios final response letter in March 2018, and again  by our 
adjudicator in her decision. I trust that the position  is clear  now.
The default  fee was properly incurred,  because the DMP paid Studio less than the agreed 
amount without giving  advance  notice.  That fee was refunded,  but it didnt have to be. The 
Ref: DRN59729923refund was merely a gesture of good  will, not an admission of fault. Mr Ss credit file was 
correctly marked to report this underpayment.  It is accurate,  so I will not require Studio to 
correct it.
Between that payment  and the next payment, the DMP wrote  to Studio to explain that it 
would be making  smaller  payments in future. Studio accepted the reduced amount, but failed 
to update its records in time, which resulted in a second underpayment being wrongly 
recorded on Mr Ss credit  file. In its final response  letter, Studio apologised and said that it 
would amend this error on the credit  file, and I have seen evidence  that Studio has 
requested the necessary correction. Unfortunately the paragraph  of Studios letter  which 
deals with this issue is not worded as clearly  as it might have been,  and this left Mr S with 
the impression  that both underpayments would be removed from his credit file. This is 
regrettable, but I do not think that it is serious  enough to merit the payment  of further 
compensation. It is right that one of the two underpayment markers should remain  on Mr Ss 
credit file, so the only consequence has been  that Mr S was led to believe that both of them 
would be removed, when  this was never going to happen. It is an underpayment of only 
about £2, so its not likely that any future lender  will hold this against  him, but Mr S has the 
right to ask the credit  reference  agency  to add a notice of correction to that entry to explain 
his position if he wishes. The credit reference agency can provide him with more  information 
about how to do this.
Finally, Mr S has alleged that Studio kept him on hold on the phone  for hours, but I have 
seen no evidence to corroborate this. Since his assertion that the DMP had been  frequently  
contacting Studio turned out to be incorrect, I will not accept this further  allegation without 
supporting evidence.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5972992