K821x#15complaint
Ms G complains J P Morgan Europe Limited,  trading  as Post Office (JPM) will not refund a 
disputed transaction.
background
Ms G carried  out a withdrawal over the counter in her local branch on 13th December 2017. 
She said she requested  and received  £300.   She said she realised a few days  later that the 
money in her account didnt add up and she wrote  to JPM  not being specific  about this 
transaction but saying that money  was missing  from her account.
JPM say Ms G withdrew £400 on that day as thats what  her statement shows.   It said Ms G 
would have had to enter her card and PIN and confirm the amount  she was withdrawing  
before the cashier then counted the money  for her.  Ms G confirms she also counted the 
money and it was definitely £300.
When it issued its final response in August 2018, JPM said it would not be upholding her 
complaint.  So,  Ms G came  to this service.
Our investigator thought JPM could have done more to help Ms G so she asked that it 
reimburse the missing  £100 and pay her interest  at the rate of 8% per annum. She (the 
investigator) said that JPM was unable to show sufficient evidence that £400 was withdrawn 
that day.
JPM said that with the passage  of time,  it was unable to provide  receipts  and other 
documentary evidence   but it says this was because Ms G made her specific complaint 
some six months after the transaction.
The Post Office did not accept the investigators  findings and asked for an ombudsmans  
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
JPM say that whilst Ms G made a general  complaint about  missing money from her account 
in January 2018, she never clarified  which transaction she was disputing until July 2018  so 
more than six months after the event. It says it only keeps documentary evidence  such as 
copy of receipts and till rolls for six months.  So, it was hampered  in its investigation because 
of the delay in the complaint.
But I can see that Ms G clarified the transaction she was disputing in a letter to JPM dated 
10th April 2018   so within six months  of the date of the disputed  transaction and when 
further supporting  evidence  would  still have been available.
JPM failed to acknowledge the details of the letter and instead  sent a pro forma complaint  
form back to Ms G asking her to repeat  the details of her letter  in that form.
Ref: DRN59509162I think JPM was on notice  from that letter in April as to what  Ms Gs complaint was and I 
think it had the opportunity  to carry out a proper investigation and seize evidence.   To say 
that it was not made aware  of specifics until July 2018 is simply wrong.
So, I agree  with the investigator  it should  reimburse the lost £100.   However,  I agree with 
JPMs submissions  regarding  the account  being  an account which does not attract interest.  
In those circumstances, I do not award the 8% statutory interest.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
J.P Morgan  Europe  Limited must pay Ms G £100 in settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5950916