K822xcomplaint
Miss F is unhappy with the decision by BISL  Limited  (BISL)  not to provide a replacement  car, 
despite her having  guaranteed replacement car (GRC)  cover.
background 
Mr F (the named driver on Miss Fs car insurance policy) was involved  in a road traffic 
accident on 6 February  2018. On 7 February  a call handler representing BISL contacted  
Mr F to discuss the accident.  During the call Mr F was provided with the option to make use 
of the GRC cover which was an added benefit  of the policy. Mr F said hell think  about it.
On 9 February there was a further  call with Mr F, asking whether  the insurer  for Miss Fs 
policy had been  in touch. The call handler said hed set up a reservation with a car rental  
company so that Mr F could make use of the GRC cover provided by the policy.  The call 
handler also gave  Mr F details for the car rental  company in case  he wanted  to contact it.  
On 21 February, a call handler  contacted Miss F to discuss the claim. During this call Miss F 
said she hadnt gone ahead with booking through  the car rental company. She said this was 
because the previous call handler  had told her that she couldnt do this until a decision about 
her own car had been made. The call handler explained Miss F could still go ahead with the 
GRC cover, and provided details for the car rental  company  so that Miss F could contact it 
directly and arrange this. 
In May 2018  Miss F received a cheque for £450  representing  the pre-accident  value (PAV) 
of her car. Miss F was unhappy with the PAV amount,  and complained to her insurer. At the 
same time, she contacted  BISL  and requested a replacement  car as part of her GRC cover. 
Miss F was told that as an interim  payment for the PAV had been made, she could no longer 
benefit from the GRC cover. 
The terms of the GRC cover stated:
3 Duration of cover
A replacement vehicle will be provided  until the earliest of:
(i)the date of completion of any necessary  repairs to the insured vehicle; 
(ii)the date on which any hire vehicle is offered to you, or;
(iii)the date on which any courtesy car is made  available to you by any 
person, firm or company responsible for carrying out or paying  for any 
repairs to the insured vehicle.
Miss F complained to BISL  about  not having  the GRC  cover  explained  to her clearly during  
the calls in February. BISL  investigated  the complaint and found that the call handler had 
explained the option to use the GRC cover, and the decision  not to offer a car in May 2018  
was in line with the terms of Miss Fs policy document.  
Miss F was unhappy with this response and escalated her complaint to this service.  The 
adjudicator found  that BISLs  decision not to provide a replacement car in May 2018 was 
fair; however the policy document didnt clearly  explain when the GRC cover would apply. 
Because of this, the adjudicator recommended BISL pay Miss F £150 in recognition  of the 
stress experienced  by Miss F, because the policy terms couldve been clearer.  
Ref: DRN57684052Miss F disagreed with this saying that she should  be offered the opportunity  to use the GRC 
cover now,  or be paid compensation equivalent to the value of having a replacement  car for 
28 days as offered by her GRC cover. As the complaint couldnt be resolved  its been 
passed to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the adjudicators findings on this complaint. I can 
understand this is likely to come  as a disappointment to Miss F but I hope my findings go 
some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.  Ive focused my comments on what  I 
think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific  point its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome.
Miss F says that she was told in February 2018  that she couldnt use the GRC cover  until a 
decision had been made on her car. I think the information provided  by the call handler was 
clear. I dont  think there was any confusion  or uncertainty  in Miss F being  able to use her 
GRC cover  if she wanted to. It doesnt  look like Miss F went ahead  with using the GRC cover 
in February. However,  I cant  say BISL  didnt make  this option clear  at the time.  
Miss F has explained that there is nowhere  in the policy terms which clearly explains when 
the GRC cover would apply, and the circumstances in which  she would have to use it in. 
Because of this, Miss F says BISL shouldnt be able to rely on its response which says that 
the decision not to provide a GRC in May 2018 is in line with the policy terms. 
BISL explained in its response to Miss Fs complaint that it is an industry wide agreement 
that no hire or courtesy car can be provided after the necessary repairs are completed or for 
more than 7 days  after a settlement cheque is issued. 
Its not disputed  that the policy terms dont include this information.  I accept that because  of 
this, a lay person may not understand the limitations  of the GRC cover in the way that BISL 
has relied on. Because the wording isnt clear,  Ive looked at whether BISL acted  fairly  in its 
decision not to provide  a GRC in May when this was requested  by Miss F.
Whilst the policy terms couldve  been  clearer in setting out when the GRC could be used, I 
think BISLs decision not to provide a replacement vehicle in May was fair. I say this 
because the purpose of Miss Fs GRC cover  was to provide a replacement car for Miss F to 
use whilst  her own car was being  repaired,  or a decision on Miss F being  provided with a 
hire car by the other party  was made.  I dont think the intention of this policy was for Miss F 
to benefit from a GRC after a decision on the settlement value of her car had been made. 
I understand Miss F feels strongly that shed not accepted the PAV provided by her insurer 
in May. As an interim payment had been  made,  I can see why a replacement car wasnt 
offered as part of the GRC cover. The option  to use the GRC was given to Miss F when it 
shouldve been  offered  (in February  2018), so I cant say BISL has acted unfairly in its 
application of the GRC cover.
Ref: DRN57684053I agree  that the policy terms for using the GRC cover couldve set out more  clearly what the 
impact on using the GRC cover would  be when the decision on a policyholders  car is total 
loss. Because  this wasnt made clear,  Miss F was caused trouble and upset in her 
communication with BISL about why the GRC cover  wasnt  an option  for her in May.
The investigator recommended  £150  in recognition of the impact on Miss F. I agree that this 
amount is fair. This recognises  that BISLs application of the GRC cover was fair; however 
the policy itself couldve more clearly explained how the GRC cover  would be applied  on 
claims that are a total loss. 
If the policy terms had been  clearer, Miss F couldve been told earlier in the claims process 
that the GRC cover wouldnt apply  more  than 7 days  after a settlement cheque is issued. 
From looking  at whats happened with the claim,  I cant say Miss Fs decision to use the 
GRC cover  wouldve been different if this information had been  provided  sooner. But I still 
think compensation should be paid for the trouble caused to Miss F in her communication 
with BISL about  the GRC cover, and its application  on her claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint.
BISL Limited should pay Miss F £150 to compensate her for the trouble and upset shes  
experienced. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019. 
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5768405