K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains about the final settlement value esure  Insurance  Limited paid him after he
made a claim on his motor insurance  policy.
Background
Mr M was involved in a motor incident and made  a claim to esure  for the damage to his car.
esure assessed Mr Ms car, and decided it was beyond economical repair. It wrote  it off and
offered Mr M £5,315  - less his excess - to settle his claim. esure  said this was the market  
value of Mr Ms car at the time of the incident.
Mr M was unhappy with this and complained  to esure. He said this wasnt  enough  to allow
him to replace  his car like for like. He said hed valued his car and found  it was valued at
£6,400. And he said similar cars online were  being advertised between  £6,800  and £7,500.
He said his car is increasing  due to its rarity.
esure said it was satisfied it had followed our approach to offering a fair market  value for a
car. It said of the guides it used, Glasss valued  Mr Ms car at £5,290,  CAP valued it at
£5,325 and Parkers  valued it at £6,055. It said as Parkers value was out of line with Glasss
and CAPs value,  it discounted it and offered Mr M the average of the other two.
Unhappy, Mr M brought his complaint  to us.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and thought esures offer was unfair and
asked it to increase  it. He said when he valued Mr Ms car using  the guides esure used, he
found Glasss  valued Mr Ms car at £5,320, CAP valued it at £5,461  and Parkers valued  it at
£5,430. Our investigator used a fourth guide, Cazana,  but as this valued Mr Ms car at
£9,000, he thought this was out of line with the other  three guides and discounted it.
Our investigator felt a fairer settlement for Mr Ms car was £5,403,  an average of the three
valuations hed found.
esure disagreed. It pointed out that Parkers guide is only accurate when valuing a car
written off within the last three months.  It said because  of this, the value it found when it
used Parkers guide, within three months  of the incident, was more  persuasive than the one
our investigator found, more than three  months  after.
Our investigator agreed,  but he said taking into account Cazanas valuation  of £9,000,
Parkers valuation of £6,055  was no longer out of line. So he recommended esure increase
the settlement  of Mr Ms claim to £5,560, the average of all three guides.
esure disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans  decision; it said it wasnt obliged  to offer an
average of the guides, but a value within the range. It said as its offer of £5,315  was within
the range  of values shown by the guides  it wasnt prepared to increase it.
I considered the complaint afresh and issued my provisional decision on 17 October 2019.
My provisional findings were as follows:
Ref: DRN56678972Mr Ms policy with esure says if his car is damaged, it will either repair his car, pay him the
cost of the damage, or pay him the value of his car. The policy  says the most esure  will pay,
on any claim is the market value of Mr Ms car.
The policy defines  market  value as the amount  Mr M could reasonably expect to sell his car
for on the open  market immediately before the loss. It says it bases the valuation  on cars of
similar age, make, model, mileage and condition. It says itll use information from trade
guides such as Glasss, Parkers and CAP.
With so many different  variables, finding the market  value of a car isnt an exact science. We
find the most  persuasive evidence in determining a cars value to be the trade guides. These
guides use nationwide data to value  a car based  on its age, make,  model, mileage and
condition. We find these  guides to be more persuasive than adverts, as adverts often dont
represent the true value of a car. Adverts often include a mark-up  for advertising and room
for negotiation. And its often very difficult to find a like for like car advertised.
Mr M says the guides are just that, a guide. And I agree with him. But to ensure insurers
offer a fair value, wed expect them to use more  than one guide, and offer a value within  the
range of those  values.  If one of those guides  values a car significantly higher, or lower,  than
the others,  then its reasonable  that value is discounted and isnt used in the range.
esure used  three guides to value Mr Ms car, whereas our investigator used four. Im unable
to accurately rely on Parkers value, as Mr Ms incident was over three months ago. So using
the three remaining guides, I found the following  valuations for Mr Ms car.
Glasss £5,290
CAP £5,350
Cazana £7,379
Based on these valuations, Im satisfied Cazana is out of line with the other  two, so Im not
relying on it when  assessing  whether the value esure offered Mr M is fair or not.
Based on these valuations, Im satisfied esures  offer of £5,315 is fair  its within the range.
Importantly, our approach  is for esure to offer a value within  the range, not the average of all
the guides it uses.
For clarity,  I think  the Parkers valuation £6,055  esure found  should be included when
assessing the market value of Mr Ms car. I dont consider it to be out of line with the figure
provided by Glasss and CAP, when all four valuations are used.
But crucially,  this doesnt change my decision  that esures offer of £5,315 is fair. Although at
the lower end, it is within the range  of values provided by the guides.
Mr M says the guides arent a reliable tool to value his car, as its a limited-edition model and
increasing in value. The guides  do take this into account and value cars at the time of the
loss. But I also looked at adverts to see if there  was any persuasive evidence  to suggest the
guide prices were inaccurate.
As mentioned above, with so many  variables, finding a like for like car advertised  wasnt
possible. But the adverts for similar  cars ranged  from £3,500  to £11,000.  The cars at the
higher end of this range had lower mileage, or larger engines than Mr Ms car, and the cars
at the lower end of the range werent the same edition. And importantly, adverts are for cars
Ref: DRN56678973on sale now, whereas  esure need  to offer Mr M a fair market  value for his car at the time of
the incident.
So as Ive seen  no persuasive evidence that the values offered by the trade guides are
inaccurate, and esures settlement offer is within the range of these guides,  I dont require it
to be increased.
For the reasons  given  in my provisional findings  I said I didnt intend to uphold  Mr Ms 
complaint.
esure made no further comments.
Mr M didnt  accept my provisional  findings.  In summary, he said:
Using the range of trade guides  to value his car was biased in favour  of esure.  They 
should use an average of all four guides.
Adverts should be considered, especially when valuing rare cars.  He said his car was 
a rare model and as such, adverts should  be considered to value his car
The open market  contains a lot of cars advertised as being  the same  model  as his, 
but these are fake. Hes said if he was selling to a likeminded individual, hes 
confident he could have sold his car for £6,400.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has submitted further arguments to explain his car was a rare model, but Ive not been 
provided with anything to show the trade  guides  are inaccurate. Hes pointed out the open  
market can advertise cars as being the same model  as his, when in fact not theyre  not  
they are fakes. But this further explains  and evidences  why adverts are less persuasive  
when determining the market value of a car.
I understand why Mr M feels  esures settlement of his claim is unfair,  as its offered him a 
value toward the lower  end of the range  shown by the trade  guides,  and its discounted  the 
higher guide. But Im satisfied esure  made a fair and reasonable offer thats in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy.
Ref: DRN56678974My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019. 
Joe Thornley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5667897