K820x#14complaint
V, a limited  company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc was not clear about  its 
requirements for information  and this led to the bank account  being closed.
background
HSBC wrote to V and said it was completing  a safeguard exercise to help prevent fraud and 
financial crime. It asked V to provide information and, when V had not done  so, HSBC gave 
it notice to close the account. HSBC says that as V had not provided  the information  it then 
closed the account and sent V a cheque for the account balance.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
-HSBC had written to V in April 2018 to explain the exercise and, in May 2018, had 
requested the information within 60 days.  In June  2018  the deadline  was extended to 
30 July 2018.  And then on 30 July 2018  V was given notice that the account would 
be closed from 8 October 2018.  
-V said that during a call in August 2018  HSBC had agreed the account would remain  
open. HSBC did not have a record of that call and V was unable  to provide any 
further details  about the number it called from.
-V had completed  online forms in September 2018. But V said it did not receive a 
letter from HSBC dated 20 September 2018  stating that there was still more 
information required. HSBC had shown  that this was correctly  sent.
-V also said that it did not see online  banners telling it that there  was still more 
information required when it logged on to online banking.
-She said that HSBC  had given V sufficient  time to complete the information. It had 
been sent an account closure notice. And the account was not actually closed until 
December 2018.
-HSBC had sent V a cheque for the account balance  but, as it only then had an online 
account with a different business,  V could not pay this in. HSBC  required V to provide 
evidence of the account and the signature  of all the directors  before it would send an 
online payment. She did not think that this was unreasonable. And she said we are 
not looking here at a complaint about  how long this took and the consequences of 
that for V.
V did not agree. It did not think  that HSBC had provided sufficient evidence  to support its 
explanation. HSBC had lost or misplaced important  telephone conversation  recordings,  
letters and emails  that would support Vs case.  V could not see how this service had reached 
this decision if HSBC  could not provide a recording of the telephone conversation in August 
2018. There had been no correspondence after mid September 2018 regarding  the closure 
of the account.  V did keep providing the information but HSBC had not been clear  about 
what it required. There had been  no more pop up banners on log in. And closing the 
account without  notice caused  problems  for V. There was no proof HSBC had chased up the 
required information. And it had held onto the money from V illegally resulting in a tax 
penalty.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going  to look first at the two main areas  that V disputes.
Ref: DRN50531362the telephone call in August 2018
Ive seen evidence  that HSBC has searched  its records for any reference to a call with V in 
August 2018 using  Vs customer number. Nothing has been found. I think  its position is that 
if it had the number called from and the time and date it might be able to search further. But 
Im satisfied its made reasonable efforts to find this based on what  it has.
V says it was told during the call not to worry about the account  closing and that it had been 
sent a generic letter. I note that V first uploaded a response to the information request  from 
HSBC on 7 September 2018. Thats not inconsistent with it having a call with HSBC  about its 
account in August 2018. And I also note that the date for the account  closure  applied  was 
not 8 October  2018 but that it started from 10 December  2018  an extension of two months. 
Ive no evidence to support  HSBC telling V that the closure wouldnt happen. But it seems 
that V was allowed  time to provide this information  and as a result  started  to complete the 
online form.
So while I cannot  make  a fair finding  about  a call without more  evidence what  I can say is 
that HSBC and Vs actions are consistent  with V having been  given some more time to 
complete the information before the account was closed.
the letters in September 2018  and online prompts
HSBC says V logged  in on 7, 14 and 20 September 2018 and submitted the online form. It 
has shown that it sent letters to V on each of these dates stating that there was information 
outstanding. V says that it did not receive  any letters after 14 September 2018. Im satisfied 
from the audit information  provided by HSBC that the letter of 20 September 2018 was 
correctly sent and I dont think  HSBC can be responsible  for any problems with the postal 
service.
HSBC says that there were still online banners that V would have  seen. Neither it nor V has 
an actual screen shot of Vs account  at the time to show this. It seems to me that V 
responded to the letters  it received and took those  as an indication  of whether further 
information was required. These letters seemed  to lead to it looking at the online comments 
about the forms and then submitting the information.
Ive looked at the prompts setting out the information that was missing generated on 7, 14 
and 20 September  2018. Each  said that V needed to provide details of its beneficial owners 
and that these details were  incomplete. The names of those  parties were quoted and V was 
asked to provide  the business  address and company  details and other information. V had 
clearly attempted  to provide  information  on 7 September 2018 about this and reasonably  
knew that this had not met HSBCs requirements. It received a similar message on 14 
September 2018. It did not provide the information. If, as it says,  it was unclear what  was 
required there was a contact number to call provided. So my finding  here is that even if I 
were to accept that V did not receive  the letter of 20 September 2018 or see further online 
prompts, HSBC had made the requirements  known and already  let V know what was 
outstanding. V did not provide this.
my assessment
Im satisfied that HSBC  was carrying out a legitimate exercise to ensure it met regulatory 
requirements to know  your customer. V was fairly required to provide this information and, 
Ref: DRN50531363was initially given the standard period to complete this. V did not seem  to respond fully to 
initial requests  and the deadline for submission was extended.
As V had not provided the information HSBC gave it two months notice  to close the account. 
It was able to do that under the terms and conditions of the account. On any view V knew 
about that initial notice. I dont think HSBC  needed to reissue that notice, even if the 
deadlines were  extended. And as I set out above  that seems to be what in practice 
happened, whether or not that followed a telephone  call. V still knew it had to provide the 
information and it made  attempts  to do so. As Ive said it was prompted  by HSBC on at least  
two occasions  for that information. If it was unclear it could have contacted HSBC. But it did 
not provide or seek to clarify what was required based on what Ive seen.
I fully understand  that if V did not receive the letter of 20 September 2018 it might have 
thought things were  addressed, and again  thats  irrespective of whether there  were  any 
banner messages  when  it logged on to online banking. But as Ive set out it had not provided 
that information.
In my view V had a reasonable  period  to do so and HSBC had told it about the 
consequences of not providing  what was required. HSBC had extended the deadline  for 
providing this information  and delayed  the closure  of the account. Im afraid  I dont think  
HSBC acted unreasonably. It was entitled to decide  not to operate an account any longer  for 
V. So I dont have a basis  to uphold a complaint about this.
HSBC then sent in its standard way a cheque to V for the outstanding  balance following 
closure. I dont see that HSBC initially knew  that V could not pay in this cheque elsewhere.  I 
wont be commenting on the legality of its actions as we provide informal  dispute resolution. 
But as I see it, HSBC  then told V what it needed  before if could send  the sort of payment that 
V wanted which I dont  think  was unreasonable. As our investigators said to V we are not 
looking here in this complaint about how long that took and the consequences  for V.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5053136