K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains about a car supplied  with finance  from Go Car Credit Limited (GCC). She 
says its of unsatisfactory quality and wants to reject  it and terminate the finance agreement.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, a copy  of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision.
 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I proposed to uphold Mrs Hs complaint, and to 
require GCC to allow Mrs H to reject  the car. I invited Mrs H and GCC to let me have any 
further evidence  or arguments they wanted  to make before  I finally determined the matter.
Mrs H agreed  with my provisional  decision.   GCC didnt agree.  It said that further  
investigation was required. It didnt agree that the second report  identified issues  with the 
gearbox and said that the independent garage had found no faults  with the car. It noted that 
Mrs H had reported issues  with changing  gears and with the car entering  limp mode  and 
acknowledged that something  was happening  but said that further investigation  should  be 
carried out before a rejection could  be accepted.  GCC didnt accept that the two reports and 
the photograph of the error message was enough  to show that the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality and said it was Mrs Hs responsibility  to provide a further diagnostic.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the points  made  by GCC. But Im still of the view that Mrs H should 
be allowed to reject the car. Both diagnostic reports identify issues  relating to the gearbox.  
The first report  says that gear changing  is impossible. The second report  identifies problems 
with the transmission control  module,  which is related  to the gearbox.  Both reports identify 
issues which are consistent  with the issues  being  experienced  by Mrs H previously  and now.
I understand that GCC interpret the second  report in a different way. But one of the fault 
codes in the second report relates  to the transmission control module and although the 
garage found no faults, its clear that there is a fault as evidenced by the two reports, the 
error message and the issues currently being experienced by Mrs H.
Im satisfied, based on the two reports and taking into account  Mrs Hs testimony, which  has 
been consistent throughout, that there  is a fault which was present or developing at the point 
of supply. Im also satisfied that the garage have had an opportunity to repair the fault in 
accordance with the relevant legislation  and that the repair  hasnt been successful. Because  
of this Im of the view that Mrs H should  be allowed to reject  the car. My conclusions  remain  
the same  as those which I set out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more details in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is to uphold  the complaint. Go Car Credit Limited must;
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay 
Ref: DRN52138112Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mrs H.
Refund 3 months  contractual payments to take into account  loss of use plus 8% 
simple interest per annum from the date of payment  to the date of settlement
Remove the account from Mrs Hs credit  file
Refund any deposit paid by Mrs H plus 8% simple interest per annum from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement
Pay Mrs H a further £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5213811