K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc wont refund him £500  after a cash  
machine failed to dispense  this amount to him. 
background
In September  2018, Mr C tried to withdraw £500  from his NatWest account, using a cash  
machine owned  by another bank, which I will refer to as bank B. He says he didnt receive  
any of the money,  but this amount was debited from his account. Mr C says the machine 
screen didnt show  anything unusual and it returned his card.
Mr C says his father lent him £900 on the day he used the cash  machine  and he intended to 
use £500 to pay towards  his first months rent on his new home. Because  the machine didnt 
dispense the cash he requested, Mr C says he had to borrow money from a relative to pay 
his rent. He says this caused  him a great deal of stress. 
Mr C complained to NatWest who investigated  his concerns. NatWest contacted bank B, 
which provided information to show that nothing unusual had been  reported with the 
machine that day. The balance of the machine also suggested that Mr Cs money was 
dispensed when  he requested it. So NatWest  didnt think it needed to do any more.
Unhappy with NatWests  response,  Mr C brought his complaint to us, where one of our 
investigators looked into it. She also found  that the information from bank B supported that 
the money was dispensed when Mr C requested it. So she didnt think  itd be fair to ask 
NatWest to do any more. Mr C disagreed  so the case was passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking 
NatWest to give Mr C the £500 he wants here. Ill explain why.
Mr C is a customer of NatWest, but he tried to withdraw money from a cash  machine  with 
bank B. So Id expect  NatWest to contact that bank and look at the records it has to see if 
these show that the money that Mr C requested was dispensed to him. NatWest  has done 
this. 
Bank B has provided NatWest the machines ledger for the time of the disputed withdrawal. 
This doesnt show any problems with the withdrawal and it doesnt  show  the card was 
retained  and this is information that would show on a ledger. I can also see that 
transactions took place just before and after Mr Cs transaction, with the next one being just 
under two minutes later. And these appear  to have gone through. So it does appear the 
machine was working correctly. 
Bank B also said that when it was balanced  there  was only a discrepancy of £20  there  
wasnt a surplus of £500 (which I would expect to see if the money hadnt been dispensed 
properly). Instead there was actually a deficit of £20  so there  was actually less money in 
the machine than expected. If there had been a malfunction with Mr Cs withdrawal, Id have 
expected there to be considerably more  in the machine  than expected. So the balance  
shows the £500 Mr C withdrew was dispensed. 
Ref: DRN53560592The records  also show that Mr C did make the withdrawal. His card and Personal 
Identification Number (PIN) were both used  at the machine  at the time he says.  The records 
also show that £500 was dispensed too.
Ive also considered the location of the cash machine, which is inside a shopping centre  in a 
city centre. I think  this is likely to be a high-level foot traffic area. And Im aware the area is 
also covered by CCTV. So if someone  did tamper  with the machine I think there is a high 
likelihood theyd  be noticed. With this in mind  I think its unlikely that someone, such as a 
fraudster, would have  taken such a risk and tampered with the machine. 
Ive also considered whether someone using  the machine after Mr C couldve taken the £500  
after it was dispensed.  But I dont think this is likely. I say this because I can see that Mr C 
used the machine to complete balance enquiries and attempted  withdrawals. So when  I 
weigh everything  up, from looking at all the evidence,  I think it more likely  the machine was 
working correctly and that it dispensed  the £500.  This means  NatWest  didnt do anything  
wrong, and so it isnt liable to refund Mr C the money. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5356059