K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that TSB Bank Plc forced him to change his password for digital  banking.  He 
only uses fingerprint identification.
background
Mr D normally  used a phone app to access his TSB account. The app recognised  his 
fingerprint for identification. But he was told to change his password because  hed entered  it 
incorrectly - even though  he was using his phone app.
Mr D asked TSB to check if someone had tried to access his account. But the bank wouldnt 
provide any further  information. So he wants to know why his password needed changing.  
And he wants details of whoever tried to access his account.
TSB said it used the latest technology to protect its customers. And the procedures were  
constantly being reviewed and updated. TSB said the log-in details had been entered 
incorrectly. So they had to be reset. And if Mr D thought someone else had tried to access 
his account he could contact the bank for help. TSB said it couldnt  provide further  details of 
the incorrect attempts  for security reasons.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with TSBs response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. She could see attempts had been made to access  Mr Ds account  
through online banking on two specific dates.  And she felt TSB had acted appropriately  in 
blocking the password.
She was aware  Mr D would like the IP addresses  of the incorrect  attempts. But TSB hadnt 
consented to sharing  them for security reasons. And she felt it was up to TSB to decide what 
to share.  
Mr D didnt agree. Hed now obtained  details of the successful and unsuccessful  login 
attempts to his internet  banking from TSB.  After  he looked at the details  he felt hed made 
the unsuccessful  attempts himself on his tablet.  But TSBs log didnt show  the unsuccessful 
attempt on his phone when he was told his account was locked.  So he thinks theres a 
problem with the banks system. And hes asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ds concerns. He wants to make sure his account  is secure.  And hes 
sure theres a problem  with TSBs  phone app. He makes most of his logins from his app 
using his fingerprint identification.  And the app was where the problem first started.
I know Mr D was unhappy TSB wouldnt initially provide details of the failed logins for 
security reasons. But hes now obtained the information. And hes acknowledged the failed 
online attempts were  most probably  when he used his tablet. Hes sure he entered the 
correct information  when he used online banking. But there doesnt seem to have  been  a 
breach of Mr Ds security.
Ref: DRN52516922Mr Ds attempts to access his account online led to the password being blocked. And the 
next time he tried to access his account  through  his phone  app he received a message 
saying the password needing changing.
I can understand why this might cause some confusion and concern. Mr D was trying to use 
his fingerprint  to gain access to his account.  But the message was telling him that he needed 
to reset  his password. But I think the app was alerting Mr D to a problem with his online 
access. And that his account had been blocked so he couldnt use the app either.
Mr D feels the problem  lies with the app  not his online  account.  The records  dont show his 
failed attempt to use the app when  he first discovered his password had been locked. But 
the failed online attempts led to a block on Mr Ds account. So he wasnt  able to actually  use 
his phone app. And thats why there isnt a failed login for the app on the banks records.
Based on what Ive seen  I cant really  say TSB has done  anything wrong. When  it received a 
number of incorrect login attempts to online banking it blocked  access  to the account  until 
the password  had been reset. And thats the right thing to do to protect Mr Ds account.
  
I can see why Mr D would think there was a problem with the phone app or TSBs  systems. 
It was telling him to change his password even though he was using fingerprint identification. 
But I think the message  related to the block on his account from too many  incorrect  attempts 
on his tablet. It wouldnt let him use fingerprint identification until thatd been  sorted  out. And 
thats why he received  the message on his app about his password.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr D was hoping for. But I hope this shows  Ive fully 
investigated the complaint and the reasons  behind  my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint and I wont  
be asking TSB Bank Plc to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5251692