K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited  refused  to pay a claim 
on his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr H bought a van in a private  sale and insured it with Markerstudy. Shortly afterwards the 
van was stolen. He claimed on his policy. It turned  out that the van had been cloned. That 
means the van was possibly a stolen vehicle and someone had changed its identifying  
marks, such as its registration plate, to match another van of a similar  model. 
Markerstudy refused  Mr Hs claim. It said that it wasn't satisfied  he had acted reasonably  
and in good faith at the time he bought the van. Mr H didn't think  that was fair and brought 
his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Hs complaint. She didn't  think  
Markerstudy had dealt with the claim fairly.  So, to put things right she said that Markerstudy 
should:
Pay the full market value of the van as if it were  not cloned (less any applicable 
excess).
Add 8% simple interest to its settlement from the date of the theft until the settlement 
is made.
Pay Mr H £300 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Markerstudy didn't  agree  with our adjudicators assessment so the complaint's  been passed 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to uphold it. 
In the course  of Mr Hs claim and complaint both he and Markerstudy have made  a number 
of detailed points.  But, while  I've considered everything that's been said,  in this decision I will 
focus on what I see as being the key issues following our adjudicators assessment.
Before Mr H bought  the van he ran a car check - similar to an HPI check  - on the van which 
didn't raise  any concerns. His mum had corresponded with the sellers  father  and they 
arranged for Mr H to view the van. At that meeting the vans  seller  provided Mr H with a copy  
of the vans V5 (log book) which  matched  the vans and the sellers details. And, as the seller 
didn't have a pre-prepared sales receipt,  they improvised a sales receipt using the V5. And I 
don't think  that, at that time, Mr H had any reason to be concerned  the vans sale wasnt  
genuine. The seller  had given him the appropriate documents  and things  seemed to be in 
order.
Markerstudys pointed  out some  concerns.  In particular  that the seller had asked for payment 
in cash. But a request for a cash sale isn't totally  unreasonable  and the seller had provided 
an explanation  for why they wanted cash. And there  can be numerous  reasons why 
someone would prefer a cash sale. So, I don't think that should have made Mr H doubt  the 
validity of the sale.
Ref: DRN51908162Markerstudy's also said that Mr H did the deal for the van in a car park,  rather than at the 
sellers home. But the car park was a private  gated  area associated  with the sellers address 
on the V5. Users of the car park needed  a code to operate the gates. A code that the seller 
gave to Mr H. So, I don't think Mr H had any reason to ask to go inside the building.  And I 
don't think  Mr H would have had any reason to know that the address might not be the 
sellers residential address.
Markerstudys also said that the price of the van, which was cheaper  than might  have been 
expected, should have  caused Mr H to doubt  that the sale was genuine.  But Mr H has said 
that he understood he might get the van for less because it was a private  sale and so not 
subject to VAT. And also because the seller  was looking  for a quick  sale.  And I don't find that 
the price was so far below its list price  that it should have rung alarm bells for a perspective 
buyer such as Mr H.
Markerstudy added  that Mr H should  have been more stringent about  who he was buying the 
van from because the seller only had one key. The seller  told Mr H that he could order  
another key from the manufacturer and Mr H negotiated a cheaper sale price to allow for the 
costs involved in that. And Im satisfied that, at that point,  Mr H fully believed the sale was 
genuine. And he hadn't identified that the significance of a missing  key was that the seller - 
or an accomplice  could  then use that key to steal the van back from him. I think  if Mr H had 
realised that was a possibility  he wouldn't  have handed over the cash  to buy the van.
Also, Markerstudy pointed  to some actions  advised  by the DVLA  on its website for people 
buying vehicles.  Its suggested that as Mr H didn't follow all the DVLA  guidance  then he 
didn't do enough. But I disagree. As I've said above,  I think Mr H took reasonable steps to 
check the sale was genuine. He looked  into the vans history  using a car check  system and 
the seller provided  the vans documents which certainly looked  genuine.  And the other  
details the seller had provided all seemed  to match up. So, Im satisfied that Mr H acted  in 
good faith and he reasonably believed the sale was legitimate. 
Markerstudy accepted  a premium to cover  the risk of Mr Hs van being stolen. And thats  
what happened. So, I think its fair that Markerstudy  should settle Mr Hs claim for the market  
value of his van at the date of loss. It should add simple interest to its settlement at a rate of 
8% a year from the date of the theft until the date Markerstudy pays him. Also, as this matter  
has been a source  of distress and inconvenience for Mr H, I think  its fair that it pays  him 
£300 compensation to address that.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited  to:
Settle Mr Hs claim for the full market value of his van (subject to an applicable  
excess) and add simple interest at a rate of 8% a year to its settlement from the date 
of the theft to the date Markerstudy  pays him1.
Pay Mr H £300 compensation to address his distress  and inconvenience.  It should 
pay the compensation within  28 days of us telling it that Mr H has accepted my final 
1 If Markerstudy considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a certificate showing 
this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN51908163decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on that amount  from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5190816