K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Santander UK Plc (when  it was trading as Abbey  National)  mis-sold  him 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
To keep  things simpler, from now on Ill just refer to Santander as the seller.
background
Mr P took out a mortgage in 1992  and he took out PPI to protect his mortgage monthly 
repayments some years  later, in 2000.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. 
Mr P didnt agree with our adjudicators view. Mr P mainly says the adviser  signed  him up to 
PPI as a requirement  of taking out the mortgage  and there was no discussion about whether 
it was suitable  or he had any need for it. Hes also unhappy that our adjudicator  hasnt 
provided him with any evidence that he ever completed a form to request the PPI. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Based on all the information I've seen so far, Im not planning to uphold  Mr Ps complaint.  Ill 
explain why.
Santander hasnt  been able to provide  any documents from the time, to show  how the PPI 
was taken out. But I dont think thats  surprising given that the mortgage account closed 
around 15 years ago. I wouldnt expect Santander  to have kept records about a closed 
account for so long.  And it wouldnt be reasonable to rely just on what Mr P might be able to 
remember about the sale after all this time.  Where  theres only limited information I have to 
look at all the available information and decide  what I think is most likely to have happened.
Mr P had held his mortgage without PPI for some time. So, I think he wouldve been aware 
at the time that having PPI wasnt a requirement for taking out the mortgage.  
And Santander says he wouldve had to apply separately to take out the insurance   
otherwise his mortgage wouldve just continued without it. 
Although I havent  seen  how Mr P applied for PPI it looks likely he filled in a separate  
application form in order to have it added on to the mortgage. I say this because Santander 
sent him a letter in May 2000  saying I am pleased to advise that we have today received 
your Paymentcare application form. And Santander then sent a welcome letter  in June 
2000 which confirmed  that he had been accepted for cover and said:  Welcome  to mortgage 
payment protection with Paymentcare.
Paymentcare is what Santander  called the PPI it offered  to mortgage customers. 
The welcome letter also included  the Schedule of Cover confirming that hed taken out 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. 
Ref: DRN59600892I can see why Mr P mightve wanted PPI when he was responsible on his own for paying  the 
mortgage. It was a big financial commitment and his home couldve been at risk if he wasnt  
able to make  the mortgage monthly  repayments  in full and on time. So I can understand that 
protecting his repayments wouldve been  an important consideration for Mr P. 
Mr P thought  he probably made some  changes to his mortgage  around 2000. But it makes 
no difference to my overall view.  Santander has confirmed that he didn't take any additional 
borrowing then. On balance, I think its likely  that Mr P decided that he wanted to have the 
benefits the policy offered him  even if he hadnt thought  this was important to him before. 
I find on balance that Mr P signed up for the policy knowing it was up to him to say if he 
wanted to take out the cover. And that it was added to the mortgage account when he 
requested this. And Ive not been told anything which  to my mind shows clearly  that he was 
put under  unreasonable  pressure to have PPI.
Santander has looked at this complaint on the basis that it advised Mr P to buy the PPI. 
I think thats a fair way to look at this complaint as its not clear how the PPI was sold  but 
looking at it this way imposes an extra obligation  on the lender and gives  Mr Ss complaint 
the best chance of success. If a financial business  makes a recommendation about PPI it 
has to take reasonable steps  to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable  as well as 
giving important policy information in a clear  way.  
I dont know what,  if anything was discussed about  the PPI at the time or what, if any, written  
details Mr P was given about it. But from what  I know  of his circumstances Mr P was eligible 
for the insurance  and the policy terms wouldnt have  made it particularly difficult for him to 
make a claim. Mr P wasnt affected  by any of the main things the policy didnt cover.  So 
when he took it out, I think he couldve benefitted  from everything the policy  offered.
Mr P told us he couldve got up to 6 months sick pay if he was off work sick. But I think  PPI 
still couldve  been useful.  It wouldve paid out for longer than he couldve depended on his 
employer to pay sick pay  up to 12 months  per claim in the event of accident  and sickness.  
And it wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay, providing Mr P with a useful benefit at a 
difficult time  especially  if he had some extra costs as a result  of being sick or disabled. 
PPI wouldve  also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mr P lost his job and 
became unexpectedly  unemployed. Mr P told us he didnt have any other  ways  of paying the 
mortgage if he wasnt working. But he couldve made repeated  claims on the policy , giving 
him long term protection whilst he was paying his mortgage. And from what hes told us 
about his job when he took out the PPI, Ive seen nothing to make me to think  he couldnt 
have claimed successfully on the policy if he lost that job. So, I think  PPI was suitable for 
him. 
I dont know if the information  Santander gave Mr P about the PPI costs  was as clear as it 
shouldve been.  He feels it wasnt. But the monthly cost was set out in the welcome letter  
and he couldve queried the PPI then if this wasnt something he wanted.  Ive seen nothing 
that suggests he did that. And as it appears that he chose to take out the policy  when he 
didnt have to, he seems to have  wanted  it  even  if hes now forgotten this. As far as I can 
see, the policy was affordable for Mr P at the time  and he couldve cancelled it without 
further cost if his circumstances changed or he no longer  wanted  to pay to keep it running.  
Ref: DRN59600893Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr P still wouldve  decided  to buy the policy if hed been better informed as the policy  
gave him useful protection in his particular situation.
I realise Mr P feels strongly  and will be disappointed  at the outcome Ive reached.  And 
I know he was unhappy with the way Santander  initially handled his complaint. But looked at 
overall, based on all the information  Ive seen and been told so far, it doesnt look to me as if 
Mr P has lost out as a result of anything Santander mightve done wrong. So, as things 
stand, Im not planning on telling Santander  that it needs to do anything  to put things right.
This decision is only about how the PPI was sold to Mr P. Hes also mentioned that he feels 
Santander put unfair pressure on him to continue the cover, when he tried to cancel it. If he 
wants to pursue this issue, he should  raise it with Santander as a separate complaint. 
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr P has now provided some more paperwork  a signed additional loan offer from 
Santander dated in 2000. He says the PPI charges are tied up with this and if he hadnt 
agreed to it Santander  wouldnt  have advanced the loan. 
Santander has made no further comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Ive taken into account the additional  paperwork Mr P has now supplied.  This supports what  
hes told us already  that he made  some  changes to his mortgage  around 2000. And I can 
see that what actually  happened is that he arranged some extra  borrowing  on his mortgage  
account. 
Looking at the loan paperwork,  I can see nothing mentioned in the additional loan offer that 
says PPI was required  in order to get the borrowing, the quotation  summary  shows  it as a 
separate cost and theres a separate  Paymentcare quotation that uses  language that clearly 
shows the PPI was optional. 
So, whilst Ive thought  carefully about  everything hes told me, this makes  no difference  to 
my overall view set out in my provisional decision.
And I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN59600894my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN5960089