K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that St Andrews Insurance Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr Hs mortgage started  in August 2006  and then the PPI was taken  out in November  2006  
by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the case has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr H arranged his mortgage  via a financial adviser and says that she pressured him into 
taking out the policy  during a meeting. He says he was told that, as a first time buyer, he 
needed to agree to the PPI in order for the mortgage to be agreed and that the adviser 
would not continue with the mortgage  application until he signed  the insurance  agreement.
The sales  of the mortgage and PPI happened a long time ago, so it wouldnt be surprising if 
Mr Hs recollection of events has faded. Looking at the evidence,  it shows  that the PPI 
wasnt sold at the same time as Mr H arranged the mortgage. Instead it was sold many  
months later. So the mortgage went live in August 2006 and at that time Mr H hadnt taken 
out PPI. Then in November 2006  St Andrews sent a PPI acceptance form to Mr H. Looking 
at the form, its clear that it was sent by post  it says please sign it and send it off today 
and Important  this acceptance  form must be received before 18/12/06. Mr H has signed 
the form and dated  it 30 November 2006.
Mr H has said that he was pressured  by the adviser  into buying the PPI in August 2006 but 
that there  was a delay in the paperwork being  processed. But the evidence  shows  that Mr H 
did not fill in the paperwork during the meeting  he had with the adviser in August 2006. As 
Mr Hs mortgage was already running  at the time that he received the PPI application in the 
post, I consider  that he would have known  that he didnt need to have it as a condition  of the 
borrowing. It seems  to me that Mr H probably  decided to buy the policy, knowing that he 
didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
St Andrews  didnt advise  Mr H to buy the PPI, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his 
needs. But it did need to provide Mr H with enough information for him to make an informed 
decision about whether or not the policy was right for him.
Mr H couldnt remember how much sick pay he would have received from his job. But 
regardless of this, the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially 
for longer than he would  have received full pay for. Although Mr H has told us that he had 
some limited  savings, having the policy would have allowed him to retain these or use them  
to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time.
Ref: DRN50525452A mortgage is a significant financial commitment and the consequences of defaulting on the 
mortgage can be serious. So its not surprising  if Mr H had an interest in protecting  his 
repayments. Overall I think that Mr H had a need for the policy  and could have benefitted 
from it.
Looking at the PPI acceptance form, I can see that it made the monthly cost of the policy  
clear. So Mr H would have known  what hed be paying for the PPI before he decided  to buy 
it. Its possible that St Andrews didnt  provide  as much  information  about the PPI as it should  
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr H wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that Mr H had an interest in the policy and decided  to buy it, I dont 
think that further information  would have caused  him to change his mind. So he isnt any 
worse off as a result of anything St Andrews may have done wrong, so theres nothing that 
St Andrews  needs  to do to put things  right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5052545