K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc unfairly closed  his account without 
notice. Mr M is represented by a friend, who Ill refer to as Mrs E. 
background
Mrs E says RBS didnt give notice before closing Mr Ms personal account.  She says Mr M 
called RBS about problems using his debit card and to ask why direct debits were returned  
unpaid and it didnt  say this was because  account was being  closed.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said RBS had 
given Mr M notice that the account would be closed.  She said RBS had accepted  it made 
errors when  Mr M called and should  have told him that his account  would  soon close.  The 
investigator said the £50 compensation  offered by RBS was fair. 
Mr M didnt  agree. Mrs E said the account  closure,  cancellation of direct debits and 
misleading information caused Mr M hardship  and distress when he was recovering  from 
illness. She said the misleading  information given to Mr M delayed him opening a new bank 
account. Mrs E said posting notices  and the cheque for the closing balance wasnt  good 
enough. She said the account closure  letter  should  have been  sent by recorded delivery or 
email and RBS should  have  taken  Mr Ms health  problems into account. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
Mr M had business accounts, a personal  current account and a personal  loan with RBS. His 
accounts were moved to a specialist team in October 2017 due to arrears on his loan 
account. Mrs E contacted  RBS on behalf of Mr M and told it about Mr Ms health problems. 
RBS stopped collection activity for three  months. 
RBS sent several  letters  to Mr M on 30 April 2018.  It gave  notice of its intention to close  his 
business account and his personal account.  It said the overdraft  facility  on his business 
account was reduced  to zero. It gave notice of its intention to file a default  in relation to the 
loan and to take action  to recover  the debt. RBS offered to discuss  options, such  as a basic 
account and a repayment plan. It provided a financial statement for Mr M to complete and 
return. 
On 2 July 2018 RBS sent further letters,  including  a default notice for the personal loan and 
a letter  about  the overdraft facility  on the business  account. 
Mr M contacted RBS in July 2018.  RBS put his accounts on hold until the end of July to give 
him time to provide  income and expenditure information. RBS says it continued with the 
account closures as there was no further  contact from Mr M. The accounts  were closed in 
September 2018. 
Ref: DRN57860062did RBS make an error or treat Mr M unfairly when  it closed the accounts?
RBS is entitled  to close Mr Ms personal and business account  after giving notice. While 
Mr M says he didnt  receive the notice about his personal account,  I dont think this was due 
to an error  by RBS.  It didnt have to send the letter by recorded  delivery  or by email. 
Mr M was unwell and receiving treatment which included stays  in hospital. I appreciate this 
was a difficult time. I dont  think though that RBS treated Mr M unfairly. It stopped  collection 
activity for three months when it was told about Mr Ms health  problems. When  Mr M 
contacted RBS in July 2018 it said he should  only repay the business  overdraft  if he could 
afford to do so. It suggested  he take independent  advice. It asked him for information about 
his financial circumstances so that it could assess what he could afford  to repay.  It put a hold 
on collection  activity to allow Mr M time to provide this information.  Mr M didnt provide the 
information. I dont  think RBS had to delay  collection activity  indefinitely. 
RBS should have given Mr M better information when he called in mid September  2018. It 
should have told him that problems with his debit card and the unpaid  direct debits were due 
to the account  closure. But while Mrs E says the incorrect information delayed Mr M opening  
a new account  this could only have been for a few days. And I must  take into account that 
RBS had given  notice of its intention to close the account. 
I think RBS was entitled to close Mr Ms accounts. Its inevitable this would cause some 
inconvenience. I dont  think  its fair and reasonable to require RBS to pay compensation for 
this. I appreciate that the cancelled direct  debits and not having access to the account 
balance caused  difficulties. But this was due to the accounts being closed  not due to RBS 
giving Mr M unclear or incorrect information  when he called. 
In the circumstances, I think RBSs offer of £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused 
by not giving Mr M better information when he called  is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find the compensation offered by The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5786006