K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains Provident Personal Credit Limited is recording incorrect information on his 
credit file.
background 
Between April and May 2015, 12 loans were  applied for in Mr Gs name.  The loans  were  
then repaid in a short time.
In June 2015 Provident received chargeback requests for all the payments made.   The 
chargeback was successful, the money  returned  to the account holder making the 
application, and the loans  reinstated in Mr Gs name.
Mr G complained about the loans to Provident  but did not bring  that complaint to this service 
due to time restrictions allowed by the rules which govern this service.   Provident did not 
uphold that complaint.
Mr G then complained about  the entries on his credit file.  He  said Provident  was incorrectly 
recording the accounts as being  in arrears on his credit file.  It should be reporting a default  
on the accounts and this should be backdated  to 2015.
When Provident did not uphold his complaint, he came to this service.    Our adjudicator 
looked at liability  for the loans as well as the credit file complaint.  I dont think  she had the 
power to look at the loans  this complaint was never  formally  with this service.
In relation to the reporting of Mr Gs credit  file, she thought Provident should record  the loans 
as in default and back date this to August 2016.   This was because in July 2016, it had sent 
Mr G a default notice.  With no response, the default should have been entered  28 days 
thereafter.
Mr G disagreed.  He wanted the default date to be registered as 2015 - but Provident would 
only agree  to do this if Mr G was willing to accept liability for the loans and enter into a 
repayment arrangement.
The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by making it clear that the only aspect  of Mr Gs complaint which  I am 
considering is the date recorded on his credit  file.  I am not considering his liability  for the 
loans as that complaint is not before me - nor this service.
Provident says it chased  Mr G on the number it had registered for him but received no 
response.  It  then sent a notice of intention to default  in July 2016.   Not having received a 
response to that, it would be reasonable to expect it to have entered a default on Mr Gs 
credit file.  It  did not.
Ref: DRN57347202I dont think I could  fairly ask that the entry be back dated to 2015  but I think it would be fair 
and reasonable for Provident  to enter  these accounts  as in default  on Mr Gs credit file and 
to back date that entry to 13th August 2016.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Provident Personal Credit Limited  should correctly  record these 12 loans as in default on 
Mr Gs credit file from 13th August  2016.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5734720