K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained that MCE Insurance Limited  failed  to record  that he held a car 
insurance policy with it. Mr Ds car was impounded and has since been destroyed.
background
Mr D bought a car insurance policy with MCE in May 2018. In January 2019 he changed his 
car and he told MCE. As a result of the change, MCE emailed Mr D updated policy  
documents. 
On 6 February 2019 the police impounded Mr Ds car for having  no insurance. Mr D said he 
was insured with MCE. But when the police checked, MCE said that Mr Ds car wasnt 
insured with it. This wasnt true.
Later that same day, MCE confirmed to Mr D that he was insured. MCE resent Mr Ds policy 
documents to him by email. It told Mr D it would  reimburse him for the costs hed need to pay 
to have his car released. 
Between 7 February and 20 February  2019 Mr D regularly contacted MCE. Initially  he said 
he had a credit card he could use but he didnt want to. He felt MCE should directly  cover the 
costs to release  his car. Mr D told MCE he couldnt  pay to have his car released until after he 
got paid. And on 18 February 2019  Mr D told MCE he was having  trouble accessing his 
policy documents. So MCE emailed them again to Mr D that day. 
On 20 February 2019 MCE called the impound  company and it agreed not to dispose of 
Mr Ds car until 25 February 2019. MCE also called  the police  as Mr D said the police 
refused to release his car. MCE said the police  explained that the deadline for Mr D to 
produce the documents it needed was 14 February 2019. As Mr D didnt produce these 
documents, it didnt  stamp  the vehicle seizure notice  which would have allowed Mr D to 
collect his car from impound.  
MCE said it would pay £530 to Mr D for the storage and impound costs  from 6 to 25 
February 2019. And it said it would pay Mr D £100  compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience it caused him. But it said that Mr D was responsible  for following the 
instructions on the vehicle  seizure notice. 
Mr D didnt accept MCEs offer and asked  us to look at his complaint. As Mr D didnt  collect 
his car, it was disposed  of. So he didnt  pay impound fees. He said MCEs offer of 
compensation of £630 was only enough  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused. In 
addition he wanted  MCE to refund his car insurance  premium to him and compensate him 
for the cost of his car which  he said was £1,600.
Because Mr D didnt pay impound  fees,  MCE believes its total compensation award of £630  
for its error is reasonable. 
Our investigator thought that MCE had dealt with Mr Ds complaint reasonably.  
Ref: DRN58696452Mr D didnt agree. He said he went to the police station several times between  6 February 
2019 and 20 February 2019 but the police wouldnt agree to stamp the vehicle seizure  notice 
as his car was still showing  as uninsured.  Mr D said his car didnt show  as being insured 
until 20 February 2019. So he believes MCE is at fault for him not being  able to collect  his 
car. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think MCE is responsible for incorrectly telling  the police that Mr Ds car wasnt insured  with 
it. I can understand how upsetting the experience of having his car impounded was for Mr D. 
However, MCE provided Mr D with policy documents which  showed  that his car was insured 
when his car was impounded on 6 February  2019.  So at this point, it was for Mr D to follow 
the instructions  on the vehicle seizure  notice. 
When things go wrong,  we look at what the insurer did to put things right. And we also look 
at whether the customer took reasonable steps to prevent the situation  from getting worse.
MCE has provided a screenshot to show it registered Mr Ds car as insured on the Motor  
Insurance Database  on the evening of 6 February 2019. And it sent Mr D his policy  
documents  which showed he was insured when his car was impounded  on 6 February  
2019 and again on 20 February 2019.  
MCE wasnt aware of a deadline of 14 February  2019 on the vehicle seizure  notice until it 
spoke to the police on 20 February  2019. But even if it was  it didnt know Mr D was having  
problems accessing  his policy documents until after this date  on 18 February 2019.
On 20 February 2019 MCE told Mr D that it agreed with the impound not to destroy his car 
for a further five days. And it said it would pay Mr D £630 to his account  once he provided 
his bank details   and this would  clear within 7-10 working days. This covered the costs of 
the impound release fee and storage  costs  along  with £100 for distress  and inconvenience.
Im in no doubt that MCEs  failure  to show Mr Ds car was insured  caused him considerable 
distress and inconvenience. MCE should compensate  Mr D because he was caused  
embarrassment on 6 February 2019. And because  his car was impounded, he had to follow  
the instructions  on the vehicle seizure  notice in order  to get his car back. This caused him 
inconvenience. 
But I dont think MCE should compensate  Mr D for his car being destroyed. I dont think MCE 
is responsible for Mr D not meeting the deadline on the vehicle seizure notice. MCE has 
shown that it provided Mr D with proof he was insured on the same day it made  its error. And 
it updated the Motor Insurance  Database  on 6 February 2019.  This was a week  before the 
deadline of 14 February 2019  for Mr D to produce verification documents listed  on the 
vehicle seizure notice.
Ref: DRN58696453By 20 February 2019 MCE  told Mr D that it would cover all impound and storage costs to 
enable Mr D to collect his car. I appreciate that  even if Mr D had accepted  its offer on 20 
February 2019  he would have  had to pay the costs  himself  and been out of pocket for a 
couple of days. But the £630 compensation included £100  for Mr D for the inconvenience  its 
error caused him. So I think  overall  MCE did what it could to assist Mr D in preventing him 
from having his car destroyed.  
I understand Mr D is very upset and believes MCE is responsible  for his car being destroyed. 
However, I think MCE is responsible for his car being impounded because it incorrectly  said 
it wasnt insured  when  it was. Therefore  I think MCEs compensation offer of £630 is fair 
and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience  this error caused. I therefore expect MCE 
to keep its offer open should  Mr D choose to accept it now.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint  
other than to say that MCEs compensation offer of £630 in reply to Mr Ds complaint is fair 
and reasonable.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5869645