K821x#15complaint
Ms W complains about the advice  she received  from Lighthouse Advisory  Services  Limited 
(Lighthouse) in 2014/2015  and the fees she has been charged for this advice (both  initial 
and ongoing).
Ms W is represented  in this complaint by her daughter. 
background
In mid-July 2014 Lighthouse met with Ms W when a fact find was completed.
This fact find recorded that Ms W:
was divorced,  in her early seventies and retired
owned her own property, valued  at £850,000
had £7,811 on cash deposit
had £133,401 in investments
had no liabilities (including any mortgage)
had a net company (occupational)  pension  of £1,794 a month
had a net state  pension of £510 a month
had a net expenditure of £1,673  a month
had a desire to reduce  Inheritance Tax (IHT) payable on her estate
had no cash or investment funds that she wanted to invest  for IHT planning purposes
had equity  in her property that she would consider investing for IHT planning purposes
Following this meeting  Lighthouse sent Ms W an email  (dated  25 July 2014)  giving  an 
overview of what had been discussed and its initial thoughts of the options available in 
respect of IHT planning.  Lighthouse outlined  the following:
1.arrange a lifetime mortgage  for say £325,000,  with the majority  of the sum released 
being invested in an IHT efficient bond
2.arrange a whole of life assurance policy for say £266,000
3.A combination of 1 and 2
Ms W responded to Lighthouses email (on 28 July 2014) to say that she would  like to meet 
again with it, but with her daughter present. 
Ref: DRN52851392Ms W and her daughter  met with Lighthouse in August  2014.  Following this meeting 
Lighthouse sent Ms W (addressed to both Ms W and her daughter) an email 
(dated 7 August 2014) outlining in more detail  what Ms W might want  to consider doing in 
respect of IHT planning.  This was to:
arrange a will and place part of the property  into trust
arrange a lifetime mortgage  on the property for £323,000
keep £23,000 for planned expenditure
place £300,000 into an investment bond under a discounted gift trust
take an income  from the bond  of £13,500  per annum (4.5%)
pay £3,000 per annum into a pension for her daughter
arrange a life assurance  policy for £206,000 at a cost of £7,800 per annum
or:
arrange the will as above
arrange a lifetime mortgage  for £323,000 as above
gift £323,000 into a trust
Ms W to loan from the trust £23,000 for planned  expenditure
Ms Ws daughter to loan from the trust £96,000  for planned  expenditure
On 26 August 2014 a risk profiling report  for Ms W appears to have been completed 
identifying that she had a profile  4 level of risk (lowest medium) but had selected a 
profile 3 level of risk (low).
Ms Ws daughter emailed Lighthouse on 26 October 2014 with a number of questions and 
asking whether one or more alternatives  to those proposed  might  be better.
Lighthouse responded  to Ms Ws daughter by email  (dated 27 October 2014) to address her 
concerns and to reiterate  what  it had said previously as to its proposals.
Ms Ws daughter asked Lighthouse for some further  information around trusts 
(on 31 October 2014) which Lighthouse  provided  under cover of an email dated 
3 November 2014.
Correspondence passed between the parties  in December 2014 with Ms W (in conjunction 
with her daughter) discussing the proposals in more detail.
On 18 December 2014 Lighthouse says it issued Ms W with an investment report. This 
report confirmed that it was focused on estate  planning and followed three meetings (the 
latest two of which Ms Ws daughter was in attendance). It also said that the report  should 
be read in conjunction with a number of other documents including the fact find that was 
completed in mid-July  2014 and reissued in October 2014.
Ref: DRN52851393In this investment  report Lighthouse recommended that Ms W:
arrange a lifetime mortgage  for £323,000 (with Just Retirement)
retain £23,000 for home  improvements
invest £300,000 into a Prudential Investment Plan (Prudential PruFund Cautious  Fund)  
under a discounted  gift trust
take an income  of £12,000 a year from the plan (4%)
In 2015 Ms W:
arranged  a lifetime mortgage for £323,000 (with  Just retirement)
retained £123,000 of this sum
invested £200,000 into a Prudential Investment Plan (Prudential PruFund Cautious 
Fund) under a discounted gift trust
started to take an income of £8,000 a year from the plan (4%) payable monthly
In 2017 Ms W complained  to Lighthouse about  charges she had incurred (and might incur), 
that she didnt  receive  (at the material time) a copy of its investment report and the suitability 
of its 2014/15  advice.
Lighthouse issued Ms Ws daughter a final response letter (FRL)  in August 2017. In 
summary it said:
the fees and charges  were made  clear  as supported by the various documents that 
were provided to Ms W
it saw no valid reason to refund  any historical  advisor fees incurred/paid by Ms W
any further  advisor  fees can be cancelled but Ms W would need to request this herself  
with Prudential
it had done its best to meet  with Ms W and/or her daughter between May 2016 and early 
2017 (May  2016 being 17 months  after the date of its investment report and 14 months  
after the plan was placed in trust) to carry out a further  review
it was satisfied  that Ms W was provided,  at the material time, a copy of its investment  report
the advice given was suitable as supported by the various  documents that were 
completed and/or provided to Ms W.
Ms Ws daughter didnt agree with Lighthouses FRL so referred Ms Ws complaint to our 
service for investigation.
Ms Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that it should 
be upheld in part. In summary he said that in his view:
the advice was suitable
all fees and charges  were explained  and brought  to Ms Ws attention,  but Lighthouse 
should, in the particular  circumstances of the case,  refund the first 12 months ongoing 
advice fees it had received from Prudential with interest
Ref: DRN52851394Lighthouse responded  to say that it didnt agree that it should  have  to pay Ms W what the 
investigator had recommended but said it would do so as a gesture  of goodwill. 
It calculated this refund to be £2,690.52  if paid on 30 October  2018  and based on 
13 monthly payments  received of £166.67  rather than 12.
Ms Ws daughter responded to say that she didnt agree with the investigators view.  In doing 
so she reiterated  and expanded on her previous submissions to our service and outlined 
what, in her view,  fair compensation might look like.
The investigator considered Ms Ws daughters response to his view but wasnt persuaded to 
change his mind. He also shared Ms Ws daughters response to his view with Lighthouse 
for comment, which isnt unusual.
Lighthouse commented on Ms Ws daughters response to the investigators  view. In 
summary it refuted the points raised  and confirmed that it was no longer prepared to pay 
Ms W what the investigator had recommended it should.
Prior to Ms Ws complaint being  passed  to me for review and decision Ms Ws daughter 
made further submissions. She also expressed her dissatisfaction as to the investigation 
carried out by the investigator.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in February 2020. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Ms W and her daughter have very strong  feelings about this complaint. 
Theyve provided detailed  submissions  in support of their view which  I can confirm 
Ive read and considered in their entirety. However,  I trust Ms W and her daughter will 
not take the fact that my findings  focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  point raised. The purpose of my 
decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also like to point  out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive  or 
contradictory, I make my decision on the balance of probabilities - that is, what  I 
consider is most likely to have happened given the evidence that is available and the 
wider surrounding  circumstances.
non receipt in December 2014 of Lighthouses investment report
Ms Ws daughter says that the first time she (and Ms W) had sight  of Lighthouses 
investment report dated 18 December 2014  was in August  2016.
Ref: DRN52851395I cant say for certain that Ms W received Lighthouses investment report in 
December 2014.  But on the balance of probabilities,  Im satisfied that she did. I say 
this because I think that given the amount of contact between Ms W, her daughter 
and Lighthouse prior to December 2014,  Ms W would have understood, or should 
have understood,  that such a report would be produced and sent prior to Ms W 
making any decision as to what to do. Furthermore,  I think its unlikely Ms W would 
have gone ahead in doing what she did without  possession of such a report, 
particularly given the sums involved.
But even if I wasnt of the above  view Im satisfied, on the balance  of probabilities, 
that Lighthouse sent the investment report (which appears to have been correctly 
addressed) to Ms W in December 2014 and it would be unfair and unreasonable to 
hold it liable for its non-receipt. I say this in part because I see no reason  why 
Lighthouse wouldnt  have sent it, especially given its length, the amount of detail it 
goes into and that the sending of such a report is a regulatory requirement. 
Therefore, I dont uphold  this aspect of Ms Ws complaint.
charges and fees
I can see the client agreement signed by Ms W, on 3 October  2014,  explains how its 
remunerated for its services and reference  to a fee agreement is made.
I can see the fee agreement Ms W signed,  on 3 October 2014, states that she 
agreed to pay a 1% implementation fee and a 1% fee yearly thereafter. 
I can see the 18 December 2014  investment report states that Ms W had agreed to 
pay an implementation fee of £3,000 (1% of £300,000)  and ongoing service fees of 
£3,000 a year thereafter (1% of £300,000). Although what she ended up paying was 
an implementation fee of £2,000 and ongoing  service fees of £2,000 because she 
only invested £200,000 into the Prudential plan rather than £300,000.
The investigator concluded that Ms W would, or should, have been aware of 
Lighthouses fees, both initial and ongoing. And given  the documents  I refer to above,  
I agree.  In my view the fee agreement alone  would, or should, have alerted Ms W as 
to what she might have to pay Lighthouse (both  initially and ongoing).  I also think, on 
the balance of probabilities, that Lighthouse would have discussed its fees with Ms W 
particularly given the extensive contact  and exchanges that took place prior to Ms W 
acting on Lighthouses advice.
Furthermore, given the fee agreement was dated October 2014 and Ms W didnt act 
on Lighthouses  advice until early 2015,  I think she had enough  time to question the 
fees payable had she any doubts  or concerns about them.
Although the investigator concluded  Ms W would,  or should, have been aware of 
Lighthouses fees and charges, he said it should, in the particular circumstances of 
the case, refund the first 12 months  ongoing advice fees it received from Prudential 
with interest.
Ref: DRN52851396Given the date the Prudential  plan went on risk and the date the plan was placed in 
trust  late February/early March  2015  I might  have  expected  an annual review to 
be scheduled sometime in early 2016.
Lighthouse says it made contact with Ms W in early/mid 2016 to arrange  a financial 
review. An early-May 2016 meeting was cancelled (by Ms W) and rescheduled for 
late-May 2016. This meeting went ahead but Ms W asked for a further  meeting to be 
arranged with her daughter being present. 
A meeting was arranged for late-August  2016 which both Ms W and her daughter 
attended. But due to concerns being raised about the 2014/15 advice a financial 
review couldnt be undertaken.
A meeting was arranged for early-September  2016 but was cancelled  (by 
Lighthouse). A meeting  was then arranged for mid-September 2016  but was 
cancelled (by Ms W). A meeting was arranged for late-September but was cancelled  
(by Ms W).
A meeting was arranged for mid-October 2016. This took place  with both Ms W and 
her daughter  present  but because of concerns being raised again about the 
2014/15 advice  a financial review couldnt  be undertaken.
It was agreed for a financial review to be undertaken in early 2017. Lighthouse 
contacted Ms W in early  2017 but this review never went ahead,  in part because  of 
Ms W taking  the decision to complain (formally) about the 2014/15 advice shed 
received.
Ms Ws daughter disagrees  with much of the above  chronology of events. However, 
she accepts that she and Ms W met with Lighthouse in August 2016 and on at least  
one other  occasion  after this. She also submits that at the August 2016 meeting  she 
and her mother were advised  that Lighthouse would cease collecting from Prudential 
ongoing advisor fees of £166.67  a month   but this didnt happen. Indeed,  these 
payments only ceased to be collected by Lighthouse (or paid by Prudential) in 
mid 2018 when  Ms W (or her daughter) contacted Prudential  directly.
Given that Ms Ws daughter accepts  she and her mother  met with Lighthouse in 
August 2016,  albeit  an annual review, for whatever reason, wasnt undertaken at this 
meeting, I think its fair that Lighthouse should refund the ongoing advisor  fees it 
received from Prudential for the six month period between  February  2016  and 
July 2016 inclusive to Ms W together with interest.
Ms W submits that any ongoing advisor  fees collected  by Lighthouse after 
August 2016 should be refunded on the grounds this is what she and her mother 
were advised would happen  in the August 2016  meeting. But although I cant  say for 
certain Ms W and her daughter werent  advised of this, I find that on balance  of 
probabilities they werent. 
I say this because  I would have expected Ms W and her daughter, especially given 
their concerns in August  2016, to have insisted that such an undertaking be put in 
writing (which it wasnt) or for them to have  checked  directly with Prudential  in say 
September or October  2016 to check ongoing  advisor fee payments had ceased to be 
paid (which they didnt).
Ref: DRN52851397Its not clear whether  Ms W is complaining about  other costs  and fees she has paid 
since adopting the IHT planning strategy  that she did over and above  the £166.67 a 
month ongoing advice fee being  paid by Prudential to Lighthouse.  However,  having  
considered the various documents that have been  provided, Im satisfied Ms W 
would have understood, or should have understood, the following:
Lighthouse was to be paid by Just Retirement a procuration fee of £6,460
Lighthouse was to be paid (by way of an investment deduction) an initial advice 
fee of £3,000   reduced  to £2,000  following only £200,000  being invested
Lighthouse was to be paid (by way of an investment deduction) an ongoing 
advice fee of £2,970  a year (1% x (£300,000 - £3,000  initial advice fee)  
reduced to £1,980  following only £200,000 being  invested  (1% x (£200,000 - 
£2,000 initial advice fee) 
Prudential  would make an annual management charge of 0.875%  of the sum 
invested  increased slightly due to only £200,000 being invested
Therefore, I uphold this aspect of Ms Ws complaint in part.
the advice
The investigator concluded that the advice Ms W received  in December 2014, and on 
which she acted on (in the main) in early  2015,  was suitable. And having considered 
everything the parties have provided and submitted  I agree.
I appreciate that Ms W says she didnt receive Lighthouses investment report dated 
18 December 2014. But notwithstanding what I say on this particular point above, Im 
satisfied that this investment report can be relied  upon as being an accurate 
reflection of what was discussed and agreed  over a number of months  with Ms W 
(and her daughter).
Firstly, I note the investment report states  that the advice given is restricted to 
addressing the objective of estate planning.  Ive seen nothing in the documents and 
documented conversations that took place prior to 18 December 2014 that would 
lead me to conclude  this was incorrect. In particular, I note the fact find document 
states:
Advice areasEstate Planning
client wishes to discuss the ability to reduce inheritance  tax bill and protect her 
estate so as much  as possible passes  to her daughter on her death
[Ms W] wants  to find a way to improve estate planningto avoid inheritance  tax 
[and] to provide asset protection to ensure (her daughter) receives  as much as 
possible on her death
There is a small amount that could be utilised  to reduce the tax bill however 
[Ms W] is keen  to keep this for herself  to enjoy and spend if needed. However, 
she is keen to explore  the benefits  of arranging a lifetime  mortgage  and then 
investing this into trust as part of an inheritance tax solution. We have also 
explored a whole of life policy  to mitigate  the tax bill
Ref: DRN52851398I can see the investment  report  calculated (at the time of writing) that Ms W had an 
estimated potential IHT liability of £266,000  on an estate valued  at £990,000 and Ive 
seen nothing that would lead me to conclude this wasnt materially  correct.
Now I appreciate there were a number of options  open to Ms W in December 2014 to 
allow her to mitigate her potential IHT liability. But in my view, most of these (if not all 
of them) were considered  and discounted  for valid and documented reasons.
What Ms W was ultimately advised to do, in line with the options  proposed  by 
Lighthouse prior to 18 December 2014,  was to:
arrange a lifetime mortgage  for £323,000 (with Just Retirement)
retain £23,000 for home  improvements
invest £300,000 into a Prudential Investment Plan (Prudential PruFund Cautious  
Fund) under a discounted gift trust
take an income  of £12,000 a year from the plan (4%)
I think its important to point out that I only need to be satisfied that the above advice 
was suitable, not that it was the most  suitable.
placing the plan under a discounted gift trust
It was recommended that the plan be placed under a discounted  gift trust. I think  this 
advice was suitable. I say this because  it would have immediately removed from 
Ms Ws estate a sum in the region of £130,000 and would  everything else being  
equal  removed a further £170,000  from her estate after seven  years.
investing in the plan
It was recommended that £300,000 be invested  in the Prudential Investment Plan 
(Prudential Cautious Fund). Given  how this fund was invested in December  2014  
(64% fixed interest, 21% equities,  7% property, 6% cash, and 2% other) I think this 
advice, given Ms Ws assessed and recorded  attitude to risk, was suitable.
releasing equity
It was recommended that Ms W release £323,000  of equity from her property, 
investing £300,000 of it. Now I accept that for the majority of individuals such  a 
strategy is often viewed as being unsuitable. 
Notwithstanding the warning of such a strategy  being noted by Lighthouse in its 
investment report,  Im satisfied that Ms W was looking to shield as much of her 
wealth as she could,  as soon as she could,  and that she didnt want  to utilise  the 
wealth (of approximately £140,000) tied up in her other investments and cash on 
deposit. Therefore,  borrowing by way of an equity release mortgage and then 
investing this released sum (or at least part of it) in an IHT efficient manner wasnt  
unsuitable advice.  Indeed,  I cant see that there were many other options, if any, 
available for recommendation.
Given what I say above I dont uphold this aspect  of Ms Ws complaint.
Ref: DRN52851399other issues raised
As Ive already  said my findings focus on what I consider to be the central  issues.  
However, for the sake  of completeness Id make the following comments:
I accept there might  be some  inaccuracies in the fact find and investment report. But 
even if I was to accept all of those highlighted by Ms Ws daughter,  Im not 
persuaded they had any material bearing  in themselves  on the advice given.
There is a small  element of life assurance in the plan. But this is normal and doesnt 
affect the suitability  of the advice Ms W received.
The trust appears to have  been  set up correctly  with Ms W recorded as the settlor  and 
first trustee and her daughter as an additional (second) trustee. Ms W isnt named as a 
beneficiary  nor can she be. Ms W signed  to exclude her (ex) spouse  as being a 
beneficiary from those defined at 2) on page 5 of 8 which  lists at a) the children  and 
remoter descendants of the settlor. The trust can be distributed or continue  after the 
death of the settlor.
Loans against the bond arent allowed,  only withdrawals. The option of drawing a 
loan was an option available under another proposal put forward by Lighthouse in 
mid 2014 - which Ms W elected not to take up. Ms W decided  instead to proceed as 
she did.
Lighthouse says, or suggests, that it has spoken  with the individual  advisor and Ive 
no reason to doubt this. But even if Lighthouse hasnt done so, Im not persuaded 
this has any material bearing on the outcome of this complaint. It should  also be 
remembered that this complaint  is against  Lighthouse, and not the individual  advisor.
Ms Ws daughter suggests  she could  have borrowed against her own house and her 
mother could have  utilised  her other investments  to meet their respective needs and 
objectives. But notwithstanding both these issues appear to have been considered 
and discounted,  I find it hard to reconcile Ms Ws daughters comments that she 
should have been advised to borrow against her own property for her needs with her 
comments that she wasnt a client of Lighthouse - so Lighthouse was never in the 
position to advise her.
Ms Ws daughter says her mother didnt need  to increase her regular income. Yet 
she later says she needed £20,000  which she had to withdraw  from her ISA. This 
suggests to me that there was a need for an increased income, or at least a desire 
on the part of Ms W to have an increased  income  to spend and which  she ultimately 
did. Put another way, if there was no need  for an increased income,  I might  have 
expected this increase to have been  saved by Ms W, at least  in part, rather than 
spent by her.
Ms W is concerned that the trust is/was required to file annual tax returns.  However, 
even if this is/was  the case, this requirement  or possibility was clearly  noted, and it 
would have been for the trust to complete and file these  not Lighthouse. 
Ref: DRN528513910Lighthouse responded  to say that it accepted my provisional decision and that it had nothing 
further to add.
Ms Ws daughter responded to say that she didnt agree with my provisional decision.  First,  
in summary, she said:
I had given her insufficient  time in which to respond to my provisional decision.
I should have  talked to the individual advisor  in order to fairly decide this complaint.
I need to give due consideration to the whole file when making my findings.
She, in summary,  then went  on to reiterate a number of her previous submissions and to 
say:
Its rare  for an ombudsman  to reduce what a business is required to pay where there  
is a part uphold  and it can suggest  an agenda.
Given how  complex these matters areI would ask that someone  who has long 
term experiences with these specific products and retail  advice on them reviews 
matters.
She doesnt feel Ive understood what was recommended, or whether  the 
recommendation was suitable.
Prior to receiving advice in 2014/15  her mother had only received financial advice on 
one previous occasion. Her mother has no understanding  of the regulatory 
requirements and obligations of financial advisors and would have simply trusted  
what she was told. 
Until recently  she herself had no, or very little, knowledge of the regulatory  
requirements and obligations of financial advisors.
She had been  seriously unwell in late 2014/early 2015.
She doesnt consider the non receipt  at the appropriate time of Lighthouses 
investment report dated 18 December 2014  to be central  to this complaint because 
her mother  would  have  accepted the advice with or without  it because  of the level of 
trust she had in Lighthouse. But she still remains of the view that the report wasnt  
provided to her mother at the appropriate  time.
Neither she, nor her mother, expected to receive  an investment report especially 
given a lot of information was shared between the parties in emails. Furthermore, she 
wouldnt submit that a report wasnt received at the material time if it was.
The email address used for her mother in August  2016,  when  Lighthouse  sent her 
and her mother a copy of the investment  report,  is wrong. This adds weight to her 
submission that an investment report was never  received at the appropriate time.
Im wrong to have  concluded that I only need to be satisfied that the advice was 
suitable, not the most suitable.
Ref: DRN528513911She disagrees that a number of other options were  discussed with her mother  and 
discounted.
The various emails exchanged  between  October and December 2014 clearly say, or 
suggest, that the drawing down of a loan from the recommended  Prudential  
Investment Plan was possible and the ability to be able to do so was a key objective  
for her mother.
She disagrees that Lighthouse warned against releasing equity, or at least it failed to 
do so strongly enough.
Trusts are complex legal instruments and insufficient information about  the same  was 
provided to her or her mother.
Ive failed to consider  or address the issue of investment choice. The elected fund 
(Prudential Cautious Fund) was always going to be prone to capital  erosion given the 
level of withdrawals and charges.  A balanced fund would have been more  suitable.
Her mother didnt act on Lighthouses advice, rather she accepted  it. 
Her mother would  simply have had no reason to think, or understand, that future fees 
would be taken  by Lighthouse or paid to Lighthouse. 
Its incorrect for Lighthouse to submit that a fee freeze hadnt been  agreed and that 
only her mother  could  stop future fees being  paid.  Prudential  has confirmed  that 
Lighthouse could have asked for fees to stop being paid.
She doesnt agree with my decision  that Lighthouse should (only)  have  to refund fees 
paid to it by Prudential between February and July 2016. She thinks  my reasoning  is 
unreasonable, irrational and unfair. 
All the evidence points to it being agreed in August 2016 that no further fees would 
be collected.
She has tried to contact the individual advisor  but has been unable  to do so. 
Therefore, her recollections  about what was discussed in respect of fees should be 
preferred to that of Lighthouses submissions on the same point.
My finding that I might  have expected her or her mother to have insisted that any 
undertaking regarding fees in August 2016 be put in writing,  or for them to have 
checked directly with Prudential in say September or October  2016  that ongoing 
advisor fee payments had ceased  to be paid, is both unfair and irrational. As 
previously submitted, both she and her mother trusted Lighthouse.
My statement  that I find it hard to reconcile Ms Ws daughters comments  that she 
should have been  advised to borrow against her own property for her needs with her 
comments that she wasnt a client of Lighthouse - so Lighthouse was never in the 
position to advise her doesnt reflect what she said.
Despite my finding to the contrary, her mother didnt  need an to increase her income.
Ref: DRN528513912Its best and usual advice to recommend the utilisation  of cash  and other 
investments before  releasing equity.
She doesnt understand why I would  consider  it wise for her mother to have saved 
the trust income. As well as being  irrational and expensive it could be viewed as 
being tax avoidance.
Ive made findings on areas that needed no findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Secondly, I would add that Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed  to take it on board and think  about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I appreciate that Ms Ws daughter would  have liked more time to respond to my provisional 
decision. But Im satisfied that eight months, and then a further four months whilst the case  
was with me for review and this final decision  was pending, was sufficient. I would also add 
that when granting  time extensions consideration also needs to be given to what is often a 
desire on the part of the business for a case to be decided sooner rather than later.
I remain of the view that I didnt need  to talk to, nor do I now need to talk to, the individual 
advisor and Ive nothing further to add on this particular point.
I considered the whole file before issuing my provisional decision and again before issuing 
this final decision.
Ultimately, its for me to decide  what redress, if any, should be paid to a consumer by a 
business. And when  making such a finding  Im not bound by what  may have already been 
offered by a business, or recommended by the adjudicator or investigator, before me. 
Im unsure  what Ms Ws daughter means by an agenda. But I can assure her that Ive 
reviewed this complaint  with an entirely open mind and with no pre-conceptions. I would also 
add that Im appropriately  trained and experienced to decide this complaint and there is no 
need for it to be reviewed  by another party. I also fully understand what  was recommended  
and Im appropriately placed to decide whether  that recommendation was suitable.
I accept that both Ms W and her daughter might not be what  you would call sophisticated 
investors, but equally I dont think they could be called nave investors.  But Im not 
persuaded that this has any bearing  on the outcome of this complaint. Im also sorry to see 
that Ms Ws daughter was unwell in late 2014/early 2015. But again,  I cant see that has any 
bearing on this complaint.  Notwithstanding  the advice subject to this complaint was given to 
Ms W, not her daughter, the option of not investing,  or delaying the decision to do so until 
later on in 2015, was always  an option available to Ms W.
Ref: DRN528513913Ms Ws daughter still remains of the view that the investment  report  wasnt provided  to her 
mother at the appropriate  time. Notwithstanding that Ms Ws daughter now submits that this 
failing isnt material to the outcome of this complaint,  I would add that Ive nothing further to 
add on this point  except to say I stand by what I said in my provisional decision.
Ms Ws daughter says I was wrong  to have  concluded  that I only need to be satisfied that the 
advice was suitable, not the most suitable.  But I disagree. My role is to decide whether the 
advice was suitable, no more no less. I would  further add that I remain of the view,  having 
considered everything  that has been  said and submitted by both the parties, that a number  
of other  options were  discussed and, for various  reasons, were discounted.
Ms Ws daughter says the option  of taking  a loan always  formed part of the discussions that 
took place and was a key objective for her mother. On reflection, I accept  that some  
discussion around the taking of a loan took place.  But I think that these discussions need to 
be considered  in their entirety and against  the investment  report (which as I said in my 
provisional decision Im satisfied can be relied  upon as being  an accurate reflection of what  
was discussed  and ultimately  agreed)  and against  other documents that were provided.
And having considered everything again I find that the ability of being able to take a loan,  
although discussed, wasnt in the end an agreed  or documented objective  of Ms W, or key in 
her decision  to proceed on the basis and terms that she did. I also think its worth  pointing 
out that Ms W only invested  £200,000,  not £300,000, meaning she kept  back £123,000  of 
the equity released  negating, or at least reducing, the need for a loan post 2015. Finally,  I 
would add that the option of releasing funds from other investments, rather than the taking of 
a loan, was always  an option open to Ms W.
Therefore, Im not persuaded that the advice Ms W received  was unsuitable because loans 
against the Prudential Investment Plan arent  possible. 
I accept that Ms Ws daughter disagrees, but I remain of the view that the risks of releasing 
equity were discussed with her mother and sufficiently documented in the investment report.
I accept that trusts are complex, but Im not persuaded that their complexity made the advice 
unsuitable.
I accept that cautious  funds, all else being  equal, have less chance of making the gains 
balanced or high risk funds can make. But equally cautious funds, everything  else being 
equal, have less chance of making the losses balanced or high risk funds can make. I would 
also add that the risk of capital erosion was noted  in the investment report. So, given the 
above and given Ms Ws agreed  attitude to risk, I remain  of the view that investing in the 
Prudential PruFund Cautious Fund wasnt unsuitable.
Ms Ws daughter says her mother didnt act on Lighthouses advice, rather  she accepted it. 
Now, Im not sure what the difference here is, but when I made reference to Ms W acting on 
(accepting) Lighthouses advice the point I was making was that Ms W didnt  act on (accept)  
the advice quickly  but did so sometime later. In other words, the decision to act on (accept) 
the advice doesnt appear to have been  a rushed decision.
Ms Ws daughter is unhappy with my findings  around  what, or wasnt,  agreed around fees 
and my decision to award only a six month  fee refund. 
Ref: DRN528513914Ms Ws daughter now submits that Prudential have confirmed that Lighthouse could have  
asked for payments to cease. But even if I was to accept what Ms Ws daughter now submits  
on this point, Im not persuaded  it has any material bearing. I remain of the view, for the 
reasons given in my provisional decision,  that Lighthouse never  agreed  to cease taking fees 
and that a refund of six months worth of fees is, in all the circumstances, fair and 
reasonable.
I still find it hard to reconcile Ms Ws daughters comments that she should have been  
advised to borrow  against her own property  for her needs with her comments  that she wasnt  
a client of Lighthouse - so Lighthouse  was never  in the position to advise  her. But if this 
doesnt reflect what Ms Ws daughter said, I apologise. But this particular  point of 
disagreement isnt material  to the outcome of this complaint.
I remain of the view that if Ms W needed  to access £20,000 from her ISA then this would 
suggest she wasnt saving anything from her various  sources  of income  but was instead 
spending that income, something of course  she was entitled  to do. And this further suggests 
to me that she had a need,  or at least a desire,  for the bond  income  she was receiving.
I accept that it would normally be deemed good advice to utilise cash  or other  investments 
before releasing  equity.  But as Ive already explained, Im satisfied that the disadvantages of 
releasing equity  were discussed  and Ms W, for whatever reason, simply didnt want  to utilise 
her other investments to meet her stated  and recorded objectives.
Ms Ws daughter says that I made  a number of findings in my provisional decision on issues 
that didnt need them. This might be the case, but Im satisfied, based  on what Ms Ws 
daughter said and submitted, that these  issues, although not central  to my consideration, 
warranted some form of comment from me.
I appreciate Ms W will be disappointed but given what I say above, I see no good  reason to 
depart from my provisional findings  and I now confirm them as final.
my final decision
My final decision is that Lighthouse  Advisory Services  Limited must pay Ms W:
the six months  advisor fees it received from Prudential between February and July 2016 
inclusive, which  I understand were  £166.67 a month
interest on the above six sums  at 8% simple per annum from the date each sum was 
received by it from Prudential to the date of settlement*
*HMRC requires  Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited to take off tax from this interest.  If Ms W 
asks for a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off this should  be provided.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5285139