K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F have  complained about  the way in which Santander  UK Plc (Santander) 
dealt with a claim they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
background
In July 2010 Mr and Mrs F entered into a contract for the purchase and supply of a solar hot 
water system from The Energy Conservation Group (TECG).   The  system cost £7,650  in 
total and Mr F paid an initial £2,000 payment using his Santander credit card.  The  
transaction on Mr Fs credit  card statement was made in favour  of Staywarm Ltd 
(Staywarm).
In May 2011  TECG wrote  to Mr and Mrs F apologising  that it had failed to provide them with 
key information  about the performance of the solar system  at the point  of sale.
Under s.75 a finance company can be liable to the same  extent  as the supplier for any mis-
representations or breaches of contract.  So, in July 2014 Mr and Mrs F raised a s.75 claim 
for breach of contract, but it was subsequently closed when additional  evidence  wasnt  
provided.
In April 2016, represented by a claims management company (CMC), Mr and Mrs F raised 
a new s.75 claim for misrepresentation.  Santander  rejected the claim and said the 
necessary relationship between the debtor, creditor and supplier didnt exist as is required by 
s.184 of the CCA.
The CMC claimed there was an appropriate  relationship as TECG and Staywarm  were 
associated.  But as no agreement could be reached, a complaint about Santanders decision 
to decline the s.75 claim  was referred to this Service.
One of our investigators  reviewed everything.  She concluded there was an appropriate 
relationship between the parties to support a s.75 claim, and that the complaint should be 
upheld.  To  put things  right, the investigator  recommended Santander compensate Mr and 
Mrs F for the misrepresentation  by refunding  the difference between  the benefits provided by 
the system compared  to what they were  promised by TECG.
The CMC confirmed Mr and Mrs F accepted  the investigators assessment.  But  despite  
several requests,  Santander didnt respond.  
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has now been passed  to me to review afresh 
and make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusions as the investigator  and Ill explain why.
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship
Under s.75 its necessary for there  to be an unbroken  relationship between the debtor 
(Mr and Mrs F), the creditor (Santander)  and the supplier (TECG).   
Ref: DRN55028152Santander has said it considers the link between  the parties to be broken  because payment 
was made  to a third-party company called Staywarm Ltd rather than directly to TECG.  As a 
result, it says Mr and Mrs F doesnt have a valid claim under s.75.  But  I dont agree with this 
conclusion.
Although the money was paid to Staywarm Ltd, that company had a sufficient connection  to 
TECG to satisfy the requirements  of s.75.  As where  there  is an association between  
corporate entities  the debtor-creditor-supplier chain is not broken. Section 184 of the CCA 
defines the term Associate  and in relation to corporate entities it sets out that, one 
company is an associate of another company  if:
The same  person is a controller of both, or a person is a controller of one and the 
persons who are his associates, or he and his persons who are his associates, are 
controllers of the other;  or
A group of two or more persons is a controller of each company, and the groups 
either consist of the same  persons or could be regarded and consisting of the same 
persons by treating (in one or more  cases) a member of either  group as replaced by 
a person of whom  is an associate; and
A body  corporate  is an associate of another person if that person is a controller of it 
or if that person and persons who are his associates together are controllers of it.
Under s.189 of the CCA, controller , in relation to a body corporate,  means  a person  
in accordance with whose  directions  or instructions the directors  of the body 
corporate which is its controller (or any of them) are accustomed to act, or
who, either alone or with any associate or associates, is entitled  to exercise, or 
control the exercise of, one third or more of the voting power at any general meeting 
of the body corporate or of another  body corporate which  is its controller.
The Energy Conservation Group  was a trading style of REDS  Technologies Ltd and the 
directors of that company  were also directors of Staywarm Ltd.  So, Im satisfied that at the 
time of the transaction the two companies were associates  meaning that there was not a 
break in the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship,  and Santander  ought  to have accepted 
Mr and Mrs Fs s.75 claim for consideration.
grounds for s.75 claim
Under s.75 Mr and Mrs F are able to make a claim against Santander for misrepresentation 
or breach of contract  to the same  extent that they could claim against TECG as the supplier.  
And as TECG has been dissolved and no longer exists, they made their claim against  
Santander accordingly.
As the investigator  set out in her assessment, the internal notes provided by Santander 
state:
The additional  evidence now supplied does seem to indicate that Staywarm Ltd 
committed misrep  by over inflating  the amount they would save plus providing literature 
Ref: DRN55028153which indicated RHI (Renewable Heating Incentive) payments of £500  could be received for 
10 years.
From the evidence available, I also consider on balance that the benefits  of the system were 
likely misrepresented to Mr and Mrs F.  
The satisfaction note from the point of sale refers to the system producing  70% of hot water, 
and that equates to around 30% of energy bills.  Based upon that it says,  our system 
installed in the average house  has a potential payback period of between 6-12 years.
Its agreed between the parties that TECG failed  to provide Mr and Mrs F with all the 
appropriate documentation that would be usual  at the point of sale,  and so I believe it was 
probable that they relied upon the limited  information they did receive  as quoted  above.
Mr and Mrs F have  complained they have suffered a loss, and my understanding is that the 
system has not been self-funding and so wont have paid for itself as represented to them.   
Im sure that such a benefit would have been a key inducement  for Mr and Mrs F entering 
into the agreement  to purchase the system in the first place.
As Santander is responsible to the same extent as TEGC under s.75 Im satisfied its fair and 
reasonable for it to put things right for Mr and Mrs F.
fair compensation
When considering  how a business  should  put things  right in a complaint such  as this there  is 
no exact science.   My role is to decide what would be fair in the specific  circumstances of 
this complaint.
Ive considered whether the appropriate  thing to do would be to unwind the agreement by 
asking Santander  to refund Mr and Mrs F and arrange for the removal of the system.  But  I 
note this would cause considerable further upheaval  and inconvenience  as it would require 
works to be completed  at Mr and Mrs Fs home,  whilst  also incurring additional costs for 
Santander.
I also note, that Mr and Mrs F had actually wanted the system, but on the basis it would 
provide the energy and costs savings that they were expecting.
So, I think the fairest way to put things  right, would be for Santander to compensate Mr and 
Mrs F as though the system had performed  to the levels set out at the point of sale to make  
the system self-funding.  Essentially that would  require it to calculate  what  benefits  Mr and 
Mrs F will receive over the maximum stated payback period of 12 years and pay to them  
the difference between that figure and what they actually paid for the system.
Any refund of payment made  to Mr and Mrs F should also be paid with 8% simple interest 
per annum  to the date of payment (to reflect their loss of access to those funds).
In addition, I agree that it would be appropriate for Santander to pay Mr and Mrs F a 
payment of £300  for the trouble and upset theyve experienced.   As if it had correctly  
accepted the s.75 complaint initially the matter would have long since been resolved for 
Mr and Mrs F.
Ref: DRN55028154my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint against Santander UK plc.  To put 
things right it should pay the fair compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 September 2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5502815