K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny)  irresponsibly  
lent to him. 
background
Between June  2014 and September 2016, Mr C took out 13 loans with Sunny. His borrowing 
history is as follows: 
Loan 1 was a running  credit account facility. What that means  is that Mr C had a credit limit 
and he was able to borrow up to a maximum of £350. Sunny then subsequently  agreed  to 
lend Mr C 12 instalment loans. 
In its response to the complaint, Sunny accepted that the complaint should be upheld in 
respect of the running credit account  facility. When our adjudicator  looked  at the matter, she 
didnt think Sunny should have agreed to lend loans 2 to 13. Sunny  disagreed  with that view 
and said that the checks  it had undertaken  were robust. 
However, shortly afterwards, Sunny amended its position and said that it should not have 
agreed to further  borrowing from loan 11 onwards. It offered to settle the complaint on that 
basis. Mr C did not respond  to Sunnys offer and so the matter has been  passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr C could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN54271722the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
As I said above, the parties agree that Sunny  shouldnt have agreed the running account 
facility with Mr C. So I havent considered  further  whether it was wrong of Sunny to provide  
that borrowing. But I have  kept the circumstances in mind when I have considered the rest of 
the complaint.  
Our adjudicator said she didnt think Sunny  should  have agreed  to lend loans 2 to 5. When  
Mr C applied for loan 2, he already owed almost £300 in respect of his running  credit 
account. Sunny agreed to lend him £200  for loan 2, which effectively took his total borrowing 
back to £500  this is the same amount as it would have been some  months  earlier. Two 
weeks later,  he borrowed  another £100.  I think Sunny should have realised by this point that 
Mr C was most likely  using these loans to pay back his running account facility.  
Mr C then applied for loan 4 on the same day that he repaid loans 1 and 3. He took out loan 
5 while  loan 4 was still running and just two weeks after repaying  loan 2. Looking at this 
borrowing, I think it should have  been reasonably clear to Sunny that Mr C was applying for 
further borrowing  to cover his loan repayments. 
I agree  with our adjudicator that Sunny also should not have agreed to loans 2 to 5. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of the lending history to see if there  was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. If that was the case, Sunny should  have realised that it must not provide 
any further loans.  
Ref: DRN54271723Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Cs case, I agree with our adjudicator  that this point 
was reached by loan 6. I say this because:
Sunny  ought  to have realised Mr C was not managing to repay his loans sustainably.  
He had taken  out 6 loans within 10 months, with one of those loans being  a running 
account facility.   Sunny  ought to have  realised it was more  likely than not Mr C was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in 
his finances and that his indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr C wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Sunny Loan  13 was 
taken out over two years  after the running account facility and more than 18 months 
after the first instalment loan. It was for a larger amount than the first instalment loan 
and almost as much  as his running account credit limit.  Effectively, Mr C had paid 
large amounts  of interest to service a debt to Sunny over an extended period.
I think that Mr C lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr C borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept 
him in the market  for these high-cost  loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 2 to 5 and loans 6 to 13. Sunny will need to 
take action to put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans 2 to 13;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 2 to 5 from Mr Cs credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 to 13 should be removed from Mr 
Cs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Cs complaint.  Elevate  Credit  International 
Limited must  put things right as set out above.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020. 
Ref: DRN54271724Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN5427172