K821x#15complaint
Mr N and Miss S complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) unfairly declined 
their claim under  their home insurance  for water  damage to their basement.
background
Mr N and Miss S said that water  entered beneath  the flooring of their converted basement  
after periods  of heavy rain, and they claimed  for the damage to RSA. They wanted to 
remedy the leak and replace the damaged flooring. 
RSA obtained  reports from its loss adjuster and a specialist drains survey. RSA said these 
concluded that there were no issues or leaks from the drains or pipes and the water  damage 
wasnt related to the drainage. RSA said the problem was most likely  a failure in the tanking 
and lack of a damp-proof membrane to the floor of the basement, which isn't covered. RSA 
maintained repudiation of the claim on the basis that no insured peril had taken place. It said 
anything that happens gradually or to do with wear and tear isnt covered by the policy.
Mr N and Miss S said RSA advised  that their policy  didn't cover  tanking failure as they didnt 
have accidental damage cover for causes not tied to a single event. They  obtained a report  
that said their basement needed tanking protection from ground water.  And they said they 
had paid for the rectification of the damage including additional  tanking  and waterproofing. 
The investigator recommended  the complaint be upheld. He said the policy  covers  damage 
caused by storm  or a flood, but RSA ruled these out as it looked to attribute  the damage  to a 
single one-off event.  He said there  was no evidence  of a storm, but a flood  couldnt  be ruled 
out. He said the court  had established  that a flood could occur  gradually and through a slow 
and steady build-up of water and our service follows  that approach.  He thought this meant a 
flood doesnt have to be sudden or violent or a single one-off event. He said RSA hadnt fully 
assessed that the damage wasnt caused  by an accumulation of water (flood).
The investigator said policies dont cover wear and tear or gradual  causes to prevent 
consumers ignoring  problems. He thought Mr N and Miss S contacted  RSA as soon as they 
became aware  of the damage and the tanking hadnt failed due to wear  and tear. He said 
RSA should re-assess  the claim and review  the work carried  out by the consumers builders 
and pay for the repairs that are covered under the policy.
RSA disagreed with the investigator, saying the law and courts gave a different interpretation 
of what constituted a flood,  and this involves establishing a clear cause for the accumulation 
of water.  It said the investigators argument  that a slow build-up of water  can be flood is 
flawed as tanking systems are designed to prevent  this and would  only fail if the volume of 
water is so abnormal the system cant cope. It said in this case theres no evidence of a 
sudden release of water  which  it could consider. RSA said the only way the tanking would be 
breached is if it had failed due to wear and tear, or gradually over time. RSA said an 
alternative is that the water table has risen, but it said this is specifically excluded  by the 
policy. RSA said the time allowed by our service was insufficient for it to carry out any further 
investigation of the causes of Mr N and Miss Ss claim  and so it requested  an ombudsman 
review the complaint.
Ref: DRN56409832my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  agree that the ingress  of water in Mr N and Miss Ss basement is due to a 
failure in the existing tanking. Mr N said this was located on walls behind internal 
plasterboard coverings. Following  investigations  RSA decided that the water ingress wasnt 
as a consequence of an insured peril. Mr N and Miss S disagree and say the failure of their 
tanking should be covered by their policy.
Although RSA hasnt  identified  the cause of the water ingress it declined Mr N and Miss Ss 
claim as it says the damage  must  be due to wear or tear or a gradually operating cause. My 
role is to decide if RSA has made a fair decision about this. For a claim to succeed  the 
policyholder must show that an insured event has occurred. This would require Mr N and 
Miss S to show that the damage falls within one of the insured  perils set out in their home  
insurance policy. It is then a requirement of the insurer to show  that an exclusion clause 
applies to the claim.
Ive considered the expert reports from RSA and Mr N and Miss S and Im not satisfied that 
RSA has done  enough to eliminate flood as the potential  cause  of the damage.  I can see 
from its responses that RSA thinks what happened  to Mr N and Miss Ss basement  cant  be 
a flood. But is also acknowledges  that it hasnt had the time to investigate this cause 
properly.
Our service considers that a flood can occur when water enters  (or builds up) in a property 
slowly and steadily, and this doesn't necessarily have to be caused  by a natural event. The 
key factor  is that water has built up within Mr N and Miss Ss basement, regardless of where 
the water  came from and this may have  caused their tanking  to fail. 
Although I cant be sure from the evidence that Mr N and Miss S have a claim under the 
flood peril in their home insurance policy, I think RSA needs  to re-assess  the claim against 
the flood peril based on our services approach to the definition  of flood. To be clear,  this is 
not a requirement  on RSA to pay the claim at this stage, but to obtain  expert  evidence  to 
determine if the cause of the claim, and then respond accordingly.
If Mr N and Miss S are still unhappy  with RSAs decision  about  their claim, they can bring a 
further complaint  to our service.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to reconsider Mr N and Miss Ss claim against 
the flood peril in their home insurance  policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN56409833
Ref: DRN5640983