K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Virgin Money  Plc put a record about him on a fraud  prevention database 
when it refused a mortgage application  hed made.
background
Mr B applied for a mortgage with Virgin Money  through a broker.  The application  was 
refused. Some time later, Mr B applied for other  credit, which  was again refused, and 
discovered that Virgin Money had made  an entry about him on the database.  So he 
complained.
Virgin Money said that it had made the entry because it was concerned about the accuracy  
of some of the information it had been given. But it said it was willing  to re-consider if Mr B 
gave it the documentation hed given his broker to review. Mr B said he no longer had copies 
of the documents, and couldnt  contact the broker, who appears  to have gone out of 
business.
Our investigator thought that Virgin Money hadnt  acted unfairly, so Mr B asked for an 
ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its worth making the point  that theres  no obligation on a lender to accept an 
application or to lend,  and no obligation  to give detailed reasons for refusing an application   
though the application  does need  to be considered  fairly.
In this case, Mr B went through a broker. The broker appears to have been an individual 
rather than a larger company, and Mr B is no longer in contact with him. Various documents 
were submitted in support  of the application, including payslips, bank statements and 
documents from HMRC.  Mr B says he doesnt have copies of any of these documents  any 
more. So he couldnt  give them to Virgin Money  when it offered to review them after he 
complained. 
Even if he has lost those particular documents, though, its not difficult  to get copies of bank  
statements and similar documents from recent  years.  Be that as it may, all the evidence  I 
have available  is the documents submitted to Virgin Money at the time of the application.
Based on the documents submitted in support  of the application at the time, Virgin Money 
had some concerns.  It didnt think the information  it had been given in support of Mr Bs 
financial position was accurate. Ive reviewed the documents it received, and the checks  it 
made with third parties  to verify them, and I think its concerns were reasonable. Its third 
party checks  showed that the information it had been given wasnt  accurate. 
Ive thought about that, and Ive thought  about what the fraud prevention databases  require 
by way of evidence before a record is made. Having done so, I agree that Virgin Money 
hasnt acted unfairly in this case. Im satisfied  that the information it was given in support of 
Mr Bs financial position  wasnt  accurate, and that it acted reasonably in notifying the 
database agency.
Ref: DRN53722312Virgin Moneys offer to reconsider the entry if Mr B can provide copies of what he provided to 
the broker still stands.  But in the absence  of that, I dont think  I can fairly ask for the entry  to 
be removed.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5372231