K820x#14Complaint
Miss R, who is represented by a court appointed deputy, a solicitor  who Ill refer to as Mr L, 
complains about  the service shes received  from National Westminster Bank Plc. Mr L says:
It wont  allow Miss R to open a basic bank account, which is in breach of Equalities  
legislation.
It failed to set up a standing order correctly.
It didnt return an original court of protection  document.
It didnt respond to Mr Ls complaints.
Mr L says he wants  an explanation for what  went wrong and compensation for the legal 
costs incurred in pursuing the complaint.
Background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 30 April 2002, a 
copy of which is attached.
I didnt think the complaint  should  be upheld. I explained why I thought  NatWest  hadnt acted 
unfairly in declining to open an account in Miss Rs name. I thought  it had made some 
mistakes with a standing order and failing to return the court of protection  document, but I 
thought NatWests payment of £150,  together with its apology,  was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. I didnt agree that NatWest  should pay any compensation for failing to 
respond to the complaint Mr L brought on Miss Rs behalf. I explained this service can only 
award compensation for any trouble and upset  caused to the consumer,  and I didnt think the 
delay by NatWest  had an impact on Miss R. And, as I didnt think NatWest had behaved 
unreasonably overall,  I didnt think there  was a reason for it to pay for the costs of pursuing  
the complaint.
Mr L didnt agree saying,  in summary,  that:
It is the ombudsmans  role to protect customers from unfair  practice, particularly the 
vulnerable.
Miss R has been denied a banking service  because of her disability.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered  what Mr L has said in response to my provisional decision.  But I 
dont find hes provided any new evidence or information which would  lead me to change my 
earlier conclusion.
Mr L says our role is to protect consumers, but that is the role of the industry  regulator.  Our 
service is impartial and our role is to settle  complaints between consumers and businesses. 
We can put things  right where we think a consumer has been treated unfairly. But I set out in 
my provisional decision why I thought NatWest had acted fairly and reasonably in the 
particular circumstances  here.
Ref: DRN59765702My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L, on behalf of 
Miss R, to accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Copy of provisional decision
Complaint
Miss R, who is represented  by a court appointed deputy,  a solicitor who Ill refer to as Mr L, 
complains about the service  shes received from National Westminster Bank Plc. Mr L says:
 It wont allow Miss R to open a basic bank account, which is in breach of Equalities legislation.
 It failed to set up a standing order correctly.
 It didnt return an original court of protection document.
 It didnt respond to Mr Ls complaints.
Ref: DRN59765703Mr L says he wants an explanation  for what went wrong and compensation for the legal costs  incurred 
in pursuing  the complaint.
Background
When Mr L was appointed as Miss Rs court appointed deputy, he took control of Miss Rs bank 
account. Her mandate and authority on the account stopped and the bank  card in her name  was 
cancelled.
Mr L wanted Miss R to have access to a weekly allowance for her daily expenses and asked the bank 
to open a basic  bank account in her name. But NatWest said it couldnt open an account in Miss Rs 
name because she was a protected person. It explained  the difficulties and risks of doing so.
Mr L arranged for Miss R to open an account  with another bank and instructed NatWest to set up a 
weekly standing order to that account. But NatWest set up the instruction  wrongly. It amended this in 
time for the first payment due on 15 May, apologised  for its mistake and paid Miss R £100  
compensation.
NatWest also apologised  that it failed to return the original court of protection document  and paid Miss 
R £50 for the cost of obtaining  a certified copy.
Our investigator thought NatWests apologies  and payment of £150 compensation  was fair and 
reasonable. But she also thought NatWest should pay an additional £100 for the poor service  
received when Mr L complained.
Mr L didnt agree with our investigators  conclusions.  He said, in summary, that:
 Failing to open a bank  account for Miss R amounts  to discrimination against a mentally 
incapacitated individual which is contrary to Equalities legislation. The bank has a legal duty to 
make reasonable adjustments for individuals with disabilities.
 NatWest has continued to make mistakes with the standing order instruction.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Failure to open an account  in Miss Rs name
Its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service to say whether  a business  has acted unlawfully 
or not, including whether or not it has breached the Equality Act 2010. Thats something only the 
courts can do. But we can take into account  relevant law and regulations when we consider  whether a 
business has acted fairly and reasonably  in the circumstances of a complaint. This includes  the 
Equality Act 2010.
The Court  of Protection order that appoints Mr L as Miss Rs deputy confirms that the court is 
satisfied that [Miss R] lacks capacity to make  various decisions for herself  in relation to a matter or 
matters concerning her property and affairs. Mr L, as her deputy, has decided she should  have direct 
access to a small sum of money for her day to day living  expenses to give her some small  degree of 
financial independence. But I dont  find it was unreasonable of NatWest to rely on the conclusions of 
the Court of Protection order and to decide that it wouldnt allow Miss R to operate  an account in her 
sole name  because  she didnt have the capacity to do so. Im not saying that Mr Ls request was an 
unreasonable one  some  would say it is good practice in a case  like this. But that doesnt mean  
NatWest acted unreasonably  it thought about Mr Ls request and declined it having thought  the 
implications through.
Ref: DRN59765704In the circumstances I cant conclude  that NatWest has acted unreasonably  or unfairly  in the 
particular circumstances here.
I see that Miss R was able to open a basic bank account with another  bank, so it would seem the 
arrangement Mr L wanted  to put in place has been achieved,  albeit with another  bank.
Standing order
Mr L instructed NatWest to set up a weekly standing order for £50. NatWest set this up wrongly, 
adding an extra digit to the receiving account number. But it corrected its mistake and the standing 
order was correctly  set up on time for the first payment  to be made. I can see Mr L had to spend time 
on the phone to get the mistake corrected  and that he spent an hour on the phone speaking to 
several staff, before the call cut out. I appreciate this must have been extremely frustrating. But 
NatWest has accepted  this and apologised.  
I dont think NatWests  mistake caused any trouble or upset to Miss R. I say this because it corrected 
its mistake in time for the first standing order to be paid on the date requested. But NatWest credited  
Miss Rs account with £100 by way of an apology and I dont  require it to do anymore.
In his response to our investigators  view, Mr L says NatWest failed to cancel the £50 standing  order 
following a more recent  request. This is a new complaint which  he will need to raise with the bank in 
the first instance. But, it looks like the last £50 weekly standing  order was paid on 4 September  2019. 
Court of protection document
NatWest apologised  for its failure to return this document and paid Miss R £50 to cover the cost of 
obtaining a certified copy of the document. I dont find that its obliged to do anything else in this 
regard.
Failure to respond  to complaint
Our investigator recommended NatWest pays Miss R £100 for the delay caused when it failed to 
respond to the complaint Mr L raised  on her behalf. 
This service can award compensation  for the trouble and upset caused to a consumer by a business. 
The consumer in this case is Miss R. I dont think NatWests delay in responding to the complaint 
impacted Miss R. Mr L brought the complaint  on her behalf and she probably  wasnt even aware of 
that. 
So I dont think NatWest needs to compensate  Miss R for its delay in responding to the complaint 
raised by Mr L on her behalf.
Compensation for legal costs of pursuing  the complaint
Mr L says Miss R should be compensated for the costs of pursuing this complaint, although  hes not 
said how much he thinks this should be. 
Mr L was appointed  to deal with Miss Rs financial affairs and this would include raising  any queries or 
complaints as necessary  on her behalf. As I havent found  that, overall,  NatWest acted  unreasonably, 
I dont find any reason for it to pay for the costs in pursing this complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN59765705Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5976570