K820x#14complaint
Mrs N says National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1997 at the same time as Mrs N applied for 
a credit card. The bank  cant confirm where  the sale took place, Mrs N thinks  it was by post. 
The policy gave Mrs N accident, sickness and unemployment cover.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs N disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  I have 
based my decision  on the balance  of probabilities   in other  words,  on what I consider is 
most likely given the available evidence.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ns complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mrs N cant  recall PPI being discussed  at all. NatWest says it would have made  
Mrs N aware of the optional nature of the policy. Mrs N initially recalled the sale was 
by post but has more  recently queried  this. The bank cant confirm where the sale 
took place so I will review  it based  on the available evidence. 
Ive looked at the paperwork from the sale. On the application form there was a 
separate section  for PPI and Mrs N signed  to confirm she wanted it. The form set out 
the option to sign to decline  PPI with equal  prominence. Mrs N has said its not her 
tick, but there is no tick in the PPI section  just her signature under the Yes  option. 
I know Mrs N thinks this part of the form is misleading and says if she didnt have  PPI 
on her old card she wouldnt  have expected  it on this one. But I disagree, I think its 
clear that where  she signed is to agree to take out PPI. So overall  Im satisfied 
NatWest made it clear to Mrs N the PPI was optional and she chose to take it out.  
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs N, so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for her. It was up to Mrs N to decide  whether the policy was right for her, 
bearing in mind her ability to make her credit  card repayments if she was sick or lost 
her job. 
Its possible NatWest didnt give Mrs N all the information about the PPI that she 
needed before she made her decision.  But Mrs N chose to take out the policy and so 
appears to have wanted this type of cover.  She wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations. And the policy was competitively  priced and apparently 
affordable. 
Mrs N says she had savings of £5,000  and she was entitled to six months  sick pay. 
But the PPI would have paid out in addition to her work benefits and for up to 12 
Ref: DRN56653452months. And it wouldve allowed her to use her savings to cover  other  living 
expenses whilst not working  or to keep them intact for her future  needs.  Mrs N was 
entitled to six months redundancy  pay but again the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to this, and for up to 12 months.  It would have allowed her to protect  any 
lump sum redundancy payment giving increased  financial stability  at an already 
difficult time. 
Mrs N also said her partner would have  helped her, but thats not suitable alternative 
protection. Its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change. The credit  
card was in her name  so she was solely liable for the account. Shes told us she had 
life and critical illness insurance and a death-in-service benefit but these cover 
different events and wouldnt help with monthly credit card repayments in the same 
way as PPI. So based on her circumstances at the time of the sale and the terms of 
the policy, I think it unlikely Mrs N wouldve made a different  decision  if better  
information had been provided.  
Mrs N has also pointed out that she made  other  successful PPI claims, but I can only 
consider here the merits of this individual  complaint.  I would add that each case  will differ 
based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the credit  product; how and where 
the cover  was sold; the customers circumstances; and the policys  price  and terms and 
conditions.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5665345