K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs H bought the policy in 1997, at the same time as taking out a credit card.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mrs Hs credit card application had a section  for optional features. It gave an overview of 
what PPI was for and what it cost,  and then had a box that could be ticked if Mrs H wanted 
the policy, or which could  be left blank if she didnt want it. The box was ticked  and Mrs H 
signed the application to confirm what was on it. So I think that Lloyds made  Mrs H aware 
she had a choice  about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time.
Its not clear whether  Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs H or not. The requirements were  
stricter on Lloyds if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mrs H Ive assumed  they did. That 
means Lloyds had to check  the PPI was right for Mrs H. And based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time, it looks like it was. For example, she wasnt affected  by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. And while Mrs H had some  benefits through work,  
the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those benefits,  and it looks like the PPI offered her more 
comprehensive cover   especially when her benefits reduced to just half pay. So the policy  
couldve been useful  for Mrs H in case she was off sick or lost her job.
Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mrs H about PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs H chose  the policy, which implies she wanted this type of 
cover. As I said above, it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the policys main 
exclusions or limitations, and it would  have been useful for Mrs H if something went wrong. 
Then if her circumstances changed  or she changed her mind, Mrs H could cancel the policy 
at any time without a penalty. So overall, I dont  think better information about the PPI was 
likely to have put her off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN54393082my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5439308