K821x#15complaint
Ms T is unhappy with the service she received from UK Insurance  Limited (UKI), concerning  
her motor insurance policy, after she reported an accident.
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
background
In September  2015, Ms T was involved in an accident where the third party admitted fault.  
Ms T called UKI to report the accident.  During  this call she was referred  to a credit hire 
company which  arranged a hire car for her whilst her car was being  repaired. This car was 
provided to her through a credit hire agreement. That meant  that Ms T wasnt  claiming from 
her policy but that a separate company would provide the hire car and try to recover  its costs 
from the third partys insurer.
Ms T says UKI didnt tell her it was referring her to a credit hire company to provide a hire 
car. She also says that she didnt realise  that under the credit hire agreement she might 
have to assist the credit  hire company to recover the costs from the third party insurer, 
meaning she might also have to attend court. She says she was under the impression that 
she was receiving the hire car under the guaranteed  car hire section of her policy as stated 
in the terms and conditions. Had this been  explained  to her, she says she wouldnt have 
gone down this route. Now the credit hire company are issuing proceedings against the third 
party insurer  and are doing so in her name.
UKI recognised its advisor could have done  a better job of explaining that it was referring her 
to a credit  hire company and paid her £50 compensation. It also paid her a further  £50 for 
not fulfilling their promise to send her a written summary of their response to her complaint. 
Ms T was unhappy with this so she brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator was of the opinion that UKI didnt adequately compensate Ms T for the 
trouble and upset  this has caused her. She asked them to pay a further £100. UKI disagreed 
with the investigator  and so did Ms T. Ms T is concerned that there  will be further  distress  
and inconvenience  caused to her if she has to go to court and she believes UKI should deal 
with the matter themselves without any involvement from her. So the complaint has been 
passed to me for review.
After reviewing the case, I issued a provisional decision on 15 November 2018. In the 
provisional decision I explained that I intended  to partially uphold Ms Ts complaint and I 
wrote:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I intend to partly  uphold the complaint 
although Ive reached a different conclusion  to our investigator.  I will explain why:
Did UKI give Ms T enough information  so that she could make an informed choice between 
pursuing a car hire through a guaranteed hire under her insurance policy or through  a credit 
hire company instead?
Ref: DRN56175632UKI has acknowledged that it didnt give Ms T enough information to make  a choice about 
whether she wanted  to use a credit hire company or to claim from her own policy and obtain 
a hire car that way. So Ive gone on to look at the impact of that error on her.
If UKI gave Ms T enough information  would she have claimed on her own policy for a car 
hire instead  of via the credit hire company?
Ms T says that she was under the impression that she was receiving the hire car under the 
guaranteed car hire her policy  provides.  She says had she known this wasnt  the case, she 
wouldnt have agreed to the car hire. She says she didnt need  or ask for a higher spec car 
nor did she receive one. During  the call with UKI, Ms T was told that she could use a seven 
day repair service. Her car repair  was completed in less than a week and there was no 
indication from the outset that it would take longer. Ms Ts policy guaranteed a hire car would 
be available for 14 days. So I think its more likely than not she wouldve thought that there 
was no need for her to get a car through the credit hire company if she was given enough 
information to make an informed choice.
I understand that currently the credit hire company is trying to recover  the costs from the 
third party insurer and Ms T has been  asked to co-operate with this process. Ms T says that 
this is causing  her worry and upset especially  because the paperwork and court  proceedings 
need to be in her name. I understand thats because the agreement  Ms T signed  with the 
credit hire company means that shes ultimately  liable for the hire charges if those arent  
recoverable from the other drivers insurer. So, for procedural  reasons, solicitors acting for 
the credit  hire company need to issue the proceedings in her name  as shes technically 
liable for the debt. And that requires Ms T to co-operate with the solicitors. I can see why
Ms T isnt happy with this, as its unlikely shed  be in this position  if UKI had provided the hire 
car through  a claim on her policy. Also the potential of attending court  is causing  her further 
worry as she would  need to take time off work  and arrange childcare for her disabled  child.
So to address that distress and inconvenience,  I think  UKI should pay Ms T a further  £300  
compensation. I say this because the two £50 compensations already paid do not 
adequately reflect the significant  impact this situation is having on Ms T.
Having said that I dont think its fair to ask UKI to cover Ms Ts liability if she doesnt 
cooperate with the credit hire companys solicitors. As I understand it proceedings of this 
nature, which  are solely about  the cost of the hire car, wouldnt usually require Ms Ts 
attendance at court. I can see why Ms T is concerned that she might have to attend  court  but 
Ive considered that when awarding compensation.
Im also aware that if Ms T does need  to go to court she will potentially incur loss of 
earnings, travel costs and expenses  for child care for her disabled child. And those are 
expenses she most  likely wouldnt  have  incurred if UKI had given her full advice about 
providing a hire car at the outset. So, if Ms T is required to attend court,  and the credit hire 
company is unable to suitably  compensate her reasonable out of pocket costs, then UKI 
should compensate  her for those receipted  expenses and losses.
Ms T is also concerned by the prospect that the credit hire company could hold her liable for 
the hire costs. If that were to happen  then - subject  to her fully co-operating with the process 
and attending  court if needed - I think UKI should cover Ms T for the costs outstanding on 
the credit  hire agreement  should she be asked to pay it.
Ref: DRN56175633Ms T also says that she would like UKI to amend their terms and conditions as well as some 
of their policies and procedures around credit hire referrals. This is not something I can do 
as our services role is to sort out individual disputes  between  consumers and financial 
businesses. We dont  regulate those businesses and we cant  make them  change  their 
procedures - that is the role of the Financial Conduct  Authority which deals with broader 
issues affecting large numbers of consumers.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I intend to uphold Ms Ts complaint.
I will require  UK Insurance  Limited to:
Pay Ms T a further £300 in compensation for her distress  and inconvenience. 
In the event that Ms T has to attend  court and is out of pocket as a result,  
UK Insurance Limited  should refund her reasonable expenses and losses incurred on 
receipt of suitable  evidence.
Cover the costs of credit hire, subject to Ms T co-operation with the credit  hire 
companys costs recovery process  - in the event that the credit hire company asks 
her to repay their costs.
Ms T agreed with my provisional  findings.  UKI disagreed with my provisional  decision and 
raised some points that I will address below in my findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments  including  the additional 
comments made - to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. 
UKI recognises that it shouldve done more  to explain  the hire car benefits of Ms Ts policy 
but instead gave her the option of using the credit hire company. UKI says that this was to 
Ms Ts benefit as Ms T wouldve been provided  with a better and bigger car and for a longer  
period of time. However, as I mentioned  in my provisional decision, Ms T didnt need  or ask 
for a higher  spec  car nor did she receive  one. 
In regards to having  the car for longer, I agree with Ms T that, even if that option  was 
explained properly  to her she wouldnt think there was a need for it, as during the call with 
UKI she was told that she could use a seven day repair service. In other words, she had 
every expectation that the car would  be repaired promptly and had no reason to think that 
she might  need a hire car for a longer period. And her car was repaired in less than a week. 
UKI says that at the outset it didnt know how long the repairs would actually take and that it 
cant guarantee the repair time scales. But considering that it offered a seven day repair 
service, I think it is reasonable to assume that Ms T wouldve expected the repairs to be 
completed within that time. And thats considerably less than the 14 days her policy 
guaranteed a hire car for. So I think if UKI had given her enough information to make an 
informed choice, its more  likely  than not, she wouldnt have chosen  to use the credit  hire 
company.
UKI says that Ms T didnt  question the guarantee hire car option  when she was transferred  
to the credit  hire company  and she was clearly informed of who the company  was and what 
Ref: DRN56175634she was getting.  However, looking at the evidence provided by UKI and Ms T, I disagree 
with UKIs  assessment  of the situation. Ive listened  to the call when UKI provides the credit 
hire company referral  to Ms T and I believe that it didnt give her enough information. UKI 
shouldve made  it clear to Ms T that the credit  hire company is a separate  business  and that 
she has an option to pursue  her claim via the credit hire company or through her own 
insurance policy. But none of this was explained  to her during that call. UKI told Ms T that 
there was a £1 deposit payable to the hire company but never explained  or gave  her the 
option of getting the hire car through her own insurance policy. Also, on several occasions, 
UKI has acknowledged that it couldve  explained  the process better to Ms T. So I remain  
satisfied that it didnt do enough to explain Ms Ts options.
UKI also says that, as with any legally binding contract, Ms T was informed of her right to 
terminate the agreement within 14 days if it no longer suited her needs,  or if she changed 
her mind. Therefore, it says she signed the agreement well informed. But I dont  think  its fair 
to say that simply because a contract has a cooling off period that means it wasnt unsuitable 
or in some other way mis-sold to the consumer. And for the reasons set out above, Im 
persuaded that was the case  here. Also, I believe Ms Ts testimony when she says that she 
was under the impression that she was receiving the hire car under the terms of her motor  
policy. And, even if Ms T had cancelled the credit hire agreement  within  the 14 day cooling 
off period, she would  still be responsible for the costs of the period she had the hire car for, 
so she wouldve been in the same  position she is now. 
Also UKI said it has no record of Ms T contacting them to query or challenge the information  
she received from the credit hire company. But as I explained in my provisional decision and 
above  Ms T wasnt given enough  information  at the start to make  an informed choice. And 
I think it is more  likely than not, considering  all the circumstances of the case, that had she 
been given enough information she wouldve  used  the car hire on her own policy instead of 
via the credit hire company.
UKI has said that it cant understand why I awarded a further £300 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience Ms T suffered as UKI are of the opinion  that she has suffered no 
financial or non-financial detriment. It also said that the compensation is too high for 
something that at best had a 2% chance of going  to court.  When making my preliminary 
award I assessed the impact of this situation on Ms T. She has said that she has suffered 
huge stress and loss of time. She was worried that she might need  to go to court  as the 
court proceedings needed to be in her name which caused her sleepless nights. She was 
even further worried  about having  to attend  court because she has a disabled child for whom 
she potentially would  need to arrange  childcare.  She was also worried that she would 
potentially need  to take time off work if she needed to attend court. So taking all of this into 
consideration I believe that a further £300 correctly reflects the significant impact this 
situation had on Ms T.
UKI has informed us that the credit hire company has mentioned  it has recovered some of its 
outlay for the car hire and that it will not be pursuing Ms T for the balance. That is good news 
for Ms T but I also know that contractually  in the future it may still have the right to pursue 
Ms T for the balance or ask her to attend  court. So although its unlikely, just like I said in my 
provisional decision, if Ms T does need  to go to court she will potentially  incur loss of 
earnings, travel costs and/or expenses for child care for her disabled child.  And those  are 
expenses she most  likely wouldnt  have  incurred if UKI had given her full advice about 
providing a hire car at the outset. So, if Ms T is required to attend court,  and the credit hire 
company is unable to suitably  compensate her reasonable out-of-pocket  costs,  then UKI 
should compensate  her for those receipted  expenses and losses.
Ref: DRN56175635Ms T is also concerned by the prospect that the credit hire company could hold her liable for 
the hire costs. If that were to happen  then - subject  to her fully co-operating with the process 
and attending  court if needed - I think UKI should cover Ms T for the costs outstanding on 
the credit  hire agreement  should she be asked to pay it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I partially uphold Ms Ts complaint. 
UK Insurance Limited  should:
Pay Ms T a further £300 in compensation for her distress  and inconvenience. 
In the event that Ms T has to attend  court and is out of pocket as a result,  
UK Insurance Limited  should refund her reasonable expenses and losses incurred on 
receipt of suitable  evidence.
Cover the costs of credit hire, subject to Ms T co-operation with the credit  hire 
companys costs recovery process  - in the event that the credit hire company asks 
her to repay their costs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Mike Kozbial
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5617563