K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Ms W says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS)  mis-sold her the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Ms Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Ms W, so Ill 
explain why.
Ms W says that BoS pressured her in to taking out the policy   and that it took advantage of 
her status  as a single person. She also says that she was pressured into taking the MPPI  if 
she wished to continue  to with the mortgage and keep a roof over her families  head. 
I dont doubt that Ms W has provided this service  with her honest  recollections at the time, 
but I also need to consider evidence supplied by BoS. 
Ms W was originally  a joint mortgage holder  and the original mortgage was taken out 1990. 
No MPPI was taken  out at this time. In 1994, the mortgage was transferred  in to Ms Ws sole 
name  and again no MPPI was taken  out. It wasnt until 1999, when Ms W approached  BoS 
for a further advance  for home improvements that the MPPI was sold to her. 
BoS has also supplied  copies of Ms Ws mortgage and MPPI application  both of which  
Ms W has signed.  I think this shows that the MPPI is a separate, optional, product  to the 
advance. And as Ms W already had a mortgage  in her sole name without MPPI  I think she 
wouldve known she didnt  have to take it.
So taking everything in to account,  I think BoS made it clear that Ms W didnt have to take 
out the MPPI  and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant 
remember this as it was so long ago.
BoS recommended the MPPI  to Ms W so it had to check that the MPPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the MPPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Ms W about  the MPPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But as I think she chose to take it out - it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Ms W. But BoS will 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms W because: 
Ref: DRN56356502BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Ms W about  that. Because BoS didnt tell Ms W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Ms W has said  including what  shes  said about  having life 
insurance. But life insurance provides a different type of cover the MPPI, so this point 
doesnt change  my decision, and for the reasons set out above, I dont think  the policy was 
mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
BoS has to pay back  to Ms W any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. BoS should  also pay back to Ms W any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
BoS should pay back to Ms W the extra she paid each month because  the commission  and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. BoS should also pay Ms W 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
I understand that BoS has already paid part of this money to Ms W  it should now pay the 
remaining money due. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms W can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms W.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Ms W any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5635650