K820x#14complaint
Mr Js complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest)  is that it wont  refund him 
for credit card transactions  that he disputes.
background
On 12 March 2019, Mr J flew abroad  for a short break. He stayed in a hotel,  and returned  to 
the UK on 15 March.
On 17 March, he realised he didnt have his credit  card, so called  Natwest. He found out that 
his card had been  used  in the country  hed travelled to, and that two large transactions  
totalling £1,643.30 had been allowed the day after hed arrived, before the card was blocked  
by Natwest. It had tried to get in touch  with him by text after the first two transactions,  to 
ensure they were genuine. But didnt get a reply. Mr J says he used a different sim card in 
his phone while he was abroad,  which is why he didnt receive the message. 
Mr J said he didnt made these transactions. He said the last time he used his credit card 
was when he arrived after his flight, to buy some  food. He said this was in a busy  fast-food 
restaurant, and that it took a few attempts  with his PIN before he was able to pay.
He said he thinks somebody watched  him trying to pay; learned his PIN; stole his card,  and 
then used it to make  the transactions  hes disputing.
Natwest investigated the fraud claim,  and declined  it. It said there  wasnt enough evidence to 
suggest a third party fraud, and that it seemed more likely  that Mr J himself had been 
involved.
Mr J remained  unhappy, so brought his complaint to our service.  
Our Investigator  looked  at all the evidence, and asked for further information  from both 
parties. She then concluded that Natwest hadnt  been unreasonable  to decline Mr Js fraud 
claim. 
Mr J disagreed, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He made  no further submissions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to disappoint Mr J. I agree  with our Investigator that theres 
insufficient evidence  to support his version of events. So I cant  say that Natwest has treated 
him unfairly  in declining his claim.
I know Mr J will be very disappointed. The money in question is a significant  sum. Id like to 
explain why I think my decisions fair to both parties.
In order to decide this complaint in Mr Js favour,  Id need to make findings that the disputed 
payments werent  made, or authorised,  by him. Generally, unauthorised payments are the 
liability of the lender,  and authorised payments  are the responsibility  of the customer.
Ref: DRN50794202As our Investigator explained,  the Payment Services Regulations 2017 are applicable here. 
Mr Js position is that he didnt make the payments, nor did he allow  anybody else to make  
them. So he says they werent authorised. 
But we know  that they were  made  using his genuine card and PIN number. We know the 
card was the real one (i.e. not copied or cloned) because  the records show  that the unique 
chip was read, along with the correct PIN. Mr J said that he didnt use the card while on 
holiday, apart from the one time when  he first arrived  and bought some food. He said that he 
must have  been  shoulder-surfed  and his PIN was disclosed. But he doesnt  say when the 
point of compromise was when he card was stolen, and why he didnt realise this until after 
he returned to the UK.
Hes said he paid for his hotel online, and that he had cash  for all his spending money while  
he was away. But we know the hotel was also paid for in cash, and weve not seen proof  of 
where this cash came  from. Mr J says his spending money came from selling some clothes.
We know that it was over sixteen hours after Mr J thinks his card was stolen before it was 
used in the two shops  to make the large  disputed payments. Natwest said that this didnt 
resemble a fraud pattern, and I agree. If somebody had seen Mr J enter  the correct PIN 
(noting we know he got it wrong the first time in the fast food outlet, and correct on the 
second attempt), and then managed to steal his card without him noticing, its unlikely that 
person would wait that length  of time before using it. Fraudsters tend to take as much money 
as they can in as short  a time as possible, as with every hour their chances of being caught, 
or the funding source blocked,  increases.
We also know there were no balance enquiries on the card, which is also unusual  for fraud,  
and suggests  that the person doing the spending  already knew  there were sufficient funds 
available. A fraudster would have no idea,  and would be risking detection trying to use a 
card that might  not have enough spending  available on it.
Looking at Mr Js version  of events, for which we dont have any evidence other than his 
testimony, Id have to be persuaded that somebody saw him enter his correct  PIN in the fast 
food outlet; stole his card without being detected;  waited  until the next day to use it; and then 
made large  payments with the card without knowing what funds were  available. 
Alternatively, I could  be persuaded  that Mr J himself was involved, and either made  the 
transactions himself,  or allowed someone else to do so. 
Given all of the available evidence, I think the latter scenario  is more  likely. 
On that basis, I think the payments were  authorised,  and consequently that Natwest isnt 
liable for them and doesnt need to issue Mr J with a refund.
Ref: DRN50794203my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5079420