K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about the treatment he has received from Capital One (Europe) plc 
(Capital One) in respect of a transaction on his credit card.
 
background
On 10 November 2017 Mr C purchased  a fridge-freezer from a high street retailer using his 
Capital One Credit card (card). The sum of £449.99 was debited  to his card on 
12 November 2017.
On 21 January 2018 Mr C complained to the retailer, in writing,  about the quality of the 
fridge-freezer supplied to him and about the poor customer service he had received to date. 
By way of remedy Mr C said he was looking to be paid £665.24, being the £449.99 
fridge-freezer cost plus £215.25.
On 4 March 2018 Mr C submitted a disputed transactions  form to Capital One.  On this form 
Mr C said he was making a claim under section 75 of the Consumer credit Act 1974 
(section 75) for the sum of £695.24, being  the £449.99 fridge-freezer cost plus £245.25.
On 9 March 2018 Capital  One emailed Mr C to acknowledge his claim under section 75 and 
to ask whether  he still had the fridge-freezer in his possession and when would be a good 
time to contact him by phone and on what number.  The sum of £449.99 was credited  to his 
card on the same day.
On 9 March 2018 Mr C emailed Capital One to say he was still in possession  of the 
fridge-freezer and that he was unhappy  that it had tried to call him on 10 separate occasions  
(against his express wish it shouldnt  do so).
On 12 March 2018 Capital One wrote to Mr C to apologise for calling him (against his 
express wish it shouldnt  do so) and to explain  a chargeback had been instigated  and a 
temporary credit (of £449.99) applied  to his card. It also said that it could only consider a 
claim (under  section 75) for financial loss suffered  (for example calls made) and not for 
compensation (for example time spent visiting the retailer and time spent in complaining).
Between 12 and 28 March 2018 various  correspondence was exchanged  between Mr C and 
Capital One  some of it substantial in length  and content.
On 25 April 2018 Capital  One emailed Mr C to say the retailer had confirmed he had been 
provided with a replacement fridge-freezer.  And because of this its chargeback hadnt been  
successful and his card would be debited with £449.99 in 14 days time (on 9 May 2018). 
Capital One also said that Mr Cs claim under section 75 had failed for the same  reason as 
its chargeback had been unsuccessful.
On 25 April 2018 Mr C emailed Capital  One to dispute having ever received a replacement  
fridge-freezer and that his claim  under  section  75 was valid.
Between 25 and 28 April 2018 various  correspondence was exchanged between  Mr C and 
Capital One  some of it substantial in length  and content.
Ref: DRN54447272On 30 April 2018 Capital  One emailed Mr C to state  that the retailer was disputing the 
chargeback due to cancelation being outside the given  timeframe. And that it would like 
him to sign a form (in the name of another party)  to pursue the matter  further.
On 30 April 2018 Mr C emailed Capital  one to say that he wasnt the party  named on the 
form he had been  sent and the reason for the chargeback not being  successful was different 
to the one he had previously been  provided with by Capital One.
On 1 May 2018  various correspondence was exchanged between Mr C and Capital One  
some of it substantial in length  and content.
On 2 May 2018  Capital One emailed  Mr C to apologise for an incorrect form being sent to 
him. It also said that based on what he and the retailer had said to date it was unable to 
uphold his section  75 claim but that it had instigated a second  chargeback.
On 4 May 2018  Capital One emailed  Mr C to reiterate  why it had instigated a second 
chargeback and that if this was unsuccessful his claim under section 75 would be 
accepted.
Between 7 and 17 May 2018  various  correspondence was exchanged between  Mr C and 
Capital One  some of it substantial in length  and content.
On 18 July 2018 Capital One emailed Mr C to say that its 9 March  2018 credit to his card of 
£449.99 was permanent as the retailer hadnt  disputed its second chargeback.
In September  2018, and being unhappy with Capital Ones handling of his payment dispute,  
Mr C raised a complaint  with our service.
In August  2019,  having previously sent our service  a number  of detailed submissions in 
support of his complaint, Mr C sent our service an email outlining what he felt Capital  One 
should have to pay him by way of compensation and why.
This complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that Capital One 
should have to pay Mr C £250 for its handling of his disputed transaction  claim in addition to 
the £449.99 it had already credited to his card.
Capital One responded to say that it agreed  with the investigators  conclusion.
Mr C responded to the investigators conclusion to say that he felt a compensation of £750  to 
£1,000 would, in all the circumstances,  be more appropriate and that he would like his 
complaint considered by an ombudsman, preferably  one who is trained  in disability 
discrimination, dealing with mentally  ill consumers and [the] Equality Act and its obligations 
upon companies & organisations.
The investigator considered both parties responses to her view but wasnt  persuaded to 
change her mind. Therefore this complaint, in line with Mr Cs request,  has been passed  to 
me for review and decision.
Ref: DRN54447273my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
Mr C makes reference to a number of pieces of legislation. I understand the points  Mr C has 
made in respect  of these and I can confirm that Ive taken them  into account in this decision.  
But its not my job to decide whether  the law has been broken  thats for the courts. So I 
dont make any formal findings  in this decision on this point. But Ive taken Capital Ones 
legal obligations  into account when deciding whether I think  it treated Mr C fairly.
Its also clear  Mr C has very strong  feelings about  this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support  of his view which I can confirm  Ive read and considered  in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr C will not take the fact that my findings focus on what  I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every  point  raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
First I would like to point out that based  on what both parties  have said and submitted Im of 
the view that the fridge-freezer provided to Mr C in November 2018 wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality. And that fair compensation for this (when  considered in isolation) would  be a refund 
of £449.99, a sum that Mr C has already received.
But its my understanding  that Mr Cs main concern is how Capital One handled his claim 
between March and July 2018  about  the quality  of the fridge-freezer  supplied to him, 
particularly given his mental state  and vulnerability.
Now I accept that there was a number of shortcomings in Capital Ones  handling  of Mr Cs 
claim and its handling  of that claim in the full knowledge of Mr Cs mental state  and 
vulnerability. But taking  everything into account  Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to direct Capital One to have to pay Mr C more  than the £250  
recommended by the investigator and which Capital One has said its prepared to pay.
In coming to this conclusion Ive had regard, amongst  other things, that Capital One accepts 
that its handing of Mr Cs claim was poor and that it has apologised for trying to contact him 
(on one occasion at least)  by phone and for sending him an incorrect claim form in late 
April 2018. Im also of the view that despite the distress and inconvenience Mr C says he 
has suffered at the hands of Capital  One I cant see that he has been denied or prevented  
from pursuing his compliant with it and then with us.
Ref: DRN54447274I would also add that although Mr C felt the need to submit substantial  submissions to 
Capital One in support of his complaint and that he sometimes felt the need to submit  the 
same submissions to more than one addressee  at Capital  One,  or the need to resubmit  the 
same submission to the same addressee when the first submission wasnt  (in his view) 
acknowledged quickly enough, that he should be compensated  for this. This is because  
making such submissions (however long and detailed) is part and parcel of making  a 
compliant.
I can see that a part of Mr Cs claim for compensation of between  £750 and £1,000  is for 
additional food costs he says has incurred. However, although the fridge-freezer supplied to 
Mr C wasnt of satisfactory quality it still, as I understand  it, worked (at least in its basic 
factory default settings). So although I can understand  why Mr C felt he was unable to use 
the fridge-freezer, I dont think  it would be either fair or reasonable for me to hold 
Capital One responsible for what was ultimately a choice Mr C made, rather  than something 
he had no other option  but to do.
my final decision
My final decision is that Capital One (Europe) plc must pay Mr C £250  in respect of this 
complaint.
Capital One (Europe) plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr C accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year. If Capital  One (Europe)  plc considers that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr C a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision represents  the last stage of this services dispute resolution procedure.  
Mr C doesnt have  to accept my decision, and if he doesnt do so, he will be free to pursue 
legal action against Capital One (Europe) plc and/or the retailer.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Peter Cook
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5444727