K820x#14complaint
Mr I, as director of company A, complains that Lloyds  Bank  Plc (Lloyds) incorrectly  charged 
it overdraft arrangement fees, and closed its account.
background
Company A agreed an overdraft with Lloyds  in 2014/15 and was charged arrangement  fees. 
Mr I, on As behalf, says that Lloyds didnt have the right to do this. He also said it closed As 
account without  giving  a reason.
He wanted a refund of the overdraft arrangement fees, and compensation.
He complained to Lloyds,  and it replied saying it didnt agree it had treated him unfairly. It 
conceded it had made some mistakes with interest after the account  was sent to Recoveries, 
but had refunded this. 
It didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr I didnt agree, so came to our service.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and received further evidence  from both parties.  She 
concluded that Lloyds had been  entitled to charge  the arrangement fees,  and that it had 
followed its correct process to close As account.  She clarified that it didnt  have to give a 
reason when closing an account.
Mr I didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator.  I know  this will be disappointing  for 
Mr I, so I hope I can explain why I think this decision is fair to both parties.
Mr Is unhappy with Lloyds for the following reasons:-
It charged him overdraft arrangement fees;
It closed his account; and
It didnt give him a reason for this.
Ive seen the terms of conditions  A agreed to when opening its account, and arranging  its 
overdrafts, and Im satisfied Lloyds was entitled to charge  the arrangement fees.
Ive looked at the circumstances,  and timetable, of Lloyds closure of As account, and Im 
satisfied A was given  the appropriate notice, and all correct steps were followed.
I agree  with our Investigator that Lloyds didnt  have to give a reason for closing the account. 
Ref: DRN53899152Im sorry  Mr Is unhappy with what happened  with As account, but Ive not seen evidence to 
indicate that Lloyds has made a mistake, or treated  A poorly, such that it needs  to take any 
further steps to resolve matters. A such, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask it to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I, on behalf of 
A, to accept or reject  my decision before 11 March  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5389915