K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance  Society Limited (NFU) 
have mishandled her insurance claim.
background
The details of this complaint are now well known  to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
again here. The relevant details are also set out in my previous provisional decision, which is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  
I issued my second provisional decision  on this complaint on 12 October 2020. I set out my 
findings and said that I did not intend to uphold  Ms Ps complaint for the following reasons:
Given that Ms P had initially opted for NFU to reinstate  her property, it was 
reasonable to expect  that certain  works  would have to be carried out by NFU in order  
to gain a full understanding of how much  the total rebuild project was likely to cost 
and whether there were sufficient funds to proceed with a full reinstatement. I was 
satisfied that this had been adequately  explained to Ms P by the insurer,  and that she 
had not objected to such works going  ahead;
NFU could not have  reasonably known from the outset that Ms Ps indemnity limit 
was not going to be enough to fund a total reinstatement, as they could not have 
known this until quotes were provided  after putting the rebuild out to tender, which 
required certain costs to be incurred. On that basis, I didnt think  NFU could have  
reasonably offered  to pay the full indemnity  limit as a cash settlement from the 
outset;
The majority  of works carried out by NFU (such as asbestos  removal,  making the 
property safe, structural planning/drawings, excavating foundations  etc) would most 
likely have had to be carried  out by Ms P in any event to prepare for the rebuild of her 
property, so I did not think it was unreasonable for such costs to be deducted from 
the overall indemnity limit  which  the policy expressly lists as costs that will be 
indemnified (i.e. clearing  the site, professional fees and meeting building regulation 
requirements)  as NFU have effectively taken the claim to a point where  Ms P would 
then be able to proceed with reinstating  the property by her own means with the 
remaining funds, without having to carry out those works that had already been done;
I did not consider  any of the costs disputed  by Ms P to have either been 
unreasonable or unreasonably incurred  by NFU, and she had not produced any 
evidence to suggest otherwise;
The loss adjuster had taken steps  to ensure that costs were applied  to other areas of 
the policy wherever  possible, so as to leave the maximum amount available under 
the buildings  indemnity  for the rebuild.  I was satisfied  that the loss adjuster had taken 
reasonable steps to keep the costs incurred by NFU to a minimum, and I did not see 
any basis on which to conclude that the costs  incurred  were unreasonable;
Only £16,557.13 of the overall  amount  deducted  from the indemnity limit accounted 
for professional  fees, all of which appear to have been necessary in order to scope 
out the extent  of the rebuild and to enable the project to be put out to tender  the 
remaining costs were  incurred towards  making good  the damage done  to the 
building such that the policy terms allowed for it to be deducted from the indemnity 
limit in any event;
In terms of the professional fees, Ms P had not demonstrated that these were 
unreasonable or inflated, or that she could have  engaged the same professional 
services at a cheaper rate elsewhere. I did not consider  the relevant policy clause to 
Ref: DRN56812662be ambiguous  as to whether these costs  could be deducted from the indemnity limit, 
as I thought its ordinary meaning was sufficiently clear that such  costs would be 
included in the overall limit; 
Even if the clause  were ambiguous  with the result being that professional  fees could 
not be deducted from the indemnity limit, I did not consider it would be fair and 
reasonable for NFU to now have to refund such fees given that Ms P has had the 
benefit of these services  as she would have always  likely  incurred  these costs  if 
granted the whole £185,000 indemnity  from the outset  and she would effectively  be 
benefitting twice;
I was satisfied that NFU had kept Ms P informed of the vast majority of costs  being 
incurred, and that she ought  reasonably to have known that when she appointed the 
third parties to begin work that she would be incurring costs  under the policy. Even 
accepting that NFU could have  done more to keep  her informed, I didnt think it would 
warrant any further compensation on top of the £150  paid already by the insurer;
I hadnt seen  any evidence that would  suggest Ms P was forced to appoint  Sergon 
and was denied  the opportunity to appoint her own contractors.  And from the emails I 
had seen, it appeared that it was open to Ms P to accept or reject the companies that 
were recommended  to her;
NFU may have suggested  that Ms P use Sergon, but I didnt think  it was unusual (nor 
underhand) for an insurer  to appoint known or preferred contractors, as they often 
receive preferential  rates which  help to keep costs  down. And I was not persuaded 
that Ms P had been forced to accept the contractors  suggested by NFU,  or that she 
had been denied the option of appointing her own;
In terms of Ms Ps own builder not being included  in the list of contractors to provide 
a tender for the reinstatement, it appeared that this was an honest mistake  that 
seemed largely  unavoidable in the circumstances, as nobody  had noticed (including 
Ms P) that the builder  was no longer part of the company that had been  included on 
the tender  list;
I had not seen any evidence of a cheaper  quote  having been provided by Ms Ps 
preferred builder,  but in any event,  such quotes  provided at the tender stage are 
typically only estimates, so there  would  have been no guarantee that the work would 
have been completed  for the amount she was quoted;
I did not think there had been  any significant  failings in relation to NFUs handling of 
the claim (including that of their loss adjuster) that would warrant  further 
compensation on top of the £150  already paid by the insurer.  
I invited further comments  from both parties  in response to my provisional  findings. Ms Ps 
representative disagreed with the provisional decision, maintaining his previous position that
The policy construction allows for the recovery of costs/professional fees in addition 
to the maximum sum insured. In the event that the policy  is ambiguous in this 
respect, the contra proferentem principle would apply;
The loss adjuster falsely claimed  that he was acting on behalf  of Ms P rather  than the 
insurer and failed  to seek permission for the costs  he was incurring purportedly  on 
her behalf. He also handed  contracts to his associates and refused to discuss  the 
matter with Ms P.
NFU offered  no further comments  or evidence  in response to the second provisional 
decision.
Ref: DRN56812663my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have decided  not to 
uphold it.
For ease of reference, the relevant  policy clause  disputed by Ms P states:
If YOU do not repair or replace YOUR BUILDINGS, WE will pay the loss in market 
value or the cost of repair or replacement, whichever  is the less.
WE may at OUR  option, replace YOUR  BUILDINGS  or arrange for repairs to be 
carried out.
The most WE will pay for DAMAGE to YOUR  BUILDINGS is the insured rebuilding 
cost shown on YOUR SCHEDULE  and any extra amount for INDEX-LINKING. The 
amount WE pay will include any costs for:
Clearing the site (removing  debris,  demolition,  shoring or propping up);
Professional fees (architects, surveyors and legal fees); and
Meeting building regulations requirements.
In my provisional decision,  I said I didnt think NFU had acted unreasonably by deducting  
their costs/fees from the indemnity limit as the above clause allows them  to take such  action. 
But Ms Ps representative maintains that the proper construction of the above  clause  means 
that the indemnity limit is reserved entirely for damage caused  to the property, meaning that 
the insurer is liable to cover all other costs (such as those for professional  fees and services) 
at their own expense and in addition to the indemnity  limit set. 
The term damage is defined in the policy document as being unexpected and unintended 
physical loss or damage. I have already covered  in my provisional decision that a large 
proportion of the costs incurred  by NFU (such as those  for clearing the site and removing  
asbestos etc) can reasonably be construed as making good the damage done to the 
buildings, and therefore ought to be deducted  from the indemnity. And I think the same  can 
reasonably be said for the professional fees and services as well, as these were also costs 
that were incurred towards  making  good  the damage caused by the fire.
I have also previously set out that I do not consider the policy clause to be ambiguous as to 
whether NFU can deduct the cost of professional fees and services  from the indemnity  limit, 
as the policy  makes express  provision for this and states that the amount NFU are liable to 
pay will include costs  for professional fees and meeting building  regulation  requirements. I 
still do not consider  the clause to be equivocal or ambiguous in this respect, and Im still not 
persuaded that there can be any other rational construction of the clause in these  
circumstances that would result in the insurer agreeing to cover  such  costs  in addition to the 
maximum sum insured.  So, as I set out previously,  I do not think there is any fair and 
reasonable basis in which NFU can be expected  to pay for the costs incurred (which appear  
to be reasonable)  out of their own pocket.
Ms Ps representative has also reiterated concerns about the handling of the claim and the 
conduct of the loss adjuster. However,  I have also already addressed these  points in my 
second provisional decision and have been  presented with no further comments or evidence 
that change my conclusions in this respect. So I will not repeat my reasoning  again  here,  
Ref: DRN56812664and invite Ms P to revisit the reasoning  set out under  headings handling of claim;  choice of 
contractors; conduct  of loss adjuster in my second  provisional decision.
So, given that neither  Ms P nor NFU have put forwards  any further evidence or arguments  
for consideration, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions  set out in my second 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in the attached  provisional decision, I do not uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2020.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN56812665COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms P complains  that The National Farmers  Union  Mutual Insurance  Society Limited  (NFU) have 
mishandled her insurance claim.
background
Ms P was added as a policyholder  to her late mothers home insurance  with NFU in January 2012. 
She made a claim in July 2017 after her house was severely damaged by fire. The claim was 
accepted by NFU and they appointed a loss adjuster. However, as the claim  progressed, it transpired 
that Ms Ps property  was underinsured. 
The original rebuild  sum was set at £150,000 when Ms P was added as a policyholder in 2012.  This 
amount was index linked and was automatically  adjusted each year, and it was eventually  accepted 
by NFU that the sum insured  by August 2016 after index linking was £185,793. However, the loss 
adjuster subsequently informed Ms P that £35,000 of her indemnity limit would  have to go towards 
professional fees, leaving  a shortfall of around £30,000 for the rebuild, which  NFU said they would  not 
be able to cover. 
NFU paid £150,000 as an interim payment to Ms P in June 2018, which  she accepted without 
prejudice. However, she complained that NFU have acted unfairly by deducting  the professional fees 
from her indemnity limit, which has left her underinsured.  In summary, she complains  that:
The policy  wording is ambiguous and should be construed as meaning the maximum sum 
insured refers only to physical loss or damage, and that other expenses  are payable in 
addition to the limit of indemnity. 
She did not set the limit of indemnity,  and was never asked to provide a rebuild  sum, so it 
must have been NFU that determined  the figure that left her underinsured. 
There was no discussion regarding the indemnity limit when the policy  was sold, and no 
information given to her as to how the initial figure of £150,000 was calculated. If she had 
known the policy left her inadequately insured,  she would not have taken  it.  There was also 
no statement of demands and needs  issued with the policy in contravention of the regulators  
Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS, at 5.2.4G).
NFU have fallen short of the standards set out in ICOBS 8.1.1 as they did not advise  Ms P of 
the potential for any shortfall, and there has been no breakdown of how the £35,000 in fees 
had been incurred or what was done to earn them. Moreover, they were incurred without Ms 
Ps knowledge  or consent. 
The loss adjuster  represented himself as an agent of Ms Ps when  in fact he was an agent of 
NFUs. He also acted inappropriately by telling Ms P that it was in her interests to appoint  
consultants that were  associated  with his company to oversee the demolition and rebuild of 
the property  which  could amount  to a conflict of interest.
As a result, Ms P wants NFU to provide a limit of indemnity of £185,793 exclusive  of the costs and 
professional fees that had been charged. She also says that NFUs handling of the claim  has caused 
her significant  distress,  inconvenience and health problems, and has hindered  any progress being 
made on the rebuild  of her home.  So she is also seeking to be compensated for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
NFU didnt uphold this element of Ms Ps complaint. In summary, they said:
The policy  wording is not misleading and clearly  explains which  aspects  of the claim will be 
considered within  the indemnity limit, which includes associated costs. 
Ms P was made  aware of the potential  for underinsurance from the beginning of the claim.
Ref: DRN56812666The loss adjuster  initially  said £35,000  would be needed for expert fees, but NFUs claims  
department subsequently made considerable  amendments to reduce the underinsurance as 
much as possible, meaning the shortfall was reduced to £4,618.  
There is no documentary evidence  to show how the sum insured was calculated,  but they 
deny setting the amount themselves as the evidence  available suggests they were provided 
with the figure of £150,000 by either Ms P or her representatives. 
In any event, it was a non-advised sale and the renewal documents issued since 2012 clearly 
set out that it was the policyholders  responsibility to ensure the sums insured were  adequate. 
The delays with the claim appear to be a by-product of the original sum insured on the 
property, which meant the claims  settlement was likely to encounter difficulties  from the 
outset. 
However, NFU did acknowledge there had been some service failings  for which they were 
responsible  such as delays in responding  to Ms Ps complaints and continuing to charge  the full 
premium after the fire  for which they awarded  £150 compensation.  Unhappy with this, Ms P 
complained to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the policy wording  clearly set out that the 
indemnity limit was inclusive of professional  fees,  and she also thought  it was most likely  that Ms P 
had set the sum insured originally rather than any agent of NFU.  Ms P didnt agree,  so the complaint  
was passed to me to determine. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in November 2019.  I said I didnt  intend to uphold it 
and set out the below provisional  findings:
policy wording
Ms Ps claim was accepted by NFU as her policy covers her property against damage caused by fire. 
The policy terms and conditions set out:
If YOU do not repair or replace YOUR BUILDINGS, WE will pay the loss in market value or 
the cost of repair or replacement, whichever is the less.
WE may at OUR  option,  replace YOUR BUILDINGS or arrange for repairs  to be carried out.
The most WE will pay for DAMAGE to YOUR BUILDINGS is the insured rebuilding  cost 
shown on YOUR SCHEDULE and any extra amount for INDEX-LINKING. The amount WE 
pay will include  any costs for:
Clearing the site (removing debris, demolition, shoring  or propping up);
Professional fees (architects, surveyors and legal  fees); and
Meeting building  regulations requirements.
Ms P says that NFU has no contractual  right to deduct  professional  fees from the maximum  sum 
insured. She says the policy wording states  that NFU will pay for DAMAGE  defined  by the policy 
as unexpected and unintended physical loss or damage  which  she submits should  be construed  
as meaning her indemnity limit of £185,793 applies only to physical loss or damage. In support of this 
position, Ms P submits  that:
Where NFU have  stated the amount they will pay will include costs  for professional fees, they 
have not stated  that the amount they will pay for DAMAGE will include such  costs. And in 
the absence of such  an implication, the clause  must  be taken  as meaning NFU will pay up to 
£185,793 for physical  damage with professional fees being paid in addition to the maximum  
sum insured.
Where such wording  is ambiguous, the contra proferentem doctrine requires  the ambiguity to 
be construed against NFU as the party that drafted the policy, and in favour of Ms P. 
Ref: DRN56812667Section 69 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015  deals with contract terms that may have different 
meanings, and stipulates that if a term in a consumer  contractcould have different meanings, the 
meaning that is most favourable to the consumer  is to prevail. This effectively codifies the long-
established rule of contractual interpretation known  as contra proferentem, whereby an unclear  or 
ambiguous term is construed against the person who drafted it  in this case, NFU.
However, the question first arises as to whether  there  is in fact an unclear or ambiguous meaning. 
And to answer that, its important  to consider  the terms and conditions  of the contract  in their entire 
context. Its helpful to consider the common sense principles of contractual  interpretation set out by 
Lord Hoffmann in the House of Lords case of Investor Compensation  Scheme Limited v West  
Bromwich Building  Society and Others [1997]  UKHL  28 (which I think  should  apply equally to a 
consumer contract  because they are firmly based  on equitable  principles of fairness  and 
reasonableness):
Almost all the old intellectual baggage of "legal"  interpretation has been discarded. The 
principles may be summarised as follows: 
(1) Interpretation  is the ascertainment  of the meaning which the document  would convey to a 
reasonable person having all the background  knowledge  which would reasonably  have been 
available to the parties  in the situation in which they were at the time of the contract. 
(2) The background  was famously referred  to by Lord Wilberforce as the "matrix of fact" but 
this phrase is, if anything, an understated description of what the background may include.  
Subject to the requirement that it should have been reasonably available to the parties and to 
the exception to be mentioned next,  it includes  absolutely  anything  which would  have affected 
the way in which the language of the document would have been  understood by a reasonable 
man. 
(3)  The  law excludes from the admissible background the previous negotiations of the parties  
and their declarations  of subjective intent. They are admissible  only in an action for 
rectification. The law makes this distinction for reasons of practical policy and, in this respect 
only, legal interpretation  differs from the way we would  interpret utterances in ordinary life. 
The boundaries of this exception are in some respects unclear. But this is not the occasion in 
which to explore them.  
(4) The meaning which  a document (or any other utterance) would convey to a reasonable 
man is not the same  thing as the meaning  of its words.  The meaning  of words  is a matter  of 
dictionaries and grammars;  the meaning  of the document is what the parties  using those  
words against  the relevant  background would reasonably have  been understood to mean. 
The background  may not merely  enable  the reasonable man to choose between the possible 
meanings of words which are ambiguous  but even (as occasionally happens in ordinary  life) 
to conclude that the parties  must,  for whatever  reason, have used the wrong words or syntax.  
(see Mannai Investments Co. Ltd. v. Eagle  Star Life Assurance Co. Ltd. [1997]  2 WLR 945 
(5)  The  "rule"  that words  should be given their "natural and ordinary  meaning" reflects the 
common sense proposition that we do not easily accept that people have made  linguistic 
mistakes, particularly  in formal documents. On the other hand, if one would nevertheless 
conclude from the background that something must have gone  wrong with the language, the 
law does  not require judges to attribute to the parties an intention which  they plainly could  not 
have had. Lord Diplock made this point more vigorously when he said in The Antaios 
Compania Neviera S.A. v. Salen Rederierna  A.B. 19851 A.C. 191 , 201: 
" if detailed  semantic  and syntactical analysis  of words  in a commercial  contract is 
going to lead to a conclusion  that flouts business commonsense, it must  be made to 
yield to business commonsense."
Ref: DRN56812668The alleged  ambiguity in Ms Ps case is due to the policy term stating the amount we pay will include 
professional fees rather than specifically stating the amount  we pay for damage will include 
professional fees. But having applied  the principles of contractual interpretation above   and having 
considered the policy documentation holistically  it seems to me the correct interpretation  that the 
reasonable consumer policyholder would understand is that they were only insured up to the 
maximum amount  shown in the policy schedule, and that this amount would include all fees and costs 
related to the claim. 
This is, in my opinion,  the interpretation that yields  to business common sense  by which  I mean the 
terms and conditions  on which any prudent insurer is likely  to do business with an ordinary  consumer. 
I appreciate the Investor Compensation judgment was made in respect of commercial contracts. But 
this service would never knowingly interpret an insurance  policy  in a way that would flout business 
common sense, or would  attribute to the parties an intention which  they could not reasonably have 
had. Whilst  I am only required  to take account of the relevant law (rather than be bound  by it), I 
wouldnt lightly ignore  such weighty authority from the (then) highest court; and in any event, I 
consider the House of Lords approach to be fair and reasonable, based  as it is on common sense, 
the factual background, and the reasonable expectations  of contracting  parties  even where  the 
contract is not individually negotiated. 
So even though the term may not specifically mention  damage, it would not make business common 
sense to interpret  this to mean that the insurer will pay the maximum sum insured in relation to these  
costs alone, yet still be liable to pay an unspecified and potentially unlimited amount for all other 
related costs. I do not think that this was ever the intention of the policy, and I do not think the 
reasonable policyholder  would expect it either. So I do not intend asking NFU to apply the policy  term 
in this way. 
sale of the policy and the maximum sum insured
Ms P further submits that the maximum  sum insured was not initially set by her, and that she was 
never asked  to provide such a figure. She says it was NFU that determined  the indemnity limit that 
subsequently left her underinsured.  As a result, Ms P submits that:
NFU have failed in their obligations under ICOBS 6.1.5 as she was not given enough 
information to make an informed  decision  about the arrangements proposed  in the policy. 
If the sale was non-advised, as NFU contend, they have  failed in their obligations under 
ICOBS 5.2.4G which requires a statement  of demands and needs to be issued. In any event, 
it was not at any point explained to Ms P that it was a non-advised sale.
If she had known  that the limit of indemnity included  an unspecified amount for fees to be 
deducted from building costs, she would  have made further inquiries as to how the figures 
would work in the event of a total loss and would not have  taken the policy  if she knew she 
couldve been left underinsured. 
NFU deny that the indemnity limit was set by them or their agents. As it was a non-advised sale, they 
say the onus  was on Ms P to ensure that the sum insured  was adequate for the risk in question. NFU 
further submit that:
Their complaint handler said she remembered very clearly a conversation with Ms P where 
they discussed how the sum insured was set. She says Ms P told her that it was the 
conveyancing solicitor  who set the sum insured, but NFU have been unable to locate a call 
recording of this conversation. 
Their standard  process was to enquire whether a survey had been  carried out on the property 
(as this would usually include the rebuild cost). If the figure was not known by the 
policyholder, an entry would be made on their system regarding the construction type, 
number of bedrooms,  etc. and then reference would be made  to the Building  Cost Information  
Service (BCIS) website for guidance. However,  this wouldnt usually amount  to a round figure  
of £150,000, so NFU think this figure must have been provided by Ms P.  
Ref: DRN56812669In any event, NFU say the renewal documents issued each year from 2014 onwards advised 
the policyholder to ensure everything was insured  for a sufficient  amount  and the 
documents sent included the current maximum  sum insured, so Ms P ought to have known  
the amount she was insured for, and should have acted  if the amount was likely to be 
inadequate. 
I appreciate there  is much  dispute about how the policy  was initially  sold to Ms P in 2012  including  
whether it was an advised sale, and whether it was Ms P or NFU that set the indemnity limit. 
However, following the initial  sale, the policy renewed  each year and new documentation relating to 
each new insurance contract was sent to Ms P. And while the initial  sale in 2012 is still relevant 
insofar as it was the first instance where information was provided about the property, Ive also got to 
consider what  has happened  since the sale, and what the relevant obligations were of the parties  
upon each subsequent renewal of the insurance  contract. And given that date of loss was 28 July 
2017, Ive placed particular focus  upon  the policy  renewal  that took place directly before this in 2016.
NFU sent the relevant renewal documentation to Ms P on 20 August 2016 (enclosed with this 
decision), as her policy  renewed each year on 22 October. Thats a relatively  generous notice period 
in my experience   and should  allow plenty of time to query anything or make necessary  changes. 
The letter sent to her stated:
Important  documents wed like you to check
As this is a non-advised policy, we havent  provided  you with a recommendation.  Please read 
the enclosed documents thoroughly to make sure the cover still meets your needs.
On the front page of the renewal letter it also says:
Sums insured
Please check  your insurance schedule  to make sure everythings insured for the right amount. 
Where the insured amount is too low, any claim you make  may be reduced to reflect this. For 
buildings, you may find the residential rebuilding cost calculator on the BCIS  (Building Cost 
Information Service) website  helpful
The renewal documentation includes an updated schedule which  states that the rebuild cost at this 
point had been set at £179,806. So although  there is much  dispute about who set the initial amount of 
£150,000, Im satisfied that, at least upon renewal,  it was subsequently made  clear to Ms P how much  
her property was insured  for, and therefore it was her responsibility to ensure that this amount  was 
adequate for her circumstances. So I dont consider it would be fair to now ask NFU to cover the 
amount Ms P was left underinsured when she failed  to check the amount  despite it being made 
clear in writing that this was her responsibility.  
Ms P says it was never explained to her that the policy was sold on a non-advised  basis,  and that 
even if it was, NFU have failed in their obligations under ICOBS 5.2.4G  which requires  a statement of 
demands and needs to be issued. But as Ive already set out above, the renewal documentation  
states on the first page  that it is a non-advised policy. And the documentation also sets out a 
statement of demands and needs,  which states:
Ref: DRN568126610Demands and Needs
This policy meets the demands and needs of those who wish to insure against  losses 
resulting from ownership or responsibility for their personal property, personal liability,  travel 
and legal expenses.
We have  not provided you with a recommendation on the suitability of this policy, although we 
have provided you with information for you to make your own decision.  Please  read the 
enclosed documentation carefully to ensure the cover provided meets  your needs.
So, having considered NFUs relevant obligations under ICOBS at the time, Im not persuaded they 
have failed in their obligations  e.g. ICOBS  6.1.5 (which requires a firm to give appropriate 
information so the customer can make an informed  choice) as I think appropriate information  was 
provided within the renewal  documentation. It isnt clear whether an updated policy  summary or key 
features document  was provided with the renewal documentation. But this would not amount to a 
failure of their obligations at the time in any event, because  ICOBS 6.1.10 states  that a firm may wish 
to provide information in a policy summary or as a key features  document.  So it was not a mandatory 
requirement for non-protection policies,  i.e. those covering risks to real property and chattels rather  
than persons. And having considered  the renewal documentation, it included information  such  as a 
statement of demands and needs,  any changes that had been made to the policy, as well as the 
policy benefits  and sums insured. And on this basis,  I dont consider there was a breach  of the ICOBS 
regulations in place at the time.
Ms P says that if she had known  the indemnity limit included associated fees, then she would  not 
have taken the policy.  I appreciate that NFU were required to highlight any unusual or onerous terms 
so that Ms P could make an informed  choice  about whether to renew the policy. But its not possible 
for an insurer to highlight every single policy term upon which a prospective policyholder  may attach 
individual importance. That would defeat the purpose of policy summaries or key facts documents. 
And I dont consider that this term is particularly  unusual  or onerous, such  that it ought to have been 
brought to Ms Ps attention  in any event (for the reasons Ive already set out previously).
conduct of NFU and their agents
Ms P further submits that the conduct of NFU and their agents  fell below an acceptable standard, as 
she was not happy with their handling of the claim. In summary, she submits:
They  have fallen short of the standards set out in ICOBS  8.1.1. as they did not advise Ms P of 
the potential for any shortfall in the total sum insured, and there has been no breakdown  of 
how the £35,000 in fees had been incurred or what was done to earn them. Moreover,  they 
were incurred  without Ms Ps knowledge or consent. 
She is unhappy about  the loss adjusters conduct in one of their meetings  where  he said that 
£35,000 was payable in costs and fees and then provided no explanation as to why. 
The loss adjuster  represented himself as an agent of Ms Ps when  in fact he was an agent of 
NFUs. He also acted inappropriately by telling Ms P that it was in her interest to appoint  
consultants that were  associated  with his company to oversee the demolition and rebuild of 
the property  which  could amount  to a conflict of interest.
Ref: DRN568126611ICOBS 8.1.1 at the relevant  time set out that an insurer must:
(1)Handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2)Provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate information 
on its progress;
(3)Not unreasonably reject  a claim;  and
(4)Settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Ive considered the available evidence  to determine how the claim  was handled by NFU and their 
agents  such as the correspondence sent between the parties at the time.  And having  done so, I do 
not think  there is enough  to suggest that NFU have failed in their obligations  set out above. 
Ms P says the first indication she had of any possible shortfall  in insurance was at a meeting on 
25 May 2018 where the loss adjuster said without explanation that £35,000 would  be deducted in 
fees. However, I can see that the loss adjuster sent an email to Ms P on 2 August 2017 (which was at 
the very start of the claim) which explained that the damage was extensive, and that in relation to the 
sum insured  we will need  to review whether this is sufficient to cover all the costs of decontamination,  
debris removal, and reinstatement but this is the maximum sum that NFU will be able to pay in 
respect of building works. So Im satisfied that it was at least  made clear to Ms P that there was a risk 
of a shortfall, given that it had to be determined  whether  the maximum sum insured was sufficient. 
In terms of the underinsurance, Ms P says she had not been provided  with any breakdown of how the 
£35,000 in fees had been incurred, or what was done to earn them.  NFU have provided  us with a 
breakdown of the costs involved, which they say was sent to Ms P on 27 July 2018. These costs, 
amongst other things, include amounts for:
-Surveying fees;
-Invoices for making safe and removing the chimney and removal of the unstable roof;
-Engineer fees (including building  regulations, planning application, drawings and design 
calculations);
-Contributions  to party  wall repairs; and
-Asbestos decontamination charge.
The total amount comes  to £29,416. Ive seen no evidence to suggest that any of the costs incurred 
were unnecessary or exorbitant  in the circumstances. But if Ms P considers that any of the costs 
should not have been incurred, she should explain  why and support any objection with reasonable 
evidence by the deadline set within  this decision.  
In terms of the initial costs being quoted amounting to around £35,000,  NFU have explained that 
around £5,000 was eventually not allocated  or charged to the buildings section of the policy  (such as 
those relating to the removal of fire debris to expose  and protect the party wall). And theyve also 
clarified that the surveyors fees can be charged on a scale  based on the value of the contract, 
meaning that up to an additional £2,000 could have been charged. However, they subsequently 
calculated their fee at a lower percentage of the contract sum. 
So I appreciate that £35,000 was not the eventual total of the costs incurred, but it instead appears to 
have been more  of an approximate  estimate.  And given  that certain fees and charges had the 
potential to be higher, I dont think it was unreasonable for the loss adjuster to quote  an amount at the 
higher end of the scale as the worst-case scenario.  I understand  that Ms P is unhappy with how the 
loss adjuster told her about the amount that was required for the fees. And this arguably could have 
been handled  better.  But it is not a failing  that I consider to have had such  a detrimental  impact that it 
would warrant an award of compensation in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN568126612Ms P is also unhappy  because the costs were incurred  without her consent  or knowledge. But under  
the policy  terms  and conditions,  I cannot  see that NFU were required to obtain this. The terms state 
that WE may at OUR option, replace  YOUR BUILDINGS or arrange for repairs  to be carried out. 
There is nothing to suggest that NFU would  have to consult Ms P or seek her consent  in relation to 
the costs incurred in the arrangement of any repairs. Indeed, such an obligation  would likely prove  
quite impractical. And in my experience, this is common place across insurance  policies of this nature. 
I appreciate that NFU were obliged to keep Ms P appropriately updated with any progress. And I think  
theres an implied duty not to incur  unreasonable  or wasted costs  when the other party  has no right of 
consultation or veto. But Im not persuaded  there was such  a lack of communication  that it would  
warrant compensation either. 
Finally, Ms P submits that the loss adjuster represented  himself  as an agent  of Ms Ps when in fact he 
was an agent of NFUs.  A loss adjuster is typically  instructed by an insurer and tasked with handling 
the claim and ensuring that the cost to the insurer is not unreasonable or outside the scope of cover.  
And given  the nature  of their role, they will inevitably have a lot of contact  with the policyholder as 
well, so it wouldnt be unusual if they were  to help guide the insured  through  the claims  process  as 
well. But in the same  regard as the insurer, they are ultimately governed by professional codes of 
conduct and will be expected  to act fairly. And in the circumstances, I havent seen  persuasive 
evidence that would suggest  the loss adjuster acted in a way that was unreasonable or misled Ms P. 
Ms P says the loss adjuster  acted inappropriately by telling her that it was in her interest to appoint  
consultants that were  associated  with his company to oversee the demolition and rebuild of the 
property. But again, the policy entitles NFU (and their agents) at their option to arrange  for repairs. It 
isnt uncommon for an insurer to appoint contractors  from a list of preferred suppliers that offer 
preferential rates. Indeed, this probably helps  to keep overall costs  and therefore  premiums   at a 
reasonable level.  But ultimately, this is the insurers choice, not the policyholders (unless the insurer 
has agreed otherwise). And I havent  seen  anything that would lead me to believe  that the eventual  
arrangement resulted in any unfairness to Ms P. 
So, having considered all the evidence, Im not persuaded  that NFU has done anything substantially 
wrong such that they should  pay Ms P the total indemnity  limit exclusive  of costs and professional 
fees, or that would warrant an award  of compensation.
responses to the provisional  decision  
I invited further submissions  in response to my provisional decision. NFU agreed with my findings, but 
Ms P disagreed.  In summary, she says:
The word used in the indemnity clause is damage, which means that there has to have been 
a physical change in the insured subject matter.  The limit on indemnity is for damage alone, 
and professional fees cannot  constitute  damage in this respect,  and there is nothing  in the 
rest of the policy document that would lend itself to such a construction.
The natural meaning of the term should not be regarded as incorrect simply  because  it seems 
to be an imprudent term for one of the parties  to have agreed,  and there is no ambiguity about  
the way the contract is drafted  which  is that the cap on liability does not extend  beyond  
damage. 
Even if there were ambiguity, the legal  test is not concerned with the correct  interpretation 
that the reasonable consumer policyholder  would  understand as the contra proferentem 
principle would dictate that the interpretation most favourable to the consumer should  prevail.  
The loss adjuster  had no right to incur close to £30,000 of Ms Ps indemnity without her 
consent or any consultation.  The law dictates that an indemnity provided by the policy is for 
the assured to spend as they wish  and that wish may not have been for it to be used on 
demolition or rebuilding. 
There was no communication as to the incurring or the amount  of costs until after the money 
had been spent. 
Ref: DRN568126613There is no evidence to contradict the fact that the loss adjuster  held himself out as acting for 
the policyholder and made  decisions  against  Ms Ps interests  and in favour of his own without 
making any disclosure. NFU are responsible for this and should pay compensation. 
Ms P does not agree that the costs  incurred were reasonable in any event and has disputed  
certain items for which  she has been  charged. 
my provisional  findings
Ive reconsidered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Since I issued  my provisional decision in November  2019,  there have been a number of further 
detailed submissions  from both parties  on various  aspects of this complaint. As a result, I have 
reconsidered all submissions again in order to properly  address the crux of this complaint  which 
centres around the costs incurred  by NFU as well as their handling of the claim. 
I will therefore deal with these two main issues substantively within this provisional  decision  giving 
both parties  the opportunity  to put forwards  any final comments in response.  
Award limit
Given that Ms P referred her complaint to this service  in September 2018, the maximum  sum I would 
be able to award  in this case is £150,000. NFU have not made any submissions in respect of Ms Ps 
complaint potentially  exceeding this award limit. But I note that they have already paid £150,000  to 
Ms P as an interim payment  under the policy, which  she accepted. 
The total amount Ms P is claiming from NFU is her entire buildings indemnity limit of £185,793   
which would exceed the sum this service is able to award. However,  it appears to be generally 
accepted by both parties that Ms P is entitled to the £150,000  interim payment made by NFU under  
the policy   meaning that the amount actually  in dispute  in this case  is the £29,416.90  in costs 
incurred by the loss adjuster.
Therefore, I do not consider the maximum award limit to have  been exceeded  already in these 
circumstances. So any award  that could be made  in respect of this complaint would be in addition  to 
the £150,000 already  paid and as such, would  be legally binding if accepted by Ms P, but would still of 
course have  to respect the overall policy limit.   
Costs incurred
The policy terms and conditions set out how NFU can settle a claim and what costs they will 
indemnify. Ive included the relevant clause again below  for ease of reference:
If YOU do not repair or replace YOUR BUILDINGS, WE will pay the loss in market value or 
the cost of repair or replacement, whichever is the less.
WE may at OUR  option,  replace YOUR BUILDINGS or arrange for repairs  to be carried out.
The most WE will pay for DAMAGE to YOUR BUILDINGS is the insured rebuilding  cost 
shown on YOUR SCHEDULE and any extra amount for INDEX-LINKING. The amount WE 
pay will include  any costs for:
Clearing the site (removing debris, demolition, shoring  or propping up);
Professional fees (architects, surveyors and legal  fees); and
Meeting building  regulations requirements.
Ms P submits that the loss adjuster deducted  £29,416.90 in costs from her indemnity limit without 
consulting her. Leaving aside the matter  of policy interpretation for now, Ive first considered  whether 
Ref: DRN568126614NFU ought to have paid Ms P the entire sum insured as a cash settlement from the outset,  rather than 
incurring costs towards reinstatement only to later have to cash  settle.
Given that Ms P had initially opted for NFU to reinstate, the insurer  has explained  that it was 
necessary to undertake certain works and go through the tendering process first in order to establish  
whether there were sufficient funds to proceed with a full reinstatement. And I can see that this was 
explained to Ms P in emails  sent by the loss adjuster, where he detailed  the sort of works they would 
have to undertake  to establish whether  there  was enough insurance  to cover them.  
For example, on 2 August 2018, the loss adjuster  sent an email to Ms P saying:
Once I have received  the asbestos  test results, the advice of [the structural  engineer] and 
formal acceptance of policy liability, I will arrange to appoint  a Surveyor  to establish the costs 
of reinstating your home and to agree  a way forward for you.
And similarly, on 27 September  2018 he said:
The building sum insured  is the limit of any payment that NFU can make  in respect of the 
building related  works, this includes the asbestos decontamination  of the building, demolition, 
rebuilding costs  and related  fees.
Before we can do anything,  the asbestos decontamination needs to be carried out and when  
[the surveyor] receives formal instructions,  he can arrange for this to be carried out. He can 
then organise demolition quotes and prepare a specification for rebuilding  which will be put 
out to tender, to include an Engineers roof design.
When the costs  reinstatement [sic] are known, you can decide  how you wish to 
proceed but the limit of payment by NFU will be the sum insured, plus any index 
linking that can be applied  [my emphasis added].
Given the sheer magnitude  of a reinstatement project following a fire, I think  its reasonable  to expect  
that certain works would have to be carried out in order to gain a full understanding of how much the 
total project is likely to cost. So I dont think NFU could reasonably have known from the outset that 
Ms Ps indemnity  limit was not going to be enough to fund a total reinstatement, as they could not 
have known this until the quotes were received  back after putting  the rebuild out to tender. It was only 
after the quotes were shown to exceed the indemnity  limit that NFU decided to cash  settle with the 
£150,000 of the insured amount remaining so Ms P could carry  on with the reinstatement herself. But 
in light of the emails outlined above,  Im satisfied  that Ms P was adequately informed that NFU would 
need to undertake  certain works before deciding how to proceed, and Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that she objected to such  works being carried  out.  
It therefore  follows that I dont  think NFU could have reasonably offered to pay the full indemnity limit 
as a cash settlement  from the outset.  The insurer  submits  that all the costs incurred  were  necessary 
in establishing whether  to indemnify or reinstate. And I note that the majority of works carried out 
(such as asbestos removal, making the property safe, structural planning/drawings, excavating  
foundations etc) would  most likely have had to be carried out by Ms P in any event in order to prepare  
for the rebuild   and I have  not seen any evidence to suggest  otherwise. So I do not think  it is 
unreasonable for such costs  to be deducted from the overall indemnity limit in these circumstances  
which the policy expressly lists as costs  that will be indemnified (i.e. clearing  the site, professional 
fees and meeting building regulation requirements)  as NFU have effectively taken  the claim to a 
point where  Ms P was then able to proceed with reinstating the property by her own means  with the 
remaining funds, without having  to carry out those works  that had already been done. 
I have also considered whether the costs  incurred,  and subsequently deducted from the indemnity 
limit, were  reasonable.
Were the costs  reasonable?
Ref: DRN568126615The loss adjuster  has provided  a breakdown of the £29,416.90  in costs  which  includes clearing  the 
site (removing debris/demolition etc.) as well as professional  fees and meeting  buildings regulations  
which were  incurred under  Ms Ps buildings  indemnity. I presented these  costs to Ms P for comment  
and asked her to outline  whether she thought any costs in particular  were  unreasonable. In response,  
she said:
The Herse fencing  was erected by Ms Ps own builder, which he did not charge for;
Despite being told that the asbestos had been removed on 1 December 2017, substantial 
quantities of it remained  on site. 
Payment was made to clear debris  from where the conservatory had stood, but it was 
subsequently refilled with debris from other rooms  and not placed  in the skip.
So Ms P submits that there are both unreasonable costs  (i.e. inflated costs that could have been 
charged for less elsewhere) as well as costs  incurred  unreasonably (i.e. unnecessary costs which 
may have been reasonable  but did not need to be incurred).
In terms of the Herse fencing, this is a cost that Ms P says was incurred unreasonably as it was not 
charged for by her contractor. But I can see from the breakdown of costs that no amount  was actually 
charged for this or deducted  from the indemnity limit, so I need not consider this further. 
Then there are the costs that Ms P says were unreasonable. In respect of the asbestos removal, the 
loss adjuster has agreed that it was subsequently found  to be incomplete. He said there was some 
confusion among the contractors, as a specialist  had said they could  not fully complete  the asbestos 
removal due to the building  being unsafe at the eaves level. However, it seems this information  was 
not passed on to management, who produced  an invoice believing the site had been cleared. But 
when it later came  to light that further asbestos was still to be removed, the loss adjuster confirmed 
that the contractors  arranged this at no extra  cost to Ms P  despite it resulting in a further £5,000 
worth of work  for the contractors. It therefore does not appear  that Ms P has overpaid for the asbestos 
removal in this respect, which was eventually  completed for near enough the same cost as originally 
quoted. 
Ms P also says that she had paid for debris  to be cleared from the site only for it to be refilled  with 
debris from other rooms. However, the loss adjuster has said that payment was not made specifically 
to clear debris from the site, but to make safe and remove asbestos contaminated material. Ive not 
seen any individual item on the breakdown of costs that is specifically for debris removal   only costs 
for removing  asbestos. So, in the absence of specific  evidence from Ms P to the contrary, Im not 
persuaded that she has specifically paid for debris  removal, so there is no cost to dispute in these  
circumstances. 
So I currently  do not consider that any of the particular  costs disputed  by Ms P were either 
unreasonable, or unreasonably incurred  by NFU. 
For example, the loss adjuster has summarised  the various quotes he received for the asbestos 
removal and making the building  safe, which were as follows:
Contractor one: £10,856.67
Contractor two: £16,508.94
Contractor three: £29,304.00
Contractor one was chosen to proceed, and the final cost paid out of Ms Ps indemnity for this work  
was £11,417.80. So although this was slightly more than was originally quoted,  it still came at a 
cheaper cost than any of the other providers were quoting. 
Ive also considered the cost of the other physical  works  that were carried out on Ms Ps site which 
she has not disputed. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I cannot  see that these  costs were  
incurred unreasonably either. 
Ref: DRN568126616I can see, for example, that the loss adjuster has taken steps to ensure  that certain  costs were 
applied to other areas of the policy (such as applying party wall repairs and food removal to the 
liability/contents sections of cover respectively)  so as to leave the maximum  amount available under  
the buildings cover  for the rebuild. So on balance, Im satisfied that the loss adjuster took reasonable  
steps to keep  costs to a minimum,  and I currently see no basis on which to conclude that the costs 
incurred were  unreasonable.
I have also considered the professional fees that were paid out of Ms Ps buildings insurance 
indemnity, which amounted  to £16,557.13 in total.  These funds were used to pay for services such as 
building consultants (Sergon), structural designs/drawings, as well as building  regulation  and 
planning applications  all of which appear to have been necessary in order to scope  out the extent of 
the rebuild and to enable the project to be put out to tender, which  was a precursor to understanding 
how much  the reinstatement  project would  actually  cost. 
So I dont consider  any of the services paid for out of the indemnity limit to have been  unnecessary in 
this respect either.  Ms P has not provided  any persuasive  evidence to demonstrate that these  costs 
were unreasonable, or that she could have had such services completed for a cheaper price. And 
similar to the building works that took place, Ms P would seemingly always had to have paid for such 
professional services in order to prepare her property for reinstatement. So Im satisfied that it was 
also fair and reasonable in the circumstances  for NFU to deduct such costs from her buildings  
indemnity.  
So, turning back now to the issue of policy  interpretation and whether  it allows NFU to deduct  the 
£30,000 in costs  from the buildings indemnity limit. First, only £16,557.13 of the overall amount  
deducted from Ms Ps indemnity actually  accounted for professional fees  not £35,000 as was 
originally stated. And Im satisfied that the remaining  funds that paid for work  such as clearing the site 
can reasonably be construed  as making good the damage done to the buildings  such that there is 
no question of this amount  having been unfairly  deducted in line with the policy wording. 
This leaves the matter of the professional fees and costs for meeting building regulation  requirements 
which, as Ive outlined above, appear to have been services that Ms P would  have always  likely had 
to pay in order  to reinstate her property  which always  seemed to be her intention   whether  she was 
given the full indemnity of £185,793 from the outset of her claim  or otherwise. Ms P has not provided 
any evidence to show that the professional fees were inflated, unreasonable, or that she could have 
engaged the same professional  services at a lower rate elsewhere. 
Ms P submits that contra proferentem principle  would  dictate that the interpretation  of the clause that 
is most favourable to the consumer  should  prevail. But I do not consider the relevant clause to be 
ambiguous as I think its ordinary meaning  is sufficiently clear, as I have set out previously in my first 
provisional decision.  But even if it were ambiguous,  the relevant law is something I am only required  
to take into account when deciding a complaint. (see DISP rule 3.6.4R  of the Financial Conduct  
Authority Handbook). I must still determine what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the 
circumstances of the case.
So even if I were to accept that professional  fees cannot reasonably constitute damage under  the 
policy (which  I do not), given that Ms P has had the benefit  of these  services, I dont consider it would 
be fair and reasonable to now ask NFU to pay Ms P around £16,500  that she wouldve  likely spent  on 
similar services if paid the full indemnity  from the outset, as she would effectively  be benefitting twice.  
Ref: DRN568126617Handling of the claim
Ms P has raised further points detailing  why she is unhappy with the way NFU handled the claim. She 
submits that NFU were under an obligation to keep her informed as to what  costs were being 
incurred, but that they failed to do so. However, NFU say this is incorrect as there were various 
instances where  they informed Ms P of what was happening and how much it would  cost. Theyve  
said, for example:
She was aware that asbestos  investigation  and testing  had to be carried out from the outset 
and was made aware of the debris  and asbestos clearance costs on 26 September 2017.
She signed a contract with Sergon in October  2017  which detailed  their fees.
An email was sent on 2 March 2018  explaining  that they were instructing a contractor to dig a 
trial pit to check the depths of the foundations. 
I appreciate that Ms P may not have been consulted in relation to every single  cost. However,  it does 
seem that NFU kept her informed  of the vast majority of costs being  incurred, and I think she ought 
reasonably to have known that when she appointed these third parties, she would be incurring  costs. 
In any event, even if I accept that NFU could have done more in this respect, I dont think  any further 
compensation than the £150 the insurer has paid already for the trouble and upset caused to Ms P 
(as detailed  in their final response) would be warranted  in these  circumstances.
Choice of contractors
Ms P says that the loss adjuster presented Sergon as the company to use to sort out everything for 
her, and that she was asked  to appoint these contractors with no other option being  made available. 
But NFU say that under  no circumstances did the loss adjuster advise Ms P that she must use 
Sergon, and that she could have always  used her own contractors  if she wanted.  
I havent seen any evidence that would suggest Ms P was forced to appoint Sergon and was denied 
the opportunity to appoint her own contractors. And from the emails I have seen, it would appear that 
it was open to Ms P to accept or reject the companies  that were recommended  to her. In an email  
sent to Sergon on 23 August 2017, for example, the loss adjuster states that they are to attend the 
site subject to the insured confirming that your services are to be retained. So I cannot  say that NFU 
have acted unreasonably in that regard. I appreciate they may have recommended Sergon. But as I 
said in my initial provisional decision, it is not unusual  (and neither is it considered  underhand) for an 
insurer to appoint  known  or preferred contractors, as they often receive  preferential rates which help 
to keep costs down. 
Ms P complained  that she had nominated a builder (B) that she wanted to be included  on the list of 
contractors to provide a tender for the reinstatement, but says that he was not included on NFUs list. 
However, it appears there was some confusion present here, as the tender was instead sent to Bs 
brothers building business of the same name (B Ltd)  a company with which  B had recently parted 
ways and was no longer associated. It appears that nobody (including  Ms P) noticed that B was no 
longer part of B Ltd, or that they were not the same  company,  meaning that Ms Ps preferred builder  
was not eventually included on the tender  list. 
It seems this was an honest mistake that seemed largely  unavoidable in the circumstances, as it only 
came to light at a meeting on 24 May 2018 that B had started working independently of B Ltd. So I 
dont think this is an error that NFU can fairly be held responsible for, or that it would  warrant 
compensation. And I note that B subsequently became involved  in the proposed work  to be carried 
out by B Ltd in any event. 
Ms P says that Bs price  to reinstate was £35,000 less than the cheapest contractor  on the tender list 
(that being B Ltd at £166,641).  I havent seen  evidence  of this lower quote, but in any event, even  if 
that were the case, my understanding is that such quotes provided at this stage  are only estimates, 
and there  are no guarantees that the work will be limited  to the provisional quote. 
Ref: DRN568126618In summary, Im not persuaded that Ms P was forced to accept the contractors  suggested by the loss 
adjuster, or that there was anything wrong  with them suggesting preferred companies. Im also 
satisfied that NFU gave Ms P the option of appointing  her own contractors if she wished,  and that 
NFU sought to include  these where requested.
Conduct of loss adjuster
Ms P has reiterated that the loss adjuster held himself out as acting for her rather  than as an agent  of 
the insurer.  But as I said in my provisional decision, I havent  seen any persuasive  evidence that 
would suggest the loss adjuster acted in this way, or indeed in a way that was unreasonable, 
dishonest, or that was intended to mislead Ms P. Even if the loss adjuster  did give the impression  that 
he was acting  on Ms Ps behalf,  I cannot  see that this has resulted in any unfairness or detriment. And 
on the whole, Im satisfied  that NFU have complied with their relevant  obligations set out in ICOBS 
8.1.1R.  
I appreciate some things could have been handled better, such  as the way the loss adjuster broke the 
news of the extent  of underinsurance to Ms P. But having considered  all aspects  of the way the claim 
was handled, I do not think that any of the failings (alleged or identified) here would  warrant 
compensation at a higher level than the £150  that has been paid already by NFU  which  I consider to 
be a fair and proportionate reflection of the distress and inconvenience  caused by the failings for 
which they are responsible (as opposed to the natural distress and inconvenience caused by this 
terrible fire). So I do not intend to make any further award.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN5681266