K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains that the offer made  by Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, to 
compensate her for the trouble and upset  she experienced following fraud on her account 
was insufficient.
background
In November 2016, Ms C reported the loss of her credit card.  It was also the case that a 
number of Ms Cs personal  details  had somehow (and not because of Halifax)  been 
compromised and, as a result, a number of her other bankcards (with other banks) were  also 
adversely affected.
Halifax were able to see that a number of fraudulent transactions  ATM withdrawals - had 
taken place. These were  refunded.
Halifax arranged for a new card to be sent to Ms C. A block was placed on the old card.
In 2017 and 2018, however, further  fraudulent transactions occurred. Ms C paid for her 
credit card bill by direct debit, so it did not become apparent straightaway what  was 
happening.
When she realised there  must  be a problem, Ms C complained to Halifax.  But she felt that 
the person she spoke  with was rude and un-empathetic. She felt that she was being 
accused of fraud. She had to go to a branch to try to resolve matters there and essentially 
prove who she was.
Upon examination though, Halifax accepted  that it was fraud. They had previously  detected 
a person impersonating Ms C call the bank and attempt  to get information from them, which  
had been refused. They also realised  that the block on the old card had only been temporary 
rather than permanent as it should  have been.  This enabled a fraudster to use the card once 
again.
Halifax apologised.  They agreed that the person Ms C spoke to at the bank had been rude; 
they refunded  the fraudulent transactions; and arranged closure of her account. To 
compensate her, they also offered £250  for the distress and offered to pay her reasonable 
expenses  such as the costs of any calls.
Ms C rejected the offer of compensation on the basis  it was too low. She said it was all very 
upsetting and, as a measure of time, she had spent 16 hours trying  to resolve matters. 
Based on her daily work rate of £550, she calculated  that £1,100 would be a fair amount to 
resolve matters. 
She brought  her complaint here.  The investigator looking into the matter  thought  that the 
offer of £250 was too low. He explained, though, basing the calculation  on a daily work rate 
would not be fair. In any event, Ms C was not really in a position to demonstrate  the actual 
time she had spent. So, looking at matters as a whole, the investigator thought that a figure 
of £500 was fair and reasonable.
Halifax agreed to pay that amount. But Ms C rejected it and asked that an ombudsman 
review the complaint.
Ref: DRN54747862my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I too think that a figure of £500 is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
Being defrauded is unquestionably  upsetting.  Ms Cs details had somehow been 
compromised, which had a knock-on adverse effect on her banking. It necessitated Ms C 
having to make calls and a trip to a bank  branch  she would not otherwise have had to make.  
Halifax did not help matters by not placing the permanent block  on the old card.  Had they 
done so then the run of fraud in 2017  and 2018  would not have been able to occur. Plainly, 
Ms C was paying every month for a fraudster to use her account. Had she not realised what 
was happening it does not appear  Halifax would have picked-up on it.
That said,  Halifax did identify and restrict attempts by people  impersonating  Ms C from 
obtaining further information. They also accepted their error, apologised, rectified the 
account balance,  refunded Ms C and attempted to resolve matters  as soon as possible.
I accept there has been inevitable  inconvenience to Ms C and, as I say, it happening at all is 
upsetting. But, beyond that, Ms C has not been  specific about the way in which  this has 
affected her. I note that generally  she was able to continue working and indeed the fraud 
was occurring without  her even noticing.  
I understand that Ms C has calculated hours and a daily rate, but I have not seen how this 
relates to the particulars  of this case. I have seen nothing to suggest that on the specific  
days in question she was due £550,  but could not earn it because  of Halifax.  It seems to me 
that Ms C has provided the figures  as an illustration of what  she may earn. Whilst I can 
understand why she has done that, it would not be fair for me to calculate  compensation on 
that basis. 
I think, therefore, considering the complaint as a whole, a figure of £500  compensation is fair 
and reasonable.
my final decision
To resolve  this complaint,  I require  Bank  of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax,  to pay Ms C 
£500.
This is to be paid within 4 weeks  of the date on which  they are notified  in writing that Ms C 
accepts the settlement, if Ms C does accept  it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Anna Keighley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5474786