K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that Barclays  Bank UK PLC,  trading as Barclaycard, lied to him by telling 
him it had reduced  his credit card limit as he had missed payments.
background 
Mr W called  Barclaycard and during the call asked its advisor why his credit  card limit had 
been reduced. He says he was told the reason was because he had missed payments. Mr 
W says that was a lie and he had not missed any payments and the accusation  caused him 
anxiety.
Barclaycard says the decision to reduce Mr Ws credit card limit was made  in line with the 
account terms and conditions and it wrote to Mr W to tell him that. It accepts that Mr W was 
given a poor level of service when he called and its apologised  and also accepts Mr W didnt 
miss any payments. Barclaycard initially offered £100 compensation then following a more in 
depth investigation reduced  that offer to £50. The credit card reduction was from £6,350  to 
£5,950 but as Mr W was over that amount then the actual limit became £6,100. Barclaycard 
has now agreed to honour the offer of £100 compensation that it previously made.
Mr W brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator thought  Barclaycard had dealt fairly 
with the complaint. The adjudicator listened  to all of the calls between  the parties  and 
accepted that during the first call, Mr W had been incorrect  information  about the credit card 
limit reduction. But the adjudicator thought  that shortly after that call Barclaycard apologised 
for that mistake. The adjudicator didnt think it possible to conclude  that the advisor 
deliberately lied to Mr W or just made a mistake. But thought the issue was clarified  within a 
short period  of time. The adjudicator didnt  think  Barclaycard made a mistake by reducing 
the credit  card limit and had acted in line with the account terms and conditions. And he 
thought the compensation  offer was fair and reasonable.
Mr W doesnt accept that view and says he should  be given at least  £500 compensation for 
the inconvenience he was caused as well as for the sleepless nights Barclaycards actions 
resulted in. He also complains that Barclaycard didnt deal appropriately with his data 
request.
Barclaycard says it supplied Mr W with the requested phone calls within a reasonable period 
of time and says it rejected his first data request as it didnt contain  sufficient  information.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr W had been caused any material distress  by the time taken to 
provide the phone calls which took just under a month to provide.
Mr W has asked  for the complaints to be looked at by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for largely the same reasons. I realise Mr W will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels  about  what took place.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ws account which  I think  he wouldve agreed  
to when the account was opened.  And Im satisfied that Barclaycard is entitled to make  
Ref: DRN59339312changes to the credit card limit as it did here. Im also satisfied that Barclaycard sent Mr W a 
letter about  the changes,  which  he says he didnt receive. But I cant fairly hold Barclays 
responsible for that and I wouldnt have expected Barclaycard to have called a customer  
about that sort of decision. I can see that in any event the new credit limit was recorded on 
Mr Ws statements  and that he must have noticed it as he raised  the issue  during these 
calls.
The main  issue here is what Mr W was told during the phone call. Ive listened to that call as 
well as all of the other calls between the parties.  And there can be no doubt  Mr W was 
initially told that the reason for the reduction  in his credit limit was due to missed  payments 
on his Barclaycard or on another credit card. But I think that Mr W then spoke to a different 
staff member and it was clarified  that wasnt the case. And during the subsequent calls 
Barclaycard again  apologised  for what was said and again reiterated the correct position.  So 
I accept Mr W wouldve  been caused  distress by what was said. But Im satisfied the correct 
position was explained to him within a very short period of time after it was said  no more 
than about 15 minutes  or so.
I agree  with the adjudicator that having listened to the call its impossible to conclude that 
Barclaycards advisor deliberately lied to him. But I accept the information  was wrong and I 
think Barclaycard has acted fairly by apologising for what was said and by offering what I 
think is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation of £100. Im satisfied that offer fairly 
reflects the level of its mistake and the impact caused to Mr W.
I dont think Barclaycard has made a mistake or acted unfairly in dealing with Mr Ws data 
request. I can see that Barclaycard initially rejected Mr Ws first request as it didnt contain 
sufficient information  to process. But I can also see that a second  request was made in early  
December 2018  which was complied with in early January 2019. I dont consider that an 
unreasonable period of time and can see that Mr W now has the call information he wanted.
Overall I accept Barclaycard made a mistake  but Im satisfied its made a fair and reasonable 
offer of compensation. I appreciate in the circumstances  that Mr W may not wish to accept 
that offer and so I will leave it to him to decide.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has made a fair and 
reasonable offer of compensation. Mr Ws acceptance of that offer would  be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5933931