K821x#15complaint
Mrs B has complained to Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco)  about  its response to a 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
background
In 2010 Mrs B was contacted by a company called Solar  Power Scotland  about the 
possibility of her buying  a solar thermal heating system.  A sales representative visited  her 
home to provide some literature and explain the benefits of system.  
Mrs B paid for the system  using her Tesco credit card,  and made a s.75 claim against Tesco 
saying that the heating  system had been misrepresented and wasnt  producing the savings 
shed been told.  Mrs B says the sales representative told her the system would be self-
funding insofar  that the money  saved  on energy  bills would cover the cost of the system  
within 10 years.  Mrs  B moved home  7 years after the system was installed,  and the savings 
had been far less than shed been led to believe.
Tesco agreed the system  had been misrepresented to Mrs B and made an offer of 
compensation.  Mrs B didnt accept the offer and referred her complaint to this Service for 
review.
One of our investigators  looked into things and recommended the complaint be upheld.   She  
agreed that the thermal heating system  was misrepresented  to Mrs B, but didnt feel that 
Tescos offer covered all the financial benefits offered to Mrs B at the time sale.
The investigator noted that the offer didnt include any provision for the Renewable Heat 
Incentive (RHI) scheme.  She  said that Mrs B was given literature and told that she was 
guaranteed to benefit for 20 years from the RHI scheme which was being  consulted on by 
the government.  But she explained the RHI scheme  which  was eventually put in place never 
provided he promised  level of benefit and was misrepresented.  The  investigator concluded 
Mrs B likely wouldnt have purchased the system  were it not for the misrepresented benefits.
Broadly speaking, to put things right, the investigator recommended that Tesco refund the 
full cost of the thermal heating  system back to Mrs Bs credit card.  But she acknowledged 
that Tesco should be allowed to deduct  the financial benefit the system had provided for the 
7 years she had the use of the system.  She  also suggested Tesco  pay £100 to Mrs B for the 
trouble and upset  shed  experienced.  
Mrs B accepted the investigators assessment, but Tesco did not.  In summary  it said:
The documentation  doesnt give any guarantees as to the RHI scheme  benefit.
No-one could foresee the changes  the RHI scheme made  by government before it 
came into force.
When Mrs B sold her home the solar thermal heating system was listed  in the sale 
information, which suggests it was used as a sale incentive  which  added  value to the 
property.
It considers the original offer it made  based upon  energy  usage savings is fair and 
reasonable.
The investigator wasnt persuaded  to change her view and no agreement could be reached.  
So Ive now been asked to review everything  afresh and make a decision.
Ref: DRN59011392my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusions as the investigator  and Ill explain why.
I note that Tesco has accepted the system had been  misrepresented to Mrs B and made an 
offer of compensation.  So Ive considered whether that offer is fair and reasonable.
The key issues for me to decide are whether the information provided to Mrs B about  the 
RHI scheme was also misrepresented and whether she benefited  from the system when 
selling her home.
RHI scheme
I note that Tesco has said that it was reasonable for the merchant to suggest  to Mrs B that 
she could make savings  through the RHI scheme,  but it says no guarantees were made to 
her.  
When the representative from Solar Power Scotland visited  Mrs B at her home,  she was 
provided with marketing literature which stated Our Solar Thermal  system can save you 
between 50 and 70% of your hot water costs.  The leaflet also referred to the RHI scheme 
and said that the RHI is a new payment being introduced in the UK which  could add an 
extra 18 pence  of tax free income  per unit.
I know the leaflet  doesnt say that Mrs B would  definitely make  those savings, but it supports 
the testimony she had put forward about  what happened.   Mrs B said that she was told by 
the representative that she would  benefit under the RHI scheme  for 20 years, and this 
combined with her energy savings would cover  the cost of the system  within  10 years of its 
installation.
At the time of sale, the government was undertaking a consultation on the proposed  RHI 
scheme and was quoting a benefit of 18p per unit over a 20 year period.  This is consistent 
with what Mrs B has said she was told and so supports  her version  of events.
The RHI scheme was eventually put in place several years later in 2014, but on terms 
considerably different  to those consulted on  and making it impossible to cover the system 
purchase cost as had been sold to Mrs B by the sales representative.  
I understand and agree  that neither Solar  Panel  Scotland nor Tesco was responsible for 
setting the terms of the RHI scheme,  or the variation from the proposed consultation.  But  
given the fact it was a consultation process and no specific terms had been confirmed, I 
believe this should  have been explained  to Mrs B.  Its clear that the benefits from the RHI 
scheme were used as a prominent sales inducement  despite  not yet having been 
confirmed.  
Tesco responded to the investigator stating  that Mrs B could have looked into the RHI 
scheme further herself in order to make  an informed decision prior to purchasing  the system.  
But I think its reasonable for her to have relied  upon what  she was told and the expectations 
set by the sales representative.  Whilst I cant  be certain  exactly what she was told, the 
literature and wider  circumstances support Mrs Bs version of events  and so Im persuaded 
on balance that the information  about the RHI scheme was misrepresented to Mrs B.
Ref: DRN59011393Sale of property
Tesco has made a number of points about  the fact that Mrs Bs circumstances have 
changed since initially making a complaint  as she has sold her home.   It says that the sale 
advert for her home had prominently featured the solar panel  system which  increased  the 
saleability and value  of the property.  It explained  that a customer  cannot financially  gain 
from a s.75 complaint and so a full refund  of the system wouldnt be proportionate.
Its difficult to know  what affect  the solar  panel heating system  had on the value of Mrs Bs 
home when  it was sold.  But based  upon  what Ive seen I dont think  its reasonable to say 
the system had the effect of increasing the property value  and cant  say by how much  if it 
did.  
Im aware the solar panels were  detailed in the property  listing  but Im not persuaded that 
meant it was a prominent feature to incentivise the sale as Tesco  has stated.  Instead, I 
would expect such a feature  to be listed as part of the property details as a statement of fact 
when describing  the house.  I think its likely  a buyer  would broadly consider the upkeep 
costs of the system  as a counter-balance to any benefit it might provide  and so it wouldnt 
necessarily have a positive or negative impact on the property value.
Mrs Bs home took well in excess  of a year to sell, and at al sale price  of over £15,000 less 
than the price it was initially marketed at.  There are limited comparative  properties and there  
are a number of subjective factors  in selling a property, and so Im satisfied its reasonable to 
conclude the system  provided no financial benefit  to Mrs B when  selling her home.
putting things right
Were it not for the misrepresentations made to Mrs B by the sales representative, I consider 
it quite likely that she would never  have gone ahead with the purchase of the system  as 
she believed  it would  be self-funding.
The situation  in this complaint is complicated by the fact that Mrs B has sold her home.  This 
means that even if I were  to ask Tesco to compensate her to effectively  make  the system  
self-funding over the agreement term, it wouldnt put things fully right.
Ive thought about what would be fair and reasonable in the specific circumstances of this 
complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided that Tesco should refund the cost of the system.
So it should  refund the cost of the solar thermal system back to Mrs Bs Tesco  credit  card 
from the date the transaction took place.  If this results in a positive balance, it should pay 
8% simple  interest per annum on that balance.
However, as Mrs B did receive some benefit  for the 7 years she lived in the home with the 
system, I consider it fair for Tesco to make a deduction from the compensation for that.  The  
third party expert report completed  on Mrs Bs property  in 2016 set out that the maximum 
annual saving from the system would likely  be £76.44   and so Tesco can allow for 7 years  
of that financial  benefit.
I also consider it fair and reasonable  for Tesco to pay £100  to Mrs B for the trouble and 
upset shes experienced as a result of Tesco rejecting  her s.75 claim.  As the financial 
uncertainty has resulted in some distress.
Ref: DRN59011394my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Tesco  Personal Finance  PLC.
To put things right, it should pay the compensation to Mrs B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN5901139