K820x#14complaint
Mr A, in his capacity as a director  of a limited company that I will call B, complains that 
HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly increased the interest  rate chargeable on Bs current 
account overdraft.
background
This complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that it shouldnt  be 
upheld. In summary he said HSBC had done  nothing wrong.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators conclusion  so the complaint has been passed to me 
for review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I can confirm that Ive 
come to the same overall conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.  
There is also very little I can usefully add to what  has already been  said.
I note that Mr A requested that I, as the deciding  ombudsman,  call him to discuss this 
complaint before issuing my decision. However, in my view, this isnt necessary. This is 
because Im satisfied that I can fairly decide this complaint based  on what  both parties have 
already said and submitted.
Im sympathetic to Mr As position  and I appreciate  that he feels the increase in the interest 
rate charged on Bs overdraft facility,  to 9.9%  above base rate from 7.0% above base rate, is 
unfair.  
However, under the account terms and conditions, HSBC can change the overdraft rate it 
wishes to charge by giving at least two months written  notice.  The bank wrote to Mr A on 
2 October 2018 about the change to the interest  rate that would be charged on Bs overdraft 
facility. The change came  into effect on 3 December  2018. Up to that point, Mr A had the 
option to decline  the increase and close Bs account  and seek  facilities  elsewhere.  
I cant reasonably require HSBC to reduce  the interest rate it charges on the account, as Im 
satisfied that it was legitimately entitled to make the change and gave sufficient notice  of it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A, in his 
capacity as director of B, to accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5317879