K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland  plc has failed to recognise the power of attorney that 
he gave to his solicitor, hasnt given his attorney access to his bank accounts and hasnt 
provided copies  of the account statements that have  been requested. Hes being helped  with 
his complaint by his representative  who is also his attorney.  
background
Mr R had a business  which  banked with Bank of Scotland. Mr R was imprisoned and says 
that he wrote  to the bank in June 2018 to request that his solicitor be allowed  access to his 
business bank  account. His solicitor went to a branch a few days later and was given the 
appropriate forms to be signed by Mr R which were then returned to the bank. He 
complained to Bank of Scotland in July 2018.
It said that the form that had been completed had been rejected and that it had sent another  
form to Mr R but it hadnt been returned  to it. It sent another copy of the form to him with its 
final response letter and paid him £15 to reimburse him for his call costs  and £200  for the 
distress and inconvenience that hed been  caused.  
Mr R then complained  to this service  in February  2019. He says that hed appointed his 
solicitor as his attorney  but Bank of Scotland had ignored it and had disregarded both his 
and his solicitors instructions.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He was satisfied 
that the £215 compensation  that Bank of Scotland had paid to Mr R was fair in the 
circumstances. He said that the power of attorney couldnt be accepted until the bank had a 
signature registered on the account. And, because Mr R was in prison and couldnt trade, 
the account was closed  and the request for the solicitor to be added  to the account wasnt  
actioned.
Mr Rs solicitor  on his behalf - has asked  for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. He says,  in summary,  that the bank made no request for either  Mr R or him to 
provide any further  signature and that it didnt close the account  due to Mr Rs imprisonment 
but because he wasnt practicing.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that there have  been issues with Mr Rs business bank account. When he was 
imprisoned he says that he wrote to Bank of Scotland  to ask it to allow his solicitor  to access 
his account and the solicitor went to a branch of the bank a few days later when he was 
given forms to be completed by Mr R. The completed forms were then returned to the bank 
but it says that they were rejected. It says that it sent another form to Mr R but it wasnt 
returned.
Mr R complained to Bank of Scotland and it credited a total of £215 to his account - £15 to 
reimburse him for some  call costs and £200 for the distress and inconvenience  that hed 
been caused. And it included another copy of the form to be completed with its final 
response letter. Bank of Scotland  says that a decision was made in September 2018 to 
Ref: DRN52964882close Mr Rs accounts because he had been  struck-off from the relevant professional  
register. But it says that before  the account could be closed it received a switch-out request 
so the funds in the account  were  transferred  to an account with another  bank in January 
2019 and the account was then closed.
Mr R says that hed appointed  his solicitor as his attorney and he complained  to this service. 
But Bank of Scotland says that it had no signature to check  the power of attorney  against 
and that as the decision had been made to close the account  it didnt take any further  action 
about the attorney. 
Mr R says that the banks  failure to provide him with account statements has affected the 
value of the business (which he was trying to sell) and hes provided a copy of a letter in 
which he asked for account  statements. But Im not persuaded that hes followed up on that 
letter enough to show that Bank of Scotland has refused to supply him with account 
statements. Nor am I persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances to 
hold Bank  of Scotland liable for any loss in the value of Mr Rs business.  
I consider that the £215 compensation that Bank of Scotland has paid to Mr R is fair and 
reasonable in these  circumstances. The account has now been closed and the balance has 
been transferred  to an account with another bank  at Mr Rs request. Im not persuaded that it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to require Bank of Scotland to pay any further 
compensation to Mr R  or to take any other  action  in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5296488