K821x#15complaint
Mr O says Tradewise Insurance Company Limited acted unreasonably in the way it dealt 
with a claim he made on his motor  insurance  policy following an accident.
background
The accident  was on 24 July 2018. Mr O agreed  to use an approved garage for the repairs,  
but it wouldnt include work on pre-existing damage. He then said he wanted  garage A to do 
the work.  Tradewise instructed an independent engineer to review the damage and agree 
costs. The repairs were  authorised on 30 August 2018, but Tradewise required garage  A to 
agree to meet its standard requirements  relating  to parts.
On 3 September 2018 Mr O said he wanted  Tradewise to pay him cash  in lieu of repairs  (a 
CIL payment). He said that was because he was going away for several months very 
shortly. As the repairs couldnt  be done before then, he said storage charges would be run 
up. Tradewise  offered  Mr O a CIL payment of £2,550, less the policy excess.  He wanted the 
full sum set out in garage As estimate (£3,600 - less the excess). Tradewise wouldnt offer 
him more.  But it was still willing to pay garage As bill or the higher repair costs of the 
approved repairer  as an alternative.  
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Os complaint. He thought  Tradewise had acted fairly 
in the way it dealt with Mr Os request for a CIL payment.  But he noted  that it had told him 
twice in error that the motor cyclist involved in the accident had said it wasnt Mr Os fault.  In 
fact, Mr O had made a statement to the police and had told them hed emerged from a side 
street into the path of the bike.  The liability decision was based on that. The investigator 
thought Tradewise should pay Mr O £100 for its errors, and it agreed. Mr O accepted the 
investigators view, but later decided he wanted a review  of his complaint by an ombudsman.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O thinks he was entitled  to a CIL payment. But the policy  says its for Tradewise to decide 
how to deal with a claim, so I dont think thats correct.  When a cars  repairable, its usual for 
an insurer to pay for the repairs.  In this case, the initial engineer who checked the damage, 
plus an independent engineer (and garage  As engineer) all thought the car was repairable. 
But Tradewise agreed to consider Mr Os request  and offered him a CIL sum anyway.
Tradewise tried to explain  to Mr O that a CIL payment didnt have to be the same as a sum 
required by a garage for repairs.  It said VAT was excluded for a start. Consumers taking a 
CIL payment may not pay VAT. They may also choose not to have the repairs done, or have 
them done  in a way that costs less than a standard garage would charge (given its running 
costs, and the price  of manufacturers parts. I think it was reasonable for Tradewise to point 
out these issues  and to offer less than the full repair costs. 
A CIL payment  was only one of the options on offer. Tradewise was still prepared  to pay 
garage A to do the work - as long as it could meet its standard  repair  requirements. I think 
that was reasonable. And it was still open  to Mr O to have the repairs done by an approved 
garage, paid for by Tradewise. 
Ref: DRN52901662I dont think Mr O can show that Tradewise  acted unreasonably in the way it dealt with his 
request for a CIL - or in the offers it made  to pay for his repairs.  
Mr O told us he thinks his car should  have  been  written-off. He says Tradewises engineer  
told him it didnt have the money to do that. Tradewise said the engineer  didnt make  such  a 
statement. Theres no evidence either way, but I think its far more likely  than not that Mr O 
misunderstood something the engineer said. I think the evidence  (including that from an 
independent engineer, whose duty is to the court) shows the car was repairable.  
In my opinion, Mr Os expectations were raised when Tradewise told him liability had been 
accepted by the motor cyclist. He was confused and disappointed  when that turned out not 
to be the case.  Tradewise  has already accepted that it would be fair for it to pay Mr O £100  
compensation for distress and inconvenience.  I think thats a reasonable way to settle Mr Os 
complaint.    
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Tradewise Insurance 
Company Limited  to pay Mr O £100  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Susan Ewins  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5290166