K820x#14complaint
Ms J complains the MYJAR  Limited  lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
background
Ms J was given one loan by MYJAR.  She borrowed £550 in July 2018 and agreed  to repay 
the loan in twelve monthly instalments  of just under £82. Ms J hasnt been able to meet her 
repayments on the loan and a balance remained outstanding when she made  her complaint.
Ms Js complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  She didnt think  that 
MYJAR had been  wrong to give this loan to Ms J. So she didnt recommend that the 
complaint should  be upheld.
Ms J didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Ms J could repay the loan in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Js complaint.
Ref: DRN53648112Before lending to Ms J MYJAR  checked her credit file. Ive seen a summary of those results 
and they dont appear to contain  anything that I think should have caused additional 
concerns to the lender.  MYJAR also asked Ms J for information about her income  and her 
expenditure. Whilst Ms Js declared income  was low, I dont think  it was so low that MYJAR  
should have been unduly concerned about  her ability  to manage the loan repayments.
Ms Js loan was repayable over a 12 month period. So the amounts that Ms J needed  to 
repay each  time were smaller  than if shed taken a normal payday loan. But of course she 
was committing to making those repayments over a far longer period. But the repayments  on 
Ms Js loan were relatively modest  compared  to the disposable income  that she declared to 
MYJAR. So given  Ms Js repayment  amounts,  what was apparent  about  her circumstances 
at the time, and her history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been  proportionate for 
MYJAR to ask her for the amount  of information that would  be needed to show  the lending  
was unsustainable.   
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Ms J provided or the information MYJAR 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
she was saying.  I appreciate that Ms J says her finances were under pressure at the time. 
She says she was regularly using her overdraft and facing a number of payments being  
returned unpaid  each month.  But that wasnt something she told MYJAR when she asked for 
the loan. And I dont  think its something that MYJAR would have seen from proportionate 
checks. So I dont  think it was wrong to give this loan to Ms J.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
MYJAR Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.  
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5364811