K820x#14complaint
Miss J complains  that Barclays Bank UK Plc hasnt dealt with her complaint  about disputed 
withdrawals from her savings account  fairly. And she has been  left with borrowing to repay.
background
Miss J told Barclays  in June and July 2017  about over £7,300 of cash withdrawals from her 
savings account  using cash machines that she said she didnt make.  She was ill at the time 
and in hospital for periods  and thinks someone  else used her card without her authority. She 
was able to take money out from a number of branches while  her claim  was being 
considered, because she was in financial difficulties  and needed to support her children. 
This meant that Barclays  allowed  her savings account to go overdrawn. But when the 
refunds of some of the (unauthorised) payments came in, she was (its now clear, 
incorrectly) allowed to withdraw them again.  So there remains an overdrawn position.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. He said that:-
-Miss J had been allowed by Barclays to withdraw over £10,000 of cash from her 
account as a result of her claims.
-The overdraft position on her account was now over £5,500. 
-This had largely  arisen because Miss J had been able to withdraw the amount of 
money shed disputed. But when  some of it was credited in August 2017  she was 
(incorrectly) allowed  to take some  of this out again.
-Barclays wont allow her to take out its final refund of £1,150  - made in October 2017, 
as shes already had the benefit of this money.
-He thought that Barclays  could have better managed what happened. But he still 
thought Miss J was fairly responsible for this borrowing.
-Barclays had paid her a goodwill gesture of £150 in July 2017, because of poor 
service in branch.  And he didnt think it should  do any more.
Miss J didnt  agree. She wanted  to receive the payment of £1,150 by cheque as she said its 
her money. And an overdraft shouldnt have been  allowed on a savings account and she 
isnt in a position to pay it back. She said the account should have been  credited when the 
fraud cases were reported, and that theres been  miscommunication all through this by 
Barclays  which is unfair and irrational treatment.
Miss J also said that this was affecting  her health and she couldnt see why it was taking so 
long to deal with. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 22 October  2019. I set this out below 
I said Id be taking into account the Payment  Services Regulations 2009. The particular area 
I needed to think  about is whether Miss J authorised these transactions. Because she 
wouldnt generally be responsible for them if she hadnt.
I asked Barclays for some  more explanation as I wasnt clear  about the claims that had been 
made and the period these related to. And also about the money that Miss J had been 
allowed to have and why some amounts appeared to have been duplicated. And it provided 
me with further information. 
Ref: DRN56283672So I set out in a bit more  detail the key dates of what happened as I believed this would be 
helpful background to my findings:
-30 June 2017 - Miss J raises a first claim for disputed entries  between  April and 
June 2017, for about £3,400.
-3 to 17 July 2017   shes allowed to withdraw this money in cash from a number of 
branches  this was at branch discretion and was to represent the state benefits 
money that had been taken from her. Shed complained that a branch wouldnt allow  
her money and received the compensation our adjudicator referred  to. Its clear that 
the branches were  allowing withdrawals  based  on the size of her claim.
-18 July 2017  - Miss J raises a second  claim of £1,150, for entries between April and 
May 2017. This seemed  to duplicate part of claim one.
-19 July 2017  - a third claim  for £2,205 for entries  between  February  and April 2017  is 
raised.
-To 21 July 2017  in light of the new claims further withdrawals are allowed - taking 
the overdrawn balance on the account  to over £6,250.
-31 July 2017  - a fourth claim for entries between November 2016 and January 2017  
is made for £1,460 - and these are refunded on 1 August 2017.
-14 August 2017  Miss J is able to withdraw £1,460. She later disputed that she 
withdrew these funds.
-14 August 2017  claim three,  for £2,205, is paid into her account.
-16 August 2017 - a cash withdrawal for £2,205 is made relating to claim three. Which 
was effectively allowing  it to be taken out again.
-20 October 2017 - claim two for £1,150 is paid to the account   but no withdrawals of 
this are allowed  and Miss J complains about  this.
were the withdrawals authorised?
There are two parts to look at when considering this. The first is whether the disputed 
transactions were  authenticated . This means that a formal process  was followed to allow 
them to be made   e.g. ATM with card and PIN, purchase made with card and PIN. 
The series  of payments  initially disputed comprised  over 70 cash withdrawals  from cash  
machines. So I was satisfied they could only have been made from Miss Js account when 
the genuine card was used and the correct PIN entered. 
Miss Js also disputed  the withdrawal Barclays said it allowed of £1,460  on 14 August  2017. 
But it said she was known  in branch,  and this was made over the counter. So I was satisfied 
from the case notes  Id seen that this was authenticated  too.
But that doesnt address the second  part of the requirement in the Regulations  - which is 
whether she consented to all these payments. i.e. that she knew about, and willingly made, 
them.
Barclays told me that theres  some duplication between claim 1 and the later claims 2 and 3 
of £820. Even accounting for that, Miss Js made  claims of fraud on her account of over 
£6,500. In order for me to find that all these withdrawals were  not made with the knowledge 
or authority of Miss J, I would need  to think all of the following were more likely  than not to 
have happened:
Ref: DRN56283673-A third party (it seems  Miss J suspects her partner) was able to take and then 
replace her bank  card on multiple occasions, without her knowing,  during the period  
from November 2016 and June 2017. Miss J refers  to a period when she was in 
hospital, but that would  only seem to account for some  of the time mentioned;
-That same  person also discovered  her PIN - even though shes reasonably expected  
by Barclays to keep  this information secure  and known only to her;
-Miss J didnt  notice the substantial  withdrawals made from her account. Despite her 
saying she has both limited income and important family commitments. It isnt clear 
how she managed  without this income  during the period;
-This is also despite her making some genuine withdrawals during the period. So I 
was struggling to see how a fraud wouldnt have come to light earlier leading to 
action by her to prevent further loss;
-Miss J only realised  the scale of the payments after June 2017. Her first claim related 
to the period between April and June 2017 and further claims were  for earlier  
periods. That seems to me to be an unlikely way of her realising a fraud of this scale;  
and
-Someone other  than Miss J knew the specific details of her fraud claim and was able 
to go to a branch  on 14 August 2017, persuade the branch  she was Miss J (where  
she was known to staff),  and withdraw £1,460.
I didnt think all these scenarios to be most likely based on the available  evidence. Instead, I 
found that Miss J consented to these transactions either by making them herself  or allowing  
someone else to make  them on her behalf. 
This finding means that I wouldnt have required Barclays to make any refunds to Miss J 
when it investigated  her claims. But, as Id set out above, it has made some already. So I 
needed to deal with the position on her savings  account that has resulted.
the actions Barclays  took
Barclays accepts that it handled Miss Js claims in an uncoordinated  way. And I was still 
finding it difficult to understand some of the decisions it made  to allow  her to make duplicate  
withdrawals. However, I didnt think that this has been to Miss Js disadvantage or detriment.  
I said this because:-
-Miss J asked  for all this money - saying she was in financial difficulty and that this 
was directly related  to her claims of fraud. 
-As I said above, I didnt find her account of that fraud most likely - which  means that 
there was no basis for her to claim a refund or receive this money  again  in the first 
place.
-She went to multiple branches,  and each individually dealt with her sympathetically - 
even though staff didnt  know the full extent of the withdrawals  shed previously made 
against the disputed amounts.
-Barclays acted in good faith, with the intention of helping her with her financial 
difficulties, and found her explanations  of the impact this was having on her credible. 
It was trying to assist her.
-Shed  the benefit of this money  and knew how much shed taken in total and how this 
related to what she claimed.
-As a result, she was reasonably aware  when  different branches or members of staff 
authorised what have since turned out to be duplicate  withdrawals.
Ref: DRN56283674-The payments  were made from a savings account. But I didnt think it matters exactly  
how the money was accounted for (i.e. overdraft or not). And it was open to her at 
any time to see what the balance  on that account  was. 
-Even if I was to believe that Miss J simply didnt understand how the money was 
being paid, and which claims exactly the payments related to, then I would still 
conclude shes withdrawn and had the benefit  of this money.
my conclusions
I summarised what is a complex  position.  Miss J made total claims for disputed payments of 
over £7,300. Barclays has refunded just over £4,800 of this. But it hasnt processed or paid 
her first claim. Some of that was duplicated in the second and third claims. However, it had 
allowed Miss J to withdraw just over £10,000  from her savings account against all these 
claims. And notably  to withdraw an amount  of £2,205 against her third claim twice. 
My findings  were that there wasnt a basis  to refund any transactions in the first place.  And 
so Miss J had the benefit of the initial cash machine  withdrawals. She has also had the 
benefit of all the amounts that Barclays has allowed her to take from her savings account. So 
any refunds that it decided to make should  rightly be credited to that account. 
It follows that theres no basis for her to be paid the further £1,150  shes asked for. And my 
finding was that shes now fairly responsible for paying back the outstanding balance on the 
overdrawn account.
Barclays also paid Miss J some compensation for the poor service she received in branch. 
Given what Id said about its actions, and that any errors were  ultimately  in her favour, I said 
I wasnt going to be asking it to pay any further  compensation. 
I said that I was going to be giving Miss J some unwelcome news. For the reasons Id set out 
my provisional decision, was that I didnt think Barclays need  do any more to resolve this 
complaint. That said Id still expect it to act positively and sympathetically when Miss J 
discusses her repayment plans.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays said it did not have any comments to make on my decision. And Miss J said that if I 
thought the outcome was fair she was not going to press  her complaint further and would not 
be adding anything else.
That being  the case I am not going to depart from my provisional  findings on this complaint 
for the reasons Ive already given.
Ref: DRN56283675my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5628367