K821x#15complaint
Miss M says PSA Finance UK Limited  mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy alongside a hire purchase  on a car in 2005. 
background
I wrote  a provisional decision in which explained  I was intending to uphold  the complaint. My 
provisional decision read as follows:
Firstly, Id like to set out that the policy PSA Finance sold Miss M was actually life cover. 
Miss M says she was unaware it was a life cover policy and that she doesnt recall  receiving 
any documentation about it. 
PSA Finance has given me a copy of the hire-purchase  agreement Miss M signed. The loan 
was for around £9,000 to be repaid over three  years. The agreement  had a separate section 
for PPI with a number  of options on it. This included life and critical illness cover,  life and 
disability cover, and life, disability and unemployment cover. It required a tick and a 
signature if Miss M decided  to take out any of the policies.  Miss M left this section blank, so I 
can see at that time she didnt want any protection for the loan. 
Two months  later, Miss M took out the life cover policy. PSA Finance says Miss M wouldve 
been sent an acceptance form in the post to sign and return. It no longer has a copy  of the 
one it says Miss M was sent, but has provided  a sample form. 
PSA Finance has pointed out that the form says the cover is optional.  I can see this is 
mentioned but I dont  think  its particularly highlighted. I also note that the form says 
important  the acceptance form must be returned  before there is then a space where  a 
date would have  been printed onto the form. This is prominently set out on the page and in 
my opinion is more noticeable  than the word optional.  
The rest of the information on the form, such as the monthly payment for the premium and 
the details of Miss Ms loan, wouldve been pre-populated before it was sent to her in the 
post. Theres nothing  available that suggests Miss M requested  to be sent this form. And I 
think the way the form is set out assumed Miss M wanted the policy. But just two months 
before that she hadnt selected any form of PPI on the hire-purchase  agreement. So I can 
see no reason why PSA Finance would send her the acceptance form with a specific type of 
insurance already  agreed on it. 
Looking at the form, I think PSA failed to provide clear enough information to Miss M. I say 
this because I think the form fell short of clearly  and prominently  setting  out what  the cover  
was about or providing Miss M with a choice. 
It should also be noted that the print date on the sample acceptance form is January 2007, 
which is around 14 months after Miss M took out the life cover.  So its not clear whether this 
specific type of form wouldve been sent to Miss M. If the acceptance form isnt relevant  to 
the date Miss Ms policy was sold, its not possible for me to know how the different types of 
cover were  presented and sold to Miss M.
In addition to the above,  I think if Miss M had been  given clear  information about the life 
cover policy then she wouldnt  have  chosen  to take it. I say this because  at the time of the 
sale, Miss M was 19 years old and was single with no dependants.  Taking into consideration 
Ref: DRN59798382her specific  circumstances,  I cant see why shed have chosen to take out the cover if shed 
been given clear information about the policy and what it entailed. 
Neither Miss M nor PSA Finance responded with any additional comments  or evidence for 
me to consider. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have no further comments or evidence to consider, I see no reason to deviate  from the 
findings set out in my provisional decision.
I think PSA Finance  mis-sold  the life cover  policy  to Miss M.
what the business needs  to do
PSA Finance should  put Miss M back in the position she wouldve been in had the policy not 
been sold to her. It should:
Refund all of the premiums she paid, and
add simple interest at 8% per year on each  of the above amounts, from the date she 
paid the premiums to the date of settlement.
PSA can deduct any commission  payments it has already paid to Miss M from this 
total
HM Revenue & Customs requires PSA Finance to take off tax from this interest.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct PSA Finance UK Limited to pay the redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5979838