K820x#14Complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) acted irresponsibly by 
increasing his credit  limit. 
Background
In July 2015, Mr H contacted Barclaycard  with a view to increasing his credit  limit. He went 
through an application during the call and his credit limit was subsequently increased from 
£600 to £1,800. Mr R now feels that Barclaycard shouldnt have approved this. Hes said it 
would have been clear from his credit  file that hed struggled to repay  debt in the past. 
Hed defaulted on a number of credit accounts and been in a Debt  Arrangement  Scheme, 
which hed only satisfied  in March 2015 with help from his parents.  
Mr R feels it should also have been apparent from his previous management of the card that 
he wasnt in a position to take on more credit. Hed made several payments late and had 
been over his credit limit consistently  since 2013. Hed only recently asked Barclaycard to 
reduce the credit limit to £600 after clearing some of the outstanding  balance, again with 
help from his parents.   
Mr R subsequently  found the increased limit difficult to manage. He incurred  interest and 
charges, which  he feels  Barclaycard should reimburse. 
Barclaycard looked  into Mr Rs complaint but didnt  feel it had acted irresponsibly.  It said it 
had increased  the credit  limit at Mr Rs request and in line with its own lending criteria.  And it 
said there was nothing on Mr Rs credit file which gave it cause for concern when it carried 
out its affordability checks.  As a gesture  of goodwill, it refunded  £372  in charges to Mr H, 
and paid him £25 compensation for complaint handling delays.
Our investigator felt that Barclaycard had carried out proportionate checks. He could see that 
it had asked about Mr Rs income and estimated his expenditure  using information from 
credit reference agencies. And it had carried out its own internal credit  scoring.  He also 
noted that Barclaycard wouldnt have known Mr H received financial help from his parents. 
Mr H disagreed, so I need to reach  a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Before agreeing to increase Mr Rs credit limit, Barclaycard was under an obligation to carry 
out reasonable affordability checks.  It needed  to satisfy itself that Mr R could repay  the 
prospective borrowing  in a sustainable way without it adversely impacting his financial 
situation, and that he could continue  to do that for a reasonable period. The relevant  rules 
arent prescriptive about what  information  lenders should ask for as part of these checks,  
and a key principle is that any checks  should  be proportionate. 
In this case, Barclaycard has said it checked Mr Rs employment status,  his regular income  
and his internal  credit  score.  Its said it also carried  out a holistic review  of Mr Rs finances 
based on information it received from credit reference agencies. 
Ref: DRN53400042Barclaycard has said it cant provide us with the exact data it received from the credit 
reference agencies  which is disappointing.  But from what  Ive seen on the report  Mr R has 
provided, I think its likely Barclaycard would have seen that he had defaulted on two current 
accounts, two credit  cards and a loan in 2012 and 2013. And it might also have seen that 
hed taken out four payday  loans  around  that same time. 
Barclaycard also ought to have been  aware that Mr R was in a Debt Arrangement Scheme 
between June 2013 and March 2015. Thats because Mr Rs payments towards  the Scheme 
were made by direct debit  from his Barclays current account. And as part of its affordability 
checks it ought to have taken into consideration information it already knew  (or should  have  
known) about Mr R. 
On the Barclaycard itself, Mr R had been  over his credit limit consistently between  April 2013 
and May 2015.  For a lot of that time,  he was only making minimum payments. Mr R made 
three payments late and at one point in 2014 he was two months in arrears.  
All these  factors should  have indicated  to Barclaycard that Mr R had struggled to manage  
credit relatively recently. So, in my view, Barclaycards affordability checks  werent 
reasonable or proportionate and should  have prompted it to ask Mr R more questions  about 
his financial situation  before agreeing to the increase. Had it done so, I think  its possible it 
would have found out that Mr R had only recently  settled debts with 14 creditors, including  
the five defaulted accounts, through a Debt Arrangement Scheme with help from his parents. 
Having said that, I dont think its likely that knowing that information would have led 
Barclaycard to a different lending decision,  or to conclude  Mr R couldnt afford the increase. 
Barclaycard has said the card Mr R applied  for is intended to help customers build their 
credit worthiness. So, it wouldnt have automatically declined  Mr Rs application on the basis 
that hed been in a Debt Arrangement Scheme in the past,  especially given that it had since 
been satisfied.    
When Mr R applied for the increase, he told Barclaycard that he was employed  and earning  
a salary of £19,000.  The Debt Arrangement Scheme  had come to an end in March 2015. 
As such,  aside from the Barclaycard, which wasnt included in the Scheme, Mr R appeared 
to be debt free. And hed brought the balance on his Barclaycard back within the credit  limit. 
Weve asked Mr R questions about  whether he had any other  financial commitments  at the 
time of the increase,  and he hasnt  shared anything with us. It isnt apparent from his credit  
file or his Barclays current account statements  that he had any significant financial 
commitments like a mortgage, rent or car finance  at that point. And he generally  maintained  
a positive balance  on his Barclays current account in the months before the increase,  which  
was the account his salary was paid into.  
Taking all of that into account,  I think Barclaycard  always would have concluded  that Mr R 
had enough disposable income to afford the increased credit  limit. So, while  I think  
Barclaycard probably  should have asked Mr R more questions  about his financial standing, I 
dont think Mr R has been disadvantaged  as a result of it not doing so. Im therefore not 
asking Barclaycard to do anything  further. 
My final decision
I understand Barclaycard has paid Mr R £25 compensation and refunded  £372  in charges. 
For the reasons  outlined  above, I conclude this was a fair offer and I make no further award.
Ref: DRN53400043Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.  
Mike Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5340004