K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M dont  agree  with what Black  Horse Limited have offered to put things right 
following their complaint about  the sale of payment protection insurance (PPI).
background 
Mr and Mrs M complained that Black  Horse mis-sold PPI alongside two personal loans. 
Following our involvement, Black Horse  offered to settle the complaint. 
It offered  to pay Mr and Mrs M £7,505.58 in respect of the first loan, and a further £65.47  in 
respect of the second loan. Mr and Mrs M didnt think that was right, so asked us to look at 
this. They  also wanted further compensation for the time it had taken for Black  Horse to look 
at the complaint, and for the impact this had on them.
Our adjudicator looked at what Black Horse  had offered and thought it had worked out fair 
compensation. And he didnt think based on what hed seen that Black  Horse needed to pay 
further compensation for the trouble and upset of bringing the complaint. Mr and Mrs M 
disagree with this. The complaint has been  referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Black Horse  has agreed to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about the sale of the PPI. So 
Ive looked at whether what it has offered is fair.
Where I decide, or a business agrees, that a complaint about the sale of PPI should be 
upheld, Id expect  the business  to put the consumer as far as it can in the position theyd be 
in if they hadnt bought the policy.
In Mr and Mrs Ms case, they borrowed more  money to pay for the PPI, and they repaid this 
extra money, with interest,  as part of the monthly loan repayments. When  they repaid  the 
loan early, theyd get a small refund  of what theyd borrowed to pay for the PPI  but not 
enough to repay this in full  and so theyd also need to pay more  to settle the loan. 
Mr and Mrs M need to get back the extra they paid.
Ive looked at what Black Horse has done. 
In respect of the first loan,  Mr and Mrs M borrowed an extra £5,560.49 to pay for the PPI. 
Black Horse  has worked out that Mr and Mrs M paid around £83.29 a month towards the 
policy, and that by the time Mr and Mrs M repaid the loan, in August  2008, theyd paid 
£1,833.50 towards  the PPI. Black Horse  says that at this point Mr and Mrs M still owed 
£5,274.18 towards  the extra theyd borrowed.  A small refund  (£3,123.58)  was then applied to 
the loan  and, after taking into account an interest  adjustment, Mr and Mrs M needed  to pay 
£2,362.36 to fully repay  the extra they had to borrow at the outset to pay for the PPI. Black  
Horse has included these  amounts  in the compensation  and as Mr and Mrs M have been 
deprived of money,  it has added interest (the rate is 8% simple  per year) to compensate  
them for the time they were  out of pocket.
Ref: DRN54973692For the second loan, I see Mr and Mrs M made three payments of £13.35 towards  this 
policy. So they paid an extra £40.05 towards this policy in total. Black Horse  has included  
this in the compensation, and added simple interest to reach total compensation of £65.47.
So far, Black Horse has worked  out compensation as Id expect. Ive therefore  gone on to 
look at the reasons Mr and Mrs M think they should get more. 
I note Mr and Mrs M are unhappy about the length of time it took Black  Horse to look at their 
complaint. I must point  out that the compensation Black Horse has offered  includes simple 
interest  the rate is 8% a year  to compensate Mr and Mrs M for the time theyve been out 
of pocket.  So Im satisfied that any delay is already taken  into account by Black Horses 
offer.
But I can also award compensation  for distress, inconvenience, trouble and upset  and Ive 
thought about this. When I award  this type of compensation, it isnt to punish the business 
but to reflect  the impact  its actions had on the consumer.  
Thinking about  what Mr and Mrs M have  said, I appreciate theyre  disappointed  that the offer 
wasnt greater. And I recognise  that Mr and Mrs M have been going through  a difficult period 
financially. 
That said,  Im mindful that Black  Horse wrote to Mr and Mrs M a number of times to keep 
them updated about the progress of the complaint. Black Horse told Mr M that he could refer 
the complaint  to us after 8 weeks. And I see we needed to ask Mr M for some further 
information before we could take on this complaint   and that Black  Horse sent us its offer 
within a couple  of weeks of our first contact with it.
Having considered whats fair in the circumstances  of Mr and Mrs M, I dont  think  a further 
award for trouble and upset would be appropriate. Black Horse  worked  out fair 
compensation for mis-selling  PPI, which took into account the delays. I dont think Black 
Horse should pay more. 
Ref: DRN54973693my final decision
My final decision is that Black Horse Limited  has paid fair compensation for mis-selling  PPI.
I understand Mr and Mrs M have already been paid this, so I dont make a further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 March  2020.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5497369