K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  about the way Santander UK Plc handled a chargeback  claim. 
background
Miss S ordered some clothes online in May 2018  which were then signed for as being 
delivered. But Miss S told Santander that she hadnt  signed for the items and the retailer  
wasnt willing to give her a refund for non-delivery. 
Miss S raised a chargeback with Santander in June 2018 but there was a delay  of around 
two weeks before it began  to investigate what happened. Santander paid Miss S £100 to 
apologise for the delay. 
In July 2018 Miss S received a refund while Santander looked at the chargeback. However, 
later that month Miss S was incorrectly told by Santander that she could  keep the 
chargeback refund. 
On 10 August 2018 Santander sent Miss S a request for some  additional  information  and 
said her claim  would be closed if no response was received. Miss S says she didnt receive 
this letter  and that shed previously been  told she could keep the refund. As Santander didnt 
receive a response  it closed the claim down and debited Miss S credit card again. 
Miss S went on to contact  Santander when she saw the disputed funds had been debited 
from her account and complained. Santander explained that the chargeback investigation 
was closed because  it hadnt received a response  but agreed  to relook at it within the 
complaints department. Santander also offered a further £75 to apologise for the incorrect 
information. 
Miss S didnt receive  a refund for the disputed items and referred her complaint  to this 
service. Miss S also raised concerns with Santander over how it had obtained  a copy  of a 
signature that had been used to sign for another item of post at her address.  
An adjudicator looked at what  had happened  but thought Santanders existing offer was 
reasonable and that it had dealt with Miss S complaint fairly so didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Miss S didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be appealed. Shes provided some 
evidence to show the additional costs  she paid as a result of having to replace the goods  
that werent received. 
As Miss S has asked for her case to be appealed its been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief above as Miss S, Santander and the adjudicator  have all provided 
detailed backgrounds to this complaint. Ive carefully  considered everything that Miss S and 
Santander have  provided and noted what I feel are the key points above.  There are several 
parts to Miss S complaint so Ill look at each  in turn. 
Ref: DRN57448262Santander initially paid Miss S £100  because of a two week delay in handling her 
chargeback request. I agree  Santander  shouldve processed the chargeback  request  sooner 
so Im pleased it offered  a reasonable level of compensation for its error. 
Ive listened to all Miss S calls with Santander  during the period in question and I can hear 
that in July 2018 she was incorrectly told she was entitled to keep the disputed funds. 
Santanders accepted it made an error  on this point and I think  its clear the service provided  
shouldve been  better.  Santander  offered Miss S £50 to resolve  her complaint and increased 
that to £75 when she didnt accept.  
The issue  was made more complicated by the fact Miss S didnt receive Santanders letter  of 
10 August 2018.  The letter included important information  about the chargeback  
investigation and said that if a response  wasnt received the disputed funds would be debited 
from Miss S account again. As Miss S didnt receive  the letter she wasnt able to respond 
which meant the funds  were taken from her card again. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss S but I havent found Santander made an error here as the letter 
it sent was correctly addressed to her. Ive seen a copy and Im satisfied Santander  did write 
to Miss S as it says. I dont know why the letter wasnt  received but I havent  found 
Santander acted  unfairly by closing the investigation down when it didnt receive a response. 
After Miss S contacted Santander again it said it would reconsider her chargeback  request 
within the complaints  department but didnt go on to offer a refund. And I think this is the key 
issue to Miss S complaint as she feels Santander hasnt fairly taken her comments  on board  
when investigating.  But I havent found  Santander  acted unfairly by saying the chargeback 
would have been unlikely to succeed.  Ill explain why. 
I know Miss S says that the GPS  information the delivery firm provided the retailer isnt 
reliable. But I think its something Santander could reasonably  take into account as part of its 
investigation. The merchant says it showed the delivery driver visited  Miss S address on the 
date he claims  the item was signed for. And while I appreciate Miss S view that this doesnt 
specifically show the driver visited her property I dont think Santander was acting  unfairly by 
taking it into account  when making  its decision.  
Miss S says the signature used  to sign for the delivery isnt hers. But that doesnt mean 
someone else at her property didnt  sign for it instead. Indeed, Miss S has said that her 
father signed for a letter Santander sent in October  2018 so its established that other  people  
at the address will receive and sign for post as well. I dont  think  the absence of a signature 
specifically from Miss S means  Santanders  decision to decline the chargeback  was unfair.  
I also note that the item was addressed to another person, not Miss S. Shes  told us that was 
because a family member  had given her money to buy goods for her partner. And while I 
dont doubt thats the case I wouldnt expect a delivery driver to specifically obtain Miss S 
signature for an item that wasnt  addressed to her. Again, I think Santanders decision to 
decline the chargeback was reasonable,  based on the information  it received. 
Miss S has raised concerns about  how Santander obtained a copy of a signature used to 
sign for a mail delivery to her property. Santander says it got the signature after it posted a 
signed for letter to Miss S and got the signature  online. I take Miss S point  but how 
businesses handle information about  customers isnt something this service has the 
jurisdiction to look at. The Information Commissioners Office  regulates that type of activity. 
Ref: DRN57448263Miss S recently sent us some information  to show shed replaced the lost items. And while I 
can see shes spent sums  in the months  following her original purchase the evidence isnt 
specific enough for me to say whether the items  were replacements  or not. 
In reaching my decision Ive carefully  considered everything Miss S and Santander have 
said and provided.  I understand my decision will disappoint Miss S but Im satisfied  
Santanders choice  to decline her chargeback request was reasonable based  on the 
evidence it had. I agree that there  were  some service issues here but Santanders offered a 
total of £175 and I think thats fair in all the circumstances. Santander has paid Miss S £100 
already and has confirmed the remaining £75 remains available. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  beyond the £175  Santander UK Plc has 
already agreed  to pay. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5744826