K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a shopping  insurance payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  
taken out in 2009. Mrs O says Shop  Direct Finance Company Limited  (Shop Direct) mis-
sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Os case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Shop Direct made it clear that Mrs O didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out. I say this because Ive considered what  we know about how 
Shop Direct sold PPI over the internet  around  this time and Ive seen internet 
screenshots that Shop Direct  say are representative of what  Mrs O would have seen 
at the time of applying for PPI. To get the cover Mrs O would have had to select it 
and she would have  had a choice about  doing that or not. So it seems most  likely 
that Mrs O did choose  it and did so knowing she had a choice to do so, although I 
can understand why she cant  remember this now, many  years later.
Shop  Direct didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs O so it didnt have  to check  if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs O got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Shop Direct  gave  Mrs O about the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been  such as details of how much the policy  would cost.  But she chose 
to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. Based on what  Ive 
seen of her circumstances at the time it seems she was eligible for the policy  and it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover. And Ive considered that Mrs O told us she had no sick pay and no other 
means that she could  have relied  on. This policy could have paid out a benefit of 
20% of her balance  for up to 6 months or until the balance was cleared in that event, 
or if Mrs O lost her job. So I think the policy would have been useful to her if 
something went wrong. So I dont think better information about  the PPI and its cost 
would have put her off taking out the cover.
 
Which means Shop  Direct doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs O.
But Shop Direct will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs O because:  
When the policy  was sold, Shop Direct  expected to get a high level of commission  
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs O 
about that. Because Shop Direct didnt tell Mrs O, that was unfair.  
Ref: DRN52330652To put that right,  Shop Direct  has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share  that was above  50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Shop Direct has to pay back to Mrs O any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. Shop Direct should also pay back  to Mrs O any extra  interest 
Mrs O paid because of that.
Shop Direct should re-work the account  and pay back to Mrs O the difference between what  
Mrs O owed and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Shop  Direct should also pay Mrs O 8%* simple 
interest if Mrs O paid off her account at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs O can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Shop Direct Finance Company Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs O.
But Shop Direct Finance Company Limited  does have to pay back to Mrs O any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5233065