K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that Santander  UK Plc unfairly  applied a default to her current account. 
background
Miss A opened a student account  with Santander in 2013 which was later changed  to a 
graduate account.  Miss A had an overdraft facility on the account. 
Santander says it placed Miss As account  with its collections department in December 2017 
because she wasnt using  it in line with the terms and conditions.  Santanders  account  terms 
say customers should use their account  to have their main source of income paid into but 
Miss A wasnt paying money into her account.  Santander wrote  to Miss A about the situation. 
Miss As explained that because a family member was sick she spent several  months away 
from her home so didnt  receive Santanders letters. When she returned  in May 2018 Miss A 
contacted Santander and says it agreed to put collections activity on hold for 30 days. 
Santander went on to default Miss As account  at the end of June 2018. The default was 
recorded with the credit reference agencies. 
Miss A referred her complaint to this service  and an adjudicator looked at what had 
happened. They said Miss A hadnt met the account terms so Santander had acted 
reasonably by taking  steps to close and default  the account. They  also said Santander 
hadnt made a mistake  by writing to Miss A at her home address. The adjudicator  didnt 
uphold Miss As complaint and shes asked to appeal.  Miss As complaints  been  passed to 
me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres some confusion  over whether Miss A had a student or graduate account. Miss A 
says it was a student account but Santanders provided evidence  that shows the student 
account was switched to a graduate account in 2016, after it had been open  around three 
years. Im satisfied from what Ive seen that this was a graduate  account.  
However, both accounts have a requirement  within the terms and conditions  that a certain 
level of income has to be paid into them. The student account terms say at least  £500 must  
be paid in each  academic  term. And the graduate  account terms say the account should  be 
used for the customers income to be paid. 
Ive looked at Miss As account  movements  for several months prior to Santanders decision 
to transfer it to collections and I cant see she met those terms. I have seen that in some 
months Miss A was paying  in around £20 but Im not persuaded that was her main income. 
Given the length of time Miss As account  use hadnt been in line with the terms I think  
Santander acted  reasonably by deciding to close it. 
Miss As explained she wasnt staying  at her registered address for an extended period 
because she was looking after a sick family member. As a result, she didnt receive any of 
Santanders letters until May 2018  when  she returned. But as Santander wasnt  aware of 
Ref: DRN51552422Miss As temporary move Im unable to agree it acted  unfairly  by writing to her home  
address. 
Miss A contacted Santander  on 5 May 2018  and asked  for some breathing space.  Santander 
put a hold on the account for 30 days and asked Miss A to contact it again to discuss her 
options. During this period Santander wrote to Miss A twice and asked her to make contact 
to discuss the financial  difficulties she was experiencing.  But Miss A didnt go on to contact 
Santander again during  the 30 day breathing space or in the following month.  As a result, 
Santander took steps to default the account at the end of June 2018. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss A but I havent seen any evidence  that Santander treated her 
unfairly. Regardless of whether it was a student  or graduate account the terms hadnt been  
met. And whilst I appreciate Miss A didnt receive letters because she was staying 
elsewhere, Santander wasnt aware of that. From  what Ive seen I think Santander was 
willing to discuss options with Miss A when she called in May 2018 but because no further 
contact was received  Im satisfied its decision to apply a default was fair. As I havent found 
any evidence of an error by Santander Im not telling it to take any further action to resolve 
this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept  or reject my decision 
before 13 April 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5155242