K820x#14complaint
Mr J and Mrs T are unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) made  
a decision to settle a claim by a third party under Mr Js motor  insurance policy.
background
A third party  made a claim  with the help of a representative against Mrs T under Mr Js 
policy. They  said Mrs T, who is a named driver under Mr Js policy,  reversed into the third 
partys vehicle in a pub car park. The representative claimed for the cost of repairing the 
third partys  vehicle and the cost of hiring  a car while it was in for repair. 
The third partys representative provided a witness statement from an off duty police officer  
in which  he said he saw Mrs T reverse  into the third partys vehicle. And an engineers  report  
setting out the damage to the third partys vehicle  with supporting  photographs.  
LV contacted Mr J and he explained Mrs T was in the car park, but didnt reverse  into the 
third partys  vehicle. LV inspected Mr Js vehicle and decided to settle  the claim. It said there 
was damage to it consistent with the collision described by the witness.  And, in light of this 
and the witness  statement, it felt its decision to settle was reasonable. 
Mr J complained to LV. He said the damage to his vehicle  was already present at the time of 
the collision  and that he felt it was unfair for LV to base its decision to settle the third partys 
claim on the witness statement alone. LV maintained its decision was reasonable and Mr J 
and Mrs T complained to us. 
An investigator looked into Mr J and Mrs Ts complaint. She explained she thought  LVs 
decision to settle  was in line with the policy terms and reasonable in the circumstances. Mr J 
and Mrs T dont  agree and the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
Under the terms of Mr J and Mrs Ts policy,  LV has the right to settle  claims against  it if it 
thinks this is the right thing to do. Having said this, it should only settle claims after a proper 
investigation and if its reasonable  in the circumstances.
Im satisfied LV carried out a proper investigation  to reach its view. It considered the 
evidence provided  by the third partys representative. And it got an engineer to inspect Mr Js 
vehicle and provide his view on the likelihood of the damage to the third partys vehicle being 
caused in the way the representative  had suggested. It also later considered  Mr Js assertion 
that the damage to his vehicle was already  present. I appreciate  Mr J and Mrs T dont think 
the decision LV reached was reasonable and Ill come onto this, but I think  all this shows LV 
carried out a full and proper investigation.  
LVs decision  to settle would have been  driven by what it felt the prospects of defending the 
claim against Mrs T were if it went to court. This is because it makes no sense for it to try to 
defend a claim when  it thinks  its unlikely it will be able to do so successfully. This would 
Ref: DRN54810372waste resources and put the cost of the claim up due to it having to cover the legal costs 
involved.
If Mrs Ts case had come  into court, the evidence of the independent witness would have  
been key, as hed have  been seen as reliable  and having no real reason to lie. This would 
have been considered alongside the fact that the damage to the third partys vehicle was 
consistent with the incident the witness had described. So, I can see why LV felt it was likely 
a judge would have found in favour  of the third party. 
I do of course appreciate  Mr J and Mrs T have provided evidence  to show  the damage to 
Mr Js vehicle was already there before  the date of the alleged  incident. And I also 
appreciate Mrs T would have told the judge  she didnt hit the third partys  vehicle.  But, I dont 
think these things on their own prove  she didnt. Its possible  to damage another  vehicle 
without any obvious  damage to your own and  in some cases  without even realising 
youve done so. So overall, I can see why LV didnt think a judge  would have felt Mr J and 
Mrs Ts evidence would have been strong enough  to find in Mrs Ts favour.
I also appreciate there were different references  in the course  of the claim to the make  and 
model of the third partys vehicle, but its clear from LVs claims notes that the correct make  
and model was provided by the third partys representative at the outset. And that LV 
understood what they were dealing with.  
In summary,  LV does have the right under Mr Js policy to decide how to handle claims 
against drivers insured under it. And I think  LVs decision to settle the third partys  claim 
against Mrs T - rather than defending it with the prospects of losing  and incurring extra costs 
- was reasonable. Therefore,  its not appropriate for me to uphold  Mr J and Mrs Ts 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 May 2019.
Stephen Westlake
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5481037