K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that American Express Services Europe Limited has refused  her claim 
brought under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  She wants a refund of the 
remaining balance of the cost of her package holiday.
background
Mrs G tells us in June 2017 she booked a short holiday, through a company Ill call T, for 
herself and other family members. The trip was due to last three  nights and the package 
included flights and hotel  accommodation. Mrs G said she paid for part of the holiday using 
her Amex credit card. Shortly before the trip was scheduled she says she was told her 
flights, which had been confirmed with an airline, R, were no longer available. Whilst she 
says alternatives were offered - as they didnt fit in with the plans of one of her travelling 
companions - she refused the offer.  Mrs G says shes been refunded part of the overall cost 
but not the £345.06 which relates to the hotel  accommodation element of the booking.
Amex said it didnt consider T was liable for the cancellation of flights, which  was the 
responsibility of R. And it said the required debtor-creditor-supplier relationship - which is 
necessary for a successful section 75 claim - was not present.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 May 2019. I indicated that I didnt 
intend to uphold the complaint as I did not think there had been any breach of contract  by 
the accommodation provider. 
Since then Amex has not replied. Mrs G responded saying shed taken every possible 
precaution to protect against unforeseen circumstances. I thank Mrs G for her reply but in 
the absence of any further evidence  Im not minded  to change  my provisional  view which  is 
largely repeated  in my final decision below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mrs G and her family had the disappointment of missing out on a family occasion. 
And I can understand the disappointment the last-minute cancellation  of flights  would have 
caused.
I fully accept that Mrs G took what she thought were prudent  precautions  beforehand  to 
protect herself from financial loss in the event of anything  going wrong with the 
arrangements. Shed  specifically chosen to make part-payment of the cost using her credit 
card.
I should explain that I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. And 
relevant law here for me to consider  includes  section 75. Mrs Gs complaint is against Amex  
- so Im deciding whether Amex has dealt with her claim fairly - Im not determining  the 
merits of the underlying claim.
Ref: DRN57573382Section 75 says that in certain circumstances  a consumer has a like claim against the 
supplier of credit as they would have against  the supplier of goods and/or services. But for a 
claim to be successful it has to be established theres been a breach of contract  and/or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods  and/or  services.  Additionally,  in the case of a 
of a package holiday, the consumer also has a claim  against  the agent  through whom they 
booked the package, in this case T.
So Ive also got to consider The Package Travel, Package Holidays and Package Tours 
Regulations 1992. This is relevant as Mrs Gs holiday  was booked in June  2017  - so more 
recent legislation enacted  in 2018  does not apply.
In order for a holiday to be described  as a package  it has to comply  with certain conditions, 
which are:
 cover a period of more than 24 hours or include  overnight accommodation; and
 be the pre-arranged combination of at least two of the following when sold at an inclusive
price:
1.accommodation;
2.transport; and
      3. "other tourist services not ancillary  to transport or accommodation and accounting  for 
a significant proportion of the package."
Mrs Gs trip was for three nights, included flights and was sold at an inclusive  price  - so it 
appears to be a package holiday.
Ts terms and conditions purport to exclude  its liability by stating  its only acting as an agent 
and that any contract  is with the Principal (supplier of the services).But its not possible to 
opt out of legislation, and as the product sold to Mrs G falls within  the definition  of a 
package holiday then she potentially also has a claim against  T.
Having said this, it still needs to be established  that a breach of contract occurred for section 
75 to be applied. And in these  circumstances  I do not think that can be said to have 
occurred. The remaining dispute, after the flight costs were refunded, is about the cost of 
accommodation. And theres no evidence that the supplier of the accommodation  has done 
anything wrong  that would indicate it had breached its part of the contract.
When she became aware of the change of flights Mrs G chose to cancel the trip and not 
accept the alternative  flights  offered. This was apparently because the return  flight would 
have been the following day to that originally scheduled. Not only would this have meant the 
need for an extra nights accommodation but - as one member of her party had a 
prearranged commitment  - it wasnt convenient.  So it was a case  of Mrs G choosing  -
understandably - not to use the accommodation  - rather  than it being unavailable to her and 
her party.
As I cant  say theres been a breach of contract  by the supplier  of accommodation, its 
necessary to consider whether the cancellation of flights by R amounts to a breach of 
contract so that consequential losses can be claimed.
Ref: DRN57573383I dont think it does  and Ill explain why. The terms and conditions of R make it clear that if a 
flight is cancelled then the consumer will be offered an alternative  flight.  And if they decline 
they will be given a refund  of the cost of the flight.  Thats what  happened here. Any contract 
must be read as a whole  and so by offering a refund when the scheduled flight was 
cancelled R has fulfilled  its secondary obligation. And even  if there was a breach of contract 
- and I dont  think there was - Mrs Gs acceptance  of the refund  satisfied  that breach.
The alternative flight offered would still, as I understand,  have  meant Mrs G could occupy the 
hotel accommodation  for the period for which it had been reserved.  It might  also be the case  
that any costs associated with an extra nights accommodation would have been recoverable  
if Mrs G had chosen to travel - but as that didnt happen its not something  I need address 
further.
As I dont think any breach of contract has occurred I dont  think Amex did anything wrong in 
not agreeing to her section 75 claim. And I can see it considered the alternative option of 
chargeback.
 Chargeback is a voluntary scheme  offered by some card providers. But the rules are set 
by the card providers. And chargeback  - as opposed to section  75 - is limited to the amount 
spent on the card. Mrs G has received £102 chargeback - that being the amount she paid 
by credit card. And the cost of the flights £254.94  has been refunded by R.
In her reply to my provisional view Mrs G asked if there was anything  else she could  have 
done. And whilst  its not my role to offer direct  advice I can understand why Mrs G feels 
uncertain and disappointed about  the outcome. But sometimes plain  bad luck arises which is 
difficult - if not impossible - to guard against.  And I think  what  happened here boils down to 
this. Possibly the only way this could be avoided in future would be to ensure that there  are 
no potentially conflicting commitments in the event of delays.
Whilst I know it will be a disappointment to Mrs G, for the reasons Ive explained  above,  Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5757338