K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy  about  the sale of their mortgage endowment  policy.  They  
complained to Santander UK, as the business  that sold them  the policy, and it upheld  the 
complaint. Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  to this service is about  the outcome of the redress 
calculation Santander  completed.  They dont think the calculation  is right as it shows  they 
havent suffered  a loss, but they suffered a loss when they paid off their mortgage and when 
surrendered the policy  in 2007.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage endowment  policy  in 1986 to protect and repay their 
interest only mortgage. The policy had a target value of £39,750, a term of 25 years and was 
a with-profits arrangement.
Santander upheld  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint in June  2018. It said,  whilst  it couldnt find a 
guarantee had been  given, it couldnt  be satisfied  the policy had been appropriate for their 
needs and circumstances at the time.  
As such,  Santander  compared Mr and Mrs Hs position in 1989 (when they paid off their 
mortgage) to that which they would have  been  in at the same time if theyd had a repayment 
mortgage. To the loss identified as at 1998, Santander added interest up to 28 April 2005.  It 
then added a refund of premiums plus interest  for the period from the repayment  of the 
mortgage to 28 April 2005. From the resultant sum Santander then deducted the value  of the 
policy on 28 April 2005. The surrender value was several thousand  pounds  more than the 
loss, so Mr and Mrs H were told they had no loss. 
Mr and Mrs H questioned  the outcome of the calculation.  They  disputed  they hadnt  suffered 
a loss as they had had to pay more to clear their mortgage in 1998 than they would have if 
theyd had a repayment mortgage.  In addition, at the time, the endowment policy was worth 
less than £24,000, which was significantly less than they actually paid to clear the mortgage 
and would have  needed to clear  it if it had been  on a repayment basis. In addition,  they 
pointed out they had actually surrendered  the endowment policy  in October  2007, not 
April 2005.
Santander provided further explanation  of the calculation and confirmed it had capped  the 
calculation based  on Mr and Mrs Hs statement about their awareness of risk. They had said 
they became aware the policy may not pay the target amount from a letter provided by the 
product provider. The letter in question was dated  28 October 2004. It calculated the loss 
based on a calculation date of April 2005, giving Mr and Mrs H a six month  grace period 
from the date they became aware of the risk associated with their policy.  
In addition, a loss calculation was run to October  2007 when the policy  was surrendered. 
This again showed no financial  loss had been suffered.
Mr and Mrs H werent  happy with Santanders  conclusions and so referred their complaint to 
this service. One of our investigators  considered the complaint and concluded  the correct  
date for calculation of Mr and Mrs Hs loss was the date the policy was surrendered. She 
was satisfied the calculation had been  done correctly and they hadnt suffered a loss.
 
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They couldnt understand the 
conclusion of no-loss when there was clear evidence, they believed, they had suffered a 
Ref: DRN56564572loss. They  provided  a further  detailed  explanation  of why they believe they have suffered a 
loss.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the first thing I should explain is that when redress  is considered, it is not designed  to 
place a consumer  in the position they would  have been in if any misleading statements  had 
been true. Rather we attempt to place a consumer, as far as possible,  in the position they 
would have been in had they not been misled. The first stage of this process is to decide  
what we think they would  most likely  have done  if they had been aware of the true facts. 
Mr and Mrs H have said they were  led to believe the policy guaranteed to repay  their 
mortgage and give them an additional  sum. This was not something the policy guaranteed  to 
do. So I need to consider what Mr and Mrs H would have done  if theyd been told repayment  
and a surplus was the best case scenario, but there  was also a risk the policy  wouldnt pay 
off the mortgage.  Mr and Mrs H have indicated they wouldnt  have  taken the risk of the policy 
not performing  as needed. 
The policy Mr and Mrs H took out was the lowest risk type of mortgage  endowment available 
at the time, so not wanting  to take a risk with the repayment of the mortgage  means  they 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy at all. The only guaranteed method of repaying  a 
mortgage was for it to be arranged on a repayment basis. As such, redress should be based 
on what position Mr and Mrs H would have  been  in if they had a repayment mortgage from 
the outset.
The calculation Santander completed compares Mr and Mrs Hs position with the 
endowment mortgage  with that of an equivalent  repayment mortgage. It then added in a 
refund of premiums plus interest, as the policy would  never  have existed. I am satisfied this 
method of calculating Mr and Mrs Hs loss is correct.  As such, I cant  uphold  this complaint. 
However, I will provide some further  explanation  of the calculation in the hope  it will alleviate  
Mr and Mrs Hs concerns.
Mr and Mrs H have said they had a loss at the point they paid off the mortgage because they 
paid more to redeem it than they would have had to if theyd had a repayment  mortgage. 
That is true  the calculations show this as more than £9,000. However,  at this point they 
also owned an endowment policy which had a value; something they wouldnt have had if 
theyd had a repayment mortgage.  Whilst I dont know the value of the policy  at that point, 
but given it was worth over £27,000  less than six years later, it may well have been worth 
£9,000 or possibly more. I would point out the loss calculation then adds interest to the loss 
figure at this stage as Mr and Mrs H were  deprived  of the use of the money until they 
surrendered the endowment.
In addition, this isnt the extent of the loss calculation  it doesnt  stop in 1989, but rather  
goes through  to 2007 when Mr and Mrs H placed  themselves  in the position  of not having an 
endowment policy.  The position they should always have been  in. 
Following the mortgage  being paid off, if Mr and Mrs H hadnt been sold the endowment, 
they wouldnt have  needed to continue  to pay the policy  premiums.  So these are then 
Ref: DRN56564573refunded, along  with interest, to reflect the loss of use of the money. The total loss is then 
established as at the surrender date.  It was £23,695.66. 
However, at that point  Mr and Mrs H had an investment policy worth £33,620.41.  This has to 
be taken into account as it is an asset they had, albeit because  they were  misled. When the 
loss from not having  a repayment mortgage  is compared to the value of the asset  
Mr and Mrs H also owned, they actually made  a gain from the situation   almost £10,000.
Overall, whilst I can understand Mr and Mrs H feel they should  receive  compensation 
because they were mis-sold the endowment policy, they didnt suffer a loss from that poor 
advice. So there isnt a loss to compensate them  for.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms and Mrs H to accept or reject  my decision 
before 15 June 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5656457