Complaint
Mr P is a director of a limited company, A. He complains that A incurred a £10,000 interest 
charge because Lloyds Bank plc wrongly told him that a cheque would clear quicker than it 
did.
background
Mr P issued  a cheque for £400,000 from As business account on 23 August 2018. The 
cheque was presented for payment on 29 August 2018 but not paid. Mr P called Lloyds that 
day to ask why the funds were showing as returned on As bank statement. Lloyds said 
because of the value,  it needed to complete security checks,  but was unable  to reach Mr P 
by phone to verify  if the cheque  was genuine.  During this call Mr P confirmed he had issued 
the cheque and he was told by Lloyds  that it would clear the next day.
On Friday 31 August 2018 Mr P called Lloyds again to ask why the cheque still had not 
cleared. Lloyds accepted that it gave Mr P wrong  information during the previous call. He 
should have been told that, following the security check, it would take a further four working 
days for the cheque to clear. Mr P told Lloyds that the cheque  needed  to clear immediately, 
to avoid  him incurring  a 2.5% charge  for interest  equating to £10,000. A member of the 
complaints team said they would speak  to the clearing team and call Mr P back that day.
Mr P did not hear back from Lloyds, so he called again on Monday 3 September  2018. Its on 
this day that the cheque  cleared. Because the cheque did not clear  before the end of the 
month, Mr P says A had to pay £10,000 interest on the loan.
Lloyds accepted the information it gave Mr P on 29 August 2018 was wrong and paid £75 to 
compensate him for the time and cost of the calls he made. It didnt  agree  to compensate  A 
for the interest  charges because it hadnt  seen enough evidence  of the loan terms.
During the complaint, Mr P provided a copy of the loan agreement.  Lloyds then offered to pay 
£1,000 to compensate for the interest charges.  This equated to three days of interest,  to 
make up the three day delay.
Our investigator felt this was a fair offer. Mr P didnt accept our investigators opinion, but 
said A would be willing to accept £2,000. Lloyds didnt  agree. 
This matter was then passed to me for a decision.  I issued a provisional decision on 
24 October 2019 and an extract  of my provisional findings is below. 
I think that A has lost out because of the incorrect  information  given  to Mr P by Lloyds. And 
so, I think Lloyds  should  put things right,  as Ill explain.
It is not in dispute that but for Lloyds security checks, the funds would have reached the 
recipients account  before  the end of the month.  Meaning A would not have incurred interest  
charges of £10,000.
Because of the high value  of this cheque,  I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to protect A 
and itself by carrying  out additional  security checks to verify if the cheque was genuine. 
Lloyds terms and conditions allows for this. The security checks  were  inevitably going to 
hold up the clearing process.  But I do think the information given to Mr P during the call on 
29 August 2018  deprived him of the opportunity  to mitigate As loss. I say this because  Im 
persuaded Mr P wouldve  acted differently, had he been given the right information.
Ref: DRN5884798Mr P was fully aware of the implications of not making this payment in time. If he knew the 
cheque wasnt going to clear in time,  I think its likely  he would have cancelled it and arranged 
an electronic transfer instead. I say this because he had recently  paid a fee to use this 
service for another payment.  I think to avoid  incurring a 2.5% interest charge, equating to 
£10,000  he wouldve  likely taken these  steps  to mitigate As loss.
I appreciate Mr P did not provide a copy of his loan agreement when Lloyds originally asked 
for it. But, the information he gave  Lloyds has been  consistent throughout and it has now 
seen a copy of the loan agreement which says:
the borrower shall pay interest on the loan of £10,000 per month on the 1st of each month 
where a balance of the loan is outstanding on this date. This balance includes any interest  
outstanding.
Ive also seen on As bank  statement that a payment of £10,000 was made on
24 September 2018, referenced as loan interest.  Mr P says he made  this payment to avoid a 
further charge  for interest in October.
Lloyds has pointed out that A and the lender may be linked. As a payment of £10,000 for 
interest was made to the lender after the loan was repaid, Im persuaded A has suffered a 
loss. And given Mr P explained the consequences of a late payment on 31 August 2018, Im 
satisfied Lloyds was on notice. It follows that I think Lloyds  could  have reasonably foreseen  
the loss its actions would cause A.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I think A has lost out as a result of the information given by 
Lloyds. So I think  Lloyds  should reimburse the interest charge plus simple  interest  at annual  
8% a year.
Im not aware of any negative implications  to A for having to pay money out that it shouldnt 
have had to. So I make  no award  for inconvenience or loss of business.
Mr P (on behalf of A) and Lloyds have responded to say that they agree with my provisional 
decision. I will now issue my final decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also given careful  consideration to all of 
the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision
and for the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN5884798K821x#15my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and 
require Lloyds Bank plc to:
-pay A £10,000 plus simple interest*  at 8% per year from the date A made  the 
interest payment  (24 September 2018) to the date of settlement.
* If Lloyds Bank Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest,  it should  tell A how much its taken off. It should also provide a 
tax deduction certificate if A asks for one, so A can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Arazu Eid
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5884798