K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2002 in connection with a credit  card. Mr J says Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold  
him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr J didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this. The PPI was 
sold several years after the credit  card was taken out so I think  Mr J would have 
known that he didnt need to take PPI to get the credit. I appreciate that BoS no 
longer have a call recording of the sale but I think this is understandable given the 
length of time since the sale. And my understanding of the call script is that it would 
have instructed the representative to ask Mr J for his consent  before PPI was applied  
to his account. I think its more likely that Mr J agreed to take PPI and that is how it 
came to be applied  to his account.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr J so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr J about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr J has said - including what  he has said about  his other 
means of making  repayments and the terms relating  to self-employed people. But these 
points dont change  my decision.  This policy would have paid out in addition to Mr Js 
savings and would have provided cover  for up to 12 months if he was off work sick. It would 
also have provided  cover if he lost his job. Ive seen the terms relating to self-employed  
people wanting  to make  a claim for unemployment  and while  some policies did make it 
harder for self-employed people to make  a successful claim, this wasnt  one of those 
policies.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything   
Mr J paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr J back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mr J now Ive issued my final decision if it hasnt done 
so already.
Ref: DRN52506462my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5250646