K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that TSB Bank plc removed  account blocks from her joint account  without  
her permission.
background
Miss S held a joint account with her ex-husband. She says that account  had blocks  placed 
on it and was overdrawn. Miss S says she had agreed to make  token repayments towards 
the balance and those payments had to be made in person as a result of the blocks.  She 
says a consent order had been  agreed with her ex-husband  that included  a payment 
towards the account overdraft. But TSB allowed the block to be removed when her ex-
husband asked  it do, so that the payment  could  be made into the account. Miss S says that 
should not have happened and would like an apology as well as an investigation into TSB to 
find out how many times this has happened  to others.
TSB doesnt accept making a mistake  and says it received a letter from Miss Ss solicitor. It 
says Miss S and her ex-husband appeared to want the payment to be made into the account 
and so removed  the block. TSB says it acted in good faith and that the account was then 
closed.
Miss S says her ex-husband  could have withdrawn the money and that she should have 
been told by TSB what was going  on.
Miss S brought her complaint to us and initially our investigator didnt  uphold  the complaint. 
He thought we couldnt look at other cases of a similar nature and that Miss Ss solicitor had 
asked for the removal of the block. The investigator  didnt  think there was any financial loss 
and that he thought TSB had acted  in good  faith.
Miss S didnt accept  that view and says she had previously asked for the blocks to be 
removed so she could  make the token payments into it but TSB refused. She says TSB 
allowed her ex-husband  to remove the blocks.
The investigator issued  a second  view in which he upheld the complaint. In summary  he said 
TSB should not have removed the block and that had caused Miss S distress and 
inconvenience. He recommended  TSB pay her £100  compensation as the mistake forced 
Miss S into unnecessary communication with her ex-husband.
TSB doesnt accept that view and says it removed the block to comply with a court order and 
says thats a completely different position to Miss Ss previous requests to remove the 
blocks.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and came  to the provisional view that I didnt 
uphold this complaint.
I appreciated that this was a difficult divorce having  read the correspondence between the 
parties and I appreciated that the account  blocks had been in place for some  time. But I said 
I was satisfied that both Miss S and her ex-husband agreed to the terms of the consent  order  
that was drawn  up by their solicitor. And that there was no dispute  that as part of that order  
the TSB account  balance was to be repaid and that was the intention of all parties.
Ref: DRN50089392I could see that the solicitor tried to pay the money into Miss Ss joint account but was 
unable to do so and that the solicitor wrote  to TSB explaining the terms of the court  order.  So 
in those circumstances I thought TSB acted in good  faith by removing  the block  to allow that 
payment to be made. I appreciated that TSB acted on the instruction of Miss Ss ex-husband 
and ought to have considered seeking  Miss Ss approval. But I also thought  it likely that Miss 
S would have agreed to the removal of the block if she had been asked as she wanted that 
court order  complied with. I also didnt  think Miss S suffered any financial loss as a result of 
what took place  and I couldnt  fairly consider what may have happened.
I appreciated Miss S says she was forced  to attend  a TSB branch to make  payments into the 
account and her ex-husband was able to have the block removed with one request. But I 
thought there was a significant  difference in what took place. I also thought  that it would be 
unreasonable for TSB to have removed a block to have allowed the token payments then 
reapplied those blocks. And when it did remove the block it was to comply with the terms of 
a court  order  that had been  agreed  by both Miss S and her ex-husband. I thought in those 
circumstances there  would be little threat to the account integrity as Miss Ss ex-husband 
would have breached the intention of that court order  and jeopardised the rest of the order.
I didnt think TSBs actions resulted in an increase in unnecessary  communication between 
Miss S and her ex-husband as I could see that they were both in communication with each 
other about other matters. And I also thought  they could have communicated  via their 
solicitor if they wished and that part of the communication  took place due to Miss Ss mistake 
about the account details  and by her ex-husband not checking  them.
Overall my provisional view was that TSB could  have  asked  both parties for their consent 
before removing the account restrictions. But its actions were in good faith and based on a 
desire to comply with a court  order. I didnt think compensation  was justified for those 
reasons and I didnt  think Miss S suffered any financial loss.
TSB has said it has no further information to add.
Miss S disagrees with my provisional  decision and in summary says the court order  does not 
order the account blocks to be removed and says there was no agreement between the 
parties. She says she is the victim of domestic abuse and TSBs actions allowed that abuse 
to continue. Miss S says her ex-husband could have withdrawn the money from the account  
and that there was no need for the blocks to have  been removed.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I have reached  the 
same overall view that I reached in my provisional  decision.
I accept the consent  order  does not make reference  to the account block  being  removed but 
Im satisfied it was the intention of both parties that the overdraft be repaid. Im also satisfied 
that if either  party had not complied with the court order  then they would have been in 
breach of it and subject  to potential court proceedings.  I appreciate Miss S says her ex-
husband could  have withdrawn the money he agreed to pay into the account. But I think  
whilst that was a possibility, it was highly unlikely  in the circumstances and for the reasons I 
have explained  would  have placed him in breach of the consent  order  as that order  says the 
account needs to be paid off and closed.
Ref: DRN50089393In any event I can only consider what did take place and not what may have happened.  I 
have made  clear in my provisional  findings  that TSB could  have asked both sides  for 
approval but I think it acted in good faith to allow the account  payment to be made  and for 
the account to be closed.
I appreciate Miss S will remain disappointed  by my decision  but Im satisfied this brings an 
end to what we in trying to sort out this dispute informally can do.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5008939