K821x#15complaint
Mr Ms unhappy with the advice he received  from ICF Financial  Services Limited (ICF) to 
transfer benefits from a final salary  occupational  pension scheme (OPS) to a self-invested 
personal pension  (SIPP).  Mr M considers  that the advice was unsuitable.
background
Mr M and his wife, Mrs M, met with ICF in early December 2016.  A full Financial Planning 
Questionnaire was completed which confirmed that:
Mr M was 58 years  old, employed,  earning  around £2,400  per annum and wanted to 
retire within six months.  Mrs M was 57 years  old, intended to continue working and 
earned around £800 per month
Other than his state pension, Mr Ms only retirement provision  was the OPS he held 
with his employer  of the last 42 years. Mrs Ms only retirement provision was her 
state pension  
Mr and Mrs M had three children, none of which  were financially dependent on them
Mr and Mrs M smoked;  Mr M had chronic  obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
Mr M had £26,000 in savings. His house  was mortgage free and worth £140,000
Not including  food or fuel, Mr M estimated his monthly outgoings as approximately  
£375 per month. Upon  retiring he said hed like £1,600  a month  until he reached 
state retirement age (66 years  old)
As at November 2016, the cash equivalent  transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ms OPS was 
£738,162.84. At age 60 this was estimated  to provide Mr M with a £50,408.19  lump  
sum; annual pension of £18,766.86  and an annual spouses  pension of £11,553.11
The initial meeting was recorded, and the following was covered in the discussion that took 
place:
Mr M said if he transferred and took the maximum lump sum, he could put £40,000-
£50,000 towards the cost of a new property.  He said he could live off what remained 
until he received  his state pension, at which time he could drawdown what he needed 
from his remaining funds.  ICF explained that Mr M didnt need to take the full lump  
sum available  and said it wouldnt ordinarily suggest someone did this if the money 
was just going to sit in a bank account
ICF said it was important to establish how long Mr Ms OPS transfer value and state 
pension would last. It said that if Mr M lived  to a ripe old age hed probably get more 
money by staying in the OPS
Under the OPS,  ICF explained  that if Mr M passed away,  Mrs M would receive  a 
spouses pension  forever. But if she died, the pension  ended with her. Alternatively, if 
having transferred  out Mr M died, Mrs M could  get a lump sum or withdraw  pension  
income. And if she died while there was still money in Mr Ms pension pot, this could 
go to their children 
ICF said Mr M had a high transfer  value, equating to around 40 times  his annual 
pension. It said it usually worked  on the basis that if it was over 25-30 times the 
annual pension, it represented good value and transferring seemed a reasonable 
thing to do
ICF completed an Investment Selection Tool document which  recorded that Mrs M was 
financially dependent on Mr M; Mr M had minimal  knowledge of investments; Mr M was 
Ref: DRN54536902less able to see opportunities to make money and calculate the risks involved and Mr M 
thought he was a conservative investor with a low capacity  for loss. 
An undated  Pensions Transfer Risk Matrix/Scorecard was completed  for Mr Ms case. 
Based on a number  of factors, transferring  was deemed to rank Medium to High in terms of 
risk. Specifically, the result said, Certain aspects question whether this case should  be 
[transferred].
ICF produced a suitability  report dated  12 December 2016, saying this would focus on its 
recommendation regarding Mr Ms OPS  and that any investment recommendations would 
follow after a further meeting and in a separate report. In summary  the report  said:
Mr M was seeking advice on the most suitable  way to take an income  from his 
pension. Having control over his pension, how it was invested and varying income 
taken was important  
Mr M wanted  to ensure his wife and children  benefited from any unused pension  after 
he died
Mr M intended  to use equity in his home  (around  £140,000) to purchase a new 
property and anticipated hed need  around £50,000 to complete this
Despite having  COPD, Mr Ms general health  was good
Mr Ms state pension entitlement was £676.50 a month from age 66. Mrs Ms was 
roughly the same
Mr M had very limited  exposure to investments and previously only invested in cash  
products. But he appreciated he had to take some risk to see any investment growth 
 Mr M confirmed  this was a risk he was happy to take
ICF recommended  Mr M transfer out of his OPS to a SIPP, saying hed be able to take a 
variable pension income; his wife and children could receive any unused pension fund on his 
death; hed be able to take a lump sum to fund the new property purchase;  hed get higher 
tax free cash (TFC) than that offered by the scheme and hed have substantial control  over 
his fund. As Mr M wouldnt have these  benefits under his OPS,  ICF didnt  advise him to stay 
in it. ICF warned that by transferring Mr M would be taking on investment risk and that the 
growth of his pension  and retirement  income would be affected by charges. It also warned 
that once he left the scheme, he couldnt  re-join it and said Mr M understood the valuable 
guaranteed benefits he was giving up, which included an annual pension and the spouses 
pension increasing  annually in line with the Retail Price Index (RPI).
Based on Mr Ms current transfer  value,  ICF confirmed Mr M would pay a one-off adviser 
charge of 2% (£14,763)  and an ongoing  annual adviser charge  of 0.5%. 
Mr M later retired, became a deferred member of his OPS. ICF helped  Mr and Mrs M 
arrange a mortgage and they later purchased a new house  worth £220,000.
In January 2017 ICF gathered annuity  quotations for comparison.  These  showed  Mr Ms 
transfer value  wasnt sufficient to purchase  an annuity equivalent to the benefits  available  
under his OPS.  
In April 2017 ICF obtained Retirement Modeller  projections. One showed that based on a 
transfer value  of £738,162  and a lump  sum of £50,000 taken at the outset, Mr Ms remaining 
pension could last from age 59 to 102 and provide  him with an increasing  pension broadly in 
line with that provided  by his OPS. Another projection was based on Mr M taking an initial 
and increasing  pension of £19,200  a year (£1,600 a month) from age 59. This also took into 
Ref: DRN54536903account Mr M reducing the income  he was drawing  once his state pension  started  being 
paid. 
In May 2017  Mr M met with ICF for a Client Review. ICF recorded that leaving a financial 
legacy was relatively  important  to Mr M but not the main  reason for transferring; Mr M 
required £50,000 for his house  purchase; Mr M was happy with his former employer; Mr M 
required flexible pension income.
A SIPP illustration was also produced to give Mr M an idea of what  he might  get back over 
the years. Results from the longevity calculator ICF used  suggested  that based on Mr M 
being of average  health, he should prepare for his income to last him at least  32 years  until 
age 90.
A transfer  value analysis  (TVAS)  was produced in June 2017. The analysis showed:
If Mr M transferred his preserved benefits  to a SIPP, the annual  investment return 
(critical yield)  required  to match the benefits  from his OPS at age 60 would be 
17.23% per annum
The capital fund value  required  to purchase an annuity equal to the estimated 
benefits provided by Mr Ms OPS  (including spouses pension,  income  increases and 
guarantees) at age 60 was £900,178.37
If Mr M transferred his preserved benefits  to a SIPP, the annual  investment return 
(critical yield)  required  to match the benefits  from his OPS at age 59 would be in 
excess of 50% per annum
The capital fund value  required  to purchase an annuity equal to the estimated 
benefits provided by Mr Ms OPS  at age 59 was £902,650.62
An undated  investment recommendations report was sent by ICF to Mr M. In summary  the 
report said:
Mr Ms guaranteed  OPS CETV  was £753,296.82
Since its previous  meeting Mr M had confirmed he wished to take his full lump  sum 
entitlement of £188,324.20 to pay off the mortgage  on his new property, carry out 
home improvements and replenish the savings hed used to supplement  his income  
following his early  retirement
Mr M said he wanted to take an income of £1250 per month
ICF advised  Mr M to make investments  via a SIPP and four Trustee Investment Plans  (TIP). 
ICF said that out of the £225,989.02 intended  to be held in his SIPP,  Mr Ms £188,324.20  
lump sum would be paid as well as its initial  adviser charge of £15,065.93;  leaving £22,599 
held in cash. This would  be used to pay his monthly  income of £1250 and other charges. ICF 
said it recommended  Mr M invest in TIPs via his SIPP as theyd allow him to make 
investments not normally available individually  via an InvestAcc SIPP. One of the TIP 
investments included a guaranteed minimum return of Mr Ms capital.
Mr M followed ICFs recommendation.  His OPS  was transferred to a new SIPP. From the 
amount transferred Mr M received £188,324.20  as a tax-free lump sum and ICFs one off 
adviser charge  was paid. Mr Ms remaining funds were invested via a SIPP  and three TIPs. 
My understanding is the funds placed in Mr Ms SIPP were intended to be used  to pay him a 
monthly income of £1,250 per month  until his state pension starts  to be paid,  at which  point 
Mr M will reduce  the level of income  hes drawing down. 
Ref: DRN54536904In July 2018, with the assistance  of a claims management company (CMC), Mr M 
complained to ICF about the advice  it had provided him with. In summary he said:
He hadnt  seen ICFs TVAS report until hed complained and noted this was 
produced around six months after ICFs suitability report. He said this shouldve been 
provided to him at the same  time as ICFs  recommendations
ICFs  documentation  didnt reflect or explain the true cost of the recommended 
arrangement  the weighted fund charge quoted was based on a fund value which 
didnt take into account Mr M taking  the largest lump  sum he could and illustrations 
showing projected benefits didnt reflect where  Mr Ms funds were intended to be 
invested
As an unsophisticated investor  with a low capacity for los, he shouldnt have been 
advised to transfer  
The initial fee paid to ICF hadnt been  justified and he felt it should be returned
ICF responded to Mr Ms complaint on 19 July 2018.  In summary it said:
Its recommendations, how Mr Ms funds would  be invested and associated  charges 
were all detailed and outlined to Mr M. He had enough information to make an 
informed decision
Although Mr M had limited exposure  to investment markets, he appreciated that he 
needed to take a little more risk to achieve  a greater return
The arrangement  recommended represented  the most cost-effective  solution. 
However as a goodwill gesture, if Mr M confirmed hed switched to a more  basic  
arrangement (forgoing  the flexibility of the recommended arrangement) it would 
consider refunding the annual charge and drawdown fee totalling £580
Unhappy with ICFs response Mr M referred his complaint  to our service. 
One of our investigators  considered the matter and felt Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. 
He didnt think the advice ICF had provided  to Mr M was suitable. In order  to resolve the 
matter our investigator said ICF should,  as far as possible, put Mr M in the position he would 
now be in if he had not been advised to transfer his pension benefits.
Mr M agreed  with our investigator, but ICF disagreed and provided a detailed  response.  In 
summary it said:
Mr Ms greatest motivation for transferring was to buy a new property and be 
mortgage free
Mr Ms COPD diagnosis was a major driver for its advice
Mr M had already made his mind up about  the transfer without ICF  he committed  to 
buying a house before ICF issued  its final report and this increased the need for tax 
free cash  in order to avoid substantial borrowing
TVAS reports  had been of very little practical  use for some  time and were 
completely pointless in situations  where  a client was very close to retirement.  There 
was no imperative to match  OPS benefits  
A transfer wouldnt be recommended if a consumers objectives  could be met by their 
OPS. Its file demonstrated that Mr Ms objectives  none of which  included  matching 
his OPS benefits  could   be  met by his OPS. Its advice enabled Mr M to retire  early 
on the income he wanted and move to a new house; he couldnt have done this 
without transferring
Ref: DRN54536905Mr and Mrs M had been very concerned about the lack of death  benefits  under the 
OPS post retirement. Having transferred,  if Mr M died, Mrs M could receive around 
£400,000 and if Mrs M died, substantial  funds would be available  for their children
Plenty of documents and warnings were  given to Mr M prior to the transfer
Because the parties couldnt agree and our investigator said their view remained the same, 
the matter has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
I apologise to both parties for the length of time weve had this complaint and thank them for 
their patience. Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding Mr 
Ms complaint. Ill explain why. But before I do, I should emphasise that while  Ive taken note 
of the extensive  arguments made,  the purpose  of my decision  isnt to comment  on every  
point raised. Because of this Ive limited my response to the issue  I consider to be central to 
this complaint. That is to say, whether  the advice ICF gave Mr M was suitable.
I note what ICF has said about Mr Ms complaint, particularly its original view that it was a 
dispute about fees rather than any issue with its advice. But Im satisfied that, despite 
references made to fees when the complaint  was first made, its clear Mr M had concerns 
about the advice hed received to transfer. Indeed, the complaint read, [Mr M] believes () 
he should not have been transferred (). Given Mr Ms concern and the fact the advice was 
given by ICF, thats what Im considering here.  
The regulators position  
At the time of ICFs advice, the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), set out the 
principles for assessing suitability. The relevant rules are 9.2.1  and 9.2.2 as set out in the 
FCAs Handbook and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS). These required ICF to gather 
sufficient information  from Mr M to ensure its recommendation met his objectives; that Mr M 
could financially withstand the risks associated  with these objectives  and that Mr M had the 
necessary experience and knowledge  to understand the risks involved in the overall 
transaction.
I dont think all the factors in deciding suitability were met in this case. Im not satisfied ICF 
went far enough in terms of gathering  and recording enough  information about Mr Ms 
circumstances; adequately exploring  and interrogating his objectives  or satisfactorily 
evaluating, explaining and documenting the associated  risks of transferring. Because of this I 
dont think it was reasonable for ICF to conclude transferring was the most appropriate 
course of action for Mr M. 
Mr Ms OPS  was a final salary scheme which provided benefits based on his salary  whilst in 
employment. OPS  like Mr Ms typically  have significant benefits and guarantees. Giving 
these up and subjecting  future pension income  to the risks associated  with unpredictable 
investment returns should only be done where it can be shown its clearly in the best 
interests of the consumer.  Under  19.1.6  the COBS  rules at the time of the advice said:
When advising a retail client who is () a member of a defined  benefits occupational 
pension scheme  (), a firm should start by assuming that a transfer  () will not be suitable. 
A firm should only consider a transfer () to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence,  that the transfer, () is in the retail clients best interests. 
Ref: DRN54536906Given the regulators position, my starting point is that a transfer wont  usually be suitable. 
Therell need to be good reasons why a transfer  is in a consumers best interests  merely 
meeting their apparent objectives  wouldnt,  in my view, be enough.  Generally, a transfer will 
only be in the consumers best interests  if theres a reasonable prospect that the new 
arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer  will also need to be suitable, 
taking into account  the individuals particular circumstances.
Mr Ms position at the time of ICFs advice
Mr M was 58 years  old and had accrued significant  amounts  of service in the OPS  he held 
with his employer  of over forty years  his transfer  value was over £700,000. Given how long 
Mr M had been working, its understandable  he wanted to retire  in the short-term. However, 
other than his state pension entitlement at age 66, Mr Ms OPS was his only retirement  
provision. And his wifes  sole retirement  provision was her state pension. So, Mr Ms OPS  
represented the largest proportion of his and his wifes combined wealth and future 
retirement income. They didnt have other  sizable assets they could rely on if Mr Ms transfer 
didnt work  out. Although Mr M had £26,000  in savings and his home was mortgage free, it 
seems to me his OPS was his most valuable asset.  It provided a guaranteed  income  for the 
future with increases and a spouses  pension for Mrs M should Mr M pass  away.  
By transferring, Mr M was giving up what was intended to provide a secure income  in 
retirement in favor  of an uncertain  income  largely reliant on the investment performance of 
his new scheme. In my view, this represented  a relatively risky strategy which  I dont believe 
Mr M wouldve gone ahead with were it not for ICFs  advice.  ICF itself described the transfer  
as high  risk business and in recognition  of this, I think it shouldve proceeded with caution. 
Mr M was a standard  retail investor   not a pension expert  relying  on ICFs advice on 
whether transferring was in his best interests.  While  having regard for Mr Ms circumstances, 
objectives, ATR and capacity for loss, it was ICFs responsibility to evaluate  the merits and 
shortcomings of transferring,  while considering  alternatives,  to determine the best course of 
action for Mr M, especially in terms of what would  place  him in the best possible position in 
retirement.
ICF assessed Mr Ms ATR as Conservative and determined that his capacity  for loss was 
low. Given Mr Ms circumstances and investment experience, I think this was reasonably 
accurate. Despite what ICF concluded about  Mr Ms capacity for loss, I note that it said Mr M 
appreciated he must take some investment risk to see any growth () which [he] () 
confirmed [he understood]  and [was] happy to take. But while  a consumer may indicate 
theyre prepared  to take some investment risk, Im mindful that this willingness doesnt 
fundamentally alter their capacity to accept losses  the degree  of risk Mr M was in a 
position to take in the context of his overall circumstances was a key consideration. And 
given he had little knowledge or experience  of investments, I think Mr M wouldve been 
largely relying on ICF to objectively assess all the risks of the proposed transaction.
But Mr Ms existing circumstances only form one part of an assessment of the risk he was 
willing or able to take with a transfer. I think another key part was the financial viability  of the 
transfer. And that had to be done in conjunction  with other  key factors,  such as Mr Ms ATR 
and wider circumstances. There needed  to be a careful analysis of the investment return 
required (critical yield) from investments in the receiving scheme ICF recommended,  to 
match (let alone exceed) the benefits being  given up by transferring.
ICFs Transfer value analysis (TVAS) and projections
Ref: DRN54536907The advice was given  at a time when there were no industry standard  projection rates to 
assess the likelihood of the critical yield being  achieved. But at the time the regulators 
assumed future growth rates for personal  pensions illustrations were 2% (low); 5% 
(intermediate); and 8% (high). Whilst advisers  werent required to refer to these  rates when 
giving advice on pension  transfers, I consider they provide  a useful indication of what  growth 
rates would have  been considered reasonably  achievable when the advice was given  in this 
case. The critical yields ICFs TVAS set out for Mr M indicated the transfer might not be in 
his best interests  or financially viable  the required investment returns were incredibly high. 
The critical yield required to match Mr Ms OPS at his desired retirement  age (59) was more 
than 50% per annum. If Mr M took benefits  at age 60, the critical yield was 17.23%. So even 
if the SIPP he transferred  to had achieved the highest  maximum  growth at that time, it was 
unlikely Mr M would receive  a materially higher pension at retirement as a result of 
transferring. To come anywhere near to achieving this, he wouldve needed to take 
investment risk which in all likelihood far exceeded  his ATR and capacity  for loss. 
Although a transfer wont always be unsuitable even if the critical yields  are high, it does give 
an indication  of the degree  of risk involved in the transaction and whether the transfer  value 
represents good
value in return for the benefits being given up. So, I think it was important for the results of 
ICFs TVAS  to be shared and discussed  with Mr M. ICFs Client  Review document indicated  
this was something that shouldve happened   the framework asked the adviser if the critical 
yield produced  by the TVAS was discussed with the client, particularly in relation to their 
ATR. However, Mr M has said neither ICFs TVAS report nor any of its contents were  shared 
with him until he complained. 
Regarding the TVAS,  ICF has said it is very rare that a client will fully appreciates  [sic] the 
significance and fully understand  the full contents () There are lots of figures on the TVAS  
which make  it confusing  for a person with knowledge of the industry never mind an 
Unsophisticated investor as [Mr M] describes himself. It also says the suggestion that 
receipt of the TVAS  and a full explanation of the results wouldve led Mr M to make a 
different decision about  the transfer is preposterous. I dont agree with ICFs  position  here 
and think it tends to underplay  the importance  of the critical yield and seems to overlook  
what the regulator says under COBS 19.1.2,  which requires a business  arranging a pension  
transfer to:
1.compare the benefits likely to be paid under the ceding arrangement with the benefits 
afforded by the proposed arrangement;
2.ensure that that comparison includes enough  information for the retail client to be 
able to make an informed decision;
3.give the retail client a copy of the comparison,  drawing the retail clients  attention  to 
the factors that do and do not support the firms personal recommendation, in good 
time; and
4.take reasonable steps to ensure that the retail  client understands the firms 
comparison and how it contributes towards  the personal recommendation.
In simple terms, ICF had to assess  the benefits likely to be paid and options available under 
the OPS and compare this with those available under the proposed  scheme before it 
advised Mr M on what to do. 
Ref: DRN54536908I cant see that ICF shared its TVAS results with Mr M in an understandable format when it 
ought to have. Its also concerning that ICFs  TVAS was produced  over six months after it 
issued its recommendation that Mr M to transfer. I dont think  this was appropriate. In my 
view the TVAS shouldve  ideally been produced and the results shared with Mr M before any 
recommendation was made. This formed  part of ICFs obligation to ensure Mr M was 
provided with sufficient and clear  information to make an informed decision about 
transferring. The TVAS findings  werent referred  to in ICFs first suitability report, or the 
second suitability  report it issued to set out its recommendation for how Mr Ms transfer value 
should be invested. Although ICF says it couldnt produce an accurate TVAS until Mr M 
became a deferred member of his OPS,  I dont think this means it couldnt  or shouldnt  
have  provided the findings of its TVAS  to Mr M before any recommendation was made.
As well as the TVAS,  ICF obtained  Retirement Modeller projections. These indicated  Mr Ms 
transfer value  was likely to be able to provide him with a regular income beyond his 90s. But 
these were based on Mr M taking £50,000 as a lump sum and didnt reflect what  ICF later 
confirmed it knew Mr M actually intended  to take  his full tax free cash  (TFC) entitlement  
which was 25% of his transfer value. This distorted the impact of charges on Mr Ms SIPP  
and meant  the projections didnt provide Mr M with an accurate picture of the sustainability 
and financial  viability of the transfer.  Although the projections did broadly set out the 
assumptions they were  based on, theres no evidence ICF explained to Mr M what would 
happen if the assumptions  varied.  Mr M wasnt a pension expert and so I dont think he 
would necessarily have  been aware  of the significant impact on the results that changing  the 
assumptions could  have. 
In some of the projections ICF included  income Mr M would be receiving from the state 
pension. This was because Mr M had intended  to reduce the level of income  he was drawing 
from his SIPP when  the state  pension  started  being  paid.  Although  I think  it was helpful to 
show a projection  on this basis, I think Mr M also needed to see what  his transfer  value 
could provide and for how long on its own merits. In my view, including state pension  income  
in the projections  distorted any possible comparison between what Mr Ms OPS  would 
provide and the level and duration of income  the transfer value could afford  him.
Ive also seen that in its second suitability report, ICF provided Mr M with inaccurate 
information regarding  some of the costs associated with its recommendation. Notably, the 
weighted fund charge calculated didnt  appear to take into account Mr Ms TFC lump sum 
(£188.324.20) and ICFs adviser charge (£15,065.93) being deducted from the transfer value 
at the outset. It appeared to assume that while Mr Ms residual funds  would be invested 
elsewhere via TIPs, £225,989.82  would remain in his SIPP account. But this wasnt  correct  
after the TFC and adviser charge, only £22,599.89 would  remain in Mr Ms SIPP.  ICFs 
calculation doesnt  seem to have made allowances for this and so I dont think  the true cost 
of the arrangement ICF was recommending Mr M was adequately communicated. 
Despite what Ive said about ICFs TVAS,  projections and the costs outlined, I should  be 
clear that I dont think these factors alone determine  the suitability or degree of risk involved 
in the transfer.  These things had to be assessed  while having regard for Mr Ms objectives 
and circumstances  as a whole. From  what Ive seen theres insufficient evidence that Mr M 
was prepared, able or needed to take significant risk with his OPS by transferring - either to 
meet his recorded  objectives or what shouldve been determined to be his actual  needs  and 
requirements.
Mr Ms objectives 
Ref: DRN54536909ICFs first suitability report recorded  that Mr Ms objectives at the time were to:
retire within six months  (by age 59) with a monthly income of £1,600  until his state 
pension started. At this point he wanted  to reduce the income  he was taking to 
preserve his pension  
have control over his pension so he could decide how it was invested
receive a £50,000 lump sum from his OPS to help purchase  a new house
ensure his wife and children benefited  from any unused pension  after he died
ICFs second suitability report repeated Mr Ms original objectives  but updated them to reflect 
that:
Mr M wanted  a monthly income  of £1250 per month and the ability  to vary his income
Following a house purchase, Mr M required the full lump sum available under  his 
OPS (£188,324.20) to pay off his new mortgage.  He wanted extra  funds for home  
improvements and to replenish savings used to supplement his income  following his 
retirement
Although conscious  of ICFs record of Mr Ms objectives, Im mindful that while  retirement 
planning may have regard  for an individuals short-term goals and general preferences, its 
primary focus should be a consumers personal circumstances with a view to putting them in 
the best possible position at retirement, with the appropriate income  provision in place long-
term. It wasnt ICFs role to simply justify and make the transfer happen because it appeared 
to cater  to Mr Ms stated objectives. It needed  to determine which of Mr Ms objectives were 
pressing requirements,  such that giving up the valuable benefits under his OPS was 
worthwhile. And those which were nice to haves and didnt make taking a gamble  with his 
transfer value  advisable.
At the time of its advice,  ICF says Mr Ms greatest desire/motivation was to buy a new 
property and be mortgage free. Although ICFs recording of its initial  meeting  with Mr M 
doesnt appear to reflect  any significant strength  of feeling from Mr M regarding  this, Mr M 
does say hed like to purchase a bungalow and that he thinks  he might  need £40,000 - 
£50,000 to do so. As Mr M was already mortgage  free, its understandable he wanted  to 
remain in this position after purchasing a new property. And with the proceeds  from the sale 
of his existing  house plus a lump  sum of £40,000  - £50,000, Mr M seemed  to think  this was 
achievable. 
But as Ive said, there doesnt appear to be anything which suggests moving to a new house 
in the short-term was Mr Ms overriding concern or essential  he wasnt  struggling  to make 
existing mortgage  payments  and there  was nothing to indicate any real issue  with his current 
property such that he needed to move  immediately. I appreciate that moving to a bungalow 
is something some individuals choose  to do in retirement, but as theres no record that Mr M 
or his wife had or were  developing  mobility  issues and Mrs M didnt intend  to retire in the 
short-term, Im not persuaded buying a bungalow  was an immediate necessity and therefore 
reasonable justification for transferring.
Between ICFs first and second suitability report being issued, ICF has said Mr M committed 
to buying a new house. Because Mr M did this before the transfer could be completed, ICF 
says it had to pull out all the stops  to get a mortgage arranged so the purchase  didnt fall 
through. Although it seems Mr M initiated a house  purchase before ICF had provided Mr M 
with complete advice  (it had advised  him to transfer  and had yet to make a recommendation 
Ref: DRN545369010about how his transfer value should be invested), I dont  think this negated ICFs 
responsibility to provide  objective as well as suitable advice. While ICF may merely have 
been trying  to be helpful, I think its facilitation  of the mortgage for the property purchase  
the paying back of which was contingent  on the transfer going ahead  meant  that it couldnt 
provide Mr M with the balanced advice it needed to in the circumstances.  
I dont agree with ICFs  suggestion that Mr Ms transfer was effectively a done  deal because 
of his actions  regarding the property  purchase. From what I can see, the transfer only really 
appeared to become an apparent necessity following  ICFs first suitability report advising  Mr 
M to transfer  and after it arranged  what  I understand was a mortgage of around £80,000. 
Like the investigator, Im not satisfied that purchasing  a more expensive  home  requiring a 
lump sum of almost double what Mr M originally said he required,  was the reason he chose 
to transfer. I think the fact he did this was a consequence of the transfer, rather than a 
cause. And were it not for ICFs transfer  advice and the pivotal role it accepts it played in the 
property purchase going  ahead, I find it unlikely Mr M wouldve transferred. I dont agree with 
ICFs view that its transfer recommendation was suitable because Mr and Mrs M had made 
their minds  up about the transfer without [it]. While I accept this indicates Mr M was open to 
transferring, I dont think this meant transferring was automatically the best route  to go down. 
I believe the fact he was seeking  financial advice  more  likely demonstrates  Mr M was only 
willing to transfer  if it was appropriate. And thats what I think he wanted from ICF  
confirmation of what was in his best interests  with regards to his OPS benefits.
Im mindful that ICFs second  suitability  report didnt address, explore or satisfactorily deal 
with the significant change in Mr Ms TFC requirement  it more than tripled from Mr Ms 
requirements recorded in the first suitability report. Nor did it address or explain why 
arranging a mortgage and paying this off using some of the larger TFC Mr M could secure  by 
transferring was in his best interests.  I think this was a significant  omission.  Without 
assessing and clearly setting out its view on this matter,  I dont believe ICF did all that was 
required to ensure Mr M fully understood and appreciated the implications of transferring and 
whether what he wanted  to achieve in the short term (with the house purchase, home 
improvements and topping up savings)  was commensurate with his overall long-term  
retirement needs, his ATR and capacity for loss. 
ICF has referred to Mr and Mrs Ms health,  death benefits and the importance of spousal  
pension provision as reasons  for its recommendation Mr M transfer out of his OPS.
Regarding Mr Ms health, ICF has said Mr Ms COPD diagnosis was a major driver in the 
formulation () and the execution of [its] advice. It says having  COPD and being a smoker  
meant Mr Ms life expectancy might not be as long as typical  OPS members.  Although  ICF 
has said Mr Ms poor health was an important  consideration when advising Mr M to transfer, 
Im mindful that this is was rather at odds with information recorded  in some of ICFs 
documentation from the time of its advice. For example, ICFs  first suitability report said that 
despite Mr Ms COPD diagnosis and he and his wife being  smokers, their general  health was 
good. The same was reflected  in the TVAS.  And for the Longevity  Report  ICF completed 
for Mr M, it selected  Average health as the most  suited descriptor. This was defined as, 
you are neither in perfect health for your age but nor are you suffering from any serious 
ongoing illness (). The report said there was a 75% chance  Mr M would live to age 82 and 
a 50% chance  hed live to age 90.
Although COPD is clearly  a serious disease  which cannot be cured  or reversed, my 
understanding is the outlook for it can vary from person  to person. Mr M has said hes still in 
the very early stages  of the disease  and that it hasnt affected his life in any way. Hes 
Ref: DRN545369011confirmed he hasnt  received any treatment for it and said ICF has made  more  of his COPD  
than he ever did. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think there was anything to indicate Mr M 
was seriously ill, such that his premature  death before or soon after taking retirement  
benefits could  be considered a legitimate concern  or justification for him transferring. If Mr 
Ms health  really was a legitimate worry, I wouldve  expected ICF to record more detail which  
reflected this and highlight  and deal with this consideration in its suitability reports.  While ICF 
has said that Mr and Mrs M came from an area of lower mortality; that having met them 
they looked old for their age  you could  see the effect  of the job and smoking had taken  its 
toll over the years  and that the advisors 77-year-old mother appeared in better health than 
them, I dont think it sufficiently demonstrated  that transferring  for health reasons was in 
Mr Ms best interests overall or a strong  enough  driver to warrant the transfer.
ICF has said Mr M was very  concerned about  the paucity  of death benefits under  his OPS 
and that he wanted to ensure his pension benefited  his wife and children if he died. Its 
understandable, given  that Mr M held the largest  proportion of his and his wifes pension 
provision and as Mrs M only had her state pension entitlement, that Mr M would want  to 
ensure his wife was provided for in the event of his death. Its also reasonable to expect 
Mr M to have  wanted to make some provision for his children. But based on what Ive seen, I 
dont think ICF has provided credible evidence  which demonstrates  that transferring for 
death benefits was worthwhile. 
ICF did, in general terms, set out what Mr Ms potential options  regarding the death benefits 
under his OPS  and a SIPP were. But I dont think it went far enough.  Although it confirmed 
the spouses pension Mrs M would be entitled  to under Mr Ms OPS  - £11,553  annually  with 
increases, it didnt appear to identify or explore what level of retirement income Mr and Mrs 
M thought Mrs M would need in the event Mr M passed away. And whether the spouse 
pension Mrs M could  get under Mr Ms OPS coupled with her state pension  entitlement  
would be sufficient. In addition, I think ICF ought  to have set out and explained the capital 
value Mr Ms SIPP  would need to achieve  to improve on the spouses pension  available 
under his OPS.  I cant see that it did either  of these things. Without this information Mr M 
couldnt adequately consider whether transferring to alter or improve  on death benefits was 
worth him losing his OPS  guarantees.
ICF has said, If [Mr M] stayed in the [OPS] and passed  away  [Mrs M] would receive approx. 
£10,000 pa, however if he passed  away now it would have been over £550,000 () If you 
put [this scenario] to [Mrs M] I can guess which one she would have choose [sic]. While I 
understand ICFs argument, Im afraid Im not persuaded by it. Although there was the 
potential for Mrs M to secure a lump sum under the new arrangement if Mr M died, the value 
of this was subject to unpredictable investment performance and charges. Whereas  the 
spouses pension  under Mr Ms OPS was guaranteed and unlike drawdown via a SIPP didnt  
carry the risk of being exhausted due to longevity  and/or investment performance. Ive also 
seen nothing to suggest Mrs Ms preference was to receive a lump sum in the event of her 
husbands death over a guaranteed regular income.  ICF has said that the spouses pension  
Mrs M couldve received under the OPS  wouldve  meant  she was receiving income far in 
excess of her needs, but as Ive said I havent  seen any evidence  of any assessment by ICF 
of Mrs Ms anticipated income  needs.  And I cant  see that having income over and above 
what she needed wouldve have presented a real problem for Mrs M, such  that this would be 
a compelling reason  and justification for Mr M transferring. My understanding  is that Mrs M 
works as a carer and is on a modest wage.
Ive thought about what ICF has said regarding the importance of Mr M passing his unused  
pension onto his children after he and his wife died. But again, Im not convinced  this was 
Ref: DRN545369012enough of a concern such that transferring would be an obvious choice. Mr and Mrs M had 
three adult  children who they confirmed werent  financially  dependent on them. Although 
ICFs first suitability letter said Mr M felt his wife and children benefiting from his unused 
pension was very important, Im mindful that in the client  review  form completed seven 
months later, it was recorded that leaving a financial legacy was relatively  important but not 
the main reason for Mr M transferring. Although under the SIPP, Mr and Mrs Ms children  
could benefit more than they would under the OPS,  I dont think this was enough to make  
transferring in Mr Ms best interests.  I find ICFs  argument that if following a transfer, Mr M 
and his wife passed away, substantial  funds  would  be available to Mr Ms children 
misleading. I think it tends to underplay the fact that any funds available to Mr and Mrs Ms 
children after they passed away would be dependent on the amount of income  Mr and Mrs 
M had taken in their lifetime, the impact  of charges and investment performance.  So, there 
was a possibility  there  might not be significant sums  available to Mr and Mrs Ms children 
after they died.
Im conscious that the main purpose for a pension is to provide  an income in retirement. 
Other considerations, like death benefits and inheritance are secondary to that, particularly 
where, as here, despite having  some  health issues, Mr and Mrs M didnt appear to be in 
serious ill health, such that it wasnt expected  that Mr Ms pension fund would need to 
support him or his wife for a long time.
Mr Ms requirement for flexibility  with his pension and control over his investments has been  
put forward as another reason for why ICFs transfer  advice was suitable. ICFs suitability 
report said these things  were important to Mr M. And its on this basis  ICF recommended 
that Mr M transfer his OPS to a SIPP which offered a seamless  transition to drawdown in 
the future  and that he invest via four TIPs, which would allow him to make  investments he 
could not normally access via the SIPP.
But theres nothing  to suggest  Mr M was unhappy with his employer or his OPS, such  that 
he needed to take additional investment  risks.  Mr M also had minimal investment knowledge 
and experience. So I think it shouldve been evident  to ICF that while Mr M might  want  more  
control, he was unlikely to be  let alone  remain  capable of managing his investments into 
old age. Although ICF said it would  review Mr Ms investments regularly, this meant that by 
transferring, Mr M would not only be paying  ICF 2% of his OPS  transfer  value after TFC was 
paid, but also 0.5%  of his fund value annually, to cover the cost of ongoing advice; all to 
ensure the right decisions were made and that he didnt run out of money  via drawdown. As 
Mr M didnt  have extensive savings or assets  other than his OPS  and house,  I dont believe 
Mr M was prepared  or able to tolerate the additional  risks and costs hed be taking on by 
transferring his OPS  to a PPP to access drawdown. And at 59 years old I dont  think  Mr M 
needed to transfer out of his OPS  in order to access drawdown  in years to come  especially  
not at age 66 which was when ICF advised  Mr M to start taking a regular  income via 
drawdown following  the transfer. If Mr M reached  the stage where he knew exactly what  he 
required in terms of TFC and how he wanted  to take retirement  benefits  he couldve 
considered his options at that point  and where necessary transferred.
ICF did acknowledge  that its recommendation that Mr M invest via several TIPs could 
sound complicated.  I agree. Taking into account his circumstances and experience I dont 
think Mr M was in a position  to make an informed assessment about the portfolio  ICF was 
recommending or properly appreciate  the risks associated with some of the investments. 
Although the risk ratings  for the investments ICF recommended were  either  Cautious  or 
Conservative and one of the funds provided a guarantee, they werent by any means as 
extensive as Mr Ms OPS guarantees and protections. 
Ref: DRN545369013I accept that ICFs second suitability report did provide Mr M with some  information about the 
nature of the investments  hed be making.  But this wasnt comprehensive and I cant  see 
that any information was provided about  drawdown  and the risks associated with it. As Ive 
already said, I dont think Mr S would  have fully appreciated the risks of the investments ICF 
was recommending. Especially not to the extent that he wouldve been able to make  an 
informed choice about what he was agreeing to. ICF was advising Mr M and it was the 
expert. So it was reasonable for Mr M to rely on the advice and suitability of ICFs 
recommendation. I dont  think  it satisfactorily demonstrated that not being  able to access  
ICFs recommended investment strategy was enough of a reason for Mr M to transfer. 
Theres also insufficient evidence alternative options were  effectively  explored  by ICF before 
being discounted. The reason provided for discounting all alternatives was, it is not possible 
to access the recommended investment  strategy. I dont think  this was enough, particularly 
as ICF advised Mr M to transfer before it even shared its investment strategy 
recommendation with him. 
Overall Im not satisfied  ICF sufficiently explored  or interrogated Mr Ms objectives, or 
explained and recorded his options  in any great detail when it shouldve. Its role was to 
determine whether  Mr Ms identified  objectives  made giving up the guaranteed  benefits 
under his OPS  worthwhile. Im not persuaded they were. And I dont think  Mr M was 
provided with a clear  picture of the extent of what he was giving up compared to the 
perceived benefit of meeting some of his objectives.  So Im not satisfied it was appropriate  
for these  factors, which  in my view were weak justifications, to form part of the basis  for 
ICFs recommendation that Mr M transfer.  I cant see how a recommendation that effectively 
removed the relative  certainty/security provided by Mr Ms OPS was justifiable.
ICF has said that given Mr Ms fairly cautious disposition  and his relative lack of other 
assets, it required him to convince it that the importance of his objectives did override 
the loss of the guaranteed scheme  benefits. It says it considers Mr M did this and thats why 
it agreed to help him transfer. I agree that as the expert, ICF needed to be satisfied Mr Ms 
objectives were such  that transferring was in his best interests.  But this also needed to be 
weighed up against  other considerations like Mr Ms personal and financial circumstances 
and his low capacity for loss. I dont  think it was for Mr M to persuade  ICF that transferring 
was the best course of action. I think the fact he approached ICF demonstrates  that Mr M 
was only willing to transfer if it was appropriate.  And thats what  I think  he wanted from ICF  
confirmation of what was in his best interests  with regards to his OPS benefits. I dont think  
theres enough credible  evidence  provided either by Mr M or ICF to indicate transferring was 
the most  suitable  action to take or that Mr Ms objectives were so crucial,  such that he 
couldnt wait to secure his full OPS retirement  benefits.
Under COBS 19.1.6 (3) the regulator  says a firm should only consider  a transfer to be 
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate,  on contemporary evidence  that the transfer  is in the 
clients best interests. Im afraid I dont think ICF met this test in this case. I dont agree that 
making the recommendation on the basis that it met Mr Ms recorded objectives was 
enough. ICF needed  to question and drill down into the drivers behind  Mr M objectives and 
alleged priorities. Without doing this and clearly setting out Mr Ms various  options  I dont  
think ICF, let alone Mr M, was able to credibly  establish whether there were reasonable 
justifications and evidence for Mr M giving up guaranteed benefits and taking a gamble with 
his main retirement provision so close to retirement. I dont think its insignificant that the 
results of the pensions  transfer matrix ICF completed for Mr M said, Certain aspects 
question whether this case  should  be done. 
Ref: DRN545369014Mr Ms circumstances  dont suggest  he was in a position to be able to take the risk of 
transferring the guaranteed benefits  provided  by his OPS plans. As Ive explained, the 
perceived benefits of doing so did not justify the transfer at this time. I do accept that ICFs  
recommendation did cover some  of the transfer risks, but disclosure  isnt the same as 
suitability and in my view it shouldnt have gone  on to recommend the transfer to Mr M. I 
believe it is more likely  that Mr M decided to transfer  based  on the overall  proposition being 
put to him by ICF as his advisers, who he thought acted in his best interests. If it hadnt done 
so then I dont  believe  its likely that Mr M wouldve gone ahead with the transfer. Overall, I 
consider the advice to transfer posed a higher degree of risk than Mr M ought  to have been 
advised to take and was unsuitable.
what ICF should do to put things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible,  
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. ICF Financial  Services  Limited must therefore 
undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review  guidance as 
updated by the Financial  Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
ICF Financial Services Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work  and Pensions  
(DWP) to obtain Mr Ms contribution history to the State Earnings  Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS  adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational  scheme  on 
Mr Ms SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan.  The payment should allow for the effect  of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date ICF 
Financial Services Limited  receives notification  of his acceptance of my final decision.  
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 
90 days, that it takes ICF Financial Services Limited  to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
Ref: DRN545369015period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that ICF Financial 
Services Limited pays the balance.
Determination and award: I intend  to uphold the complaint. I consider that fair 
compensation should be calculated as set out above. My provisional decision is that ICF 
Financial Services Limited  should  pay Mr M the amount produced by that calculation up to 
the maximum of £150,000  plus any interest on the balance  as set out above. 
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £150,000, I only require ICF Financial 
Services Limited to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of £150,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I intend to recommend that ICF Financial  Services Limited  pays Mr M the balance  
plus any interest on the balance as set out above. 
If Mr M accepts my determination, the money  award is binding on ICF Financial Services 
Limited. My recommendation is not binding on ICF Financial Services  Limited.
Its unlikely Mr M can accept my determination  and go to court to ask for the balance  of the 
compensation owing to him after the money  award has been paid. Mr M may want  to 
consider getting  independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct ICF Financial Services Limited  to calculate and pay 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2020.
Chillel Bailey 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5453690