K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement with FirstRand 
Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo) has not been of satisfactory 
quality.
background
Mrs B took receipt of a used car in March 2018. She financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with MotoNovo. At the point of supply the car was about  eight years old 
and had already  completed about  109,000 miles.
Shortly after taking receipt of the car Mrs B had problems  with the cooling system. She went 
back to the dealership and they carried out some repairs to the water pump. But thereafter 
Mrs B says she regularly had to top up the radiator  water. In November 2018 she went  back  
to the dealership and explained  the cooling system  issues hadnt gone away.  The dealership 
identified a problem  with the head gasket but told Mrs B that as this was a wear  and tear 
issue she would have  to fund the repairs herself.
MotoNovo said that given  the time Mrs B had been in possession  of the car they would 
expect to see independent expert evidence that the problem was there when the car was 
supplied. They explained that this was the point they were responsible for the cars  quality.
So Mrs B referred her complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided  his opinion. He 
noted that the issues Mrs B complained of in November were  similar  to those she 
complained of in March,  shortly after shed taken receipt of the car. He thought  it most  likely 
that the repairs completed early in the year had not been successful and he explained that 
relevant legislation allowed the business  one opportunity to repair a fault that was present at 
the point of supply. He thought this opportunity  had failed  and he noted Mrs B hadnt 
covered excessive mileage in the car. He noted shed only completed 6,700.  He therefore 
thought MotoNovo should have allowed Mrs B to reject the car and to terminate  her finance 
agreement with them.
He understood  that Mrs B had the issue fixed and had settled the agreement with MotoNovo 
for £5,083.85. So he thought to resolve the issue MotoNovo  should  refund Mrs Bs deposit if 
any had been  paid; refund  the cost of repairs and diagnostics shed commissioned to resolve 
the problems;  refund the difference, of £3,168.85,  between the settlement figure  Mrs B had 
paid and the part exchange value shed  received for the car shed traded in when setting up 
the agreement. He also thought the business should pay Mrs B £250  compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience shed experienced.
MotoNovo didnt agree with the adjudicators  view.  They said Mrs B hadnt told them  about  
any problems with the car for eight months and they thought  Mrs B should  have  provided  an 
independent expert  report to demonstrate  the problems  she had in November 2018 were  
related to those  she said shed  experienced earlier  in the year.  They said that without this 
evidence it was unfair to suggest the faults  were present at the point of supply, when they 
were responsible for the cars quality. They therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN51348492my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint MotoNovo so please  let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs B acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mrs B. The car 
here was around  eight  years old and had travelled 109,000 miles. So Id expect some wear 
and tear but I dont think it would be reasonable to suggest a car of this age and mileage  
would be satisfactory if it had problems that necessitated and engine  strip down to resolve. 
And here, I think that was probably the case.
Mrs B reported the issue to the dealership shortly after she took receipt of the car. I think, on 
balance, that the problems  Mrs B complained of in November 2018 were probably  related to 
the problems she complained of shortly after taking receipt of the car and were therefore 
present or developing at the point  the car was supplied to her. I say that because:
they relate to similar issues; 
Mrs B has testified  that despite repairs to the water pump in March  2018 she 
continued to have to top up the radiator. I think  this suggests the problem hadnt 
been rectified;
the dealership  replaced a water pump that had already been replaced prior to Mrs B 
taking receipt of the car. It seems  unlikely that a water  pump  would fail again  so 
quickly and I think its more likely that the initial diagnosis of the problem was 
incorrect. So I think its likely the problem wasnt rectified and it was therefore that 
problem that continued to plague  Mrs B in the following months.
So Im persuaded  there was a fault with this vehicle  when it was supplied  and as attempts at 
repairing that fault have failed I think MotoNovo should have allowed Mrs B to reject  the car 
and terminate the agreement.
Ref: DRN51348493Mrs B has now sold the car so Ive considered how best to resolve the issue for her. 
I think its clear  she has been inconvenienced by matters.  Shes  had to take her car back to 
the dealership;  arrange her own repairs and advance a complaint when the matter  could 
have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances I think  MotoNovo should  compensate  
Mrs B for the distress and inconvenience  shes  experienced and I think £250 is about  right.
Ive reviewed the finance agreement but cant see that any deposit was paid so Im not 
asking MotoNovo to refund anything in relation  to the deposit.
Mrs Bs finance agreement was settled  for £5,083.85 and she received  £1,915  when she 
traded the car in and arranged a new agreement for another car. So MotoNovo should  
refund the difference as this is money  Mrs B would not have had to pay if theyd allowed her 
to reject the car.
I can see that Mrs B had to fund repairs on 20 November 2018 for £249 but these  were  
related to the Diesel Particulate filter (DPF),  brake discs and pads and a wiper blade  and a 
puncture repair. I think these types of issue are more likely to be related to fair wear  and tear 
in a vehicle of this age and mileage so Im not asking MotoNovo to refund them.
But Mrs B did arrange  a diagnostic on 21 December 2018 for £60 and I think this diagnostic 
and the repairs  in January 2019 that cost £1,161.35, were both clearly  related to the cooling 
system issues  shed been experiencing with the car. I dont think  she should have paid for 
these repairs and diagnostics as Im persuaded the problems  she was experiencing were  
present or developing when the car was supplied to her. Im therefore asking MotoNovo to 
refund those expenses.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell FirstRand Bank Limited  to:
refund  the difference of £3,168.85  between  the settlement figure and the part 
exchange value  Mrs B received for her new car;
pay Mrs B £250 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes  
experienced;
refund  the repair and diagnostic expenses Mrs B has incurred of £1,221.35;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Bs credit  file in relation to 
these issues.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5134849