K820x#14complaint
Ms A and Mr B have complained that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited  
(AA) mis-sold  them a home  insurance policy and as a result their policy  was cancelled by 
their insurer  and their claim was declined.
background
Ms A and Mr B took out a home insurance  policy through AA in 2017. They first went to a 
price comparison  website  and answered  various questions. That referred them to AAs 
website which asked  further questions. Then  they took out contents cover for £50,000 
including £20,000  for valuables and personal belongings. The policy  was renewed with the 
same limits of cover in March 2018.
In May 2018  Ms A and Mr B made a claim for theft.  Their insurer said Ms A and Mr B should 
have told it about  some valuables theyd bought prior to their policy  being  renewed. It said 
the valuables  cost over £46,000 in addition to items they already had. So the insurer  
cancelled their policy from the renewal date and declined their claim.  AA refunded the 
premium.
Ms A and Mr B complained to AA. They didnt think that the question  it had asked on its 
website about  what cover they wanted was sufficiently clear.  AA said it was confident  that 
the question it had asked when trying  to ascertain  the level of cover they needed was fit 
for purpose. They complained separately  to their insurer.
They brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He didnt  think  
AA had done anything wrong.  As Ms A and Mr B didnt agree, the matter  has been referred 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to explain that the decision to cancel the policy  wasnt made  by AA. That was 
the insurers decision, and I see that Ms A and Mr B have complained separately about 
that. So in this decision, Im only looking at whether AA treated Ms A and Mr B fairly and 
reasonably. 
Insurance policies  can be sold on either an advised or a non-advised basis.  A non-advised 
sale means AA wasnt advising or recommending that the consumer buy the policy.  It was 
simply providing information to the consumer and leaving them to decide  whether the policy 
was suitable to meet their needs.
In this case AA told Ms A and Mr B it wasnt giving  them any advice about the policy. It said:
You will not receive advice or a recommendation from us. We may ask some questions  to 
narrow down the selection of products that we will provide details on. You will then need to 
make your own choice about  how to proceed .
AAs duty was to make  sure the consumer was given enough information that was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that they could make an informed choice about whether  the policy 
Ref: DRN56965452was right for them. When policies are sold online, I look at the questions asked and the 
guidance given.  In this case when the policy was first taken out, the comparison website 
asked:
How much would it cost to replace the entire  contents of your home?
The website provided some guidance to help consumers work out the value of their 
contents. Ms A and Mr B were then referred to the AA website which asked:
How much cover do you need? 
In the light of the previous  stage  on their customer journey I think  it should have been clear 
to Ms A and Mr B by this point that they needed to insure their contents  for their full 
replacement value.
Ms A and Mr Bs original policy ran for one year. When  they renewed  the policy in 2018, the 
renewal was effectively  a new sale and each policy is a separate  contract  in its own right. I 
wouldnt expect AA to go through  exactly the same  process at each renewal as it would 
when the policy was first sold. Intermediaries or insurers normally invite renewal based on 
the information they currently  hold about  the policyholder, including anything  the policyholder 
has disclosed to it throughout the term of the policy.
But its important that the business checks this. So an invitation to renew  should  outline the 
key details on which the insurer is relying  on when  offering the policy, to enable  the 
consumer to check its accurate. Its then up to the consumer to correct any of the 
information. 
I can see that AA did this. On 22 February  2018 it wrote to Ms A and Mr B saying:
Check your details and your cover
Please check the enclosed  Statement of Insurance and let us know  as soon as possible if 
you need to make a change to your cover or if your details are incorrect  or missing. Failure  
to do so may result in your insurance  being cancelled or a claim not being paid.
The Statement of Insurance  said the present day replacement value of all their contents was 
up to £50,000  including  £20,000 of valuables and personal belongings.
I appreciate Ms A and Mr B dispute  the value  of their claim and say the items claimed for 
were purchased prior to the original policy being taken out in March 2017. They also say 
some items werent in the UK at the relevant time.  But these are all matters that relate to 
their complaint against the insurer. I dont think theyre relevant to whether  they were  mis-
sold their policy by AA.
Im sorry that Ms A and Mr Bs policy was cancelled and their claim wasnt  paid. But I cant 
hold AA responsible for that. I dont think it mis-sold their policy  to them.
Ref: DRN56965453my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5696545