K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) mis-
sold him a farm insurance policy.
background
Mr C took an insurance policy with NFU for his farm in 2016. In August 2017  he added  a bull 
to the policy. The bull had a sum insured of £5,000. Mr C says when he bought  the policy, he 
explained that he intended to export  the bulls semen and says he was assured the policy  
would cover him if the bull semen  was unfit for export.
In August  2017,  the semen was tested and deemed  ineligible for export outside of the UK. 
Mr C tried to claim under his NFU policy for loss of use.  NFU declined  the claim.  It said a 
vet had confirmed  the bull had suffered no change in its ability  to naturally serve or its fertility 
status, which meant there was no insured event. And this meant  Mr C couldnt claim under 
the policy. It said whilst the semen  couldnt  be exported abroad, there was no reason why 
the bull couldnt continue to breed domestically. 
Mr C wasnt happy with this and complained to NFU. He said he took the policy  to provide 
cover if he wasnt  able to sell the bulls semen  abroad or gain an export  license and was told 
hed be covered. He said because this wasnt covered, the policy was mis-sold.  
NFU didnt uphold  Mr Cs complaint. It said it wasnt told that hed be seeking  an export 
licence when he took the policy,  so it didnt know he wanted cover for problems with this. 
And, the inability to obtain an export license wasnt something the policy  could cover. 
Unhappy with this response,  Mr C brought his complaint to us where one of our investigators 
looked into it. She thought Mr C probably did tell NFU of his intention  to export the bulls  
semen. But she also thought given that NFU didnt  offer any kind of policy that would cover  
against him being unable  to obtain an export license for the bull, Mr C hadnt lost out. She 
felt Mr C would still likely  have taken the policy, given that it covered him against other 
events. So she didnt  think  the complaint should  be upheld.
Mr C didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So its 
been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that Mr Cs complaint shouldnt be upheld for the same reasons as her.
Ref: DRN51114982The policy schedule Mr C was provided  with after he amended his policy in August 2017 
refers to the following endorsement  as added:
Loss of Use - Bull Infertility
WE will pay if the insured animal:
1 is proved to be permanently incapable  of natural service as a direct result  of an 
accident which happens; or
2 had proved  itself to be fertile, willing and capable of serving females by getting at 
least one female into calf and is subsequently proved to be permanently infertile, 
impotent or incapable of natural service as a direct result of an accident which 
happens or an illness, disease  or condition which first appears;
during the PERIOD OF INSURANCE.
YOU are required to give the insured  animal a minimum  of three  months to attempt to 
recover, unless WE agree to pay the claim earlier.
Permanent infertility,  impotency or incapability must be total infertility, impotency, 
incapability or failure and not merely a reduction  and must be proved:
1 to the satisfaction of both YOUR and OUR VET; and
2 within  six months of the expiry date of the PERIOD OF INSURANCE  in which  the 
accident happened or the illness, disease  or condition first appeared
A vet has confirmed that the bull is still fertile and can be used for breeding domestically. So, 
I agree  with NFU that it isnt an insured event which Mr C can claim for. So, Ive gone on to 
consider whether the policy was mis-sold to Mr C.
There is some dispute about  what Mr C told NFU when he took the policy.  Mr C says he 
made it clear  he wanted to be insured  against not being able to export the bulls  semen. I 
cant know what was said. But even if Mr C had made it clear what he was looking to be 
insured against,  NFU has confirmed it simply doesnt offer insurance  that would cover  this 
event. So, there wasnt  anything different it couldve offered him. 
Weve asked Mr C to provide evidence he couldve obtained specific  cover for this elsewhere  
and the likely cost.  Hes told us he couldve obtained  this through a specialist broker,  but 
hasnt provided  any evidence of this. Nor has he told us what this would likely have cost. Ive 
looked at similar policies  and none  of these  provide  the cover Mr C says he wanted.  Weve 
also spoken with a broker who has told us they cant recall  arranging a policy which  covers  
this and arent aware of anything like it available in the market. Therefore,  based on what  I 
have, I dont think I have  enough for me to say its most likely Mr C could and would have 
obtained the cover he wanted elsewhere if hed understood the policy he was buying didnt 
provide what he wanted.  
This means,  while its possible what the policy covered wasnt  made clear to Mr C at the time 
he took it out. I dont  think hes lost out if this is what happened. This is because even if hed 
understood the policy didnt cover everything  he wanted it to, I think hed still have taken it. 
This is because the policy covered the bull against  a number of other insured events, for a 
relatively small additional premium, so I still think the policy was potentially  of use to him, 
and wasnt unsuitable.  And I dont think he could  have  got a policy  more  suitable elsewhere.
This means  its not appropriate  for me to make NFU pay Mr Cs claim or pay him 
compensation for any other reason. 
Ref: DRN51114983my final decision
I know Mr C feels  very strongly about this matter, but my final decision is I dont  uphold  this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5111498