K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2000. The PPI was added to the account  at the same time that Mrs S took out the store  card 
in person in store.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs S says FICL mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs S says she was told her application  for the store card would have a better  chance  of 
success if she took out the policy.  I wasnt  present  during the sale of this policy so I cant 
fairly and reasonably  say what was discussed at the time. And while I dont doubt what 
Mrs S has said are her honest recollections of the sale, without  any evidence to support 
what shes said, its difficult for me to uphold  the complaint on this point. 
However, Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ss store card application form. In this there is a 
section for PPI where Mrs S signed to agree to take out the cover   but she couldve left 
this section blank  if she didnt want the policy. And there is nothing here to suggest 
taking out the cover  wouldve had any impact on the success of her application for the 
store card. Mrs S also signed  at the bottom  of the application form to show she consents 
to the information included  within it. So based on the evidence  Ive seen, and without any 
stronger evidence to support  what  Mrs S says, I think its more likely than not that FICL 
made it clear  that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  
although I can understand why she cant remember this. 
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs S got the information  she needed to decide if it was 
right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But Mrs S chose to take out the policy  - so it looks like she wanted  this 
type of cover. And looking  at her circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong. So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover.
FICL  couldve  have explained the costs better than it did. Compared to other PPI policies  
sold around the time, it was more expensive  but it would have covered 15% of what 
Ref: DRN52982892Mrs S owed on her store card if she successfully claimed. And it wouldve done  this until 
her credit agreement ended, or she returned  to work, or the outstanding balance  at time 
of her claim  had been repaid, whichever is the earliest. Mrs S says was entitled to some  
sick pay at the time, and she couldve also relied  on her partner. But the PPI wouldve 
paid out for longer than her sick pay wouldve lasted and in addition to this. So these  
funds couldve been used for other expenses. And even though her partner wouldve 
wanted to help, support from others  cant always be relied upon as their circumstances  
can also change over time. So overall I dont think better information  about the cost of 
the PPI wouldve put her off taking it out.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5298289