K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Affinion International Limited didnt tell him his gadget  insurance  policy  
was going to be cancelled. My references to Affinion include its agents.
background
Mr J took out gadget  insurance in July 2017 and had cover for two items. Affinion 
administers the policy. The insurer of the policy is a different business.
Mr J complains that he didnt know about  the policy cancellation until he got a letter  from 
Affinion in September 2018 which said the policy was already cancelled. Initially he wanted  
compensation as he thought he wouldnt be able to insure his laptop elsewhere due to its 
age. He also wanted all the policy premiums he paid refunded as he would now have to pay 
for his previously insured items if anything happened to them.
 
Affinion said it decided to end all existing policies  at renewal as the business who sold and 
branded the policy  (another different business)  decided to no longer sell the policy.  Affinion 
had written to Mr J on 11 June 2018  at the home address he provided informing him that the 
policy would be cancelled on renewal. Affinion said it had given him 45 days notice  of 
cancellation and it had acted within the policy terms.
Our investigator thought Affinion had acted fairly. It didnt need to pay Mr J compensation or 
refund the premiums.
Mr J disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans  decision. He says if he'd known sooner that the 
policy was going  to be cancelled he wouldnt have had to rush to find an alterative policy.  He 
thinks Affinion should have  made  more effort to contact  him than just a letter. He wants 
compensation for his inconvenience and stress  he says Affinion caused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
The policy says: 
we (which the policy defines as Affinion) can cancel  the policy by giving you at least 
30 days' notice by email  or in writing  to the latest  home address we have for you where there 
is a valid reason for doing so.
The policy being  discontinued is given as an example  of a valid reason, which  is whats  
happened.
Ive seen a copy  of the letter Affinion sent to Mr J on 11 June  2018  which  says his policy 
would be cancelled on 11 August 2018, the policy renewal date. The letter  gave Mr J a 
reasonable amount of time to find alternative  insurance and gave him more notice than the 
30 days the policy terms required. 
Ref: DRN59423822Ive no reason to doubt Affinion sent the letter and I wouldnt expect  it to send the letter by 
recorded delivery. 
Mr J says he didnt receive the June  letter.  The letter was sent an address (which our 
investigator detailed  to Mr J) thats different to the address  we have for Mr J. Mr J told our 
investigator the address on the letter is his old address, but thats  the only address Affinion 
had for Mr J. Ive not seen  any evidence that Mr J gave it his change  of address. So Affinion 
acted fairly  in writing  to Mr J at the address and reasonably  understood that was his home 
address.
Mr J did received Affinions letter of 11 September 2018 confirming the policy had been  
cancelled. That letter was sent to the same address as the June letter. Mr J told our 
investigator that he still had access to his old address at the time so its unfortunate he didnt 
also get Affinions  June  letter but Affinion isnt at fault.
Affinion had contacted Mr J about  his policy by email in the past, so I understand why he 
thinks it could have  emailed him the cancellation notice. Affinion has said it was a business 
decision to send notification of cancellation by post only as not all its customers used email. 
Affinion was able to make that business decision and the policy  does says it will give notice 
by email or the home  address it had for Mr J. So Affinion didnt have  to email the 
cancellation information to Mr J.
I appreciate Mr J had to rush to get alternative insurance cover  for his items when he knew  
he was uninsured (I understand  he was able to insure his laptop).  But as I think Affinion 
acted fairly  in sending  the June letter to the address it held for Mr J to give him notice of the 
cancellation its not done anything wrong. Theres no basis  for me to award Mr J any 
compensation. 
Affinion doesnt  need to refund the cost of the policy  premiums Mr J paid. His items were 
insured for the time he paid the premiums.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5942382