K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  she was misled into believing a loan application would be approved  by 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS). The loan wasnt  approved  which has now impacted 
her credit rating. 
background
Miss K had existing borrowing with RBS. She was contacted in May 2019 and offered further 
borrowing. Miss K says she was told she could  borrow  up to £7,800  for only £1 a month 
extra. This would have consolidated her existing borrowing and left her with £1,000. 
Miss K decided to apply  on-line but the application was declined  almost immediately. Miss K 
complained as she says she was led to believe her application would be approved  
otherwise she wouldnt  have applied at all. RBS didnt uphold her complaint; it said although 
it did make  invitations for potential lending it doesnt  promise approval as applications  are 
subject to checks and credit searches. 
Miss K asked us to look into her complaint. Our investigator didnt uphold  it. Although  the call 
Miss K had with the branch wasnt recorded and there  were  no notes of the conversation, 
our investigator found it unlikely the caller would  have  guaranteed the success  of any 
application. 
Miss K didnt accept  that outcome. She says the chance of being declined  wasnt explained 
to her and if it had she wouldnt have applied in the first place. So the matter  has been  
referred to me for review  and determination.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
Its unfortunate that a recording of the call that took place between RBS and Miss K is 
unavailable  and that no notes were  taken of the call. This means there is very little 
evidence for me to base my decision. Where the evidence  is incomplete, as it is here, I base 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely  to have 
happened given  the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.  
I have carefully considered what Miss K has said about the conversation  she had with RBS. 
And whilst I accept RBS may have  informed her she could borrow and be left with funds 
after consolidating her existing loan, I think that is far from guaranteeing a loan will be 
approved. It is well known  by both borrowers  and bank staff that lending  applications will 
need to go through some  sort of credit check or scoring process, in order  to see whether or 
not it will be responsible  for the lender to give credit. And I note this information is given on 
RBS website. 
So although  I accept  Miss K may have thought she would be approved,  Im not satisfied her 
evidence is persuasive  enough for me to find that RBS misled her about  that. I find it much 
more likely she was simply offered the chance  to apply, which  she took.  In the 
circumstances, I dont  find RBS did anything wrong.  And as Miss K did apply for credit,  it is 
right the application  is recorded on her credit file. 
Ref: DRN52638192my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 October  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5263819