K820x#14Complaint
Mr Y complains about problems he experienced when trying  to use a cash machine in 
branch at Bank of Scotland plc. 
Background
In July 2018 Mr Y tried to use a Bank of Scotland cash  machine but it wasnt working  
properly. Mr Y complained and Bank  of Scotland  responded  on 17 September 2018. Bank of 
Scotland apologised that its cash machine wasnt working when Mr Y tried to use it. Bank of 
Scotland also apologised for the delay  in getting  back to Mr Y and paid him £96 for his costs  
and the inconvenience caused. 
Mr Y complained to Bank of Scotland again  in December 2018 as he continued to 
experience problems with its cash machine. Bank of Scotland responded to Mr Ys complaint 
on 24 December 2018 and confirmed there was an ongoing issue  with the cash machine  at 
the branch he had visited. Bank  of Scotland  apologised. 
Mr Y referred his complaint to our service and it was passed  to an investigator. They  thought 
Bank of Scotland had dealt with Mr Ys complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else.  
Mr Y asked to appeal so his complaint  was passed to me to make a decision. On 
25 March 2020  I issued a decision that said the Financial Ombudsman  Service  cant look at 
complaints about  a business handling  of a complaint.  I explained that complaint handling  
isnt a regulated  activity  so I couldnt  consider Bank of Scotlands  decision to deal with all of 
Mr Ys concerns under one reference. But I agreed we could look at Mr Ys complaints about 
the cash machine  not working.
In this decision Im going to talk about Mr Ys complaint about Bank of Scotlands cash 
machine. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr Y has made two complaints about  problems  hes experienced using a cash  
machine at a branch of Bank of Scotland. One in July 2018  and another  in December 2018. 
On both occasions Bank of Scotland apologised for the problems Mr Y experienced. Bank  of 
Scotland explained there were some  ongoing  technical issues  with the cash machine in 
question which could  impact whether it was available to use. Bank of Scotland paid Mr Y £96 
and apologised  for any inconvenience caused. 
Whilst I note Mr Ys comments and can see the situation caused some  frustration, Im 
satisfied £96 fairly reflects the impact  of not being able to use a cash  machine on two 
occasions. I accept  there  were technical  issues that meant the cash machine didnt work. 
But Bank of Scotland explained it was working to resolve them and apologised.  Im satisfied 
that £96 along with Bank of Scotlands  apology are a fair and reasonable way to resolve 
Mr Ys complaint. As Im satisfied  Bank of Scotland has dealt with Mr Ys complaint fairly, Im 
not telling  it to take any further action. 
Ref: DRN54584392My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June   2020.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5458439