K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold her a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs C bought the policy at a meeting  in 2000 at the same time as taking a mortgage. She 
was employed as an administrator and had been  there ten months at the time of the sale 
(just over 11 months when the policy started).  From what she has told us, she was entitled to 
no redundancy pay and only statutory pay for sickness - and didnt have any other  means 
with which  to make mortgage payments if she couldnt work. She has told us of a childhood 
infection she had but she hasnt told us of having  any other or more recent health issues.
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs C for accident, sickness and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  For a successful claim it offered to pay Mrs Cs monthly 
mortgage payment  plus 25%. Initially this benefit  was £272.23 a month and cost £16.49.
Halifax has sent us evidence to show that Mrs C took a further advance in 2006.  Mrs Cs 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mrs Cs 
representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs C wouldnt have taken  the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs Cs representatives believe there to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mrs C about  
the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs C and the impact  they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; 
The PPI excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some  of the most 
common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value of cover; and
The information Mrs C received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs C disagreed  with the adjudicators  
Ref: DRN54124942opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Cs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
Mrs C in 2006 arranged  a further advance  on her mortgage after mortgage lending  became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  an FCA regulated 
mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Cs case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ref: DRN54124943Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Cs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs C with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs C, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs C suffered loss or damage  
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs C and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs C know she had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI policy was optional. Mrs C signed  a separate box on her 
mortgage application form to say she would like the PPI. She also signed  a separate  PPI 
application form to take the cover. Ive nothing to suggest Mrs C was led to believe  she had 
to sign the PPI box or had to sign the PPI application form if she didnt want  the PPI. Taking 
everything into account, I think its more likely she knew the policy  was optional and agreed 
to take it without undue pressure.
Ref: DRN54124944did Halifax provide advice?
Both Halifax and Mrs C agree that advice was provided during this sale. This means Halifax 
had to advise  Mrs C with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was 
appropriate or suitable given her needs  and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
Halifax took some steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation for 
Mrs C. The adviser had information about  some  of Mrs Cs financial circumstances as part of 
the mortgage application. Also her PPI application  form suggests Halifax established she 
was in permanent  employment, working at least 16 hours a week and not aware  of any 
impending unemployment. But I dont think Halifax did enough to ensure the PPI was 
suitable and establish Mrs C had a need  for the cover. For example, Ive nothing  to show 
that Halifax asked  Mrs C what  redundancy or sickness benefits her employer  provided.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Halifax  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs C given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs C, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs C had a need for the policy  she wouldnt have received redundancy pay and would 
only receive statutory  sick pay if she were unable to work due to illness  - and she didnt 
have any savings  she could fall back on. The policy  would  have helped  Mrs C manage 
the consequences if she were unable to work.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs C. There  was 
nothing about  her employment  or occupation which would have made  it difficult  for her to 
claim. The policy terms didnt exclude  disability claims for pre-existing health issues, but 
Im not persuaded her childhood  issue was an ongoing issue  at the time anyway.
-The policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months  for each  claim and for 
disability would only pay if Mrs C were unable  to do her job, or any similar  job, and also 
unable to do any work her experience, education  or training reasonably qualified her to 
do. But it still provided valuable cover in Mrs Cs circumstances given her lack of work 
benefits and other means, the fact the policy protected the mortgage payments on her 
home and the potential  consequences if Mrs C were to have become unable  to make 
repayments on loans  secured against her house.
-Mrs C met the eligibility criteria  for the policy and the monthly cost appears to have been 
affordable for her. 
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mrs C sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
Ref: DRN54124945Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs C was given a broad description of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if she were unable  
to work through accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the approximate costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs C would have taken the policy  
without any sense of what it was for and of how much the premium might be. 
Also, her PPI application form showed  the monthly  PPI benefit and monthly PPI premium.  
So I think it likely she was made  aware  of the monthly benefit  amount and what  the premium 
would be. But the evidence from the sale doesnt tell us whether Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mrs C agreed to take the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the PPI was a suitable recommendation for Mrs C, Im not persuaded Halifax did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mrs C all the information  she needed 
about the PPI to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it. Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings 
in its guidance  for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons 
set out above,  I am persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Cs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Cs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Cs representative  considers  to be poor value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs C about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained  the 
significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Cs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs C has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mrs C? To what extent did Mrs C 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs C. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude she suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not she would have 
still taken the policy,  had Halifax done things  properly.  
Ref: DRN54124946While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs C, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs C has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mrs C would have acted  differently, or whether she would have taken the policy  in any event.
Mrs C says she wouldnt have taken it and believes  I should  presume  this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mrs C had some interest in taking PPI. By this I mean 
when Halifax advised her there was a suitable  product she could buy that would protect her 
mortgage payments  were  she unable to work due to accident,  sickness  or unemployment, 
she concluded she wanted that product. But she made that decision based  on incomplete 
information, meaning what she thought she was getting is not exactly  what  she got.
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Cs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mrs C was given about the cost and benefit 
was clear. But the information  about  other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and 
exclusions, wasnt as clear as it should have been.   
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs C thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mrs C wasnt  
a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Mrs C be unable  to do 
her own or any similar job and also be unable  to do any paid work  her experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified her to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage. 
But the evidence  about Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Also I havent seen any evidence to suggest  Mrs C 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  disability claims for pre-existing 
health issues werent excluded, although  I dont think she had health  issues, and Mrs C was 
in permanent employment. So, I think she still had some good reasons to take the policy.
Ref: DRN54124947I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these were more onerous than Mrs C might  
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs C 
from taking the policy,  Mrs C, in her circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it.
If Mrs C had known she could only claim for disability if she were not only unable  to do her 
own or any similar job but also unable  to do any job she might reasonably be qualified for, it 
might have played into her thinking  about what to do.  And I accept it may have given her 
pause for thought  although given her circumstances  and the very limited other means she 
had to make  mortgage  payments if she wasnt working, on balance  I think she would  still 
have been interested in taking the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mrs C that any claim she made would be limited  to a 24 month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for. But she 
wasnt entitled redundancy pay or to sick pay beyond statutory pay and didnt have anything 
else to fall back on. In those  circumstances, I consider it likely she wouldve still thought a 
policy that paid up to 24 monthly mortgage  payments would  be of benefit  to her and help her 
manage the consequences  should  she be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the PPI. The policy allowed  for multiple claims to be made and it could  help reduce Mrs Cs 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensuring  her home was not placed at risk.
Mrs C has complained she couldnt  claim on the PPI once she turned 60, but cover didnt 
end at age 60 but when  Mrs C permanently retired. Having considered  all the evidence  and 
arguments in this case, I consider it more  likely  than not Mrs C wouldve still taken the PPI. It 
was suitable for her, sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting and had 
benefits that would help her manage  the consequences if she were made redundant, or 
unable to work due to accident or sickness. In the circumstances,  I consider it more  likely 
than not Mrs C wouldve  taken the PPI in any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Cs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms, but it is a relevant  consideration so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs C would  not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she wouldve been in had the breach 
or significant failings  not occurred. 
Ref: DRN54124948Mrs C believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs C in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken 
the PPI, Im satisfied that, of the two possibilities, its more likely  than not Mrs C wouldve still 
taken it had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy she 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Halifax should pay Mrs C compensation, as that would put her in a better position 
than she wouldve been in had everything happened  as it shouldve done.  
Im also aware Mrs C thinks Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mrs C, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2000 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Cs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs C and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that Halifax had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs C in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5412494