K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) rejected his 
chargeback claim when he complained about goods and services he received at an all-
inclusive hotel.
background
In February 2018  Mr K and his family stayed at an all-inclusive hotel in Fuerteventura. 
During the holiday Mr K experienced  stomach problems which  lasted several days. On 
returning to the UK Mr K visited his doctor  and was given medication for food poisoning. 
Mr Ks partner  was also unwell during the holiday but recovered after 1 day.
Mr K says he suffered  pain and discomfort for 5 days which impacted on his enjoyment of 
the holiday. He says that due to concerns  about the quality of the food at the hotel he 
incurred additional  food costs as he chose  to purchase food from elsewhere.
On his return to the UK Mr K complained to the hotel. The hotel said it had carried  out an 
investigation and could find nothing of concern.
Mr K remained dissatisfied so he complained to Amex seeking  a refund of the full cost of the 
accommodation.
Amex declined Mr Ks request for a chargeback.  It said it wasnt able to judge the quality of 
the goods and services  provided by the hotel or to determine what  had caused Mr Ks 
illness. 
Mr K was unhappy with the response  from Amex  so he complained  to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and found that Amex hadnt acted unfairly in 
declining the chargeback.  He said there  was no evidence  that the food supplied by the hotel  
was the cause of Mr Ks illness.  
Mr K didnt agree. He said he had reported  his illness to the hotel whilst he was there and 
that he hadnt eaten outside of the hotel complex  prior to becoming ill. Mr K said that 
although he had only fallen ill midway through his holiday he continued to be unwell for a 
further 3 days on his return to the UKI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a credit card issuer such  as Amex  receives a chargeback request it has to consider 
the supporting  evidence  and take a view on whether the claim has a reasonable prospect of 
succeeding.
In this case, the hotel rejected Mr Ks complaint so its reasonable to assume  that the hotel 
would also have disputed  the chargeback claim had it proceeded. This means that in order  
to succeed the chargeback claim would need to be supported by persuasive evidence.
Ref: DRN56201072Ive looked at the available evidence in support of Mr Ks complaint in order to reach  a view 
on whether Amex acted  fairly in declining the chargeback request.
Mr K has said that he didnt consume food outside of the resort  before he became ill. He 
says there  is no other explanation for his illness other than the quality of food supplied in the 
hotel restaurant.  I understand why Mr K feels this way. However,  in complaints of this nature, 
there are often other  explanations  for the cause of gastric illness.  Mr Ks illness  could have 
been caused by food eaten at the airport or on the plane. It could have been caused  by the 
local water  or by out of the ordinary levels of consumption of food or drink. Heat can be a 
factor. In order to have  any prospect  of success,  Mr K would need evidence  to show that on 
the balance of probability his illness was caused  by food supplied by the hotel which was not 
of satisfactory quality. 
Consumers who fall ill on holiday  with symptoms  similar to those experienced by Mr K will 
often report their illness to the hotel  and /or visit a local doctor for medication. Both the hotel 
and the doctor will then have an independent record of the reported illness.
In this case, whilst  Mr K has said that he reported his illness to the hotel when he checked  
out, I cant see that he reported his illness straightaway or that he visited  a local doctor. 
Consumers who pursue claims of this type will often rely on the testimony of other 
holidaymakers who have  been affected  at the same time. In this case,  whilst  Mr Ks partner 
also experienced some symptoms, these were much less severe and shorter in duration 
than Mr Ks. Mr K hasnt said that any other  holiday makers were  affected or provided any 
supporting evidence from other hotel guests.
Whilst I dont doubt  that Mr K was unwell, the lack of supporting evidence weakens  the 
prospects of success of his claim which is something that Amex  can reasonably take into 
account in deciding whether or not to accept a chargeback claim.
Ive noted Mr Ks comments about the food at the hotel restaurant being left on warm display 
all evening  and that the same dish was served the following day. But just because  the hotel 
restaurants practice differs from that of the catering establishment at Mr Ks place of work  
this doesnt automatically  mean that the food supplied by the hotel restaurant  wasnt of 
satisfactory quality or that it was the cause of Mr Ks illness. And even if the same  dish was 
served for 2 consecutive  days, this doesnt automatically mean that exactly the same dish 
was re-heated. It could be the case that the hotel menu was limited and that some dishes 
were repeated on the menu daily.
Im sorry  to learn that Mr K was unwell.  But I dont think  theres  sufficient evidence  to show 
that on the balance of probability the food supplied by the hotel wasnt of satisfactory quality  
and that this was the cause of Mr Ks illness. Because of this, I cant say that Amex  acted 
unfairly in declining the chargeback request.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Emma Davy
Ref: DRN56201073ombudsman
Ref: DRN5620107