K820x#14complaint
Miss P is unhappy that her car was returned  by a garage, approved  by SGS Business 
Process Services (UK) Limited (SGS), with damage that wasnt  there when it was sent for 
repair after her road traffic accident.  
background
Miss P was involved in a non-fault  road traffic accident in October 2018. SGS were  
instructed to deal with the claim for costs against the third party insurer, including  arranging 
for repair of Miss Ps car. 
Miss P asked to use her own garage to complete  repairs. SGS tried to contact the garage  
Miss P asked for, but the garage chosen by Miss P failed security  checks.  SGS  asked if Miss 
P would be ok to use one of their own approved garages. Miss P agreed to this.
When Miss P received her car back, she noticed  there was a scratch on the door which  
wasnt there before.  Ms P contacted the garage. The garage agreed to polish the scratch to 
try and remove it, but Miss P says this made  the scratch  look worse.  
Miss P raised her concerns about  the scratch with SGS. SGS  said that the garage told them 
that they werent responsible for the scratch.  SGS also said that while the garage was part of 
the group  they work with, they werent  responsible for any complaints about the garage. 
Because of this, SGS said they wouldnt pay any compensation. 
Miss P complained about the scratch, and that SGS  didnt allow her to use her own garage. 
This complaint was originally investigated  by the Legal Ombudsman, but was transferred to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) as part of the 
change in the regulation  of claims management companies. The investigation was 
completed by a Claims Management  Ombudsman investigator under the rules of the Legal  
Ombudsman. This means that only SGS service  was considered, and not what the garage 
may or may not have  done.
The investigator found that as the complaint relates  to the garage, we wouldnt be able to 
ask SGS to pay compensation. The investigator  also found that SGS had acted fairly in 
offering Miss P the option to use her own garage.  As the complaint couldnt  be resolved, its 
been passed to me for decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that this has been  an 
upsetting time for Miss P. Having reviewed the case, I agree with the investigators  findings, 
and I wont be recommending compensation for this complaint. I can understand this is likely 
to come as a disappointment  to Miss P but I hope my findings go some  way in explaining  
why Ive reached this decision.   
I can appreciate Miss P feels strongly  that SGS should be held responsible for a third party  
that they instruct as part of the claims process.  Where we think a business  is responsible  for 
a third party it appoints, we would expect it to carry out a full investigation of whats  
happened, and award compensation where theres  been a failing by the third party. The 
reason Im not able to ask SGS to investigate whats gone wrong, and ultimately  pay 
Ref: DRN53623552compensation, is because at this time we wouldnt hold an accident management company 
responsible for third party  actions, like those of a garage they instruct. 
Ive thought about asking  SGS to provide evidence of Miss Ps vehicle before, and whilst it 
was with, the garage. But even if this evidence supports Miss Ps complaint about  the 
damage being caused by the garage, I wouldnt be able to ask SGS  to pay compensation, 
because the work was carried out by the garage  - not SGS. I appreciate this news  is likely to 
come as a disappointment  to Miss P. For the reasons  explained, Im not able to recommend 
any compensation for this part of Miss Ps complaint.
Miss P also says that she wanted  to use her own garage,  and SGS  didnt allow  this. Ive 
listened to the call recording between Miss P and SGS when she calls for an update on her 
claim. Miss P is informed that the garage she wanted to use failed SGSs  security checks. 
When asked if SGS  can continue with the claim using  one of their own garages, Miss P 
agrees. I think SGS acted  fairly by using one of their own garages, as agreed to by Miss P. 
For this reason, I wont be recommending any compensation  for this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  provided I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 August 2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5362355