K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained about CIS General  Insurance  Limited. He isnt happy about  the 
valuation of his car following a claim  on his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr D made  a claim on his car insurance policy after he was involved in an accident. CIS 
looked to pay him the market value of his car but made a 20% deduction. This was because  
Mr Ds car had previously been repaired after an accident in relation to structural  damage.  
As Mr D wasnt happy about this he complained  to CIS and then this service.
Our adjudicator looked into things for Mr D but didnt uphold his complaint. He said that he 
thought the salvage  deduction was fair and in line with this services general approach. 
But Mr D didnt agree.  He said that he wasnt aware  that his car had been repaired after an 
accident previously  and thought that CIS shouldve known about this when he applied for his 
insurance. So the matter has been  referred  to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think that the 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
As the overall  valuation of Mr Ds car isnt in dispute Ive focussed on Mr Ds main point of 
complaint the 20% reduction in the valuation of his car. However,  for completeness,  I have 
looked at the motor  valuation guides  in order to ensure that the overall valuation figure 
(before any deduction) was fair. And having  looked at the guides I think that the overall 
valuation figure  was fair and in line with what I would expect. 
Looking at the deduction CIS made as the car had been written off previously I think it has 
acted reasonably. Ill explain why.
I know Mr D says that he wasnt  aware that his car was structurally damaged previously. But 
the garage he bought it from has said that they made him aware of the previous damage  and 
said that this was outlined in the documentation when he bought the car. Furthermore, it 
wouldve been marked on his vehicle documentation (V5) so I wouldve expected  Mr D to 
know this.
Mr D also feels  that CIS shouldve been  aware of this when he took out his car insurance. 
But I wouldnt expect it to go into that level of detail when Mr D approached it for car 
insurance. It was happy to provide  cover  and to pay Mr D the market value of his car in the 
event of a claim and his car being  written  off. And this is exactly what it has done.
CIS has valued Mr Ds car and that value is affected  by the fact that Mr Ds car was written 
off previously  understandably cars sell for a lot less if they have been  structurally damaged 
in an accident  and had to be repaired. So I cant say CIS has acted unreasonably by coming  
to a fair valuation figure and then deducting  20% of the value as the car has been 
structurally repaired and is worth less.
Ref: DRN58802572Indeed, I note that CIS waived an additional  excess when Mr D made  this claim. There  had 
been two separate incidents  when he crashed his car (front  and rear). But it waived the 
second excess as the car was beyond economic repair  after the initial  shunt. This shows  it 
has looked to act reasonably when dealing with Mr Ds claim.
So, although  I can understand Mr Ds frustration I think it has acted reasonably in making the 
deduction as the car had been previously repaired after it was structurally  damaged.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5880257