K820x#14complaint
Miss C is unhappy that her home  insurance  claim for a damaged door has been rejected by 
St Andrews  Insurance plc.
background 
In December 2018 Miss C called out a locksmith  as her front door wasnt locking properly. 
He advised her that the top hinge  was misaligned and that in his opinion  some force had 
been applied  to it. He advised  her to make  a claim to her insurer and Miss C duly did so. 
Initially St Andrews said it wouldnt deal with the claim as it said the door was damaged  due 
to wear and tear. Miss C objected to this. St Andrews said it shouldnt have rejected the 
claim without  inspecting  the door. It paid her £25 compensation and sent out a locksmith  to 
inspect the door. He adjusted the lock but came to the conclusion  that the damage was due 
to wear and tear and misalignment of the hinge.  But the locksmith gave Miss C the 
impression that he would  be coming  back to repair the door.
St Andrews  received the report from the locksmith, although he didnt mention the fact that 
he had done some work on the hinge  in the report.  But he confirmed that the damage was 
wear and tear. St Andrews said it was still declining the claim as based  on the report and 
the photos the damage was wear  and tear and the door had been  fitted  incorrectly. It said it 
would pay her a further £75 because of the lack of information about  the hinge  in the report.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that St Andrews had acted reasonably  in 
declining the claim and had paid an appropriate amount of compensation.
Miss C said that her locksmiths  evidence hadnt  been taken into account. She said shed  
only received the first payment  of £25. On checking the position St Andrews said the 
cheque had been cashed but wasnt able to show a record  of this. Because of confusion  it 
had caused over this issue  it decided to pay a further £250 to Miss C into her bank account, 
regardless of whether the cheque had been cashed.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence from Miss Cs locksmith  is that the door was misaligned and the top hinge  was 
broken. His opinion was that some force must have been applied to the door. He said it 
wasnt due to wear and tear. St Andrews locksmith recorded that the damage was wear  and 
tear and the lock mechanism was broken. In the later claims notes it was suggested  that the 
door being misaligned, some force would have been needed to lock it.
Whether the damage  was due to force being applied or wear and tear, it was still for Miss C 
to show that the damage came under the terms of the policy.  The only term which might 
apply is accidental damage for which she has cover. It is defined as:
An accident that causes  physical damage, which is caused suddenly  by an outside force 
and is not expected and not deliberate.
Ref: DRN52422452Although there was a suggestion that there was a strong wind at some stage, or gas 
company employees  had been in and out of the home, it hasnt been established that there 
was a sudden event that caused the damage. As Ive said it was for Miss C to show this. 
Im inclined  to think that because of the door being misaligned (confirmed by her locksmith) 
and because this means more  force  was required to close  and lock it that this was most  
likely the cause of the damage. When St Andrews declined the claim it said it is evident the 
door has been fitted incorrectly  and will fail over a period of time due to the positioning and 
fitting of the hinges. In the absence of evidence of a sudden  event  I think  St Andrews 
position is reasonable. I dont think its been shown that there  was cover under the policy  for 
the damage to the door.
St Andrews  has made a payment  of £25 and a further payment of £250  because it wasnt  
clear about  whether the £75 cheque  had been cashed. If it has been cashed Miss C will 
have had a total of £350 payments. Part of the payment related to failures  in St Andrews 
complaint handling process  and I have no power  to consider that. But I think the amount paid 
is sufficient to compensate Miss C for the initial refusal to deal with the claim and then the 
failure of St Andrews  locksmith to make  clear to her that he thought the damage was wear  
and tear.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2020.  
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5242245