K821x#15complaint
Miss F has complained about the loans she took out through  Elevate Credit International 
Limited (Sunny). She says Sunny mis-sold her payday loans. Also, that the loan repayments 
were such  a burden that she struggled to meet her normal household commitments, and this 
led to her borrowing  from other lenders.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
20 January 2020.  An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so 
I will not repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to partly uphold the complaint. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. But neither Miss F or Sunny 
responded to the provisional  decision.  
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Miss F nor Sunny provided  me with any new information, I see no reason to 
depart from the findings in the provisional  decision.  Therefore, based on everything Ive 
seen, I still think, for the reasons Ive outlined in the provisional decision, that Sunny 
shouldnt have provided Miss F with loans 8 and 9.  
putting things right  what I think  Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss F paid on loans 8 and 9;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken from 8 onwards means any information  recorded about
them is adverse.  So, all entries about  loans  8 and 9 should be removed  from Miss Fs
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Miss F a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN59884442my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I partly uphold Miss Fs 
complaint. 
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right for Miss F as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN59884443EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss F has complained about the loans she took out through Elevate Credit  International Limited 
(Sunny). She says Sunny mis-sold her payday  loans.  Also, that the loan repayments were such a 
burden that she struggled to meet her normal  household  commitments, and this led to her borrowing 
from other lenders.
Background
Miss F took nine loans from Sunny between August 2015 and October  2015. A summary  of Miss Fs 
borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Sunny, can be found below:
loan 
number 
    received dateactual repayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentsloan 
amountmax monthly 
contractual  
repayment
1 21/07/2015 30/07/2015 6 £150.00 £43.21
2 27/07/2015 30/07/2015 6 £50.00 £59.88
3 18/08/2015 27/08/2015 6 £150.00 £43.41
4 21/08/2015 27/08/2015 6 £150.00 £93.46
5 15/09/2015 29/09/2015 6 £100.00 £29.81
6 20/09/2015 29/09/2015 6 £100.00 £58.53
7 21/09/2015 29/09/2015 6 £100.00 £86.98
8 11/10/2015 28/10/2015 6 £150.00 £46.09
9 15/10/2015 28/10/2015 6 £150.00 £91.21
Our adjudicator thought Sunny had made an error  when it provided Miss F with her fifth loan and 
subsequent loans because,  by this time it shouldve seen Miss F was showing signs that she was 
struggling to repay  her loans. And by loan 6 her pattern of lending  shouldve showed  Sunny that these 
loans werent sustainable. 
Sunny disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. As no agreement could be reached, the case  has 
been passed  to me for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.
Having thought about the above, as well as the evidence available to me, Ive provisionally  decided to 
partly uphold  Miss Fs complaint. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks in order to reasonably conclude Miss F 
could repay  the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things,  such as how much  was being lent, 
the repayment amounts, and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN59884444In general, Id expect a lender to require  more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. Certain factors might  point to the 
fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish  that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include, but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time
during which a customer has been given loans  (reflecting  the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Miss Fs complaint.
Miss F didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 4. Because  of this I dont think  
there is any ongoing disagreement about  these  loans. So, I wont be making a decision  about this 
lending. But as they were part of the borrowing relationship Miss F had with Sunny, I will take them  
into account  when considering the other loans she took.
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Fs fifth loan as he thought she was borrowing at a high frequency  and 
the amounts she was borrowing did not significantly decrease. 
 
By the time Miss F took out loan 5, shed  had a lending  relationship with Sunny for just under two 
months. Having considered  Miss Fs borrowing history by this point,  I dont think it had reached the 
point where  Sunny ought to have concluded  that a pattern had emerged   especially as the borrowing 
relationship was only two months and the amounts  being borrowed werent  significantly increasing.  
But I do think  Miss Fs borrowing history by this point  regularly borrowing similar  amounts at similar 
times each month  shouldve prompted Sunny  to carry out additional  checks on her circumstances. I 
can see Miss F was due to repay her loans  in six monthly instalments, but I can see she always 
repaid them early.  Whilst this could  be seen as a positive  move as it would  have saved Miss F paying  
a higher amount  of interest - I can see she was requesting  further loans  within a few weeks of 
repaying the previous one. So, I think it should  have  prompted a full review of her circumstances to 
ensure she could sustain the repayments. But Sunny  didnt  do this before approving  loan 5 and so I 
dont think the checks it made were proportionate. 
Sunny says it enquired  about  Miss Fs income  and all expenses, including  any short-term lending 
commitments and it also used information from Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). And it was 
satisfied based on what it saw that Miss F would  be in a position to be able to afford her loans.
But Sunny was required to establish whether Miss F could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. The loan 
payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication Miss F could sustainably  make her 
repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Miss F provided a copy of her credit file and her bank statements. And having  done so, Ive not seen 
anything in there that wouldve given  Sunny cause for concern.   I think  that even if had Sunny had 
carried out proportionate  checks before it approved loan 5, it still wouldve  likely found out that Miss F 
was in a position to take on the loan and I dont  think  shes  lost out. 
Ref: DRN59884445It also follows  that I dont think Sunny carried  out proportionate checks when it approved  loans 6 and 
7 and it shouldve carried out the same types of checks that Ive outlined above. I can see that on the 
day that loan 7 was approved Miss F received funds from another payday lender, but at the point the 
loan was approved I dont think Sunny wouldve been aware of that. 
And there was no significant  change  in Miss Fs finances between loans  5 and 7 so I think had Sunny 
carried out proportionate  checks it wouldve  likely  thought that Miss F could afford  to take on loans 6 
and 7. So I dont think Sunny has made an error. 
Ive also looked at the overall  pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss F, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which Sunny should  reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful.   
Our adjudicator thought Sunny shouldve seen this by the time Miss F applied for her sixth loan. I 
have considered our adjudicators points, but Im not satisfied that Sunny should have reasonably  
been aware  of this by loan 6 and 7. I say this because although she had taken a number  of loans  
there were some gaps  between when the loans  were taken out and repaid, and Miss F had been  
borrowing for a relatively short period of time. 
However, I do think Sunny shouldve realised  this at the time it provided loan 8. I say this because:
When Miss F took out loan 8, it was her eighth loan in just under  three months.  It appears she 
had needed to borrow from Sunny  for each  of the preceding three months, borrowing: £200 in 
July 2015, £300 in August and September 2015.  And this pattern continued in October 2015 
with loan 8.
By loan 8, I think there was a pattern in Miss Fs borrowing. It appears that Miss F was mainly 
requesting loans around the middle  of each month and repaying them  all within  a matter of 
days. She was provided with new loans  quickly  after she had repaid  previous ones. Sunny 
ought to have realised it was more  likely than not 
Miss F was having to borrow further to cover the hole the repayment of her previous loans left 
in her finances  and that Miss Fs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. This is also 
evidenced by Miss F needing to borrow again within four days.
I think  that Miss F lost out when Sunny provided  loans 8 - 9 because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Miss Fs indebtedness  by allowing her to take 
expensive credit  over an extended period of time and;
the sheer number of loans  was likely to have had negative  implications on Miss Fs
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market  for these high-cost
loans
So Im intending to uphold  Miss Fs complaint about loans  8 and 9 and Sunny should  put things right 
as detailed below.
Ref: DRN5988444