K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a loan in 
2008. Miss B says Santander  UK Plc, trading at the time as Abbey  National (Santander), 
mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Santander made it clear that Miss B didnt have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this. I say this 
because Ive been given a copy of a document called the Duty of Care  Declaration which  
relates to the PPI and was completed  at the time of the sale. In this document there  are 
boxes that have been ticked  to confirm that various  parts of the policy has been explained to 
the applicant and at the end of each box there is an area for the applicant to initial to confirm  
this has happened. I can see that Miss Bs initials have  been placed at the end of each 
section. In addition  there  is a declaration  which Miss B has signed  and dated to confirm  she 
wants to proceed with the PPI. There was also the option to sign in a box if PPI wasnt 
required so if Miss B didnt want to take out the PPI she could have signed in this box.
Miss B has said she was told PPI was mandatory  as she was taking out a loan as a member  
of staff. But I havent seen anything in the paperwork to suggest  that taking PPI was a 
condition of the loan. And if it was a condition  of the loan I wouldnt expect to have  seen an 
option to decline  the cover  in the declaration as mentioned  above.  So I cant  uphold the 
complaint on this basis.
In the declaration signed by Miss B, it states that Santander wouldnt be offering advice or 
giving a recommendation on the cover. So I dont think Santander recommend the PPI to 
Miss B which means it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure 
Miss B got the information she needed to decide  for herself if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Santander gave  Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
From what  we have been told, Miss B had pre-existing medical  conditions  at the time of 
taking out the policy.  Having checked the policy terms  and conditions  I can see that there 
are exclusions  surrounding pre-existing medical conditions, however, it appears  these would  
only apply for the first 12 months of the policy. As Miss B has told us she hadnt taken any 
time off work prior to taking the policy for these conditions, nor was she taking any 
medication, I dont think she would have expected to be off work for any extended  length  of 
Ref: DRN59514942time and so I dont  think this exclusion would have impacted her decision to take out the 
policy. 
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss B because:  
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss B about  that. Because  Santander didnt tell 
Miss B, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss B has said - including what she has said about not 
needing the policy as she had a secure job with existing benefits. Miss B has told us she 
would receive more than three months  but less than six months pay from her employer if 
she was too ill to work. But this policy would have provided cover for accident and sickness  
until Miss B was able to return  to work, or until the expiry of the loan term  whichever came  
first. And so this would pay out in addition  to, and potentially for longer than, any sick pay 
she may have received.  And it would also pay out for up to 12 months  if Miss B was to lose 
her job. So I still think this policy could  have provided her with a useful benefit and therefore 
these points dont  change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Miss B any commission and profit share  it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should  also pay back to Miss B any extra  interest 
she paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Miss B the extra she paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Miss B 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss B can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Miss B any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN59514943
Ref: DRN5951494