K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about the service they have received from Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited in relation to a payment of a matured endowment policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs G took out an endowment policy in 1994 which  matured on 1 April 2019.  At the 
beginning of April 2019 Mr and Mrs G sent Aviva the required maturity forms detailing where 
the monies were  to be paid. On 3 April Mr and Mr G called Aviva  to query the payment and 
after some misinformation  and confusion on Avivas part they were  told the payment would 
be made to them by 10 April. However, this date wasnt met because Aviva  mistakenly  
reversed the surrender  request on the account.  In the end the payment was received  by 
Mr and Mrs Gs chosen bank account  on 18 April.
Aviva accepted that unnecessary delays  occurred and that a mistake happened.  For this it 
offered (and paid) Mr and Mrs G £100 and it also paid interest on the maturity value for the 
number of days the payment was delayed by.
Mr and Mrs G were not happy with the amount Aviva paid them  in recognition  of its errors 
and so brought their complaint to this Service. They said they had spent many minutes on 
the telephone to Aviva trying to sort this issue out so more  compensation should be offered. 
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view it couldnt be 
upheld. He agreed some errors had occurred but the main reason for the delay in payment 
was that Mr and Mrs G had provided  a new and different bank account that Aviva hadnt  
previously been  made  aware of. So further identification checks had to be carried  out before 
the payment could  be made.
He also felt that the £100 Aviva had already  paid Mr and Mr G was sufficient given  what  had 
happened and the mistakes made, as was the extra interest payment added to the final 
payment made.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with the assessment  and remained of the view the compensation 
already paid wasnt enough  for them. So as no agreement could be reached the complaint 
has been passed to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree the complaint 
cant be upheld.
I am of the view that Aviva did make mistakes  on the account by placing a reversal  on it. 
This caused the delay that could  have been avoided so I think this needs to be recognised.  
But this recognition should be in an interest payment because had it not been for the 
reversal being applied  to the account  by mistake Mr and Mrs G would have received their 
monies sooner.  
Having looked  through everything I can see that Aviva received all it needed to process the 
maturity payment on 4 April. So, in line with its process Aviva  used  the unit prices of the fund 
for the day after the day it received all it needed to start the surrender  process.
Ref: DRN59778792In my view this is reasonable,  so I dont think anything went  wrong at this stage.
Aviva has said that the payment request was then processed on 12 April.  Here I think  is 
where the delay  incurred.
From what  I have  seen I think this delay was probably down to the fact the reversal was 
mistakenly placed on the account. As this was an error, I agree interest should be calculated 
for this time.
Had the error not occurred the payment would have  been received five days earlier. So, it 
therefore follows that this avoidable  delay should be recompensed. The right way of doing 
this is to add interest for the extra  days Aviva  still held the matured funds. 
It also important to bear in mind  that while the identification checks  took a bit longer than 
normal this was because  Mr and Mrs G asked  for the monies  to be paid into a new bank 
account that Aviva wasnt familiar with. So it needed  to verify all details were  correct and 
everything was above board before it processed the payment. Again, I think  this was 
reasonable and was ultimately carried out to protect  Mr and Mrs G.
In addition to this Aviva has paid £100  to Mr and Mrs G. I appreciate the frustration Mr and 
Mr G felt when  the payment wasnt received  when  they thought it should and I also believe 
this should be acknowledged but I think the amount offered by Aviva sufficiently does this.
Overall therefore, while  some things did go wrong during the process of paying the maturity 
funds to Mr and Mrs G I think Aviva  has sufficiently recognised this and paid the required 
interest for the delays in the payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 November  2019.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5977879