K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr S holds with Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS). Hes 
unhappy that BOS  hasnt  done enough to help him whilst hes been in arrears due to 
financial difficulties. Mr S has been  represented  by Mr P; currently,  due to restrictions in 
movement due to Coronavirus, Mr S is communicating with us directly. However, we 
continue to keep  Mr P informed of how the case is progressing.
background
By way of a first provisional  decision dated  25 March  2020, I set out, with reasons, the basis  on 
which I was minded to determine this complaint, subject to the further submissions of the parties.  
After hearing from both parties, I issued a second  provisional decision on 6 April 2020. Both 
provisional decisions are attached  below and form part of this final decision.
I gave the parties  until 27 April 2020 to reply to the second provisional decision if they had 
anything new to say. Neither has made any new material arguments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, theres no reason for me 
to depart from the conclusions set out in the second provisional decision,  so I dont. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out, above, I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  
this services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN50774442CONTENT OF SECOND PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage Mr S holds  with Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS).  Hes unhappy  that 
BOS hasnt done enough to help him whilst  hes been in arrears due to financial  difficulties. Mr S has 
been represented by Mr P; currently, due to restrictions in movement due to Coronavirus, Mr S is 
communicating with us directly. However, we continue  to keep Mr P informed of how the case is 
progressing.
background
By way of a first provisional decision dated 25 March  2020, which  is attached below and forms part of 
this decision, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which I was minded  to determine this complaint, 
subject to the further  submissions of the parties. I gave the parties until 15 April 2020  to reply to the 
first provisional decision; both have  already  done so.
Mr S says,  in summary, that he agrees with my finding on the interest rate, but would  like the 
proposed redress  paid to him directly rather than adjusted back to the mortgage account.  Hes also 
pointed out that the payment arrangement accepted by the court as a condition of the suspended 
possession order (SPO) was the same one hed already  offered to the business. That being so, he 
says the court case was unnecessary,  and the costs associated  with it should  be removed from his 
mortgage balance.
BOS response focussed on my finding that the mortgage should be re-worked to remove the 
consent-to-let (CTL) surcharge for the period in 2017 and 2018  when Mr S was living in his 
mortgaged property.  It explained that the CTL surcharge  was only charged until the end of February  
2016, since when the mortgage had been on a variable rate. That being so, the interest recalculation  
and compensation payment Id proposed werent  warranted.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ill deal first with Mr S submissions  regarding the litigation costs. 
I already explained in the first provisional decision that its not the role of the financial ombudsman  to 
second guess or otherwise interfere with a decision that a court has already made. I also pointed out 
and that if the court had any reason to consider  the action unnecessary, inherently unfair or 
procedurally defective, it had the power to decline to grant the order BOS  was seeking. That power 
included, if the court thought it was necessary, ordering BOS to meet the litigation costs instead  of 
debiting them  to the mortgage account. The court  didnt make such an order, and theres  no basis for 
me to order something  different from what the court decided.
Turning to BOS submission, Ive received a copy of the new mortgage offer it issued to Mr S when  he 
went onto CTL. This offer,  which is dated 20 November 2012, sets out the rate Mr S would pay, and 
how long he would pay it for. The CTL rate was fixed at 6.59% and ran until 29 February  2016.  
Thereafter, BOS has charged Mr S a variable  rate with no CTL surcharge. 
What that means is that BOS wasnt  applying  a CTL surcharge when  Mr S was living in the property 
in 2017/18. It was charging  him the reversionary rate allowed for in the underlying contract after the 
CTL surcharge had ended. It follows from this that I have to change my mind about the award of 
compensation I proposed  in my first provisional decision. Theres no proper basis for me to make the 
award. 
Ref: DRN50774443my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties, is that I dont intend  to uphold 
this complaint or make any order or award  against Bank of Scotland plc.
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 27 April 2020,  or sooner if both parties  confirm  
theyve said and provided  everything they want in response  to this provisional decision. Again, neither  
party need repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN50774444CONTENT OF FIRST PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage Mr S holds  with Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS).  Hes unhappy  that 
BOS hasnt done enough to help him whilst  hes been in arrears due to financial  difficulties. Mr S is 
represented here by Mr P.
background
In what  follows, I have  summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented, using  my 
own words  and rounding  some of the figures involved.  No discourtesys intended  by that; its a 
reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material  to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach  is consistent  with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on 
the issues  on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked  by matters which in my 
view will have  little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Mr S has been in arrears on his mortgage periodically since around 2012; this has primarily  been 
caused by interruptions in his employment and income.  To  mitigate his financial difficulties,  Mr S 
rented his home out to tenants (with permission  from BOS) and went back to living  with his parents. In 
the summer of 2017,  believing his financial position to have improved, Mr S ended the tenancy and 
moved back in to his own property. Unfortunately, events and circumstances  proved this to be 
unsustainable, and in July 2018, Mr S once more let his property out and moved back  to his parents 
home. 
Eventually, with the arrears  at around £16,000, BOS began legal action for a possession order. Mr P, 
on Mr S behalf, wrote  asking why BOS hadnt done more to meet its regulatory  obligation to help a 
customer in financial hardship; in particular,  switching  the mortgage to interest-only. BOS treated the 
enquiry as a complaint and issued a final response rejecting the complaint and referring Mr S to us. 
It also went ahead with the court action, and the court granted a suspended possession order.  The 
terms of the order were to formalise  a payment arrangement under which Mr S made a lump  sum 
payment of around £5,000 (thus reducing  the arrears to around £11,000) and would then make his full 
contractual payment  each  month plus an amount towards reducing the arrears further. 
When the complaint  came  to us, our investigator didnt  recommend  it be upheld.  Mr P, on Mr S 
behalf, has asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ill start with some general observations. Were  not the regulator of financial businesses,  and we dont 
police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. We deal with individual disputes  between businesses  and their customers. In doing  that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  on how we investigate  a complaint. We 
conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions  without interference  from anyone  else.  But in 
doing so, we have to work  within the rules of the ombudsman service, and the remit  those  rules give 
us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. If I dont  comment on any specific point its not because  Ive failed to 
consider it but because  I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  what  I think  is the right 
outcome in the wider  context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round. Its 
Ref: DRN50774445also for me to decide when I have all the evidence  I need, and to decide  what  weight I should attach  
to the evidence  I have. 
The final response  from BOS summarised the complaint under three broad heads; these are that 
BOS:
didnt offer to switch Mr S mortgage from capital  repayment to interest-only  to help ease his 
financial difficulties;
didnt offer Mr S a lower  rate when he re-occupied  his home  during 2017 and 2018;  and
failed to provide enough  support generally to a borrower in financial difficulties.
In what  follows, Ill be following that broad structure.
In support of his argument that BOS  should  have  switched Mr S to interest-only, Mr P points to a 
particular section  of the Mortgage and Home Finance Conduct of Business  Sourcebook  (MCOB). He 
says (correctly)  that it allows for lenders  to switch  to interest-only in circumstances where  MCOB says 
elsewhere they might otherwise not be able to do so. But theres a difference between saying a lender 
isnt prevented from doing something and saying it must do something and is in breach of MCOB if it 
doesnt do it. The MCOB extract in question does the former; it doesnt  do the latter. 
Switching to interest-only might sound an easy solution, but its anything but. It means the borrower is 
falling behind  with the scheduled repayment  of capital. It runs the risk of storing up more trouble for 
the future because when capital repayments are resumed, they are higher still to make up for lost 
time. Switching to interest-only can sometimes work  temporarily, but as Ive said,  Mr S problems 
havent been  temporary. Overall, Im not persuaded that switching to interest- only was necessarily in 
Mr S best interests such that BOS  treated him unfairly by not doing something which, to be clear,  
MCOB doesnt direct  it to do.
As far as a lower rate is concerned, its worth pointing out that no borrower is entitled to a lower rate; 
lenders have to consider context and individual circumstances in all cases. By way of background, 
most lenders,  when asked to provide a new rate to a borrower with an arrears  history, require the 
arrears to be cleared  in full and then the mortgage kept up to date and arrears- free for a minimum 
period (a year is not untypical) before theyll consider offering a new rate. 
Thats because most rate deals  come with an early repayment charge (ERC)  if the mortgage ends 
during the term of the deal. If a borrower still couldnt afford the payment under  a new deal, they might 
still be at risk of the property being taken into possession  and then sold. If that happened, then the 
ERC clause would be activated resulting  in an extra amount being added  to the closing balance on 
sale. So lenders typically guard against  that risk by insisting on an arrears-free period  before 
considering a new rate deal.  
Thats a perfectly reasonable starting  point, in my view. Here however,  Mr Ps issue about the rate 
BOS was charging is different from that. His argument  is that during the period Mr S was back in 
occupation of his property (rather than renting it out with BOS consent) his mortgage shouldnt  have 
been subject to the consent-to-let surcharge. Instead,  BOS should  simply have applied the SVR, 
which would not have brought the attendant risk of an ERC  with it
Ive given  that a lot of thought, and in my view, this argument  has merit. Its perfectly reasonable for a 
lender to apply a rate surcharge  when  granting consent-to-let on what is otherwise  a residential 
mortgage. The two tenures  represent  different risks for a lender, so I have no issue with BOS applying 
a consent-to-let  surcharge on Mr S mortgage whilst his property was rented  out. But during the 
approximately thirteen-month  between the summers of 2017 and 2018 when he was living there,  Mr S 
should not have been subject to the surcharge. Its my intention to order BOS  to remove the 
surcharge for that period.
On the third head of complaint, theres a clear dispute about how much help BOS has tried to give to 
Mr S over the time hes been in arrears. Mr P talks of neither  party  being able to prove beyond a 
Ref: DRN50774446reasonable doubt whose  version is closer to the truth.  That may or may not be true, but its also 
neither here nor there. The rules of the ombudsman  scheme  require me to decide what is most  likely 
to have happened on the balance  of probabilities.  Thats broadly  the same test that the courts  use in 
civil cases. 
The starting  point here is the contact notes that BOS maintained over the years, which  have been 
provided to us as part of BOS response to the complaint.  The value  of such records  is that theyre 
contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and agreed at the relevant  time. Theyre not 
fool-proof, of course; its always  possible information might be recorded  incorrectly or missed 
altogether. But generally speaking, over the many years  I have been determining complaints, its my 
experience that contemporaneous contact notes are typically more reliable than peoples recollection 
at an often-considerable distance of time. 
Its a common misconception that the rules of mortgage regulation require  lenders to provide 
forbearance. What they actually  require  lenders to do is consider each set of individual circumstances 
fairly to decide if forbearance can and/or should be provided; the two things arent the same. Wed 
expect a lender to consider offering help to consumers  going  through  a temporary  problem, especially  
in situations where it can be seen their situation is likely  to improve. The difficulty  here is that Mr S 
apparent difficulty with his mortgage payments hasnt been  temporary; its lasted for around eight 
years.
BOS began  providing forbearance to Mr S in 2012, and has been providing it ever since.  Theres no 
doubt Mr S has gone through  very difficult times with interruptions in his employment  and income.  The 
pressure to maintain his mortgage payments against such a backdrop cant have been  easy for Mr S, 
and Im not unsympathetic towards him in that regard. But my impartiality means I must also have  
regard for BOSs point of view, and its apparent BOS  has done a lot to help Mr S, including allowing 
him to rent the property out for income  while  he lived back with his parents.
Everything has a context, and when I view the decisions  BOS  has made  from time to time against the 
conduct of the account in its entirety, its apparent to me that BOS has shown remarkable  patience  
and lenience  towards Mr S for a very long time. Its not obliged to do so indefinitely, and it does look 
as though  that patience ran out in 2019 when BOS decided to pursue  legal  action. I appreciate it may 
look as though this came  at a time when Mr S income  situation was starting to show some stability. 
But after so many years  of uncertainty, I can understand if BOS was taking a cautious view.
One of the fundamental principles underpinning  the mortgage  contract  is that a lender has the right to 
enforce its security to recover money owed  to it. It would be entirely  inequitable and inappropriate  for 
me to remove  that right from a lender in a final decision  on a complaint, regardless of the individual 
consumers wider situation.  Here, that point is largely moot in any event because  the case has 
already gone to court  where a suspended possession order was granted  underpinning a payment  
arrangement which, as I understand it, Mr S is currently maintaining. 
If the court  had any reason to consider the action unnecessary, inherently  unfair or procedurally 
defective, it had the power to decline  to grant the order BOS was seeking. Its not the role of the 
financial ombudsman to second guess or otherwise interfere with a decision that a court has already 
made.
Getting back to Mr S current  maintenance of the arrangement for a moment, I understand that BOS 
has indicated it may consider agreeing to capitalise  the residual arrears. Capitalisation of arrears  is a 
concession, and an onerous one at that. It permanently increases the mortgage balance by the 
amount of the arrears, and commits the borrower  to repaying that higher balance over the mortgage 
term, with all the extra  interest that goes with it. 
For that reason, lenders tend to have  strict  qualifying  criteria; as an example, its not untypical  for 
borrowers to be required to pay the full contractual payment in full and on time for a minimum of 
twelve consecutive months. Even if that is achieved, it doesnt guarantee capitalisation  will be 
approved; its merely a pre-condition before lenders will even consider it. 
Ref: DRN50774447The point generally is that lenders tend only to consider offering capitalisation once they are satisfied 
that a consumers  finances have stabilised. If BOS of a mind to consider offering it to Mr S, that has to 
be viewed as a positive, but to be clear, I dont here (and wont  in any final decision)  order it to 
happen. 
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point,  and I havent.  I have, as I said 
I would, confined  myself  to those matters  that I consider have  a material effect on the outcome. I can 
see from his submissions how strongly Mr P feels about this case, and Ive noted  in particular his tight 
focus on regulation.  Thats understandable,  but, I have to take a different approach.  Im impartial and I 
have to look at things  objectively, sometimes taking a step back  and focussing on the broader picture. 
Regulation only takes you so far when deciding  what is fair and reasonable. Thats what Ive done, 
and having done so, I cant find in Mr S favour to the extent Mr P believes I should.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties by 15 April 2020,  is that I 
intend to uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, it is my intention to order Bank of 
Scotland plc to: 
recalculate Mr S mortgage for the period during which Mr S was occupying  his property rather 
than renting it out to tenants on the basis that interest was charged at SVR, without the consent-
to-let surcharge*; and
pay Mr S £250 compensation  for his trouble and upset in having  to continue  paying the 
surcharge.
*Im currently treating  this period as being from 1 June 2017  to 31 July 2018,  but will vary that if I 
receive material evidence from either side that changes my mind  on when the start and/or end date of 
Mr S re-occupation of his property should be.
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 15 April 2020.  Neither  party  need repeat anything 
theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5077444