K821x#15complaint
Mrs V complains that the transfer value of two pension pots she transferred from Phoenix 
Life Limited to another provider was over £16,000  less than she was expecting.  Mrs V says 
she doesnt understand why the value of her pension pots was reduced.  In particular, she 
says both pots were  transferred to a deposit  fund in 2014 and she understood the pots were 
receiving an interest rate of 6.8% per year.
Mrs V is represented in the matter by Mr V.
background
Mrs V held two Section  226 pension plans with Phoenix. The plans were set up with a 
selected retirement date of January  2014.  Mrs V chose to defer  taking her pension benefits 
in 2014.
In a letter to Mrs Vs financial adviser dated  December 2014  Phoenix explained that:
If benefits are not taken  at the selected  retirement date it is standard practice  for a policy  to 
be deferred for five years  at a time. However,  benefits can be taken  at any date during that 
period without incurring any penalties.
Phoenix Life does  not operate a drawdown  facility.
Please note when  a policy goes  into deferment  the guaranteed basic sum plus attaching  
bonuses are retained. The policy  will no longer participate in the With Profits fund, and 
further bonuses  will not be added.  Instead the fund value  will be placed into a deposit fund 
where it will accrue interest at a rate declared  by the Company. The current rate of interest  is 
6.7%.
In early 2017 Mrs V reviewed her pension arrangements with her financial adviser.  It 
appears the adviser recommended  that Mrs V should transfer the pension pots she held with 
Phoenix to another provider. The transfer took some time to arrange, and was completed  in 
August 2017.
Mrs Vs pension  pots were valued  at £261,775 and £38,458 respectively on 23 May 2017. 
But, by the date the transfer went ahead on 21 August 2018, they were valued  at £247,620 
and £36,378 respectively.  The final transfer  values were over £16,000 less than Mrs V was 
expecting.
In a letter to Mrs V dated 25 August  2017  Phoenix said:
It would appear that due to a rate change affecting  all With Profits polices on 1 July 2017,  
the final transfer amount issued to [name of platform provider] on 21 August differed from 
transfer values  quoted  on 23 May.
It also said that:
As the final transfer  values were higher than those expected by [name of platform provider], 
we did not query the values with you.
Mrs V wasnt  satisfied  with Phoenixs response and complained.
Ref: DRN52585282Phoenix paid Mrs V a total of £300,  made  up of £200 for the trouble and upset this matter 
had caused her and £100  for delays  in dealing with the complaint. It also gave conflicting 
information about whether Mrs Vs pension pots had remained  invested in a with-profits  fund 
after she had deferred taking her benefits.  Mrs V remained  dissatisfied and brought  her 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator said he did not think Phoenix  needed to do any more to resolve Mrs Vs 
complaint. He noted it had providing contradictory explanations about  why the value of Mrs 
Vs pension  pots had reduced in value.  But he said he was of the view that, even if Mrs V 
had been made aware that the value of her pension pots had been reduced,  she would still 
have gone ahead with the transfer.
Mrs V wasnt  satisfied  with our investigators view and asked for her complaint to be 
determined by an ombudsman.
I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I reached  a different view to that of our investigator. My provisional  
decision, issued  on 5 March 2019  was that Mrs Vs complaint should be upheld.  
I said that having reviewed all the information  that had been provided  to this service  in 
connection with Mrs Vs complaint I found  the explanations provided by Phoenix confusing 
and contradictory.  
I said it appeared that a key part of Mrs Vs complaint  that her pension  pots were  
transferred to a deposit based  fund in 2014 and therefore should not have fallen in value  
has not been fully addressed. I said I thought the issues relating to the reduction in the value 
of Mrs Vs pension pots flowed from this issue.
confusing and contradictory information
I said I didnt think Phoenix has provided a clear explanation to either Mrs V, or this service, 
for the reduction  in the value of Mrs Vs pension  pots.
In reaching this provisional view I took account  of the letter Phoenix sent to Mrs Vs financial 
adviser in December 2014  which said:
Please note when  a policy goes  into deferment  the guaranteed basic sum plus attaching  
bonuses are retained. The policy  will no longer participate in the With Profits fund, and 
further bonuses  will not be added.  Instead the fund value will be placed into a deposit 
fund where it will accrue interest at a rate declared by the Company.  The current rate
of interest is 6.7%.
(bold is my emphasis)
The letter also said in relation to the final bonus:
This may be added when  a with-profits policy reaches the policyholder's selected  retirement  
date. The amount depends  on the performance of the investments (and other  profits and 
losses of the With-Profits  Fund)  over the term of the policy and is not guaranteed.
From this it appeared  that any final bonus due would have been applied  to Mrs Vs pension 
pots in 2014, when  she reached her selected  retirement date.
Ref: DRN52585283Via our investigator I asked  Phoenix to provide me with copies of the correspondence it had 
with Mrs V in late 2013/early 2014. I explained  that I wanted to understand what  Mrs V had 
been told at the time about  how her deferred  pension pots would  be invested. It appears that 
Mrs V didnt need to complete a form to defer  her benefits so I asked for a copy of any 
letters it sent confirming  that Mrs V had deferred taking her benefits.
Unfortunately Phoenix did not appear  to have written to Mrs V confirming how her funds 
would be treated after she chose to defer taking her benefits. I therefore relied on the letter 
sent to Mrs Vs adviser  in December 2014 which set out that the  fund value will be placed  
into a deposit  fund where it will accrue interest at a rate declared by the Company. The 
current rate of interest is 6.7%.
It was not clear to me why, if the fund value of Mrs Vs pension pots was placed into a 
deposit fund and was accruing interest, the value of her fund could have fallen. Particularly if 
any final bonus due was added when the plans reached Mrs Vs selected retirement date in 
2014.
Nor was it clear to me how Mrs V could  reasonably  have been expected to know that the 
fund valuations she was given in May 2017 could fall by over 5% - presumably due to an 
adjustment in the final bonus  rates - by the time the transfer went ahead in August 2017.
Phoenix did not provide a satisfactory  explanation  for this. I also noted in a letter  to Mrs V 
dated 21 December  2017 Phoenix said:
The way your policies  worked were  that the Guaranteed Annuity attaching  including  
Bonuses accrued throughout the lifespan  of each policy) is held on deposit  from Normal 
Retirement Date (18.01.2014) and has subsequently accrued interest at a rate of 6.8%  per 
annum.
The policies themselves, as such,  remained in the With  Profits Fund  and the 
performance of this fund determined  the rate that was applied to the revised Guaranteed 
Annuity (plus  Bonuses) to convert  each into a Fund Value. It is not that a 'value is added' to 
each policy  at 1 July.
When a policy leaves  the with-profits fund we aim to pay out a fair share of the profits and 
losses that have  been earned  by the fund since the policy  began.
We regularly review  our transfer  values  to reflect the latest profits  and losses  experienced by 
the fund. These profits and losses  include,  amongst other things, investment returns, 
expenses, tax and the cost of the guarantees that we have given to policyholders.
But in a letter to Mrs V dated  12 January 2018 it said:
I have spoken  to our technical team about the information you requested concerning your 
bonuses. I have been  informed  your  last bonus  was added on the 18 January 2014  and 
you have received correspondence in regards to the values of these in previous letters. You 
have not received any subsequent bonuses, and therefore no bonus was added  prior to you 
transferring your policies.
When your policies were deferred  to 18 January  2019 the guaranteed  minimum annuity plus 
attaching bonuses were retained. Upon deferment, the policies ceased  to participate  in 
Ref: DRN52585284the With Profits  Fund  and this is why no further bonuses  were  added. Instead the fund  
value was placed  in a deposit  fund.
(bold is my emphasis)
I was concerned by the contradictory  information  in these letters  sent to Mrs V and I asked 
Phoenix to clarify its position. I also asked it to provide copies of the annual statements (or 
equivalent) that had been sent to Mrs V after she deferred her retirement in 2014. Phoenix  
said it does not sent automatic statements after the normal retirement date (NRD) and it 
would only have provided a statement if Mrs V had requested one.
It also said:
Post NRD the policies dont participate in With Profits fund and no further bonuses 
are added.  However they will benefit  from Late Retirement Interest. (There appears  to be a 
facility to rewrite the policy to a later date if this was requested  prior to the NRD, but this 
doesnt appear to be the case here). The figure  of 6.8% is more  likely to be a terminal bonus 
increase as this seems  to be an unreasonable post NRD increase.
I asked Phoenix to explain what it meant by late retirement interest and when and how 
much was applied.  And I asked it to confirm whether the 6.8% was a terminal bonus or 
interest. As it appeared it was now claiming  the 6.8% was most likely  a terminal  bonus.
In order that I could better understand what had happened to the value of Mrs Vs pension 
pots (in the absence of any statements) I also asked  it to set out the value at Mrs Vs 
pension pots at her NRD and set out what bonuses/interest was added and how the final 
value was calculated.  Unfortunately  Phoenix  did not provide this information.
I said I accepted  that if Mrs Vs pension pots had remained in the with-profits  fund after 2014 
 and this had been made clear to Mrs V  it would  not be unreasonable for the valuation 
she received in May 2017 to differ from the amount on the date the pension pots were 
transferred.
But, based on the information  I had seen, I said I didnt think  Mrs V could reasonably  have 
known that the value  of her pension pots would be lower at the transfer date. As I have set 
out above, Mrs V, had been told, via her financial adviser the fund value will be placed 
into a deposit  fund where it will accrue interest at a rate declared by the Company. The 
current rate of interest is 6.7%.
In its response to this service dated 14 January 2019 Phoenix said:
The way the policies worked  were  that the Guaranteed Annuity attaching to each (including 
Bonuses accrued throughout the lifespan  of each policy) is held on deposit  from Normal 
Retirement Date (I8.01.2014) and has subsequently  accrued interest at a rate of 6.8% per 
annum.
The policies themselves, as such,  remained in the With  Profits Fund  and the 
performance of this fund determined  the rate that was applied to the revised Guaranteed 
Annuity (plus  Bonuses) to convert  each into a Fund Value. It is not that a 'value is added' to 
each policy  at 1 July.
When a policy leaves  the with-profits fund we aim to pay out a fair share of the profits and 
losses that have  been earned  by the fund since the policy  began.
Ref: DRN52585285We regularly review  our transfer  values  to reflect the latest profits  and losses  experienced by 
the fund. These profits and losses  include,  amongst other things, investment returns, 
expenses, tax and the cost of the guarantees that we have given to policyholders.
The most recent review  (1 July) revealed  that we were paying out significantly more than the 
fair value  on transfer  or retirement and we therefore,  made  appropriate reductions, as paying 
more than the underlying value would disadvantage  the continuing policyholders remaining 
in the fund. This explains the reduction in value under each  policy from June to July. We are 
not obliged to divulge the rates used,  as these are for internal  use only.
(bold is my emphasis)
I said I hoped that Phoenix could see that this response again contradicted  earlier responses 
it has provided to this service that said;
- the fund value was placed in a deposit fund. And,
- 'Upon  reaching  NRD the fund value  is placed on deposit to avoid volatility and to protect  
the value. This is in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.'
I noted I had asked Phoenix twice to explain and clarify its position. I had also asked it to 
provide documentation to show  that it had explained  to Mrs V that her funds remained 
invested in its with-profits fund.
But it did not provide anything to show that it told Mrs V that the information in the letter to 
Mrs Vs financial adviser dated December  2014 was incorrect. The letter in December 2014  
said: the fund value will be placed  into a deposit fund where  it will accrue interest at a rate 
declared by the Company. The current rate of interest is 6.7%. It also said the final bonus, if 
any was due, would be added when a with-profits policy reaches the policyholder's selected 
retirement date.
I explained that Phoenix is required  by its industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
to ensure that all communication with its customers is clear, fair and not misleading. I said I 
had asked Phoenix twice to clarify  its position. Unfortunately, it was not able to provide a 
clear, consistent explanation.
Having carefully considered this matter, my provisional view was that I didnt think  it was 
reasonable for Phoenix to have adjusted Mrs Vs transfer value  and claim that she had 
remained invested in its with profits fund. I noted  that on three separate occasions it has said 
that Mrs Vs funds were  switched to a deposit  fund when she deferred taking her benefits.
Fall on more than 5% of fund value
I also asked Phoenix to provide a copy of the transfer discharge form completed by Mrs V. I 
noted that the form included the option that if the transfer value fell by 5% or more  of the 
quoted transfer value,  Phoenix would inform the consumer before processing  the transfer.
Phoenix says Mrs V didnt  complete a discharge form for the transfer as the transfer  was 
completed via Origo.
It says that even though Mrs Vs transfer value was reduced by more than 5% it did not let 
her know  about the reduction before it transferred her pension pots. It said it didnt do so 
because the transfer request it received from Mrs Vs new pension  provider indicated that it 
expected the transfer values to be around £200,000  and £30,000 respectively. Phoenix said 
that as the transfer values were higher than this it didnt think  it had acted unreasonably by 
Ref: DRN52585286failing to tell Mrs V that the transfer  values were over 5% lower that it had previously 
indicated.
I said I didnt think Phoenixs position  on this was reasonable.  I note that the valuation sent 
to Mrs V in May 2017 said:
The above  figures are not guaranteed, and will be recalculated before the payment is made.
But I said I must take into account  that Mrs V was told in December  2014  (via her financial 
adviser) that her fund value had been  placed into a deposit fund where it will accrue 
interest at a rate declared by the Company. The current rate of interest is 6.7%.
I said I hadnt seen  anything that showed Phoenix  had told Mrs V that despite her fund 
values being  held in a deposit fund and receiving  interest, that the value of her pension  pots 
could be reduced.
I said I was of the view that if Mrs V has been  told that her fund value had not been  placed 
into a deposit  fund where it will accrue interest at a rate declared by the Company. and was 
in fact still invested in a with-profits  fund she would have chosen  to move her funds sooner 
than she did to another provider.
I said I had reached this provisional view as it was clear from the information that has 
provided to this service  that Mrs V considered transferring her pension pots on several  
occasions before she actually  went ahead  with the transfer in 2017. I said I thought  a key 
factor in Mrs Vs decision not to move  her pension pots sooner was her belief that her pots 
had been placed into a deposit fund where it will accrue interest  at a rate declared by the 
Company. The current rate of interest is 6.7%.
I noted that Mr V has also provided a clear  and consistent account that Mrs V understood 
her pension pots were  held in a deposit  fund. As Phoenix has said:
'Upon reaching  NRD the fund value is placed on deposit to avoid volatility and to protect the 
value. This is in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.'
Having carefully considered this matter, my provisional decision was that I intended to 
uphold Mrs Vs complaint.
Both Phoenix and Mr V responded to my provisional decision.
Phoenix apologised for it failure to provide information this service has requested and for 
providing contradictory information. It said it accepted that Mrs Vs complaint  hadnt been 
dealt with very well.
It said it now wanted to provide a correct explanation as to what  the policy  is, including 
that there  is no fund as such, just a calculated value, based on the guarantees of the policy.
It asked me to reassess  my provisional decision in light of its explanation.  It said:  
I note our letter of 17 December 2014 states  'when a policy goes  into deferment the 
guaranteed basic  sum plus attaching bonuses are retained.  The policy  will no longer 
participate in the WPF,  and further bonuses  will not be added. Instead the fund value will be 
placed into a deposit fund where it will accrue  interest at a rate declared  by the company. 
The current  rate of interest  is 6.7%'.
Ref: DRN52585287This appears  to be based on the standard  late retirement  process for most  traditional with 
profit policies. However, during our investigations  in 2017 we sought  guidance  from our 
Actuarial department who specifically referred  to Guaranteed Annuity amounts, it did not 
refer to funds as suggested above. I believe that this is the key misunderstanding  here as 
based on the explanation  above, both yourself  and Mrs V believe the fund at NRD is held on 
deposit (or moved to a deposit fund), attracting interest at 6.7%  and therefore  should not 
decrease.
However based on the Actuaries guidance, the policy provides a Guaranteed Annuity on 
Retirement, and it is this annuity (and not an equivalent fund) which  increases at a rate of 
6.7% (although I can see we have mentioned 6.8%). In this context I think  the word deposit 
is misleading, this effectively means the policy ceases to accrue  any further bonuses - 
however I believe  that both yourself  and Mrs V have taken this to mean  the funds were 
transferred to a deposit account.
Looking at the additional comments it would  appear we have incorrectly referred  to 'fund' 
rather than 'annuity' on a number of occasions.
I can confirm that your understanding of the final bonus is partially correct i e they would 
have applied  at Mrs V's normal retirement date (NRD)  - however you have suggested that 
this is applied to the pension pot (i.e. a fund)  rather than an annuity.
In our letter of 25 August  2017 sent to Mrs V we state 'due to a rate change affecting all With 
Profits policies on 1 July 2017, the final transfer amount on 21 August differed from transfer 
values quoted on 23 May'. I'm not sure if this is wholly appropriate in this case  although I 
appreciate our rates do change on 1 July. It would appear you have taken this to mean  there 
was a bonus rate change but we are actually referring to commutation  factors for converting  
the guaranteed annuity into a transfer values for this type of policy.
Unfortunately I don't  think this was actually explained until earlier this year and with hindsight 
I think too many previous  explanations have  referred  to a fund rather than an annuity.
The complaint centres  around a reduction in fund and we should have stressed that the 
policy provided a with profits guaranteed annuity.  Where late retirement is taken, the annuity 
at NRD is increased using a rate of 6.8% pa compound. (This agrees with the terms and 
conditions).
The policy provides benefits in the form of a guaranteed annuity, which  can be converted  
into a cash equivalent  transfer or fund value using commutation factors. These  factors are 
not guaranteed and are regularly reviewed by our Actuaries - it is a change in these  factors  
which has resulted  in the difference  in transfer value.
Mr V also responded  to my provisional  decision, on Mrs Vs behalf.  He said Mrs V accepted 
my provisional decision and he added some  further information in connection  with this 
complaint. He said, in summary that neither he nor Mrs V had corresponded or indicated  
in any way to Phoenix that they expected the value of Mrs Vs policies to be £200,000 and 
£30,000 respectively.  He said Phoenix had refused to transfer they policies without first 
receiving transfer discharge forms. Mr V provided this service  with a copy  of the forms Mrs V 
had sent to Phoenix in August 2017. He noted  Phoenix had said it didnt receive the first set 
of forms, so Mrs V had re-sent the forms by recorded delivery.
Mr V also said that the value of the two pension pots hadnt grown in value by the 6/8% per 
year from the date of deferment.
Ref: DRN52585288Mr V responded again when he had reviewed  Phoenixs response  to my provisional 
decision. He expressed his frustration that Phoenix had again provided a different 
explanation, contradicting earlier explanations.  He reiterated that the key factor  in Mrs Vs 
decision to leave her pension pot with Phoenix  after NRD was that the fund would be put 
into a deposit  account receiving a interest  rate of 6.8%, absolutely no mention that it was just 
the guaranteed annuity bit of the pension  pot that received 6.8%  interest or what interest the 
other part of the pension  pot would receive.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments in light of the new information  
provided to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Having done so I think Mrs Vs complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Phoenix accepts that it provided incorrect information to Mrs Vs IFA in December 2014.  It 
now says Mrs Vs pension fund value was not placed into a deposit fund where it will 
accrue interest at a rate declared by the company. The current rate of interest is 6.7%'.
It says that ..the policy provides a Guaranteed Annuity on Retirement, and it is this annuity  
(and not an equivalent fund) which increases at a rate of 6.7%  (although I can see we have 
mentioned 6.8%)
I note Phoenixs explanation.  But I must take into account that Mrs V didnt know this was 
the case. She reasonably  relied on the information Phoenix provided to her IFA in December  
2014 when she decided to leave her pension pots with Phoenix.  I have not seen anything  to 
show that Phoenix contacted Mrs V, or her IFA to provide the correct information.
I remain of the view that if Mrs V has been told that her fund value  had not been placed into 
a deposit fund where it will accrue  interest  at a rate declared by the Company. she would 
have chosen to move her funds sooner than she did to another provider.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, it is clear from the information that has been provided 
to this service that Mrs V considered transferring  her pension pots on several occasions 
before she actually went ahead with the transfer  in 2017. A key factor in Mrs Vs decision not 
to move her pension pots sooner was her belief that her pension pots had been placed into 
a deposit fund where it will accrue  interest  at a rate declared by the Company. The current 
rate of interest is 6.7%. 
Mr V has provided a clear  and consistent  account  that Mrs V understood her pension  pots 
were held in a deposit fund. As Phoenix  has said:
'Upon reaching  NRD the fund value is placed  on deposit to avoid volatility  and to protect the 
value. This is in line with the terms  and conditions  of the policy.'
(bold is my emphasis)
I appreciate that Phoenix now says that the reduction in the value of Mrs Vs pension  pots 
(from £261,775 and £38,458 respectively on 23 May 2017 to £247,620 and £36,378  on 21 
August 2017) was due to a change in the commutation factors  used to calculate the cash 
equivalent transfer value.
Ref: DRN52585289But I have not seen anything to show that Mrs V could reasonably  have been  expected  to 
know that the transfer value could fall, given that she had been told that her fund value had 
been placed on deposit to avoid volatility and to protect the value.
Mr V says that neither he nor Mrs V had corresponded or indicated in any way to Phoenix 
that they expected the value of policies to be £200,000 and £30,000 respectively. As I set 
out in my provisional  decision, the transfer request Phoenix received from Mrs Vs new 
pension provider indicated that it expected the transfer values  to be around  £200,000 and 
£30,000 respectively.  
Mr V says Mrs V did not know that her new provider  had given these indicative values to 
Phoenix. I think it seems  unlikely Mrs V would have indicated that she expected the transfer 
values to be so low  over £70,000 less that the valuation Mrs V had received in May 2017.
In any case, as I set out in my provisional  decision, I havent seen anything that shows  
Phoenix told Mrs V that the information  it provided  in 2014 was wrong  and her fund values 
were not held in a deposit fund and receiving interest - or that the transfer value could be 
reduced due to changes in the commutation  factors used.
Having carefully re-considered all that has been said and provided  about Mrs Vs complaint I 
remain of the view that it should be upheld.  I am satisfied that Mrs V left her pension pots 
with Phoenix after her normal retirement  date in 2014 based on the information, provided by 
Phoenix, that her pension pots had been placed into a deposit fund where it will accrue  
interest at a rate declared by the Company. The current rate of interest is 6.7%.
I think that if Mrs V has been told that this was not the case  she would have chosen to move 
her funds sooner  than she did to another provider. 
what should  Phoenix  do?
There are a number of different ways Mrs V could be compensated for any loss she has 
suffered as a result  of the incorrect information provided by Phoenix.  
Having considered this carefully  I think the most straightforward way for Phoenix to 
compensate Mrs V is for it to honour what it told Mrs Vs financial adviser in 2014. I am 
satisfied that Mrs V would  have  moved her money sooner that she did if Phoenix had 
provided the correct  information in 2014. I therefore  think Mrs V should be compensated for 
any loss she has suffered as a result of relying on this incorrect  information.
To compensate Mrs V fairly,  Phoenix must:
- (a) Calculate what  the transfer value  of Mrs Vs pension pots would have been at the date 
of transfer if, at Mrs Vs selected retirement date in January 2014 they had been  placed into 
a deposit fund where it will accrue  interest  at a rate declared by the Company. The current 
rate of interest is 6.7%. as per its letter to Mrs Vs financial  adviser  in December 2014 and 
any terminal bonus due was added when a with profits policy reaches the policyholders  
selected retirement date.
- (b) Compare this to the actual transfer value  Mrs V received  on the date of transfer. - If the 
value of (a) is greater  than the value  of (b), there is a loss and compensation is payable.  If 
the actual value is greater than (a), no compensation is payable.
Ref: DRN525852810Phoenix should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Phoenix should pay into Mrs Vs pension plan to increase  its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the pension  plan 
if it would  conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If Phoenix is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs Vs pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs Vs actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at her selected  retirement age.
For example, if Mrs V is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs V would have been able 
to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Phoenix should also pay 8% simple  interest per year on any loss from the date of transfer to 
the date of settlement.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Phoenix deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mrs V how much has been taken off. Phoenix should give Mrs V a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money since the 
end date.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In order to resolve  this matter I order  Phoenix Life 
Limited to calculate  and pay any redress due, as set out above.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5258528