K821x#15complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with how Zenith Insurance plc dealt with her claim on her car insurance  
after it was written off in an accident that wasnt her fault.
background
In my provisional decision of 18 July 2019 (a copy of which Ive attached to this final 
decision), I set out the reasons why I intended to uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Mrs G has responded to my provisional  decision with her thoughts and some further 
background information on her complaint. Zenith  hasnt responded to my provisional 
decision.
So Mrs Gs complaint has now come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  I gave  in my provisional decision,  Ive decided to uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
As Ive already  said, Zenith hasnt  responded to my provisional decision. Mrs G has, and Ive 
looked at the additional  information she has sent in. Its confirmed  my view that its fair and 
reasonable to uphold  her complaint for the reasons I gave in that decision. 
There are a few points Mrs G has made  that Id like to comment on. She doesnt think  there  
should be any salvage costs for her car. But I think its fair and reasonable for Zenith, having 
declared Mrs Gs car a total loss, to be able to retain  the value it says her car has as salvage 
when making her settlement.
Mrs G says she got her car repaired  for less than the cost Zenith estimated. But I dont  think  
thats unusual  in a situation such as Mrs Gs where  the repairs  werent  carried  out by 
Zeniths authorised  repairers.
Mrs G has explained in further detail the impact not having her car for some time had on her 
and I thank her for that. It confirms my view (set out in my provisional  decision) that it is fair 
and reasonable to award her a further  £125  as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shes had.
Ref: DRN54309122my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  decision of 18 July 2019, I uphold Mrs Gs 
complaint and direct Zenith Insurance plc to pay her:
£814 in settlement of her claim for the October 2018 accident; and 
£125 for the distress and inconvenience  Zeniths  handling of Mrs Gs claim has 
caused her (this is in addition to the £125 I understand it has already paid her for the 
loss of use of the car and valeting).
Zenith Insurance plc must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  we tell 
it Mrs G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
* If Zenith Insurance  plc considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs G how much  its taken  off. It should also give 
Mrs G a tax certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN54309123COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION OF 18 JULY  2019
complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with how Zenith Insurance plc dealt with her claim on her car insurance  after it was 
written off in an accident  that wasnt her fault.
background
Mrs Gs car was hit by a third party on 4 October 2018. I understand that, initially, her broker put Mrs 
G in touch with a credit  hire company so she could claim directly on the third partys car insurance. 
But the credit hire company  couldnt  trace  the third partys insurer and there was a suggestion  (which 
later, it seems, turned  out to be wrong) that the third party was uninsured.
So, on 9 October 2018, Mrs G reported the accident to Zenith and, a couple  of weeks later,  started  a 
claim. On 7 November, her car was declared a total loss. Zenith valued it at £750. On 4 December  
2018, Mrs G cancelled the claim  and, on 7 December, her car was returned to her. Mrs G was 
unhappy with the condition in which it was returned and also with how Zenith had handled her claim. 
So Mrs G complained  to Zenith. Zenith agreed the service it gave Mrs G fell short of what it wouldve 
expected. As compensation, it paid Mrs G £25 to get her car valeted.  It also paid her £100 as an 
apology for not giving her a courtesy  car for six days (during the time after shed opened her claim  
and before her car was declared a total loss) and for not calling her back when  it had said it would. 
Unhappy with Zeniths  response, Mrs G came to us.
Mrs G says she was told by Zenith she wouldnt get her car repaired and also found out it was to be 
auctioned. She says she had no choice but to drop the claim so she could get the car back. She says 
this was because Zeniths pay-out for the write  off was only £950 (in fact, Zenith had valued  it at 
£750) and she couldnt  afford to lose her car for that price. Shes unhappy all the expenses came out 
of her own pocket and shes been told she has to declare the claim  even when she received no help 
or finance from them.
The investigator who looked at Mrs Gs claim  upheld  it. He thought that, if Zenith had explained  
everything properly, Mrs G wouldve accepted the offer it was making for the pre-accident value of the 
car and then bought the salvage back off Zenith. So he thought Zenith should pay Mrs G the pre-
accident value, minus a reasonable salvage value, plus interest. He also thought  Zenith should pay 
Mrs G a further £125 for the errors  it made  along  the way and the impact theyve  had on Mrs G.
Zenith disagrees with our investigators  view. It says its wasnt obliged to offer Mrs G the chance to 
retain her car and it was her decision to cancel the claim,  which is something it wouldnt question. So 
Mrs Gs complaint has come  to me to decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I intend to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
I think  Zenith had a duty to give Mrs G reasonable  information about the options available to her when 
she decided to make  a claim.  And, from what Ive seen so far, I dont think it did this.
To explain my reasons, I need to give some background. From records Zenith sent us,      Mrs  G 
reported the accident on 9 October but she wasnt sure then if shed claim on her insurance, because  
the third party had admitted  liability. It seems it was around 23 October that Mrs G started the claims 
process  Zeniths  records say it arranged  for her car to be assessed by an approved agent and 
waived her excess because the third party had admitted liability. Theres a note saying Mrs G asked 
about a courtesy car and was told shed get one if repairs to her car were  authorised. A week later,  
Ref: DRN54309124Mrs G called Zenith to say she hadnt been given  a courtesy car and I understand she got one after 
that.
On 7 November, Zenith advised Mrs G her car was a total loss  it says its engineers  had tried to 
contact her but got no answer. But it didnt have a pre-accident value it could give Mrs G for her car at 
that point.  
On 30 November,  Zenith sent Mrs G some  images of the damage to the car because she said shed 
found a garage that said it was repairable  at a reasonable  cost and she wanted a second opinion 
before accepting the total loss. 
On 3 December, Mrs G called Zenith to say she could get the car repaired for £900 but Zenith said it 
wouldnt authorise  this because it was more than the cars pre-accident  value. Zenith said one of its 
engineers would call Mrs G back by the end of the week to discuss.
The following day, Mrs G phoned up to cancel  the claim. And when her car was returned on 7 
December, Mrs G called Zenith in part to complain about  the condition in which the car was returned 
to her. But shes also quoted in Zeniths records as saying shes unhappy  with the service shed  had  
that call-backs she was promised didnt happen and no-one has bothered to care enough to try and 
resolve this for her. It seems Mrs G told the call handler she spoke to that she had a garage that 
could repair the car for half the cost Zeniths garage had quoted.  The call handler suggested Mrs G 
should send in the estimate from her garage as well as three like-for-like adverts for the car so that 
Zenith could  look again at its value. But the call handler  said she couldnt guarantee  this would mean  
Zenith got the car repaired. Zeniths call notes say it seems Mrs G cancelled the claim out of 
frustration. 
From what Ive seen so far, Im not surprised Mrs G was frustrated. Im not sure exactly  when Mrs G 
was told by Zenith what the pre-accident value of her car was. But I think its clear from her case file 
that, after she was told, she knew she wouldnt  be able to replace her car with the settlement shed 
get from Zenith. And its also very clear she made a lot of effort to get a price  for repairs from another  
garage. 
In these circumstances, I think  the fair and reasonable thing for Zenith to do wouldve been to tell Mrs 
G she could accept the proceeds of her claim  (minus an amount reflecting the cars salvage  value to 
Zenith) and use them towards getting her car repaired. If Zenith  had given  Mrs G this information,  I 
think its very likely she wouldve taken this course of action, while  accepting that shed have to 
declare a no fault claim on her car insurance  going forward.
So, to put Mrs G in the position she wouldve been in if things had gone as I think they shouldve, 
Zenith should pay Mrs G the pre-accident  value of her car minus its salvage  value. Zenith valued  Mrs 
Gs car at £750.  It seems  it did this after looking at two of the trade guides. This is broadly  in line with 
our approach to looking at valuations. We find the trade guides  reliable because  theyre based on 
nationwide research of the likely selling  price of a car. 
Our investigator has also recently looked at the four main trade guides  and the average retail value he 
got for a car like Mrs Gs was £969.  So Zeniths valuation  looks to be slightly low. From what Mrs G 
says, her car had some pre-accident damage. I havent seen anything to make me think, though,  that 
Zenith took this into account when reaching its valuation   and, given the cars age, Id expect it to 
have some wear and tear that wouldnt  materially impact on its value. So its my intention  to say £969 
is a fair and reasonable value for Mrs Gs car. Zenith and Mrs G can, of course, let me have any 
comments on this value which Ill take into in making my final decision on this point.
Weve asked  Zenith what the salvage value  of the car would be. Theyve said its 16% of the given 
value. So, on this basis, its my intention to deduct £155 from the value of the car the industry guides  
suggest is fair and reasonable  and direct  Zenith to pay Mrs G £814 in settlement of her claim  for the 
October 2018 accident.
Ref: DRN54309125Zenith has already  paid Mrs G £125 to get her car valeted and to compensate her for the loss of use 
of her own car for the six days that she wasnt  given a courtesy car and the missed  call-backs she 
was promised.  But I also think  Zenith should  pay Mrs G a further  £125 for the distress and 
inconvenience its actions  caused her. I think this is fair and reasonable for a number of reasons. Mrs 
G says shes  experienced great  distress  and sleepless nights because  of everything thats happened. 
From Zeniths call notes  and from what Mrs G says herself, she was working very hard to find a way 
to get her car repaired. Being without a courtesy car when she was expecting  one mustve been 
upsetting. And Im sure Mrs Gs distress  wouldve  been much less if shed  known she could get her 
car back (after paying  the scrappage value) and pay for the repairs  from the settlement she got. And 
its also obvious she was understandably frustrated with how Zenith treated her.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I intend to uphold Mrs Gs complaint and direct Zenith Insurance  plc to pay 
Mrs G:
£814  in settlement of her claim for the October 2018  accident.; and 
£125  for the distress  and inconvenience Zeniths handling of Mrs Gs claim has caused her.
Zenith Insurance plc must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs G 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.*
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
* If Zenith Insurance plc considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs G how much  its taken  off. It should also give 
Mrs G a tax certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5430912