K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr C says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Mr C aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before 
adding it to his card. Mr C has explained  that he had never  heard  of the policy  before and it 
was described as being essential. I cant be certain what was said when Mr C applied  for his 
credit card and PPI policy but Lloyds has sent us a copy  of the available  paperwork. Mr Cs 
credit card application form had a separate section for PPI where  the option to take the 
policy has been selected. The application form has also been signed in acceptance with the 
selections made on it. So I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the 
PPI and he chose  to take it out  although  I can understand why he may not remember  this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr C about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said - including  what Mr C has said, but these points 
dont change my decision.
my final decision
Ref: DRN51893602The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2019
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5189360