K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  is that Interactive Investor  Services Limited (IISL) did as follows:
Transferred their holding of Range  Resources (RR) shares to the relevant Australian 
Registrar and the Australian Stock Exchange (ASX) without  their consent.
Subjected them  to a poor level of service, starting  from when they sought to 
determine how to manage the holding, in order to avoid particular fees that IISL were 
about to introduce, and up to its handling  of their complaint.
background 
In a nutshell:
The RR holding appears to have been  the only content of the relevant account.  In 
late 2017 Mr and Mrs W took a view on quarterly  fees that were about to be 
introduced in January 2018  and decided to avoid those fees,  especially  as they 
traded infrequently, by withdrawing  the holding from the account. Evidence  suggests 
that they considered a transfer of the holding  to another  firm, that IISL told them  this 
could not be done  because the shares  were  delisted (from the Alternative  Investment 
Market/AIM) at the time and that the alternative of issuing a paper certificate,  with the 
fee waived, was offered.
Mr and Mrs W accepted the offer of a paper certificate and instructed it to be issued  
and then an instruction  to close  the account thereafter. They were then told by IISL 
that because the relevant shares  had an Australian Registrar  the issue  would be that 
of a statement of holding, not a share certificate. On 5 December 2017  IISL sent a 
secure message  to confirm that this had been actioned.  On the same  date Mrs W 
sent a secure  message response to say she was concerned  about  having a 
statement of holding  instead of a share certificate and to ask how she could  go 
about transferring  the shares to another broker. She also noted that the shares were 
likely to be relisted on the AIM in the following weeks  and she asked   would it be 
better to keep them with [IISL] until they have relisted?  
Following this, there was a reply from IISL (on 7 December) summarising the 
available options for Mrs W to consider and then another  IISL secure message on 12 
December seeking further confirmation from Mrs W on whether she wanted to be 
issued a statement  of holding. Mrs W replied  on the same  date and asked  that the 
holding be kept in her account   she says she assumed  that in the absence  of 
express acceptance of the statement of holding this would be the default position. Mr 
and Mrs W followed  this up with a call on the same  date and learnt that the statement  
of holding had already  been actioned. They complained on 14 December.
Mr and Mrs W consider  that the statement of holding (and transfer of the holding to the 
Australian registrar and ASX) was actioned without their consent. They also say they were  
misinformed by IISL in terms of the initial promise of a share certificate  and then the 
communications after 5 December which  gave  them the impression that the holding  would 
be returned to the account or that action remained pending upon their consent.  Furthermore,  
they have cited  delays they experienced in telephone calls to IISL and what they consider  to 
have been further delays  in its handling of their complaint.
IISLs position is that it transferred out the RR holding  as it had been instructed to do and it 
gave notice of this to Mrs W on 5 December  along  with notice that she will receive the 
statement of holding, not a share certificate;  that the process was completed by 7 
Ref: DRN50401632December, up to then it received  no instruction  to stop the process and thereafter (that is, on 
12 December when  Mr/Mrs W called or on 13 December when RR shares were relisted on 
the AIM) it was too late to do so; that it apologises for some aspects of the service  given to 
Mr and Mrs W and has offered  a total of £209 to them (£100 for the trouble and upset 
caused to them, £85 to cover transfer  out costs and £24 to cover account fees); however it 
does not accept responsibility for the problems they have described in terms of managing 
the holding through the ASX and/or any consequence to its value, especially as Mr and Mrs 
W could have sold the holding as soon as the statement of holding was issued.
One of our adjudicators considered the matter  and concluded that the complaint should be 
upheld on its service  related aspect  and on the basis of the offer made  by IISL. However, for 
reasons broadly similar to those  given by IISL, he was not persuaded that IISL should be 
held responsible for the difficulties with the holding that Mr and Mrs W have described. They 
did not accept  this outcome and retained  their core position. The matter  was then referred  to 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In terms of the service  related aspect of the complaint, I too conclude that it should be 
upheld and that IISLs total offer of £209  is a reasonable form of compensation. I appreciate 
that it would  have been unhelpful for Mrs Ws hopes  to have been raised  initially  in terms 
of the prospect of a free share certificate issue  only to be reduced thereafter  in terms of the 
statement of holding, which she was concerned  about and which she appears to have 
wanted less than she wanted  the share certificate.  It might  be harsh to consider the secure 
message from IISL on 12 December as misleading  for reasons I shall address below  
however, its query to Mrs W about  the statement of holding, which had already been 
actioned, would also have been unhelpful. At worst,  it is arguable that it could have  been  
confusing but  also for reasons I shall address below  it could also be argued that it did not 
have such an effect. 
Overall, IISLs service  in managing the matter could  have been better and I am satisfied that 
the £100 offer for the trouble and upset caused  to Mr and Mrs W, along with the additional 
amounts to cover the relevant fees,  adequately addresses the matter.  With regards to the 
part of the complaint that seeks compensation for the difficulties, that have been  described, 
in the current  state and value of the RR holding, I am not persuaded that IISL can 
reasonably be held responsible.
An important piece  of evidence in this matter  is IISLs secure  message  of 5 December, in 
which it clearly  confirmed  to Mrs W that the transfer  out of the holding  had been actioned. It 
even went to the extent of telling her to expect  receipt of the statement of holding,  and it 
explained that this was so because the registrar  for the shares is based in Australia.
I do not consider  that Mr and Mrs W could  reasonably say that they did not know when the 
transfer out had been  actioned and that they were  due to receive the statement of holding. 
I appreciate that further cross communication followed, that Mrs Ws concern about the 
statement of holding was voiced thereafter  and that the options of keeping  the holding  in the 
account and/or transferring it to another  broker were also queried. However, I have  not seen 
evidence  from the immediate aftermath of the secure message of 5 December  in which  
Ref: DRN50401633Mr and Mrs W expressly sought  to cancel or reverse the transfer out process which  had 
previously been  confirmed to them. 
IISL engaged with the subsequent cross correspondence and queries about  the statement of 
holding (including  its arguably unhelpful  message  of 12 December which  queried whether (or 
not) Mrs W wanted the statement of holding, despite the fact that it had already and 
previously been  processed). It also addressed the query about transferring the holding to 
another broker. However, I have considered this in the context of the execution only (non-
advisory) basis for the account. In this context, I do not consider the email of 12 December 
to be misleading   or, if argued, confusing. A reasonable conclusion is that IISL was simply 
responding to questions  raised by Mr and Mrs W. I accept that it might have been  helpful (or 
more helpful) to  or could  have  been  unhelpful not to  qualify its responses with repeated 
reference to (and reminder of) the transfer  out process having already  taken place on 5 
December. If that had been done it is possible that Mr and Mrs W might have been assisted 
away from the assumption,  which they have expressed, that the process  remained  
reversible. However, it is equally arguable  that IISLs message of 5 December was 
sufficiently clear about the process having been  actioned and that it was not obliged to 
repeat itself.
Overall and on balance,  the conclusion that follows is that Mr and Mrs W ought reasonably 
to have taken  note of the message of 5 December and that if they wished to suspend  or 
cancel the process  thereafter they should  have expressly done so  whereby, in clear terms, 
they would  have needed to instruct IISL to suspend or cancel the process it began on 5 
December. They do not appear to have  done  this and instead they relied  upon  an 
assumption that conflicted with the message of 5 December. Even if they contend that their 
assumption was reasonable, I am not persuaded that it was binding upon IISL given that it 
had already given notice  of the transfer  out process being effective on 5 December. 
In terms of the difficulties  with the holding in its present state and with its value  as Mr and 
Mrs W have described   I can understand the comments that IISL has made about the 
opportunity they could  have had to mitigate the matter by selling  the holding  after completion 
of the transfer  out process.  I do not consider that I need to address this point in detail. 
Primarily, my conclusion  is that IISL cannot reasonably  be said to be responsible for the 
difficulties that have been described, essentially because it appears  to have executed 
instructions which  do not appear to have been  revised or withdrawn by Mr and Mrs W until it 
was too late to do so. In the absence of such responsibility, it is arguable that the matter of 
mitigation becomes less important.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint only in relation to the 
service related aspect  within it. For this reason  only,  I order Interactive Investor Services  
Limited to pay Mr and Mrs W £209  for the trouble and upset cause to them  and for the 
coverage of the transfer out and account fees.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 April 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5040163