K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that his home  insurance  policy wasnt renewed by Sainsburys Bank 
Plc, despite him asking it to do so.
background
Mr Ts policy was due to renew  at the end of October 2018  and he called Sainsburys in 
mid-October to negotiate a new deal. After some discussions about  excess  and payment by 
instalments Mr T told Sainsburys he wanted to go ahead. But he also said that he didnt 
want it to autorenew. The adviser  said he could switch that off but that would mean a 
manual payment would  be needed.  Having switched  off the autorenew function the advisor 
said hed store the quote but that cover would  discontinue unless Mr T gave authorisation 
otherwise and it was noted that, in any event, Mr T would be calling to pay the premium.
Mr T didnt  call Sainsburys back and the policy lapsed. When Mr T discovered  this he called 
to complain. He said hed given a clear instruction to go ahead with the cover  and his 
request not to autorenew  was made  in respect of what would happen  at the end of the next 
policy year.  Sainsburys  listened to the call and provided Mr T with a transcript  of it. It said its 
advisor was clear that Mr T would have to call it back  for the renewal to go ahead.
Mr T complained to us. Our investigator felt that whilst there had clearly been  some 
confusion generated during the call, no payment was taken  and Mr T was told the cover  
would discontinue  if further action wasnt taken.  She, therefore,  didnt think  the complaint 
should be upheld.  A copy  of the call recording was shared with Mr T. Mr T asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed   he said hed given a clear instruction to go ahead with the cover  
so it made  no sense that this hadnt been done.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this situation is frustrating for Mr T and I accept that his intent, by the end of 
the call with Sainsburys, was for it to have put cover in place for the upcoming year.  But Im 
also mindful, having heard the call recoding,  that whilst this was what  Mr T intended, he was 
told that this hadnt happened.  That, in fact, to renew the cover  hed have to call back.
On that basis Im not persuaded that Sainsburys misled or failed Mr T. Not even given the 
clear instruction he had given earlier  on in the call. Sometimes misunderstandings occur  
without any one party really being  at fault and Im satisfied that is what happened  here.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Sainsburys Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5341483