K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about issues  hes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from 
N.I.I.B Group Limited.
background
In January 2019 Mr C was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Northridge Finance. The price of the car was £11,964 and at the point of supply the car 
was six years old and had covered approximately 46,000 miles.
One week before entering into the agreement  Mr C viewed the car and agreed to purchase it 
on the understanding that scratches running  the length of the car would be polished  out.
When Mr C collected the car he couldnt see the scratches and assumed they had been 
polished out as agreed.
Mr C washed the car in February and noticed that wax was coming  off revealing the 
scratches. 
The following  day the engine  management light illuminated. Mr C was unhappy about the 
scratches and the engine  management light and contacted Northridge Finance and the 
dealership and said he wanted to reject the car.
The dealership wanted to inspect the car and wouldnt  accept  a rejection. Northridge 
Finance wouldnt  accept a rejection either. It said the scratches were present  when Mr C 
agreed to purchase  the car and that there was no fault with the car because the engine  
management light related to a  faulty sensor.
Mr C wasnt happy with the response so he complained to this service.
During the investigation by this service Mr C obtained an independent inspection of the car. 
The report  noted  scratches on the nearside  and said that both nearside doors  had been  
replaced in the past.
The independent report was provided  to Northridge  Finance. It didnt accept the findings  and 
wanted to arrange another independent inspection.
Northridge then said it wasnt able to arrange  an inspection because  the car had been in 
secure storage  for six months  and wasnt insured.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She was satisfied  that having  the scratches fixed  was 
part of the agreement. She said the scratches hadnt been fixed  properly and that because  
Mr C had asked to reject the car within the first 30 days he should be allowed to return  the 
car and receive  a refund of everything but the first months payment.
Northridge Finance  didnt agree. It said it was in the process of arranging  an independent 
inspection and felt that this service  had made a decision prematurely. It said that Mr C had 
accepted the car in the condition it was in and that scratches were not unusual  in a car of 
this age.
Ref: DRN59032932my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Northridge Finance has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement  theres 
an implied term that the car has to be of satisfactory  quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if 
they are of a standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the 
relevant circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage of the car and 
the price paid.
Under the relevant law, the quality of the goods includes their general  state  and condition  
and other  things like fitness  for purpose, appearance and finish,  freedom  from minor  defects  
and safety and durability. 
Mr C says he agreed to purchase  the car on the understanding that the scratches would be 
repaired.
Northridge Finance  says Mr C was aware of the scratches and accepted the car knowing it 
was going to be buffed.
Theres no evidence to suggest that Mr C was made aware of the particular method the 
dealer intended to use to address the scratches.  I dont think the method matters in the 
context of this complaint,  because its clear there was an agreement that the scratches 
would be fixed.  In my view, Mr C was entitled to think that any repairs  would be permanent. 
If the garage had told Mr C that buffing the scratches would only be a temporary  repair,  I 
dont think Mr C would have entered into the agreement.
Theres no dispute that the scratches  are present. Ive seen photos of the scratches and they 
are significant. Its clear that whatever method  used  by the garage to address the scratches 
hasnt been successful. Because the scratches havent been removed, the car isnt as 
described. And because  the car wasnt  as described  in terms of its appearance and finish, 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
I appreciate the point  made by Northridge Finance that a car of this age would be expected  
to have scratches. I dont  disagree. But the presence of scratches isnt the issue  here. The 
presence of scratches  in the face of an agreement that the scratches would  be removed is 
the issue.
Ive noted the comments  about the need for a further inspection.  But I dont think  this is 
necessary. Its clear from the independent report already  obtained and the photos provided 
by Mr C that the scratches are present. Im satisfied  that Mr C is entitled to reject  the car 
because it wasnt as described in terms of finish  and appearance. Although the car may or 
may not have an issue with the engine management light,  this isnt a factor  which I need to 
consider, because Im already satisfied that the issue with the scratches entitles Mr C to 
reject the car.
In conclusion, Im satisfied that it was an express oral term of the agreement  that the 
scratches would  be addressed. Im not persuaded that the scratches  were  addressed  to an 
acceptable or permanent standard. The evidence shows  that the scratches  are still present. 
Mr C asked to reject  the car within the first 30 days and he should be allowed to do so.
Ref: DRN59032933For the reasons  Ive given I uphold the complaint.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. N.I.I.B Group  Limited must:
Cancel the agreement
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr C.
Refund Mr Cs deposit of £5000 together with simple interest of 8% per annum from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund the cost of Mr Cs independent inspection
Refund all but the first month  of Mr Cs repayments together  with simple  interest of 
8% per annum from the date of payment  to the date of settlement
Pay £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5903293