K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F have  complained that Lloyds Bank  Plc, then trading as 
Cheltenham & Gloucester, mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) 
policy when they were applying for a mortgage  in 1996. Ill therefore  refer to Lloyds 
throughout this decision. The policy was set up to cover Mr F only.  
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that it shouldnt  be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion, so the complaint has been  passed to 
me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  and Ill explain  the reasons  for this.
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
First of all, there were rules  about who could qualify for the policy and based on the 
information thats been provided to us, it looks like Mr F met those rules.  So I think  hed have 
been able to claim on the policy if hed needed to.  
Next, Ive looked at whether Lloyds made it sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs F that the policy 
was optional. The MPPI was sold to them at a meeting in branch.  I dont  doubt  
Mr and Mrs F honestly and genuinely believe the MPPI policy  was mis-sold to them. 
However, over 22 years  have passed since the sale and the mortgage  has ended. In cases  
such as this its not unusual for information to be missing or incomplete. So Ive had to take 
this into account  in making my decision.  
Mr and Mrs F told us that they dont  recall the meeting itself but they assured us that Lloyds 
didnt tell them that they would be paying for the MPPI. They also told us that they had 
various other  insurances policies in place, which they informed Lloyds about, and these 
would have obviated  the need for MPPI.
Due to the time that has passed  since the sale all of the paperwork isnt available. But Ive 
seen a copy of the mortgage application form. Its states; 
Please tick the boxes if you have not received advice  on any of the following.
One of the options listed below this was the MPPI. The box wasnt  ticked.  So this suggests  
to me that there was a discussion about the MPPI and advice was given to Mr and Mrs F 
about the policy.  
Theres no way of knowing exactly what happened at the meeting. Ive considered  the 
possibility that the adviser  misled Mr and Mrs F or that the MPPI was added without their 
Ref: DRN58739562consent. Ive looked  at the likelihood of the policy being added  without their knowledge 
versus Mr and Mrs F having chosen to take it out. Having  considered  all the available  
information Im persuaded that its more  likely  they chose to take the MPPI. And Ive 
explained the reasons why theyd have found it attractive below. 
Mr and Mrs F told us that Mr F was in a secure role and was entitled  to full sick pay for six 
months and redundancy pay. They also informed us that they didnt need the MPPI because  
they had other policies,  such  as life assurance. However having considered these,  most  of 
the policies provided benefits which were different to that provided by the MMPI so there  
was no duplication.  
There was one policy for income protection which provided a benefit similar to the MPPI. 
I understand why Mr and Mrs F feel that they didnt have a need  for MPPI and Lloyds 
shouldnt have recommended it to them.  But I dont  think  this is enough for me to say the 
MPPI wasnt suitable. It was designed to provide a specific  safety net for their home. The 
consequences of not being  able to pay their mortgage could have been grave, and 
notwithstanding Mr Fs benefits and the other  policy I can see why they would have decided 
to take the MPPI. It gave  them peace  of mind and security. It would have allowed them  to 
use any sick pay or redundancy  monies  for other  necessary  household  expenses and would 
have paid out in addition  to any other  benefits they had. 
Lastly, Ive checked the main exclusions and restrictions of the policy and it doesnt  look like 
Mr F would have been caught  by any of them. So overall, having considered all these 
factors, I think that the recommendation was suitable for them and the MPPI  would have  
provided them with a useful benefit  which was affordable. 
Finally, Lloyds had to give Mr and Mrs F information that was clear,  fair and not misleading  
so they could make the decision for themselves about whether or not to take the MPPI.  
Ive considered the possibility that Lloyds didnt give Mr and Mrs F clear enough information 
about the cost,  benefits, main exclusions and restrictions  of the policy.  But the cost and 
benefit were comparable to the cost and benefits  of other, similar  policies available at the 
time. And its possible  Lloyds didnt  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. But for 
the reasons I explained above, Mr F wouldnt have  been affected  by any of those things. On 
balance, I dont think having better  information would have dissuaded them  from buying 
the MPPI.  So overall, I dont think this policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs F, but Im not upholding their complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5873956