K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim on his 
motor insurance policy.  
For ease any reference to Skyfire includes its agents. 
background
Mr C bought a policy  in June 2017.  He did a quote through an aggregator website and 
purchased his policy with Skyfire.  In June 2018 Skyfire wrote to Mr C to say his policy  was 
due to renew and to check  the information  in the renewal documents was correct. Mr Cs 
policy then renewed  with Skyfire. 
In December 2018 Mr C was involved in a car accident while  he was driving home from 
work. Skyfire reviewed the claim and said Mr Cs policy only provided cover  for social  
domestic and pleasure use. As Mr C used his car for work, Skyfire  said Mr C should have 
also selected to include commuting. Because he hadnt  and was driving home  from work  
when the accident happened - Skyfire said the claim wasnt covered as he was driving 
outside the terms and conditions of the policy. Mr C was subsequently charged by the police 
for driving  without insurance and is due to appear  in court  for this.  
Mr C complained to Skyfire and said he hadnt understood what  the term commuting meant. 
He said his previous  two insurers  had included going to and from a single place of work in 
their social domestic and pleasure  cover. Because of this he thought other  policies did the 
same. Mr C also complained about  the poor claim handling he received. Skyfire  reviewed  
Mr Cs complaint and rejected it, but offered £75 for losing a letter  hed  sent them. As Mr C 
didnt agree he brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Cs complaint and recommended  it was partially upheld. She 
explained that as Mr C made a misrepresentation when taking out the policy  they should 
review Mr Cs misrepresentation in line with the relevant act surrounding this. Skyfire 
disagreed and said Mr Cs policy didnt provide cover for commuting. They  also said if Mr C 
had selected commuting as well they would  have still insured him but his premium would 
have been £2.35 more  than hed paid. They said that Mr C must have either deliberately  not 
selected the right cover  or was negligent in doing  so. 
As Skyfire disagreed  the complaint has come to me. I wrote  to Skyfire to say while I agreed 
Mr Cs complaint should be upheld, I didnt think our Investigator had done enough to put 
things right. 
The details of my initial  thoughts are in my findings  below. I said to Skyfire  as Mr C is being 
taken to court for driving without insurance they should also provide him with a letter to show  
he was insured for the accident and that they would be considering the claim. I also found 
that because Skyfire incorrectly said Mr C wasnt covered they had caused  him a lot of 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. So said it was likely Id tell Skyfire  to also pay Mr C 
£500 to compensate for this. 
Ref: DRN50560572Skyfire disagreed and said it didnt think CIDRA applied and that Mr C was driving his car 
outside of the policy  terms. It questioned whether CIDRA would be applied to other 
scenarios whether a policyholder has selected the wrong level of cover. Skyfire also said if 
they had to settle the claim proportionately  theyd seek to recover  0.97% of anything  they 
paid out on the claim  from Mr C.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr C bought his policy  he had a responsibility   under the Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosure and Representation)  Act 2012 (CIDRA)  to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. And for Skyfire  to take any action  at all it needs to show Mr C didnt do 
this and that he made whats  described as a qualifying misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of things which need  to be considered when deciding whether a 
consumer failed to take reasonable care. One of these considerations is the questions  the 
consumer was asked.  I can see the aggregator  website  Mr C used to buy his policy in 2017  
asked him what do you use your car for? It then had three  options  to select  which were 
Social, Domestic  and Pleasure (SDP) only; Social, Domestic  Pleasure & Commuting 
(SDPC); and SDPC  & Business use. For each option there is an explanation  of what  they 
cover with SDPC saying it covers the same as SDP but also includes commuting to and from 
your permanent place  of work. 
When Mr Cs policy renewed he entered into a new contract with Skyfire.  And he again 
needed to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation; Ive reviewed the renewal 
documents Skyfire  sent Mr C when his policy renewed in 2018. When  the documents  were 
sent to Mr C he was asked to Check  your details are correct and then leave it with us. The 
statement of fact then has a section for each driver where it asks Commuting  Use Required 
and this is marked as No. Mr Cs Certificate  of Insurance  for 2018  also says under the 
limitations to use Use for Social  Domestic and pleasure purposes only.  From  reviewing the 
initial sale in 2017  Im satisfied a clear  question was asked and Mr C selected  SDP only, he 
was also asked to check the details were  correct when his policy renewed.
After Mr C was involved  in the accident he was interviewed by Skyfire  and said he was 
driving home  from work.  He said it was in this interview he discovered commuting wasnt 
included under SDP so he then had it added it to his policy  as he used his car to go to work. 
Ive also seen the updated  Certificate of Insurance which  shows commuting was added  in 
February 2019 which supports what Mr C has said. 
In view of what Mr Cs said and his actions  after the interview Im satisfied he failed to take 
reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation. But to show  Mr Cs misrepresentation was 
a qualifying one, under CIDRA Skyfire needs  to show it would either not have offered the 
policy at all if the misrepresentation hadnt been  made or that it would have offered it on 
different terms. Skyfire has said it would have  offered Mr C a policy at a higher premium. So 
Im satisfied Mr C made a qualifying misrepresentation. Under CIDRA a qualifying 
misrepresentation is either deliberate  or reckless or careless. Skyfire said Mr C either 
deliberately or negligently provided the wrong  information. They  said this because he either 
read the description and ignored it, or didnt read it. 
Ref: DRN50560573Mr C said he thought  SDP covered him travelling to and from his place of work and that he 
didnt understand  the term commuting. Hes also provided details from his two previous 
insurance policies  which he says show traveling to and from his place of work was included 
in SDP. While I agree  they show he could travel to and from his place  of work its not clear if 
these policies had been selected to include commuting  or not. That being said, considering  
Mr C was able to drive to and from his place of work on his previous policies and added  it as 
soon as he realised  it wasnt on this policy. And Skyfire  havent shown anything to persuade  
me the misrepresentation was deliberate, Im satisfied  it was a careless mistake rather than 
a deliberate one.
CIDRA sets out what remedies are available to an insurer when a careless 
misrepresentation has been made. One of the remedies where the insurer would have 
entered into the contract with the same or different terms but would have charged a higher 
premium is to reduce  proportionately the amount  to be paid on a claim.  Skyfire said Mr C 
paid £238.98 for this policy and that if hed added commuting  his premium would have been 
£241.33. This is a £2.35 difference in premium which equates to Mr C paying 99.03% of 
what his premium should have been.  
So as I think CIDRA applies Skyfire should  treat Mr C as being insured and provide him with 
a letter  to say he was covered at the time of the accident. Skyfire  also needs to deal with the 
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.  If it pays  out on the claim 
it should do so proportionately by paying 99.03% of the claim and if a cash  settlement is 
made to Mr C, Skyfire should  add 8% simple interest per year from the date of the accident 
until the date it makes payment to Mr C. 
Ive considered Skyfires  argument that this is simply a case of Mr C driving  outside  the 
terms of his policy, but I dont agree. Mr C wasnt asked to select the level of cover  he 
wanted, he was asked what he uses his car for. So, I think  he was asked a question  and as 
such CIDRA applies. But while Im taking account of CIDRAs relevance  I also need to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in all of the individual circumstances of this complaint. 
After Mr C realised  he needed to add commuting to his policy Skyfire agreed to continue  to 
cover him including commuting. I dont  think it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome 
to this particular  complaint  if I allowed  Skyfire  to turn down Mr Cs claim given  that hed paid 
over 99% of the premium. And it would have agreed to cover him for commuting for a 
relatively small difference in premium. 
Skyfire has queried whether CIDRA  would be applied to other  situations  where  a 
policyholder has selected the wrong level of cover.  But each complaint is considered  
individually and Ive set out why I think it produces a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
particular complaint.
Skyfires said if they settle the claim proportionately theyll look to recover  0.97% of anything 
they pay out to a third party from Mr C. Im not going to interfere with their decision to do 
that.
Ref: DRN50560574Ive also considered the poor claim handling  Mr C received  and that Skyfire lost his letter. 
Skyfire sent Mr C a cheque for £75 to apologise  for this. However as Skyfire  didnt initially  
deal with Mr Cs claim hes been  put through additional unnecessary  distress  and 
inconvenience as the Police are taking him to court for driving  without insurance. This is on 
top of what was already a traumatic experience for him given the circumstances  of the 
accident. If Skyfire had correctly dealt with Mr Cs claim in line with CIDRA then he wouldnt 
have been put into that position causing  him unnecessary  distress  and inconvenience. For 
that reason Im satisfied Skyfire should also compensate Mr C for this by also paying  him an 
additional £500. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above my final decision  is that I partially uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
I require Skyfire Insurance  Company  Limited  to:
1.deal with the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. If it 
pays out on the claim it should  do so proportionately by paying 99.03% of the claim. 
If a cash settlement is made Skyfire needs  to add 8% simple interest per year to that 
amount from the date of the accident until the they make payment1 
2.provide a letter to Mr C saying hes insured for the accident  and that theyre dealing 
with the claim
3.pay Mr C £500 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
1 If Skyfire Insurance Company Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take 
off income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr C how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr C a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.  
Ref: DRN5056057