K821x#15complaint
Mr V complains Advanced  Payment  Solutions  Limited, trading as Cashplus, is refusing to 
refund some  disputed  transactions.
background
Mr V had travelled  abroad in December 2018  and following  a night out with friends, a total of 
ten transactions were carried out on his card amounting to just under £23,000.
Mr V says he did not carry these out and that he thinks his drink was spiked when he 
entered the club where the transactions occurred.  He says he remembers then being in 
another club and being  asked to sign something which he describes as a disclaimer. He 
refused to sign and was removed from the club with some receipts placed into his pockets.
He called Cashplus as soon as he logged onto his online banking  and saw the transactions  
and then went to report the matter at the local police station. However,  he was turned away  
initially because he was too drunk.
Cashplus subsequently carried  out an investigation but said it was holding  Mr V liable for the 
transactions.  Its final response dated  21st December 2018 didnt really  provide any reasons why.
So, Mr V came to this service  and asked us to look into matters  for him.
Our investigator thought Cashplus could have done more  for Mr V.  He  thought  the earlier 
transactions did not need to be refunded  but when they started to increase in amount, and 
with the frequency, Cashplus should have been on notice that something was not right.  
He explained  this to Cashplus and he outlined good industry practice  guidelines at the time.   
But Cashplus was not happy with the response  and the matter came  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
consider relevant: law and regulations;  regulators' rules, guidance  and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make in accordance  with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises  that a bank may be liable to its customer  if it makes a payment  in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds (although  not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known  as the Quincecare duty).   
Ref: DRN50767002Regulated firms  like Cashplus are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, 
care and diligence  (FCA Principle for Businesses  2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances ); 
look to identify  and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual  or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October  2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); .     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment - or in some  cases decline to make a payment 
altogether to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
So, taking these principles into account, I need to decide whether Cashplus acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Mr V when these disputed transactions  were  carried out - or 
whether it should  have  done more than it did. 
I agree  with the investigator in that Mr V authorised these transactions  and that includes 
consent in the circumstances  of this particular case.   Because of this, Cashplus had an 
obligation to follow Mr Ps instruction. But there  are some situations  in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances  surrounding  the payments.
Ive thought about this carefully.  In doing so Ive looked at the statements for the account, 
and I think the first few payments were  not particularly unusual  or suspicious in comparison 
to the normal  activity on Mr Vs account.   However,  when the values started  to increase, 
along with the frequency  of the payments, Cashpluss systems should  have flagged  these 
payments as suspicious.
I think its important to note that Mr V complained  to Cashplus straight away  as soon as he 
realised the transaction had appeared on his account.  He also reported the matter to the police. 
Also, our service is aware of bars, such as the one Mr V refers  to, where similar  complaints 
have been made i.e allegations of threatening behaviour, over charging  or misleading 
customers about what they were paying.   I think its important to take that into account.
I also acknowledge Cashplus sent a request to the merchant asking for details of what Mr V 
had paid for that night, any personal  details  they might hold for Mr V and/or any contact it 
had had with him.  Cashplus  never received an acknowledgement or a response to that 
request.  I think its important to take that into account too.
Ref: DRN50767003I also have no reason to doubt Mr V when he says he believed his drink  was spiked  but the 
question I need  to consider is how he would have responded if Cashplus had blocked his 
card and asked him to confirm he was happy with the value of the payments he was making.  
I think, on balance,  Mr V would have  asked Cashplus to block  these payments. In the 
circumstances of this case,  he was not afforded that opportunity.
I started  by saying that I need to make  a decision which is fair and reasonable  taking into 
account relevant  laws and regulations as well as good industry practice.  Having  done  so, I 
arrive at the same conclusion as the investigator   Cashplus  could have done more here 
and so, it is fair and reasonable  that they refund some of these  transactions.  I think  the 
starting point indicated by the investigator  is a fair one in that the amount doubled  and 
increased considerably  in a short space of time.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Advanced Payment Solutions  Limited  must:
-pay Mr V a refund  of £17,026.85
-refund any interest and charges on that amount 
-pay interest at a rate of 8% from the date of the transactions to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5076700