K820x#14complaint
Mrs C doesnt think Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has offered her fair compensation in 
response to a complaint about  the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2019, Mrs C contacted  Aviva to say it had mis-sold her a PPI policy with her Home  
Shopping account in 1995. Aviva  upheld her complaint and offered to refund everything  she 
paid for PPI, including  some charges,  along  with simple interest (at 8% per year).
Mrs C doesnt think the offer is fair because:
it doesnt include the interest  she had to pay because of PPI; and,
the offer letter said to allow up to 14 days for payment,  but it took slightly longer.
Our adjudicator said the offer was fair. Mrs C disagrees so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a business  accepts, or we decide, that a PPI policy was mis-sold, Id expect it to put 
the consumer  in the position shed be in now if she hadnt been sold the policy.  To do this, it 
needs to refund everything Mrs C paid, with simple  interest.
Aviva has sent us statement information  for the time the PPI was charged to Mrs Cs 
account. The statements  show  that no interest  was charged to the account  so theres no 
interest to refund.  And it has refunded the premiums and added simple  interest  in the way Id 
tell it to if I thought  the policy was mis-sold. So I think the amount of compensation Mrs C 
has received is fair.
Aviva wrote to Mrs C with its offer on 2 April 2019. Aviva offered Mrs C £258.99 (after tax)  
and said she should allow up to 14 days for the cheque to arrive.  The cheque  was issued on 
11 April 2019. Mrs C received it on 26 April 2019 and cashed it. Aviva  has shown us that the 
cheque was issued  within 14 days and was received within  24 days.  I think  Aviva acted 
promptly and issued  payment within a reasonable timeframe. Im not going  to tell it to pay 
Mrs C any compensation because it took slightly  longer than 14 days for her to receive  it.
Ref: DRN51336652my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think Aviva Insurance  Limited has paid Mrs C fair 
compensation. So it doesnt need to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5133665