K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the increases  in premiums on his home insurance with Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA).
background
Mr Ws insurance policy with RSA started  a very long time ago and provided insurance for 
the buildings  only. Initially it was linked to his mortgage account,  and Mr W says that insuring 
through RSA was a condition of his mortgage. He says that after 1989 when he moved  to a 
new house and the original mortgage  ended, he chose  to stay with RSA as he assumed it 
was a reasonable company. 
In 1998, the earliest date for which price information  is available for Mr Ws policy,  it cost 
£186 for the year. The next year, 1999, Mr Ws insurance cost £195. The price  went  up each 
year, and in 2017, the renewal quote was for £616.  
Mr W then contacted RSA and was given a quote for a new policy  costing £162  for the year.  
He complained, as he thought that hed been  overcharged throughout the time he has been 
with RSA.
RSA said the cost of Mr Ws policy had been  calculated correctly. Our investigator didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld. Mr W disagreed,  so Ive been asked to make a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because the earliest available data about  the price of the policy  is from 1998, I cant  
comment on what Mr W was charged  in the years before this. But its clear that from when 
Mr W moved to a new house in 1989 he couldve cancelled the insurance and taken 
insurance elsewhere at any point.  The renewal  invitations Ive seen confirmed his right to 
cancel the policy.
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price  risk and what  an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether RSA has treated Mr W fairly  
throughout the period  he held its insurance  policy. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed with this, and Ill explain my 
reasons.
An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal  
and there  are often  risk related reasons  for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer  knew,  
or ought reasonably to have known,  the consumer wasnt  engaging  with the renewals  
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these consumers fairly   
and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing their 
premiums just because  they didnt engage  with the cost.
Ive seen nothing  that suggests  Mr W was engaging with the cost of the policy.  So, I think 
RSA shouldve realised  this. However,  RSA has given  us a lot of information about  how it 
Ref: DRN50533622decided how much to charge Mr W for his policy. Im afraid I cant share this as its 
commercially sensitive,  but I would like to assure Mr W that Ive carefully considered what  
RSA has provided, as well as what he has said. 
From what  Ive seen, it doesnt look like RSA was increasing Mr Ws premiums unfairly. It 
has shown there were changes in its rates,  its view of the risk of insuring Mr Ws house  and 
its understanding of future likely claims. These are all fair reasons for RSA to increase the 
premium. Theres  nothing  to suggest RSA was charging Mr W more for his insurance, just 
because hed had his policy with it for a long time.
I know that Mr W obtained insurance  for the property much  cheaper when he contacted 
RSA. So, I can understand why this would make him think  that he was overcharged.  But 
insurers often include discounts  in order to obtain new customers.  That means that a new 
customer will often  be paying less than the true cost of providing the insurance policy.  And I 
understand the new quote he obtained from RSA was for a new policy  and included a new 
customer discount.
In addition to this, insurance  policies are not all the same  they have different levels of
cover, excesses and differing terms and conditions  that can affect the price  charged. While
the differences may not be clear to a customer,  who just wants to insure their home, this
does mean  that prices  can vary significantly.  Even,  as Mr W has seen, between  different
policies offered by the same insurer.
There are now rules  (that were introduced in 2017) that say insurers  should,  in the renewal 
invitation, encourage their customers to shop around if theyve  had their policy  for a number 
of years.  These didnt exist when Mr W took out his policy  with RSA. And, even if they had, 
they dont go as far as to say insurers need  to tell their customers  about alternative  products. 
So, I dont think RSA needed to tell Mr W when it introduced a newer product that might  
have been cheaper for him.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 September  2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5053362