K820x#14complaint
Ms N says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  her a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy.
background
Ms N took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage  in 2001. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy. The policy  was amended when Ms N took out further  advances  on the mortgage in 
2002.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ns case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ns complaint because:
Ms N ticked a box on the mortgage  application,  to indicate she wanted the MPPI. Next to 
it was a box to indicate she didnt want MPPI. When the MPPI was amended  Ms N 
completed separate forms specifically for the MPPI.  So I think  Lloyds made  Ms N aware 
that she had a choice about  buying the MPPI,  and that she chose to take it.
Ms N had at least six months  sick pay through  her employment. But the MPPI wouldve 
paid out on top of this for up to six months  per claim. This wouldve left her sick pay 
available for other things. The MPPI  also provided similar cover  for if she became  
unemployed. 
Ms N says she couldve  relied  on family members  to pay her mortgage if she couldnt  
work. But I dont think this is a reliable  source.  Any help would depend on their 
circumstances at the time she needed  it, so wouldnt be guaranteed.  
Lloyds recommended the MPPI  to Ms N, and it seems to have been right for her based 
on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time. 
I think Lloyds couldve  explained  the cost of the policy better than it did. Ms N may have 
lost her home if shed fallen  behind with her mortgage payments, and the MPPI 
protected her against this for up to 12 months  per claim. So even if Lloyds had explained 
the cost better, I think Ms N would  still have bought the MPPI.
Its possible that Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But Ms N 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Ms Ns comments,  including what shes  said about the MPPI not 
being discussed with her. But these points dont  change my conclusion. The sale was a very 
long time ago. So I dont think I can place greater  weight on her recollection than on the 
Ref: DRN59249312other evidence Ive seen.  I think that other  evidence,  described above, suggests she would 
most likely have been made aware of the MPPI and that she chose to take it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5924931