K820x#14complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the compensation that AXA France IARD (AXA)  has paid for a mis-
sold payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy taken out alongside a store  card.
 
background
Mrs H took out a store card, account ending  0313,  in November 2001 and alongside it took 
out a PPI policy. Mrs H has complained the PPI was mis-sold. AXA agreed to uphold  her 
complaint and offered compensation which initially Mrs H said she would accept.
But then Mrs H realised she had not been  paid any compensatory interest as part of the 
compensation. AXA said no compensatory interest  was due as the account had never been 
in credit.  Mrs H remained unhappy  and brought  her complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said what AXA had paid was fair. Mrs H was still unhappy  and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
PPI complaints on our website and I've taken into account what's relevant in deciding  
Mrs H's complaint.
AXA has agreed to uphold Mrs Hs complaint  that the PPI was mis-sold, so in this decision 
Im not looking at how the PPI came to be sold. I am only considering what is fair 
compensation for the mis-sale of the policy.
AXA do not have  full records of the account. But it does have some  computer  records  which 
show the total spent on the card, the total premiums for the PPI and the interest charged.  It 
has in its compensation  used  this to work out the costs  of the PPI for Mrs H. The total of the 
premiums charged to the account was £460.49. These premiums caused £311.08 in interest  
on the account. So AXA has offered to refund these costs to Mrs H in compensation. 
AXA has not included  any compensatory interest to compensate Mrs H for being out of 
pocket. It says there was never any period when she was out of pocket so no compensatory 
interest is due.
With a credit card account compensatory  interest  is paid when the balance on the card is 
cleared and more  has been paid then would have  been needed if it wasnt for the PPI being 
in the balance. In this case it seems  Mrs H never  went into a credit balance  as she didnt 
clear her card account balance.  The PPI costs are deemed the last thing  paid off. So Mrs H 
was never  out of pocket for the PPI costs.
The records  I have seen  indicate the account was opened in November 2001 and closed in 
May 2005 with an outstanding closing balance of £1,612.54. AXA sold the debt to a third 
party in in March  2006.
It is unclear if between the closure of the account  and the sale of the debt Mrs H paid 
anything towards the balance  that was owed on the account. AXA have been unable  to 
confirm how much was owed on the debt when it was sold.  
Ref: DRN54533762Mrs H has said she believes she paid the debt off. But she has been unable  to provide any 
evidence to support  this to show if the debt was ever settled in full, short settled  or anything 
at all was ever paid to the third party.
Looking at the amount of the costs of the PPI and the debt that remained on the account 
when it closed, the PPI cost was just under 50% of what Mrs H owed. 
If Mrs H didnt clear  the debt in full then she may actually be getting back  money that she 
never paid,  as she may never have paid some or all of the costs of the PPI. And without any 
evidence of the debt being  paid I dont think Mrs H is due any compensatory interest as she 
wouldnt have been out of pocket.  
Taking into account everything  I have seen and been told, and with no clear evidence  the 
debt was ever settled, I think that by paying  Mrs H the actual costs of the PPI in 
compensation is fair in the circumstances  of this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above I think the compensation that AXA France  IARD has 
paid to Mrs H is fair and I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020. 
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5453376