K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs T. FICL didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2001 alongside a store credit card. Mrs T 
was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account  in the shop.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  FICL disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. When I looked at the case, I 
reached a different view to that of the adjudicator. So I wrote a provisional decision and 
asked for comments.  I said the following: 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
The adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld. This was because  Mrs T was 
suffering from a health condition when she bought the PPI. The adjudicator  said the 
PPI wouldnt have  covered her for a claim resulting  from the health condition   and 
that FICL  hadnt  done enough to make that restriction clear. He felt that if FICL had 
done so, Mrs T wouldnt have taken it out.
But Ive reached  a different view. Mrs T has told us that she was diagnosed  with the 
health condition  about 13 years before she took the PPI, and that she hadnt  been off 
work as a result of the health condition. So I think,  even if FICL had made the 
restriction clear, it wouldnt have affected whether she took PPI. She wouldnt have 
expected to need to make  a claim resulting from that particular health condition.  And 
shed still potentially have  benefited from cover for other illnesses, and for accidents 
and unemployment.  
Ive also looked  at other possible  reasons why the PPI might have been mis-sold. But 
I dont currently think they apply to this case:
 The form to apply  for the card,  which Mrs T filled in and signed, does set out the 
PPI as a choice, which you make by signing  your name in a particular  place, 
separately from your overall  signature   and I can see Mrs T did this. So I think 
she chose to have  it. 
 Ive seen nothing  to show that FICL recommended the PPI as being particularly 
suitable for Mrs Ts individual needs.  This means it didnt  have to check  if the 
PPI fitted her circumstances. It would  have been for Mrs T to decide  whether it 
was suitable.
 However FICL did need  to give Mrs T clear and fair information  about the key 
aspects of the PPI including the costs and benefits. This is so she could make 
an informed choice.  And Ive not been  shown that it did do this properly  at 
Ref: DRN50088132least the information on the form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know  what 
other information was given to Mrs T. So Ive thought about whether better 
information is likely to have made  a difference.  But in Mrs Ts circumstances  at 
the time,  even if shed  been given all the necessary  information, I dont think  its 
likely to have made  a difference to her decision. I say this because Mrs T has 
said she wouldnt have got sick pay from her employer, so I think would have 
had some difficulty meeting her credit payments. And shes  said she didnt have 
alternative means to pay her living expenses and credit account,  if she lost her 
income; and even if she did, she could have kept that in reserve for longer. So 
the PPI is likely still to have been potentially  useful for Mrs T. 
I didnt receive any further information or comments. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  given  above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5008813