K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Legal  & General Partnership Services Limited gave her unsuitable 
advice about re-mortgaging.  A complaints  management company represents Mrs M in 
bringing this complaint. 
background
Mrs M took out a mortgage recommended by Legal & General in 2007.  Her representative 
says the advice was unsuitable as Mrs M incurred an early  repayment charge (ERC) which  
wouldnt have applied  six months later. The representative said Legal  & General didnt 
explain the true cost of adding the ERC  to the new mortgage loan.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said Mrs Ms 
circumstances meant  she needed to re-mortgage  immediately. The consequences were  
explained to her, including the ERC and the cost of consolidating her unsecured  debts. And 
she reduced her outgoings by re-mortgaging. Our adjudicator  said overall the advice was 
suitable.
Mrs M didnt  agree. Her representative  said Mrs M couldnt make an informed decision as 
Legal & General didnt detail the financial ramifications of adding  the cost of the ERC to the 
new mortgage. It says Mrs M was left on an interest only mortgage until 2018  when  she had 
to move downmarket and repay the mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
When bringing this complaint, Mrs Ms representative focussed  on the ERC incurred as a 
result of Mrs M re-mortgaging and that Legal  & General didnt explain the cost of this being  
added to and repaid  as part of her new mortgage. I understand the point it makes. However, 
I think this has to be considered in the context of the overall advice given  and Mrs Ms 
circumstances at the time. 
Mrs M met with Legal & General in mid 2007.  Legal  & General carried out a client  review. It 
sent a Mortgage Record of Suitability (MROS) to Mrs M. The client review says Mrs M 
wanted to make the biggest possible saving as she was overspending. She wanted to 
consolidate debts.  
Mrs M had a repayment mortgage of about £125,000. Her monthly payments were £740.  
Mrs M also had credit  card accounts with a total balance  of about £16,850. Her minimum 
monthly payments  were about  £350.  She had an unsecured loan with a balance of about 
£25,000 and monthly payments of £205. She had an overdraft of £4,000.
Legal & General recommended an interest  only mortgage of £192,700,  with a three year 
fixed interest rate of 6.29% and a term of 20 years. It also recommended  that Mrs M 
consolidate about £46,000 of unsecured  debt (her credit cards, loan and overdraft).  The 
costs of doing this were  explained in the MROS, which said that while the interest  rate 
Ref: DRN57084862charged would be lower, the overall  cost of repaying  these debts was likely to increase as 
the term was longer.  It gave a comparison of the cost of repaying  the mortgage  with or 
without the consolidated debts.
When she re-mortgaged, Mrs M paid an ERC of about £3,800. The period during which the 
ERC applied  ended on 1 March 2008.  I agree that its generally  better  to avoid incurring  the 
cost of an ERC if possible.  But I can understand that Mrs Ms made if difficult for her to wait 
until March 2008.  The sales documents say she had very little disposable income each  
month (less  than £30) and relied on credit cards to supplement her income.  This wasnt 
sustainable. 
The sales  documents say Mrs M was aware  of the ERC and wanted to re-mortgage straight 
away to achieve  her objectives. The cost of the ERC was added  to the new mortgage  loan. 
While Legal & General  didnt set out of the cost of this over the mortgage term, I think  its 
unlikely Mrs M would have acted differently if it had. I think, given her objectives and 
circumstances, its likely  shed have chosen to go ahead with the re-mortgage.
Legal & General recommended Mrs M switch from a repayment  mortgage to an interest  only 
mortgage. Mrs M didnt have a repayment vehicle. The MROS says an interest only 
mortgage was recommended  because this was the only affordable  option.  It says Mrs M 
expected to find a repayment mortgage  more affordable  in three  years  time when shed be 
able to work more  hours. Legal & General made  Mrs M aware that if she didnt switch to a 
repayment mortgage she might have to downsize her property.
There are costs and disadvantages  in re-mortgaging, switching to an interest only mortgage 
and consolidating  debts.  Legal & General made  Mrs M aware of this. But, given Mrs Ms 
circumstances at the time, I can understand that reducing her outgoings immediately was a 
priority. Re-mortgaging and consolidating the unsecured debts reduced Mrs Ms monthly  
outgoings by about £280. Overall, I dont think the advice given by Legal  & General was 
unsuitable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5708486