K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains about the level of service and information provided by British Gas 
Insurance Limited (British Gas)  when  her boiler  broke down. 
background
Mrs K held a HomeCare insurance policy, provided by British  Gas, covering the service and 
repair of her boiler and central heating system.  
Mrs K contacted British  Gas on the Saturday  of a bank holiday weekend  in 2018 because  
her boiler had broken down. The weather was very cold at the time and Mrs Ks pregnant  
daughter was staying  with her but British  Gas said Mrs K couldnt  have an emergency 
appointment as she didnt  meet  its criteria.  
An engineers appointment was arranged for three  days later. When the engineer looked at 
Mrs Ks boiler he said he couldnt  repair it as one of the parts needed was obsolete. The 
engineer asked if Mrs K wanted a quote for a new boiler. But the next available  appointment 
for Mrs K to be given  a quote  was in two days time and British Gas couldnt guarantee to 
accommodate Mrs Ks request for an appointment after 5.30pm.  
In the meantime Mrs K arranged for two independent  engineers to inspect her boiler.  They 
said the part needed was not obsolete and could be obtained but would be expensive.  
Mrs K complained to British Gas about the delay in appointment times and the advice  shed 
been given by British Gass engineer. Mrs K also said shed cancelled her insurance  policy  
but British Gas should have pro-actively offered to do this as she no longer had a boiler  to 
service. 
British Gas looked into Mrs Ks complaint. It said her comments  about the service shed 
received from its advisors on the phone and the shortage of appointment availability were 
justified and paid £25 compensation in recognition of this. But British Gas said Mrs K had 
been told previously  that her boiler  was on a reduced parts  list and her boiler  was not in a 
condition which would  make repairs possible. 
As Mrs K remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator  
looked into what had happened,  including some additional points Mrs K raised about the 
price of her policy. Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint. 
Mrs K didnt agree, so the complaint has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial  Ombudsman Service is to impartially  consider individual  complaints 
where a customer thinks they have  lost out financially because of a businesss actions. If we 
think a business  has done something wrong, we can also award compensation to a 
customer for the impact  the mistake has had on them. But we cant punish or fine a business 
through our awards. We arent a regulator, so we cant make general  recommendations 
about how a business trains its staff, how its departments communicate with each other  or 
how a business  should run its internal operations. 
Ref: DRN55570952I can understand why Mrs K was unhappy with British  Gass delay in providing her with an 
appointment slot when  she called to report her boiler  was broken. Mrs K has said the 
breakdown took place  during a severe  cold-snap  and I can appreciate Mrs K would have 
been worried as she had her pregnant daughter staying with her. 
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Ks policy dont guarantee  that an appointment will be 
arranged within any specific timeframe. But Id expect British  Gas to attend  to such  a 
situation fairly promptly and without any excessive  or unreasonable delay. 
Being without a working boiler will inevitably be inconvenient and frustrating, but I dont think  
a delay from reporting a problem on the Saturday  of a bank holiday weekend to receiving an 
appointment on the following Tuesday, the next working day, is excessive or unreasonable.  
British Gas is entitled to decide which customers it wishes to prioritise as vulnerable taking 
into account the availability of its engineers. Generally Id expect this to include customers  
who are elderly or customers  who have  small children  in the house. I understand why Mrs K 
may have  considered herself to be in an emergency  situation but I dont think it was unfair of 
British Gas to refuse to give Mrs K a priority appointment in the circumstances.
Mrs K is also unhappy because of the delay in being offered an appointment for a quotation 
for a new boiler  and with the timing  of the appointment slots she was given for this. But 
offering Mrs K a quote for a new boiler  isnt something thats covered under British Gass  
insurance contract with Mrs K. Arranging  for a quotation for a new boiler  to be given by 
another company within the British  Gas group is an extra option which  British  Gas was 
giving Mrs K, outside of its obligations under her insurance policy.
Nonetheless, British  Gas has acknowledged  the service provided  by its advisors over the 
phone  and the shortage  of appointment availability  falls below the standards it sets for 
itself and has paid Mrs K £25 compensation. I think this was a fair response from British  Gas 
in the circumstances. 
Turning to Mrs Ks complaint about  the information  she was given about the availability of 
parts for her boiler, the terms and conditions of her policy say:
If weve agreed to cover  a boiler  or appliance  but warned you that it might be difficult  
to find spare  parts, well do what we can, within reason, to repair it.
British Gas has said Mrs Ks boiler  ceased  production in 1998 and the part needed to repair 
the boiler stopped being made in 2011.  Mrs Ks boiler was over 20 years  old at the time of 
the 2018 claim and British  Gass records show engineers had advised Mrs K her boiler  was 
on a reduced stock list for parts on a number of occasions starting  in 2011. British Gass  
notes also show Mrs K was told she needed a new boiler at least  twice  before the 2018 
claim. 
British Gass engineers  notes from the 2018 claim say unable to obtain  part. But when 
Mrs K appointed independent  engineers, they said the parts could be obtained but would be 
costly. 
While I appreciate theres a difference between  a part being unavailable and a part being 
costly and/or difficult to find, I dont think British Gas intentionally misled Mrs K. Even if I 
accept that British Gas gave Mrs K incorrect information by telling her the part needed to 
Ref: DRN55570953repair her boiler wasnt available at all, I dont think this made any difference  to the situation 
Mrs K was in. 
It wouldnt be fair to require British Gas to repair a boiler unless it is economically reasonable 
to do so. And I note Mrs K ultimately  had her boiler replaced and not repaired anyway. So, I 
dont think Mrs K has lost out financially. 
Ive considered the question Mrs K has raised about  why the cost of her insurance policy  
was increasing every  year if her boiler  was on a reduced parts  list. Ive reviewed the 
evidence British Gas has provided to us about how this policy  was priced.  Im satisfied 
Mrs Ks policy premiums  were calculated fairly and in line with what  other customers in 
similar circumstances would have been charged taking into account  things like boiler  type, 
property attributes, geographical location  and claims history.  
I dont think Mrs K had less of a benefit  from her policy  because  her boiler was on a reduced 
stock list for parts. British Gas was continuing to service Mrs Ks boiler annually  and Mrs K 
still had the benefit of cover if she needed to make a claim. It may have been possible for 
other boiler  parts to be sourced or for other problems with the boiler or central heating 
system to be fixed. I can see from British  Gas notes that Mrs K did make  a successful claim 
in 2016.  
Mrs K has raised a number of additional  points about the overall level of service British  Gas 
provided to her. 
Mrs K has gone into detail about comments  she says were made by a British  Gas employee 
about the independent engineers who shed  arranged to attend.  While I accept any such 
comments may have caused annoyance, I dont think  the impact of this on Mrs K warrants 
asking British Gas to pay her additional  compensation.  
I agree  with Mrs K that it would seem  sensible for British Gas to have  cancelled  her 
insurance policy in these circumstances. The terms and conditions  of Mrs Ks policy  allow 
British Gas to cancel the contract if it cant find the parts it needs to repair a boiler. It may 
have been helpful if British Gas had arranged to cancel Mrs Ks policy  automatically after its 
engineer had reported its findings back to it. But businesses of this size will generally have 
different departments for different functions and by the time Mrs K complained to British  Gas, 
shed already arranged to cancel the policy herself.  
I can understand why receiving follow-up calls about appointments and surveys after the 
2018 claim would have been  frustrating  for Mrs K and I also understand Mrs K is also 
unhappy with how her complaint was handled  by British Gas. But, as Ive already mentioned,  
its not within my remit to tell British  Gas how I think its departments  should communicate  
with each other or to make recommendations about how it trains its staff.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs K but I think the £25 which British  Gas has already paid is fair 
and reasonable compensation for any errors it has made in this case.  I wont  be 
recommending that British  Gas should  do anything more. 
Ref: DRN55570954my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5557095