K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Aviva Insurance Limited caused unnecessary delay in accepting  her 
private medical insurance claim. 
background
On 1 September 2018, Miss B took out the policy. It was taken  out on a moratorium basis. 
That meant there was no cover for treatment  of medical problems shed had in the previous 
five years,  until shed  been trouble-free from the condition for two years after taking out the 
policy.
In November 2018, Miss B made a claim.  She told Aviva she had golfers  elbow and wanted 
physio. Aviva asked her to provide a referral letter from her GP. Miss B did so. Aviva  then 
wanted a claim form completed by her GP before  it would  accept the claim. Once the claim 
form had been  received,  Aviva accepted the claim. 
Miss B complained about the delay in Aviva  accepting  her claim. 
Aviva explained  it had asked for more information  from Miss Bs GP because the referral 
letter didnt say if her symptoms preceded the start date of the policy.  It wanted  this to be 
confirmed because it wanted to be sure her claim didnt fall under the moratorium.  Unhappy 
with this, Miss B brought a complaint to this service.  
I issued a provisional decision on 28 November 2019. My provisional findings were:
When Miss B initially made her claim, Aviva said she would need  a referral letter from her 
GP. It also said Please be aware  that due to the underwriting of your policy we may also 
require further  information in addition  to your referral  letter.
The policy confirms that a GP referral letter is required before private  treatment can be 
authorised. However,  Aviva was clearly aware at this time that Miss Bs policy  had recently 
started. It therefore  knew that it would want to establish when her symptoms first began,  so 
that it could be sure her claim didnt  fall under the moratorium. I think  it should have made 
this clear to Miss B, so she could have  asked her GP to include  this information in the 
referral letter. 
Though in any event,  I see the GP did include this information in the referral letter. The letter 
was dated 26 November 2018,  and the GP said Miss B had experienced golfers elbow for 
the last two to three weeks. I think its clear from this that Miss Bs symptoms didnt pre-date 
the start of the policy. I dont think Aviva  needed to get any further  information  from the GP. 
That being  the case, I agree with Miss B that Aviva did cause unnecessary delay in dealing 
with her claim. I understand the GP referral  letter was received by Aviva  on 
27 November 2018, so this is the earliest her claim could have been accepted. In the end, 
the claim was accepted  on 21 December 2018. Therefore, Avivas actions caused a delay of 
just over three weeks. 
I think Aviva  should pay Miss B £75 compensation to recognise the inconvenience caused to 
her by the delay. 
Ref: DRN55611002Miss B has also raised some concerns about  Avivas handling of her complaint. We have 
jurisdiction to consider  complaints about  regulated  activities (amongst others).  However, 
complaint handling isnt a regulated  activity (or any other activity that we have jurisdiction to 
look at) so I cant consider  Miss Bs concerns about this. 
Miss B is also unhappy that she had to chase  Aviva for a refund of the £45 she paid her GP 
to have the claim form completed. However, I see the refund was processed within Avivas 
stated service standards. So I dont think Aviva did anything wrong here.  
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make.
Miss B responded to say she accepted  my decision.
Aviva responded to say it initially asks for a referral letter  as this generally provides the 
information it needs to assess the claim.  However, in Miss Bs case, it thought the referral 
letter didnt include the information it wanted to see - such  as whether this was the first time 
Miss B had suffered with the condition, and details of any advice that had been given. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Avivas comments,  however  I think the referral letter did give enough information 
for it to be able to assess the claim. The GP explained that Miss B had had golfers  elbow for 
the last two to three weeks. If Miss B had suffered with the condition before,  Id have 
expected the GP to say this in the referral letter. Also, I dont think Aviva really needed to 
know what advice the GP had given Miss B for it to accept the claim. She was experiencing 
a common condition which is often  treated  with physio. 
I therefore remain of the opinion  that Aviva caused  an unnecessary delay. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance  Limited  to pay 
Miss B £75 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5561100