K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that she was mis-sold an Additions Active Account (AAA) and a Current  
Account Plus (CAP) by Barclays  Bank UK Plc (Barclays).
background
Miss S took out a current account with Barclays in December 2000.
The account  was upgraded to a current account  with an allowed overdraft  in March 2002.
Miss S upgraded her account to an Additions  account with an overdraft that incurred a 
monthly fee in July 2005.
She further upgraded the account to an Additions  Plus account with an overdraft that 
incurred a monthly fee in November 2005.
Miss S downgraded  her account  to a fee free current account in February 2007.
She then upgraded her account back to an Additions Plus account with an overdraft that 
incurred a monthly fee in April 2007.
Miss S downgraded  her account  to a fee free current account with an overdraft in February  
2008.
She upgraded her account  to an Additions  Active account (AAA) with an overdraft that 
incurred a monthly fee in February 2009.
Miss S changed her account  to a Current Account Plus (CAP) with an overdraft that incurred 
a monthly fee in February 2012.
She changed the account to a current account with tech pack which incurred a fee in May 
2016.
Miss S downgraded  her account  to a current account with an overdraft in the same month in 
May 2016.
Miss S has complained  to Barclays about  the sale of all the accounts that incurred fees.   
This service informed Miss S that all the sales before February  2009  are out of the services 
jurisdiction due to time limits and Miss S has accepted this.
Barclays did not uphold  her complaint about the AAA sale in February 2009, the CAP sale in 
February 2012 or the tech pack change in May 2016.
Our adjudicator investigated Miss Ss complaint about the AAA and CAP sales  and the tech  
pack change and did not uphold it. Miss S disagrees  and so the case  has come to me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Weve  explained  how we handle  
Ref: DRN59463672complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used the approach  to 
help me decide  Miss Ss complaint.
To be clear, I will only be looking at the AAA sale in February 2009, the CAP sale in 
February 2012 and the tech pack change in May 2016.
For simplicity, Ill consider the tech pack change in May 2016 first. If I were to find anything  
wrong with the tech pack change the only redress  I could give would be to ask Barclays  to 
return the fees for the tech pack to Miss S. But Miss S contacted Barclays immediately she 
was informed about the tech pack change in May 2016 and asked for it to be stopped  and 
the account changed to a fee free current account.  Barclays implemented  this straight away  
and so Miss S paid no fees for the tech pack change. There  is therefore nothing further for 
me to look at in this.
the AAA and CAP sales.
In my view Miss S has been very clear  about what her main complaint is. She says that the 
only reason she took out the AAA in February 2009 is because  Barclays told her that it was 
the only way she could have the overdraft facility she wanted.  And she says she took out the 
CAP in February 2012 for the same reason.
Miss S says that she has never  wanted any of the benefits that came with the AAA or the 
CAP other  than the overdraft facility.
Barclays says that it didnt tell Miss S that taking out the AAA or the CAP was the only way 
she could have her overdraft facility. Instead it says that it assessed her needs on both 
occasions, decided  the accounts  were suitable  for her and she chose and agreed to have  
them.
Its not possible for me to know what was said at the meetings in 2009 and 2012, so I can 
only consider what  each party says now and the evidence available.
Firstly Ive considered whether Miss S was given a choice whether to take out the AAA in 
2009 and the CAP in 2012 or not, and whether  she chose to take them out.
Miss S had fee free accounts with overdraft  facilities from Barclays several  times  over the 
years prior to 2009. So I think its more likely than not that she was aware fee free accounts 
with overdrafts were available both in 2009  and 2012. I think she had substantial experience 
of using banking  facilities. And whilst I dont doubt Miss Ss honest recollections  I think  its 
more likely than not that if Barclays had offered her the AAA or the CAP for any reason 
including overdraft facilities and she was unhappy  at paying a fee she would have  looked  
elsewhere and seen she had alternatives  for banking accounts and borrowing.
So I think Miss S knew she had a choice  about  whether to take out the AAA and the CAP 
and she chose to take them out.
Barclays says these  were advised  sales. So it needed to provide Miss S with sufficient 
information about the AAA and the CAP to make an informed choice and ensure that they 
were suitable for her.
Ref: DRN59463673The AAA contained a range of benefits including mobile phone  cover,  car breakdown cover,  
worldwide travel insurance, cardholder protection, home emergency cover, extended 
warranty and a £300 interest  free overdraft  facility. The AAA cost £15 a month.
The CAP contained  mobile phone insurance, gadget cover,  card secure,  extended warranty 
and a £300 interest free overdraft facility. And it was £8.50 cheaper  per month than the AAA.
I dont know what Barclays said or what information it gave Miss S but Barclays was trying  to 
sell the AAA and the CAP to Miss S so I think its more likely than not that it gave  her a full 
description of the benefits of both. Miss S says that on each occasion  Barclays  discussed 
her needs  with her and recommended the products. 
And I think both the AAA and the CAP were  suitable for her. I say this because  Miss S says 
that she wanted short term borrowing flexibility and the AAA and the CAP provided a better 
and cheaper overdraft facility than any current account. And Barclays has provided evidence  
that she benefitted substantially from the better  overdraft rates  after both sales.  
Miss S made a car breakdown claim in 2011;  she registered a mobile  phone  for insurance 
cover in 2009, having a claim accepted in 2012; she used the travel insurance  and made a 
claim in 2010; and she registered  a laptop for insurance in 2014.
Miss S says that she didnt use all the benefits and she had some  alternative arrangements 
for the products. But my findings above are that she was given full information about  the 
products and she chose  to take the AAA and CAP out and so it was then for her to arrange 
to use them  if she wished.
Miss S also says that she had difficulty making some  insurance claims and that she had a 
pre-existing medical condition that affected her travel insurance claims. However Miss S 
would need to make a complaint to the insurance  companies about any problems with 
making claims before this service could consider them. And Miss S has said that Barclays  
did discuss her needs  with her and I think its more likely than not that it would have asked 
her about  pre-existing  medical conditions and advised her accordingly  if she had declared 
any. So I dont  have enough evidence to say that she has lost out as result  of anything 
Barclays hasnt done.
So in my view, Miss S chose to take out the AAA and the CAP, the two products were  
suitable for her and there  was no information  that she didnt receive  that would likely have 
put her off taking them out.
So, while I know Miss S will be disappointed  by this, I dont think  Barclays  mis-sold the AAA 
and the CAP to her.
Ref: DRN59463674my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February  2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5946367