K821x#15complaint
Miss L complains that the car she acquired  through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Blue Motor  Finance Ltd was not of satisfactory quality.
background
Miss L entered  into a HPA with Blue Motor in November  2017 to acquire a used car. She 
says that she that delivery was delayed by a week because  repairs were needed. After  
delivery she returned the car because of a broken back washer jet which was repaired.
In January 2018, Miss L says the engine management light (EML) came on. She contacted 
the dealer about this but as the light went off again she didnt follow this up. In June 2018, 
the EML came on again and Miss L contacted Blue Motor. She says that the diagnostics log 
showed fault codes dated from before she took delivery. Because of this she says the car 
had faults present at the point of supply.
In its final response letter  dated July 2018,  Blue Motor  asked Miss L to provide further 
evidence that there  were  faults with the car that were present from the point of supply. In 
September it agreed to arrange  and independent inspection of the car. This took place in 
October 2018. Blue Motor says that although Miss L wished to reject  the car, under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  it was allowed an opportunity to carry out a repair.    
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She said that the independent inspection showed that 
there were faults that were present at the point of supply. Although repairs  can be an 
appropriate remedy, in this case our investigator thought it fair that Miss L be allowed to 
reject the car. She said this because  the exact  nature of the fault was not known and Miss L 
needed a car for her job. She also said that Miss L should be refunded  her deposit payment 
along with payments made and insurance  costs since 13 June 2018 as the car had not been 
usable.
Our investigator said that Blue Motor  should pay Miss L £200 compensation for the stress 
she suffered by being without a car and the length  of time she had to wait for Blue Motor to 
take action. 
Blue Motor  didnt accept  our investigators  view. It said that the car was fit for purpose  at the 
point of supply.  It said that there was no evidence to show  that the washer  wiper  was not 
working at delivery  and that this had been repaired. It said that the exhaust back  box 
corrosion was an advisory on the MOT and was repaired as a gesture of goodwill by the 
dealer. 
It said that Miss L contacted it about  the EML coming on in June 2018 and had not made  it 
aware of an issue in January 2018. It said the diagnostics evidence  supplied showed  stored  
fault codes but that fault codes can remain  after repair and that the code Miss L referred to 
had been repaired  before she had taken delivery  of the car. 
It said that the current fault which was presumed  to be with the mass  air flow sensor was not 
present at the point of supply. It said that although  the independent inspection report said 
the current conditions  would have been  developing at the point of supply as the vehicle 
wasnt new at acquisition  it was reasonable to expect some  wear and tear. It noted  that 
Miss L had driven  over 7,000  miles before the car failed.
Ref: DRN52871502Blue Motor  said the issue with the mass air flow arose more  than six months  after acquisition 
and so it was not liable under the CRA.  However it offered to have this repaired.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
My role is to consider each case based  on its individual merits. I take relevant regulations 
into account but my decision  is based  on what I consider fair given the unique circumstances 
of the complaint.
Miss L acquired a used  car through a HPA with Blue Motor. Under the regulations, Blue 
Motor can be held liable if the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.  
Satisfactory quality takes into account  factors such as the age and mileage of the car. At 
acquisition the car was just over five and a half years old and had a mileage  of around 
36,000.
Miss L says that she experienced problems  with the car from the outset. The first issue was 
with the back  washer jet. This was repaired and as I have nothing  to suggest this repair  
wasnt successful I find this was a suitable  remedy.
Miss L has also said that a repair was required  to the exhaust back  box. I have looked  at the 
MOT from May 2017, when the car had been driven  around 34,400. This records  exhaust  
back box corrosion as an advisory. By the time the car was supplied to Miss L it had been 
driven over 36,000  miles.  Blue Motor said that this repair was carried  out as a gesture  of 
goodwill. I find this a suitable remedy.
Miss L says that the EML came  on in January and although she reported this to the dealer 
as it went off she didnt  pursue  it. The EML then came on again  in June 2018 at which point 
she contacted  Blue Motor.
As this issue  was raised more than six months after acquisition, it is reasonable that Miss L 
needed to provide evidence that there was a fault and that it was present at the point of 
supply. Miss L provided diagnostics reports which  she said showed the faults and that they 
were present  at delivery. Based on this I think it would have been reasonable for Blue Motor 
to take action. This could either  have  been working  with Miss L to resolve  the issue  or 
arranging an independent  inspection to gather further evidence.  It was not until end 
September 2018 that Blue Motor agreed  to arrange  an inspection.
I have looked  through  the diagnostics  reports  provided.  The report carried out in October 
2017, before  the car was supplied lists a number of issues. Blue Motor says that these were  
addressed. I have looked through the diagnostics report from June 2018 and a number of 
the same  issues are recorded. I note the comments made by Blue Motor about  fault codes 
being stored and not being cleared after repair. 
However, having also looked through  the independent inspection report  I find it more likely  
than not that there were issues that were present or developing at the point of supply  that 
are ongoing.
Ref: DRN52871503The inspection report records two fault codes. One with the mass/volume air flow sensor and 
another with the intake air temperature sensor. The report notes that the car has a lack of 
power and that the coil lamp remained illuminated post start up and for a prolonged period. 
While it noted that further  investigation was needed, the inspector said that on balance  of 
probability the conditions with the car were developing at the point of supply.
I note Blue Motors comments about  the CRA and having an opportunity to repair, and that 
the diagnostic  report shows the issue to have  arisen  in June 2018, more than six months 
after acquisition. I can see from the diagnostics report that the issue with the mass air flow is 
recorded as occurring in June 2018. However, there is also the issue with the intake air 
temperature sensor and there was also a reason why the EML came on in January. 
I have looked  through  the notes showing  the contact Miss L made with the dealer and can 
see she raised the issue with the EML coming on in January, although she then cancelled  
her appointment due to the EML going off. However this suggests  an issue with the car at 
that time.  As this was less than three  months  after acquisition, and subsequent investigation 
has shown issues with the car which  the inspection reports  says were, on balance, 
developing at the point of supply, I find it reasonable to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply.
Blue Motor  has offered  to repair the issue with the mass air flow. This could have been a 
reasonable remedy. However, as the inspection  report suggests  that further investigation is 
needed to establish the issue  with the car and based on the inspection  there  is more  than 
one issue with the car, I find the fair resolution  at this time is for Miss L to be allowed  to 
reject the car. 
Our investigator recommended that Miss Ls deposit be refunded.  When a car is rejected 
any deposit that has been paid by the consumer  is usually refunded. However  in this case 
the deposit amount appears  to have been to make up the shortfall  between  the part 
exchange value  of Miss Ls previous  car and the settlement of the finance  due on that car. 
Therefore it doesnt  appear that she made a deposit payment towards this HPA and so I do 
not find that there is a deposit  that needs  to be refunded in this case.
Miss L hasnt had use of the car since 13 June  2018. Therefore it is fair that she is refunded 
any payments made from this date along with interest and that her insurance costs are also 
refunded from this date.
I can also see that the issues have caused  Miss L inconvenience. She has been  without a 
car that she has needed for her work.  While it is reasonable  that Blue Motor take time to 
investigate a complaint,  I think  Miss L should be paid compensation for the inconvenience 
she has suffered. I agree  that £200 is reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Blue Motor Finance Ltd should:
1.collect the car at no cost to Miss L;
2.cancel the HPA with nothing further  owing;
3.refund  Miss Ls payments from 13 June  2018;
4.refund  Miss Ls insurance payments from 13 June 2018;
5.pay Miss L £200 for the inconvenience she has been caused;  and
Ref: DRN528715046.remove any adverse information  regarding this agreement  from Miss Ls credit file.
Items 3 and 4 are subject to 8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
If Blue Motor Finance  Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss L how much its taken off. It should  also give 
Miss L a tax deduction  certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5287150