K821x#15complaint
Ms B complains  that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  turned down her pet 
insurance claim. 
My references to Red Sands include its agent.  
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I was likely to uphold the complaint.  I include an extract from my 
provisional decision here:
Ms B has insured her horse with Red Sands since she bought the horse in 2013. She has a 
time limited policy. This this is where  claims are paid for up to 365 days  from the date a 
condition occurs up to the policy limit. 
In June 2018 the horse was diagnosed with laminitis  (a condition  affecting the horses 
hooves). Ms B made a claim to Red Sands. But after reviewing the clinical history  for the 
horse Red Sands turned  down  the claim. It said the horse had first shown clinical  signs  or 
symptoms of laminitis in April 2017, more  than 365 days  before the claimed for treatment. 
Ms B strongly disagreed  and came to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He thought Red Sands had reached  a fair claims 
decision. Ms B didnt  agree  so the complaints  come to me for review.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
The Red Sands policy covers Ms Bs horse for up to 365 days only from the date of 
occurrence, up to your policy limit, regardless of whether or not treatment has commenced. 
The date of occurrence isnt specifically defined in the policy  but Red Sands says it is when 
the first clinical signs or symptoms of the injury, illness or condition  claimed  for appeared. 
I can step outside a strict  interpretation of the policy terms if I consider it is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances to do so. In this case  I think  Red Sands should pay 
Ms Bs claim. Ill explain why.
As I understand it laminitis is an extremely painful, inflammatory  condition  of the tissues  
(laminae) bonding the hoof wall to the pedal  bone in the hoof. The clinical signs include 
lameness usually affecting more than one limb, the horse leaning back  onto its heels, worse 
lameness when walking on hard ground  or turns, shifting weight when resting,  increased  
digital pulses and warm feet and pain with use of hoof testers at the point of frog (part of the 
hoof). 
Ive reviewed the vets clinical history  together with all the comments made by Ms B, her vet 
and Red Sands. 
I can see from the clinical history for 13 June  2016  that the horse had experienced  two 
months of intermittent lameness, abscesses  in the right hind and left hind feet, and thrush in 
Ref: DRN55240162the frogs of all four feet. The note says that Ms B had been  concerned  about  laminitis and 
moved the horse to a deep straw  bed. Ms B had been trying  to treat the thrush but it was 
getting worse. The horse  had been given an anti-inflammatory  painkilling medication D. The 
vet reported that:
The digital pulses  had increased  on all four feet, with the left hind the most, the feet 
were cool,  there  were positive to hoof testers in both forelimbs,  especially the front of 
the frog which had been difficult to examine fully. There  were very deep  grooves 
(sulci) on either side of the frog and central cleft of the frog, which was full of black,  
malodourous material. The feet were painful on palpitation  at the back of frog/bulb of 
heel, and the vet was unable to examine the hind-feet.  
When seen trotting  the horse was 3/10 left hind lame and 1/10 left fore lame. On the 
right rein the horse  had a short,  uncomfortable  gait in front (no specific  limb) and 2/10 
left hind lame. On the left rein the horse  was 4/10 left fore lame, slightly  short  behind.  
The vet said that due to the difficulty examining the horse  it was recommended Ms B 
bring the horse in to clinic for a full examination, potentially to do nerve blocks  and 
imaging. The vet would thoroughly clean and debride the feet. 
Ms B says she decided  not to have the examination in consultation with her farrier.  The 
horse was in pain and she thought the vet was box ticking.
In June 2017 the vet prescribed the anti-inflammatory D on a repeat prescription,  as 
the horse wouldnt eat the other prescribed medication.
In August 2017 there was a sedation for dental treatment. Also in August 2017 the 
vet diagnosed equine metabolic disorder (EMS) following a concern expressed by 
Ms B. She was given advice about diet and exercise with a retest in 12 weeks  time.
In November 2017 Ms B requested a prescription  of D, having said the horse had 
been sound for the last few months, but had come up lame  and foot sore on the 
weekend after fireworks.  O [owner] not sure if another  bout of laminitis or another 
injury, has the farrier coming out on Friday. If not laminitis, will have a vet out next 
week.
On 16 May 2018 Ms B reported  her horse was holding up her left hind and flexing the 
leg, but had improved since then. The horse was seen to be sound on straight,  very 
lame on turn walk and very lame in trot on. There were digital pulses in all four feet, 
generalised hoof tester pain right fore and both hinds. Ms B was advised it was either 
foot soreness  after being  ridden or, more likely, laminitis. She was advised to give the 
horse box rest and a deep bed, with the anti-inflammatory D. Ms B was advised  to 
delay the ACTH  test until less painful. 
In June 2018 Ms B reported that the horse  had thrush in both feet again,  and was 
given D with a recommendation  for a visit the following week  before  medication could 
be dispensed. 
On 26 June 2018 laminitis was diagnosed with radiographs to be taken. Three  days 
later Ms B was concerned  about  the amount of pain her horse was in. 
On 2 July 2018  the horse  was x-rayed and Ms Bs usual  farrier  was present. He 
trimmed the feet according to the radiographs and applied  frog supports to all four 
feet. The horse was to be put on a strict  diet and to continue  strict box rest on a deep 
bed. 
Red Sands  is entitled to limit the risk to it of treating a condition for more  than 12 months. 
But in this case Im not persuaded  that its shown, on balance,  that Ms Bs horse  had signs 
or symptoms of laminitis  back in June 2017.  
Ref: DRN55240163Ms Bs vet practice manager  has said that Red Sands has assumed laminitis  due to the 
clinical signs  listed, but that this was never formally made as a diagnosis.  Also, Ive not seen 
any mention in the clinical notes of a vets diagnosis of laminitis or concern of laminitis 
before May 2018. 
I understand that Ms B had expressed concerns about laminitis. But she explains this is a 
common concern amongst horse  owner. She also says she didnt make the comment  about 
another bout of laminitis  in November 2017. Unfortunately the vet has left so shes not 
been able to get any further comments from her vet practice. 
The horse had other  well documented issues with thrush and abscesses  which  equally could 
also have explained  the 2017 intermittent lameness that had been noted, which had been 
treated locally  and with pain medication. The vet wanted to cut away  the area noted 
(debridement) and Ms B points out this isnt treatment  for laminitis. The vet did also want  to 
do radiographs and to consider nerve  blocking (a test for lameness). But also the vet had 
noted the feet were cool, where  for laminitis I understand the feet are often  warm. There  was 
an increased digital pulse, but this was particularly on the left hind  where the horse had 
experienced abscesses. 
Ms B consulted her farrier regularly as set out in the notes. I think its likely shed have had 
her horse investigated in 2017 if the horse  had needed it  as she did with other  signs and 
symptoms of illness. The vets notes dont show they queried laminitis  in June 2017. There 
isnt any other clinical  evidence of laminitis being  queried or diagnosed until 2018.
The vet in May 2108 did think laminitis  was more likely, on the clinical signs, with it being 
diagnosed the following month.  The horse  was treated  with frog supports, a common  
treatment for laminitis. I cant see this treatment  had been suggested any earlier.
Also, Ms B had insured her horse with Red Sands since 2013 so I cant  see why shed have 
avoided making  a claim in 2017 had the vet thought her horse had laminitis. Its also not 
clear to me that Red Sands  has been prejudiced here. I think the fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint is for Red Sands to pay the claim for the investigation and 
treatment of laminitis, subject to the policy limit and excess. If Ms B paid the vets bill herself  
she should confirm  the dates she paid them, with evidence,  in response to this decision. 
I will also require  Red Sands to pay 8% interest  on the payments. 
Red Sands  can apply an exclusion for laminitis from the policy  renewal date in October 
2018. But it must consider any claim for laminitis for up to 365 days from 16 May 2018 when 
the first clinical sign or symptom of the laminitis diagnosis was noted.
responses
Ms B responded to say she was very happy Id found in her favour. But she said shed not 
been able to afford to complete her horses  treatment  because Red Sands  had refused  her 
claim. The horse should have had additional  x-rays and further vet consultations during the 
year following her initial diagnosis, but Ms B couldnt  pay for it. She asked me to consider  
awarding an additional sum for the horses  feet to be x-rayed  to see whether the 
preventative work shed  done herself  had worked. Shed kept the policy  going  only for the 
benefit of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN55240164We asked Ms B to send vet evidence that the horse needed to have repeat x-rays, together 
with an estimate of the costs. We also asked about  payment of the vets bills, given my 
proposed award  for interest. 
Ms B sent us her vets bills that shed paid, together with medication  that shed bought both 
from the vet and online. She explained her vet had given her a prescription to buy the 
medication online to reduce  the cost. She also sent us an estimate  for repeat x-rays for her 
horse. 
Red Sands  responded to say that it didnt accept my provisional decision. It restated many of 
the points made in its final response  letter. In particular, that the horse  showed  signs and 
symptoms of laminitis since 2017 with reference  to the entry  about Ms B being  concerned  
about this in June 2017. She was advised  to take the horse for a full examination but did not, 
so the diagnosis couldnt be given.  The horse had been diagnosed with EMS in September 
2017, which is one of the causes of laminitis. And the vet noted that in November  2017  Ms B 
wasnt sure if the horse had another  bout of laminitis. So while  Red Sands notes the formal  
diagnosis wasnt made until June 2018  the terms and conditions says that the 365 period of 
cover runs from the date the first clinical sign or symptom was noted. Even if it wasnt  
laminitis the horse had been suffering from symptoms since May 2017, with the same  
medication provided for the horse. Red Sands puts this down to an incorrect diagnosis from 
the outset. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered  all the comments that Ive received. I still uphold  the complaint  for 
the reasons given in my provisional decision and here. 
In reaching my provisional findings I had set out the clinical history  for the horse. Ive 
explained that I have taken into account all the information that Red Sands  has referred to in 
its response to my decision.  The clinical  history  shows  that the horse had thrush  in its feet 
and not all the signs of laminitis were being  displayed. I think Ms B was concerned  about 
laminitis but the advice  she received  was that there were other issues with her horses 
hooves, which she treated. 
Even if Ms B should have  made a claim earlier  and I dont think  she had a serious concern 
until the May 2018 diagnosis  its not clear to me why shed have waited given that she was 
insured. And Red Sands  hasnt  put forward any argument for why its position was prejudiced 
even if she should  have made  the claim earlier. Ms B was advised that her horse had 
laminitis in May 2018. Having taken into account  all the evidence I think  its fair for the 
365 day period to run from 16 May 2018.
Ms B has sent the invoices that shes paid for her horses treatment, which weve  forwarded 
to Red Sands. I think its fair for Red Sands to pay for her horses  treatment for 365 days 
from 16 May 2018, as set out below. This means that the cost of medication  outside this 
period wont be covered.  
Ms B has sent an estimate from her vet for the follow-up x-rays she says her horse would 
have had if her claim had been paid, but she couldnt afford  to have done. Unfortunately 
there isnt any vets evidence to show  that these tests were  clinically  necessary under the 
Ref: DRN55240165policys terms with the 365 day period. But I think its fair for Red Sands to consider  a claim 
for the cost of the x-rays  if it receives veterinary evidence from Ms Bs vet to explain why 
they were clinically  necessary and that they should  have been carried out within  the 365 
period of 16 May 2018. Any claim payment is subject to the policy limit as below.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision and in this final decision I uphold 
this complaint. I require  Red Sands Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited to pay Ms Bs 
claim, subject to the policy  limit and any applicable  excess. Subject  to evidence that Ms B 
has paid the vets bill herself, it should  add simple interest* of 8% per year to the claim 
payment from the date she paid the vets bill to the date of settlement. 
I also require Red Sands to amend the policy exclusion to for claims with respect  to laminitis 
and resulting conditions with effect  from 14 October  2018, being the first renewal after the 
laminitis diagnosis of May 2018.  Red Sands is not entitled to apply  this exclusion for 365 
days after 16 May 2018 when assessing any claim under the policy.   
Red Sands  should  consider a claim for the cost of the x-rays (estimate provided) subject to 
receiving veterinary evidence that the x-rays were clinically required and necessary  within  
365 days of 16 May 2018. Any claim  payment  is subject to the policy limit and any applicable 
excess. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Ms B considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Ms B how much its taken off. It should also give Ms B a certificate  
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN5524016