K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about how U K Insurance Limited dealt with a claim  against  their
travel insurance policy. Their son, Mr L1, is helping them to bring  their complaint. Reference
to UKI includes reference to its agents.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 15 January 2020,   
an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision,  so I wont repeat that 
information here. 
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I didnt  intend to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint. UKI said that it accepted my provisional decision. Mr L1 didnt  send a substantive  
response to my provisional  decision in the time agreed.    
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  UKI nor Mr L1 has provided  me with anything  further  on the complaint, I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision.  So, for 
the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that UKI needs to do anything  more than its already 
done in this case. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 March  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN53381842extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain  about  how U K Insurance Limited  dealt with a claim against their travel 
insurance policy. Their son, Mr L1, is helping  them to bring their complaint. Reference to UKI includes 
reference to its agents.
background
Mr and Mr L have the benefit of travel  insurance  as part of Mrs Ls current account.
Mr and Mrs L were  on holiday abroad from 23 August 2018  to 28 August 2018.
On 24 August 2018, Mr L fell and injured his face. Mr L was taken  to a public hospital and
Mrs L contacted UKI. On the same day, Mr L1 flew from the UK to assist  his parents.
Later on 24 August 2018, Mrs L told UKI that Mr L needed surgery  that the public hospital  couldnt  
provide, so he required a transfer  to a private hospital. On 25 August 2018, UKI authorised  Mr Ls 
transfer to an appropriate  hospital.
I understand  that Mr L didnt in fact have surgery, as the specialist in the private hospital said that it 
wasnt required.  There  were  further medical  investigations.
On 30 August 2018, Mr L was discharged  from hospital. UKI arranged accommodation for Mr and 
Mrs L. I understand  that Mr L was declared fit to fly on 31 August 2018  and that UKI arranged an 
escorted repatriation  for 4 September  2018.
Mr and Mrs L complain  that:
In a call between UKI and Mrs L, UKI was unhelpful, bordering on unsympathetic and 
confusing.
UKI uses  an agent  to provide medical  reports  over the phone, which caused 
confusion.
There was serious miscommunication  about  the medical reports, which caused delay  in 
transferring Mr L to an appropriate hospital.
There were  delays  in the receipt of the initial medial  report.
There was significant  delay in confirming cover.
There was significant  delay in UKI confirming  cover to the private hospital.
UKIs calls with Mr L1 were poorly  handled.
UKI gave Mr L1 the impression that it would  cover food and taxis but it later reneged on 
that.
UKIs handling  of the complaint was unsatisfactory.
Mr and Mrs L want compensation of £1,000  for Mrs L; compensation of £500 for Mr L1; 
reimbursement of two flights for Mr L1 and the cost of unused accommodation at a separate  location 
for Mr L1.
Ref: DRN53381843In response to Mr and Mrs Ls complaint,  UKI paid Mr and Mrs L £100 in relation to its poor 
handling of a call with Mrs L. I understand that UKI paid a further  £25 in relation to phone  calls.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that she couldnt  consider the parts 
of the complaint that related  to Mr L1 or his claims  for compensation, as he wasnt a party to the 
insurance policy. The investigator said that the compensation  UKI had already paid in relation to its 
handling of a call with Mrs L was fair. She didnt uphold the other elements of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree  with the investigator. Mr L1 responded on their behalf and said, in 
summary:
The issue  with providing medical  reports over the phone was that there was no 
consistent, clear information given and, initially, UKI denied that
Mr L required a transfer at all. That contradicted the information  he received at the 
first hospital.
UKIs agent was closed  when he tried to contact  it.
There were  unacceptable delays in UKI confirming receipt of the medical report  and in 
confirming cover  for the private hospital.
His poor experiences with UKI were passed  onto Mrs L.
UKI told him that it would cover all expenses.
UKI didnt handle the complaint appropriately.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman 
to decide. Mr L1 wanted to wait until the outcome of a subject access request  with UKI before 
proceeding with the complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr L1 has very strong  feelings  about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions 
to support his complaint, which I have  read and considered. However, I trust that neither  he nor 
Mr and Mrs L will take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider the central issues.
Im conscious  that Ive condensed what I dont  doubt  was a very worrying time into a short 
narrative. That reflects our service that, wherever  possible, aims to be informal. But Im satisfied 
that Ive captured the essence of what happened.
As the investigator explained, we cant consider the parts of the complaint that are Mr L1s 
complaints against UKI, as he isnt a beneficiary  of the policy. Im not persuaded that Mrs L suffered 
loss, distress or inconvenience because of anything that happened between
Mr L1 and UKI.
Also, the rules under  which  we operate dont  include complaint handling by businesses. So, I cant 
consider the part of Mr and Mrs Ls complaint  about how UKI handled the complaint.
Ref: DRN53381844This service isnt the regulator and cant tell an insurer  how to arrange its business but I can 
consider how it treated Mr and Mrs L in this case and whether it treated them fairly.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting  point is the terms and conditions of the policy,  which provide cover for emergency  
medical expenses abroad, extra accommodation costs and medically necessary repatriation.  The 
policy also says that Mr and Mrs L must provide UKI with all documentation reasonably necessary  to 
support the claim, such  as a medical report.
has the claim been handled fairly?
The relevant rules  and industry guidance  say that UKI has a responsibility  to handle claims  
promptly and fairly.
Im not upholding  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint  because  I dont  think that UKI need  to anything more 
than its already done in this case.  I say that because:
UKI accepts that one of its phone calls with Mrs L wasnt handled appropriately. I
think the compensation its already paid in relation to that is fair.
Based on what Ive seen, it appears that Mrs L first contacted  UKI a little before midday 
on 24 August 2018. As Mr L was in a public hospital, UKI initially  directed Mrs L to the 
phone number for medical care under  the EHIC  scheme. I think that was appropriate at 
that stage. There was no indication  that Mr L required any treatment that the public  
hospital couldnt provide.
Mrs L contacted UKI again around 2pm on 24 August 2018 and said that Mr L needed 
surgery that the public  hospital couldnt  provide. In response, UKI needed a medical 
report. I think that was a reasonable response on UKIs  part, as it needed to establish that 
the policy  covered the treatment Mrs L said Mr L needed. It was for Mr and Mrs L to 
provide a medical report that supported the claim.
I dont think UKI was at fault in receiving medical information over the phone. Thats 
appropriate in situations  where it wishes to come to a decision  quickly. In this case, the 
medical reports were also received in writing.
Neither the first medical report  UKI received  later in the afternoon  of 24 August 2018 nor 
the second medical report UKI received around 6pm on 24 August 2018 said that Mr L 
needed urgent surgery. Mr L1 effectively says that those  reports didnt accord  with what  
the hospital told him and Mrs L. I appreciate its frustrating that the information  Mr L1 
and Mrs L were getting from the hospital was different  from those  reports but I think that 
UKI was entitled  to rely on the medical evidence it received. So, I dont think  that UKI 
was required to arrange  for a transfer to another hospital at that stage.
The medical  report  UKI received in the early  hours of 25 August 2018 said that Mr L was 
waiting for a transfer as soon as possible for surgery. UKIs records show that at 16.46 
on 25 August 2018 it agreed cover. I cant say that was an unreasonable  delay in the 
circumstances that arose here. UKI was dependent on information from the treating 
public hospital.  It needed to translate  the medical  reports and establish  that there was a 
private hospital that could take Mr L. Also, the information at that stage was that the 
surgery would take place on the following Monday, 27 August 2018. So, even if there 
had been delay, it didnt  have a negative impact on Mr Ls treatment.
Ref: DRN53381845There were  exchanges  about which  private hospital Mr L was to go to. When
Mr L arrived at the private hospital, it hadnt received  confirmation of cover. It appears 
that UKI sent confirmatory  e-mails to the private hospital but they werent received.  I 
dont think that UKI is responsible for that.
Mr L1 says that one of UKIs agents was closed  out of office hours. UKI says that its 
main agent  operates  at all hours. Based on what Ive seen, I cant say that UKIs agent  
was closed  out of hours, as Ive seen  evidence of activity on its files out of office hours. 
It may well be that Mr L1 had trouble  contacting them  but I havent seen anything to 
indicate that they were generally  unavailable.
I see from the information Mr L obtained as a result of his subject access request that UKI 
paid his food and taxi claims,  so I dont need to comment further on those.
Im sorry to disappoint  Mr and Mrs L but we cant deal with some elements  of the complaint and, for 
the reasons Ive explained,  I dont intend to uphold  the remaining elements.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont intend to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Ref: DRN5338184