K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that he wasnt told there  was a deadline in which hed need to accept a 
modified agreement to refinance an optional final payment. This wouldve enabled him to 
buy a car hed been financing through a finance  agreement with FCE Bank Plc (FCE).  He 
says that as he was out of time to refinance the final payment  he had to pay charges to 
refurbish the car and for excess mileage that he wouldnt have  otherwise  had to pay.
background 
Mr G took receipt of a new vehicle  in October  2014.  He financed the deal through  a three  
year hire purchase agreement with FCE. The finance agreement  was due to end in 
November 2017  and Mr G says he agreed with the dealership that hed enter into a 
modified  agreement  which  would allow him to refinance the optional final payment of 
£5,245. He says they promised to call him when the agreement ended so that this new 
agreement could be established. But they didnt and by the time Mr G contacted  them they 
explained hed missed the 30 day window  to set up the modified agreement. 
The dealership say they offered Mr G the chance to part exchange his car for another  and 
that they explained he may also be able to obtain  finance elsewhere. But Mr G didnt think  
these options  were suitable. He returned  the car instead and received  a subsequent bill to 
refurbish the vehicle to the contractual standard and for excess mileage.
Mr G says that if FCE had informed him there  was a limited period  in which  he could apply 
for the modified agreement, he wouldnt have been  faced with these  charges.  So hed like 
FCE to waive them. The charges net of VAT are as follows:
scuffed rear bumper  £108
dent to offside  door £108
mileage charges of £2286.79
FCE didnt think they needed to take any further  action. They explained that a modified 
agreement could only be accepted by them if the application was made within a period that 
ended 28 days after the optional final payment fell due. They said as Mr G had returned his 
car after 32 days they couldnt process  the application. They went on to consider the mileage 
charge. They explained  that Mr G had completed 31,716 extra  miles and they explained  that 
in those circumstances the charge theyd made was correct. They explained that the car had 
been inspected  by a third party inspector when it was returned and hed identified £1,174.77 
of additional charges for refurbishment  work  that would need  to be completed to return  the 
car to the contractual condition before sale. They  said theyd reduced these charges and 
were only seeking  to charge Mr G £180  plus VAT.
Mr G wasnt happy with FCEs response so he referred his complaint to this service and our 
adjudicator provided  an opinion.  He noted  that the modified agreement wasnt part of the 
original agreement and considered it would  be a separate application. He couldnt say 
whether it would have  been approved as there  would have needed  to be an assessment of 
affordability. So he didnt think FCE had to offer the modified agreement.  
However, he was satisfied that the dealership made  promises to Mr G that they didnt fulfil 
and that Mr G had received a poor level of service. He thought  FCE should  therefore pay 
Mr G £100 to compensate  him for the poor service hed experienced. 
Ref: DRN56338142He went on to consider  the refurbishment charges. He compared  the photographs  of the 
damage that were  in the independent inspection report, against  the industry guidelines. He 
didnt think the door dent was greater than 10mm so he thought it fell within what  the 
guidelines would consider  fair wear and tear and he therefore didnt think  the charge should 
be levied. However,  he did think the bumper scuff  was in excess of the 25mm allowance and 
he therefore agreed that charge should stand. He went on to consider the excess mileage 
charge but he thought that had been calculated correctly.  So overall, he suggested that the 
outstanding charge that FCE should make was £2286.79 for the excess  mileage  and £108  
for the scuffed bumper.
FCE agreed with the adjudicators view but Mr G didnt. He insisted that the handback of his 
car had been  forced by lack of action on FCEs part. He thought FCE wouldve profited from 
these charges and they were unreasonable and he asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr G so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
the modified agreement
I dont think FCE had to provide Mr G with a modified agreement. It didnt form part of the 
hire purchase agreement and would have  been a new application requiring separate 
approval. It was for them to decide whether they considered  his application and it wouldnt 
be fair to hold them responsible for a delay in making it  there was no contractual obligation 
and the application was for Mr G to make in the appropriate timescales.
But Im persuaded  that that Mr G did experience poor service  from FCEs agents and Im 
therefore persuaded that he should be compensated  for this. In the circumstances I think 
£100 is fair and reasonable.
the refurbishment charges
The industry guidelines on what should  be considered  fair wear and tear, when a car is 
returned at the end of a lease, are provided  by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA). Ive considered  each  area of damage that FCE are making charges 
Ref: DRN56338143for. I agree with the adjudicators view. The door dent doesnt  look like its more  than 10mm 
and that falls within the acceptable limits provided by the BVRLA so it shouldnt  be charged.  
But the bumper  scratch is clearly in excess of 25mm  and should be. 
the mileage charges
Mr Gs contractual mileage was 18,000. The car was returned having  completed 50,261  
miles so hed completed 32,261 additional miles. FCE allowed a tolerance  of 500 miles over 
the three year contract and charged  6p per mile on the remaining 31,761.  So the excess  
mileage charge of £2,286.79 incl VAT has been  correctly calculated.
I understand Mr Gs concerns about the potential for FCE to make additional profit  on these 
end of term charges.  But I think theyve  been  fair in their approach. Theyve significantly 
reduced the charges initially identified by the independent inspector and could have chosen 
to pursue them. 
So overall, Im asking FCE to remove the charge for repairing the dented  door and asking 
them to provide some compensation.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell FCE Bank Plc to:
amend the total charge now due to £2,394.79
pay Mr G £100  to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5633814