K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has treated him unfairly  in relation 
to a claim he made on his car insurance policy. Mr M also complained  about  the time it took 
AXA to agree liability with the third party insurer. This was considered  separately so I will not 
discuss it any further within this decision.
background
In August  2017  a third party collided with Mr Ms vehicle, so he made  a claim under his AXA 
car insurance policy. Mr M was given a courtesy  car, and his vehicle was taken to Garage A 
in September  2017. Mr M raised several concerns about the work completed.  
 
In April 2018 Mr M was asked to return his vehicle again for further repairs. AXAs 
representative arranged  to visit the vehicle  to identify any issues. And he said he would list 
all of the identified  issues, and then either cash settle the claim, or arrange for another  
garage to carry out the repairs if there  was faulty  work. AXA said it also offered a further  hire 
car to ensure Mr M was still mobile and not inconvenienced.
Mr M agreed  to the review and it took place in May 2018. Mr M met with AXA, an engineer 
from Garage A, and an independent engineer to assess the vehicle.  They discussed the 
issues Mr M had raised, including misaligned panels  and bumpers, damage  and marks, poor 
quality paint resprays, and an issue with the rear left parking sensor. 
The independent engineer said the general  repairs had been carried  out to an acceptable 
standard, but overall there  was a lack of attention to detail. He said the required works 
involved repairing and re-painting the rear bumper, re-alignment of the rear bumper and 
nearside rear outer lamp,  and the checking  and repair of the rear parking  sensors.  As well as 
a complete polish  and valet of the vehicle. 
AXA said Mr M had agreed  to the proposed  works and for Garage A to carry out the repairs.  
But Mr M disagreed and said hed repeatedly told AXA he wasnt comfortable returning his 
vehicle to Garage  A. Mr M then took his vehicle from the garage and our investigator looked  
into things. She said AXA should allow the repairs to be carried out by a different garage in 
light of the issues  found with Garage As workmanship. 
AXA said it was unable  to find a manufacturer authorised garage so it would need to cash  
settle the claim instead. Mr M said he wanted  a cash settlement to be communicated 
through our service. AXA responded  to say it would be willing  to offer £193.36 to cash settle, 
which would pay for the required works to be completed.  Mr M disagreed  and explained this 
wasnt enough to carry out the full repair or cover him for his losses overall. He asked for:
AXA to provide a suitable courtesy  vehicle  for one week while  the repairs  are carried out. 
Or for AXA to pay the cost from a rental dealership which he estimated at £230;
£40 for a full valet  as suggested by the independent engineer;
£270 for loss of a days earnings  (for when  he attended the engineers review);
£60 for mileage he wouldve claimed from his employer as part of his regular income; 
approximately £400 for vehicle repairs; and
£500 for compensation  taking  into account  delays, ongoing stress and anxiety.
 
Ref: DRN52992492Mr M raised  additional concerns about  rubber  seals on the vehicle that he said werent  
reinstated properly.  Our investigator considered  the independent engineers  report alongside 
Mr Ms comments and didnt think  there  was anything to suggest AXA should carry out any 
works beyond the engineers recommendations. 
The investigator said AXA should have arranged for these works  to be carried  out by a 
manufacturer authorised garage, but it didnt. And she said the costs AXA quoted were 
reflective of how much  it would cost AXA, not Mr M to complete the repairs.  So she asked
 Mr M to provide an itemised quote/invoice  to be given to AXA for it to settle  from an 
approved garage  or one of Mr Ms choosing that is willing  to carry out the work specified  in 
the engineers  report. And she said AXA should  settle the cost of a valet and polish.
 
The investigator also awarded £75 in compensation for frustration caused in relation  to the 
repairs. Mr M disagreed, he said additional  problems should  have  been  identified by the 
independent engineer but werent.  Because Mr M and AXA disagreed, the complaint was 
passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. I issued a provisional  decision on this complaint 
on 28 February 2019 explaining why I was intending  to uphold this complaint.  Ive 
summarised my reasons below.
repairs and valet  the independent  engineer  said a number of specific  works should be 
completed. AXA previously agreed to either find an alternative garage  to carry out the 
repairs or cash settle to the required value. Since  then it instead said Garage A is able to 
carry out the works. I considered that the report described some  of Garage As work  as 
not of a satisfactory standard  and that there  had been damage to the bumper. So taking 
into account what Mr M said and that AXA had agreed previously, I didnt  think  it was fair 
to ask Mr M to return his car to Garage A. 
I said AXAs  offer of £193.36  was unlikely to reflect the actual cost for Mr M to have the 
works carried out. And I said Id have expected AXA to settle these repair costs on 
receipt of an itemised  invoice or quote.  But as we hadnt received any, in in the absence  
of this I would  ask AXA to award  £193.36  for the cost of the necessary repair  works  to 
avoid this matter  becoming ongoing.  And I said if Mr M did provide a quote  or an invoice 
prior to my final decision, Id consider it. I also noted  the engineer said a complete polish 
and valet would be needed. So I thought  AXA should cover this cost in addition to the 
repair costs mentioned above.
rubber seal issues  Mr M raised  concerns about rubber seals he said shouldve  been 
identified by the independent engineer  and sent us photos of these. Having reviewed 
these I didnt think there was enough to suggest these  issues  werent pre-existing or 
claim related. Nor did I think they showed  damage was connected to any work carried  
out by Garage A. I noted these issues werent  picked  up previously by either Mr M or the 
independent engineer.  And while Mr M questioned the engineers  competence and 
impartiality, I didnt think this was fair or supported by the available  evidence.  So I was 
persuaded the engineer  acted impartially  when assessing the vehicle and I didnt think 
AXA needed  to cover any additional  works beyond what was set out in the report.
courtesy car  Mr Ms policy  says AXA would provide a courtesy car while a vehicle is 
being repaired  if the works are being completed  by one of its approved repairers.  In 
this case I said Mr Ms car wouldnt be repaired by AXAs approved  repairer because of 
the problems it previously caused. And it wasnt in dispute  that AXA had been unable to 
find an alternative garage. So I didnt think Mr Ms decision to cash  settle this claim was 
his own, taking into account hed raised concerns about Garage  A throughout.
Ref: DRN52992493This means  Mr M would be without a vehicle while his car is in for repairs.  And I didnt 
think this was fair, so AXA should  either  provide a vehicle for the time Mr Ms car is being  
repaired, or pay Mr Ms hire costs on receipt  of an invoice for a similar  vehicle to his own.
wages and travel costs  Mr M had tried to arrange an engineer  appointment with AXA at 
a time when he wasnt working. But this wasnt possible, and the meeting was only 
necessary due to problems caused  by Garage A. So I was satisfied in this case  that AXA 
was responsible for causing him to lose his income  for one day. And I said AXA should 
pay him the amount he lost and provide 8% simple interest on this payment from the 
date of the meeting with the independent engineer. Mr M also asked for around  £60 to 
cover mileage  costs he wouldve claimed back from his employer. I didnt think this was 
reasonable as he didnt  use or pay for the petrol hed have been  claiming  for.
distress and inconvenience  Mr M told us the ongoing experience  of this claim caused 
him distress and inconvenience.  I felt AXA should award him £75 to account for the 
confusion and ongoing delays it has caused.
AXA responded and asked Mr M to provide evidence  to support the value of his lost wages. 
Following a discussion we discovered £30 of his total £270  day rate was for charges related 
to materials used on site. Our investigator let Mr M know  on my behalf that I wouldnt expect 
AXA to cover charges  for material or resources that werent used.
Mr M overall  disagreed with my decision, and provided an independent repair  quote from an 
authorised approved garage  which said the total cost of repairs was around £3,550. Mr M 
said he wanted AXA to pay for these works, and he asked for around  £20 for petrol,  £75 for 
an inspection quote fee, and an additional £120  for the time it took to drive to the 
appointment and wait for the inspection to be completed.
We shared this report with AXA and asked  for its comments. It said this quote  was an 
exaggeration of what needed to be completed and included unnecessary works (such as a 
full side panel  replacement). On our instruction AXA spoke  to Mr Ms engineer to discuss the 
works, given  the significant difference in costs. Since, AXA has provided a revised  report  
quoting the necessary works (related to the claim and Garage As repair) to the value of 
£1,620.70. I reconsidered the complaint  and let both parties know I was satisfied this 
accurately reflected the necessary works related to the claim.  So I said I intended  to ask 
AXA to pay the revised  sum.
I said I thought it was reasonable for AXA to refund the £75 inspection  fee as Mr M had 
incurred costs in obtaining his quote. Mr M also asked for an additional  £140  to cover his 
petrol and hours lost during this complaint. Instead  of breaking down each individual loss I 
reconsidered the overall trouble and upset AXA caused Mr M when handling this claim.  And 
having carefully thought about what Mr M had told us, the stress and ongoing frustration hes 
described, as well as the avoidable delays thinking about the overall time its taken to 
resolve this claim, I said AXA should  give him £250  in compensation.
AXA responded to say it agreed with my findings. Mr M responded to say he still disagreed  
with my findings on the extent of the works.
Ref: DRN52992494my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still upholding  this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr M still believes AXA should  pay the higher repair costs  as outlined by the independent 
report he provided. But I disagree for the reasons Ive already given and hes provided 
nothing new to support  this. So I havent  changed  my mind and I think AXA should  only pay 
the costs outlined in the revised  report. AXA has said it is willing  to pay the repair  costs  
directly to Mr M for him to arrange repairs himself. In the circumstances I think this is best to 
avoid any further  disputes.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im upholding this complaint and AXA Insurance  UK Plc 
should do the following to put things right:
pay Mr M £1,620.70 for the cash settlement of this claim;
pay Mr M £75 for the inspection fee (upon receipt of this cost if AXA requests it); 
pay Mr M £40 for the cost of a valet;
pay Mr M £240 for loss of wages on date of previous inspection  8% simple interest on 
this payment from 1 May 2018  until the date it is paid;
provide Mr M with a courtesy car for one week while repairs  are carried  out, either by 
arranging this itself or alternatively paying him £230  directly  to cover this cost; and
pay Mr M £250 for trouble and upset  related  to this claim.
AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  we 
tell it Mr M accepts  my final decision.  If it pays  later than this it must  also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5299249