K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001. 
Mrs G says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs G says it wasnt made clear to her that the PPI was optional  and there  was no opt out 
on no box for her to select. But based on the evidence  Ive seen I think Capital One made it 
clear that Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she cant  remember this. I say this having seen a copy  of her credit card 
application form which included  a section for PPI. In this there is both a yes and no option 
for the policy  and the yes box has been ticked.  Mrs G then signed the application form 
consenting to the information contained within it. And as this was a postal application  form, 
Mrs G made  this decision freely in her own space  and time and without any involvement 
from Capital One other  than the provision of the application form itself.
Mrs G says she was advised to take out the PPI. But as this was a postal sale, and there is 
no evidence Mrs G spoke to Capital  One at the time of completing the application form, I 
think its likely this was a non-advised sale. This means Capital One didnt have to check  if 
the policy was right for her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs G got the information she 
needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the policy would have put her off taking out the cover.
Mrs G says the PPI wasnt of any use to her as she was entitled to sick pay from her 
employer and had some savings at the time. The PPI policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 
months in the event  Mrs G was unable to work and on top of her savings and sick pay 
entitlement. So these funds  couldve been used for other expenses - and I think Mrs G 
wouldve found the PPI particularly useful  when her sick pay reduced to half.
My final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2019.
Ref: DRN58577022Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5857702