K821x#15complaint
Miss R complains about the service she received from Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
when she called them to let them know about an incident. Shes  also unhappy that Admiral  
changed her motor insurance  policy without notifying her.
background
In 2018, Miss R got in touch with Admiral  to let them know that shed been involved in an 
incident. She wanted advice on what to do next, but she says she made it clear that she 
didnt want to make a claim at that point.
After this, Miss R received some text messages from Admiral  to say it was dealing with her 
claim. Miss R called Admiral again  to let them know that she didnt  want to make  a claim. 
She was told on the phone that the claim had now been closed down. After this, Miss R 
received another email about the claim.
In June 2018, Admiral  sent Miss R an email confirming changes  to her policy.  And that the 
premium had decreased  but the admin charge it applied  for changing  the policy mean  that 
she owed an additional £7.51. This was because it had changed the policy to cover  her for 
commuting. Miss R wasnt happy  with this as Admiral hadnt spoken to her about this 
change.
Admiral first responded  to Miss Rs complaint about  the service  shed received. And agreed  
that some  incorrect actions had been  carried out  which had resulted in a claim being  
processed for her. It offered her £100  for the inconvenience of this  which  Miss R didnt 
accept.
Admiral then responded to Miss Rs complaint about  the change  in her policy  and the 
increase in premium  because of this. It said that when the incident happened, Miss R was 
commuting and her policy  didnt cover her for this. So it changed her policy so she would be 
covered in the event she used her car for commuting to work.  
Our investigator thought Admiral should  pay Miss R an additional £50 on top of the £100 it 
had already paid her. This is because she thought that Admiral changed the policy  without 
checking Miss R wanted the changes. 
Admiral didnt agree, nor did Miss R  so the complaint has been passed  to me to make  a 
decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Im upholding this 
complaint.
Because this complaint is about two issues, Ill cover them separately.
Ref: DRN52881832change in policy cover
When Miss R first took out the policy, she chose to be covered for Social,  Domestic and 
Pleasure only. This means Miss Rs wouldnt be covered if she was using her car to 
commute to work. When the incident  occurred, Miss R was commuting to work  she says 
this was a one off. Because of this Admiral made changes to her policy  to cover her for 
commuting purposes  too. Miss R says these changes werent discussed with her first, 
Admiral dont agree and say it was discussed during  a phone call but it doesnt have a copy  
of this call so its difficult for me to know what happened. 
Admiral should have discussed the changes to the policy with Miss R first. Its not fair for 
Admiral to make changes to a policy without getting the agreement of the policy holder to do 
this. I appreciate Admiral  say it discussed this in a call it had with Miss R, but as Admiral  
hasnt been able to give me a copy of the call recording,  I cant be certain  this happened. 
And when  we spoke  to Admiral, it said its validation team had made the decision to add 
commuting to the policy, so it doesnt seem to me that Miss R was given a choice in taking 
the extra cover. Based  on this, I think it more  likely  that Admiral added the extra cover 
without discussing this with her first. The fact that the additional cover may have benefitted 
her or cost less is irrelevant. 
The changes Admiral  made to Miss Rs policy reduced its cost, but when Admiral applied  an 
admin charge  it meant she had to pay extra  so Miss R has lost out financially  as a result  of 
the change. So Admiral  should refund the extra Miss R had to pay, which  was £7.51, 
including 8% simple interest on the amount from the date she paid the £7.51, to the date she 
gets it back. 
Admiral should also pay Miss R £50 additional compensation for the trouble and upset it 
caused by adding this additional cover to her policy  without discussing this with her first.  
customer service
I understand Miss R isnt happy that Admiral cant locate the initial  call she had. I agree this 
is unfortunate. But Admiral has agreed  with what Miss R has said about  the poor service she 
received when she reported the incident. So I need  to think  about  whether Admiral has done 
enough to put things  right for Miss R  and I think it has.
Admiral offered Miss R £100 for the inconvenience  of what had happened   and it closed the 
claim down.  I think this is a fair amount in the circumstances, especially as the claim  is now 
closed  so Im not going to tell Admiral to do anything else.
 
Ref: DRN52881833my decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  should put things right by:
Refunding Miss R £7.51extra she paid as a result of the change in the policy. It 
should also pay Miss R 8% simple interest  on this amount from the date she paid the 
charge, to the date she gets it back
Pay Miss R a total of £150 to compensate her for the trouble and upset it caused her. 
Admiral can deduct  any other  compensation payments  it has already made to her as 
a result of this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 January 2020.  
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5288183