K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc closed his bank account after it claimed, without any 
evidence, that there  was fraudulent activity  on the account, and withheld his funds.
background
Mr A said there was over £5,000 in the account  at this time and he wanted his money  
returned to him. Santander then returned  the funds and Mr A said he wanted compensation 
and interest for loss of use of the money.
Santander said it had no alternative but to suspend Mr As account whilst  awaiting proof  of 
his entitlement  to £2,200  credited to his account, which  was from a fraudulent source.  It said 
it was aware of, and was reviewing previous credits on Mr As account  and paid him £115 
compensation for his trouble. It later apologised for not completing its review sooner and 
offered him £150 and 8% interest from when he sent his evidence, to release of the funds.
Mr A said he wanted compensation of £500  and interest paid from when Santander took his 
funds as he hadnt done anything wrong.  Mr A said he cant  obtain any kind of bank account  
even though his credit score is good and Santander  should offer him his bank account back.
The investigator said Santander was entitled  to close Mr As account  immediately after fraud 
funds were received,  and didnt have to re-open  it as this is a commercial decision. However, 
as Mr A first provided proof of entitlement  to the funds in August 2017 in branch, Santander 
should increase  its compensation  to £600 and backdate  the interest to August 2017.  
Santander disagreed saying some  of Mr As evidence wasnt  legible and the documents  he 
provided later were different, and only these  were sufficient to release the funds. It said it 
shouldnt have to pay earlier  interest  and the recommended compensation was excessive. It 
said Mr A had accepted  £115, but it would  now offer further compensation of £350.
The investigator reviewed  the information  and decided that Santander  wasnt mainly at fault 
for the evidence not being decipherable as Mr A had covered some of it. And he said the 
further evidence  in February 2018  was new to Santander so it shouldnt have to backdate  
the interest before then. He said compensation of £400 instead of £150  was fair for the 
period of disruption to Mr A as this represented  about £50 per month. He said the earlier 
compensation of £115 shouldnt be increased as this had already been  accepted  by Mr A.
Mr A disagreed with the investigator saying hed made many  trips to Santanders branch to 
provide evidence and his documents were legible. He said Santander told him to fax his 
documents but only later provided  him with an email  address. Mr A said the investigator had 
taken sides with Santander and this has had a major effect  on his life and hes disgusted  by 
the way hes been treated. He said the offers of compensation  were  pitiful  and hed been 
denied the opportunity to make more money  from his funds. Mr A requested  an ombudsman 
review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN50703492Mr A is very unhappy that his account was closed, has remained closed and that he cant get 
another account. He is dissatisfied  with the amount of compensation and the date from 
which Santander has said that interest should be paid. Ive looked carefully at Santanders 
handling of Mr As account to see if it has acted in accordance  with the terms and conditions  
of the account  and to see if it has treated him fairly. 
Santander received  notification  from another  bank about funds credited to Mr As account 
and it required him to prove entitlement to the money. Santander closed Mr As account as it 
is entitled to do under the terms and conditions of the account.  Ive looked at Santanders  
actions and can see it acted in line with its procedures and its regulatory  responsibilities.  A 
bank is entitled  to end its relationship with a customer just as a customer can end their 
relationship with a bank   and our service  cannot  tell the bank  to re-open the account.
The dispute  that remains between the parties concerns the provision of evidence by Mr A to 
Santander to show his entitlement to the funds in his account. Mr A went into Santanders 
branch in July 2017 and faxed information to its fraud operations and said this was the only 
option offered  to him. Santanders records show that key parts  of the information  were 
illegible and covered up. Although Mr A provided  further information to Santander in August 
2017, including payment  slips and receipts,  these are described as being  very unclear and 
theres no indication  this was enough to prove his entitlement to the funds.
Santanders call records for July and August 2017 show  that it told him his information was 
illegible and insufficient for its needs.  Santanders  call record for 21 August 2017 shows that 
it told Mr A he could  email his information  if he preferred. From the records that Ive seen, 
the problem wasnt  just to do with the legibility of the information,  but rather  its adequacy, 
and so didnt depend solely on the reproduction  qualities  of Santanders fax machines. 
Santander said the new evidence Mr A sent in February 2018 was enough to show  his 
entitlement and it apologised  for not actioning this until later in 2018. From what Ive seen 
the evidence Mr A submitted in February 2018  was different and clearer  than what  he had 
sent before  and I think he couldve sent this in earlier.  So I think  Santander should only be 
required to pay interest  for the loss of use of the funds to Mr A, without justification, from 9 
February 2018 until 5 October 2018, when  the funds were  eventually released to Mr A.
Santander initially offered Mr A £115  compensation which Mr A accepted.  Santander 
subsequently offered  a further  £150.  The investigator said Santander should pay £400  
instead and Santander has agreed. I think that £400  compensation, above  what has been 
paid to Mr A already,  is a fair reflection  of the disruption and delay caused to Mr A from 
February to October  2018 when he was denied  access  to his funds.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld.  I require 
Santander UK Plc to pay Mr A £400 additional compensation for the delays and disruption 
he was caused.  I also require Santander  UK Plc to pay Mr A interest for the loss of use of his 
funds of £5,294.64 at the simple rate of 8% per year* from 9 February 2018 when Mr A 
submitted acceptable  evidence  of his entitlement to the funds,  until 5 October 2018 when 
Santander UK Plc made  the funds available to him.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Ref: DRN50703493Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Santander  UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
UK Plc must  give a certificate showing how much tax its taken off it if Mr A asks for one.
Ref: DRN5070349