K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  sold by 
Nationwide Building  Society. Mr T and Miss D say the commission  Nationwide got from 
selling them this policy wasnt fair and should be returned.
background
A complaint about whether this policy was actually mis-sold in the first place was made 
several years ago. That complaint was not upheld.
One of our adjudicators has now looked  into this further aspect of the case - that is, the 
commission element - and said this complaint  shouldnt be upheld  either.  It seems  Mr T has 
disagreed with this view on behalf  of himself and Miss D. So the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) introduced  some new rules a couple  of years ago 
about whether  businesses  acted  fairly  by earning  commission (or profit sharing)  from selling 
these types of policy. The new rules mean that businesses might need to give some  
consumers back some of the commission they paid on certain  PPI policies.  
But as our adjudicator  previously explained,  this only applies to certain credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007,  or agreements  taken out before then which  were  still 
running on 6 April 2008. From the information  Ive seen,  I agree with our adjudicator that the 
mortgage Mr T and Miss D had doesnt  fit into these dates.  
So the FCA rules dont affect their case.  Nationwide  therefore doesnt have to refund  any of 
the commission Mr T and Miss D may have paid to it on their PPI policy.  
Im sorry  to disappoint them but they arent due any money back  for the commission element 
of their PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont  direct  Nationwide  
Building Society to do anything more to put matters right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T and Miss D 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5907528