K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr M bought  the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a credit card. He applied  for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  through the post.
At the time,  Mr M was employed as a building maintenance officer.  He has told us he was 
entitled to six months full sick pay and 12 months  redundancy pay, but he didnt have any 
other means  of repaying his credit  card  such as savings - should he be unable  to work. 
Mr M has said he had a medical condition some  time before the sale. Ill come  back  to this 
later on.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr Ms credit  card balance in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 78p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
The premium would  continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract  
interest. 
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account closed in 2006.
Mr Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ms representative  says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr M about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr M and the impact 
they would  have had on his chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Mr M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Ref: DRN52020462Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr M disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN52020463Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take these codes  into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ms 
case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
BoS was required  to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Ms complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Mr M sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information  to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr M and BoS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr M know he had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ref: DRN52020464BoS has provided a copy of Mr Ms credit card application. Looking at this I can see there  is 
a separate section for PPI headed Credit Card Repayments Cover which  after an outline  of 
the nature  of the cover asked the applicant to sign a box if they wanted PPI. And Mr M has 
signed the box. If Mr M didnt want PPI he couldve left this section blank and only signed  the 
credit agreement itself. 
This was a sale by post where  Mr M completed the form in his own time without any 
interaction from a member of BoS staff - so taking everything into account, I think  its more 
likely that Mr M knew the policy was optional and he agreed  to take it out without undue  
pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
BoS says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mr M says he cant remember whether he 
received advice. But on the basis that this was a postal sale without  any interaction with 
BoS, Im satisfied BoS did not provide advice to Mr M.
This means  BoS didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr M. Instead, it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable Mr M to make an informed choice  
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
BoS has provided us with Mr Ms application  form  showing that PPI had been selected. It 
has also referred us to a copy  of the paperwork it says he wouldve received,  including the 
policy terms and conditions  which I accept on a balance of probabilities  applied  to 
policies like Mr Ms. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr M at the time, I dont think  BoS gave Mr M the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. I can see the application form provided a brief description of the 
PPI policy  i.e. that it would protect  Mr Ms payments in the event he couldnt work because of 
unemployment, accident and sickness for more than 30 days. It also informed Mr M that the 
policy would pay out 10% of the outstanding balance and that it would do so for up to 12 
months.
The information provided would have given Mr M a broad sense of what  the policy covered. 
But it was BoS responsibility  to draw to Mr Ms attention the important  information   i.e. the 
key information  about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and limitations  
which might  be relevant to his decision.  
Im not persuaded BoS did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost of the 
policy was made clear to Mr M, including the need to maintain premiums during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest.  In addition, I cant see that BoS adequately drew to 
his attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN52020465So I dont  think BoS gave Mr M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing his 
attention to and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points with regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  
in PPI sales. It suggests these points  apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ms. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mr M? To what extent  did Mr M suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr M. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr M suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr M would  have still 
taken out the policy,  had BoS done things  properly. 
Mr M says he wouldnt have  taken it out and believes  that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr M had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr M chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr M thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr M has suffered any loss or detriment. 
Ref: DRN52020466In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr M ought  reasonably to have known he would  have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover 10% of his outstanding balance   this was 
set out on the application  form. But, I accept that BoS didnt make clear  the on-going cost 
information. So while Mr M didnt  know some things, the ultimate position in the event of a 
successful claim  was not dissimilar to what he would reasonably have thought from the 
information he based his decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr M thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr M had suffered 
from, had diagnosed or seen a doctor about  during  the 12 months  before  the start 
date and which recurred within 12 months of the start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr  M be wholly  
unable to do his own job, or other work  which his experience, education or training 
would allow him to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr M pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude that the policy  
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr M from taking  out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  useful  to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr M has referred to a medical  
condition he had before  he took out the PPI, I dont think  better information about  this 
exclusion would have  put him off agreeing to it.
I say this because  what Mr M has told us about  is an operation and not in and of itself a 
medical condition.  But notwithstanding this, what Mr M has described took place over 20 
years prior to the sale and Mr H has not said anything which  leads me to believe that his 
condition was ongoing such that he experienced symptoms or sought advice or treatment 
from a doctor during  the 12 months before he took out the policy.  Because of this and as Ive 
not seen any evidence to suggest he wouldve been caught by any of the other significant 
exclusions, I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr M might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr M 
from taking out the policy,  Mr M, in his circumstances, still had some good reasons  to take it 
out.
Ref: DRN52020467If Mr M had known  he could only claim for disability  if he was wholly unable to do his job and 
other work, which in the insurers view his education  and training would allow him to do, it 
might have played into his thinking  about what he would do. And I accept it may have given 
him pause for thought.  But given  Mr Ms circumstances, on balance, I still think he would 
have been interested in taking out the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr M would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently close to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding his employment  benefits. The policy had the potential to clear  
Mr Ms outstanding credit  card balance in full and it wouldve  paid out for longer than his sick 
pay would  have lasted.  And in those  circumstances I consider it more likely  than not that he 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event.  
Mr Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr M would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr M 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr M in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
Ref: DRN52020468That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr M compensation,  as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr M thinks  BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of BoS 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to act fairly  
and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided  
but because the overall  information BoS gave Mr M, in the way it did, was insufficient  to 
meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in [date] when 
providing information about an insurance  policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ms representative says a court might take if it were 
to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr M and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr M in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 January 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5202046