K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that Chubb European  Group SE rejected  her purchase protection insurance  
policy claim. My references to Chubb  include its agents.
background
Ms F has purchase  protection insurance as a benefit of having  a credit card. Chubb is the 
insurer.
Ms F bought some items at an airport on her credit card. She told Chubb that she and her 
husband then took a flight to Europe and had the items on the plane but when she arrived  at 
the accommodation she realised she no longer had the bag with the items. She thought  the 
bag went missing between getting  off the plane and getting into the transport to the 
accommodation.
Ms F emailed the airport and was told the items  hadnt been found. Ms F said on her claim 
form that as the bag hadnt been handed in she could only assume it had been stolen at 
some point.
Chubb declined  the claim. The policy gave cover if the items were stolen or damaged within  
90 days of purchase.  Chubb said there  was no evidence  the items  were stolen. From what  
Ms F said in the claim form the items were lost and she was unsure how that happened. 
Chubb also said the items were left unattended in a public place and out of Ms Fs reach  so 
were excluded from cover for theft. Also she hadnt reported a theft to the police  within 48 
hours of discovery  or had a written report as required by the policy.
Ms F complained to us. She said the items hadnt  been left unattended and the airport  told 
her the items hadnt been handed in so they must have been stolen. She also said she didnt 
know she had to contact  the police and she couldnt  get an internet connection to check the 
policy terms. She wants Chubb to pay for the claim. Alternatively she wants the credit card 
supplier to refund the cost of the credit card and/or pay for the items as it had mis-led her 
about what the policy covered.
Our investigator thought Chubb  had fairly  declined the claim. If Ms F wanted  us to consider 
her concerns  about the sale of the credit card and policy by the credit  card supplier Ms F 
would need to make a separate  complaint   
Ms F wants an ombudsmans decision.  She thought the policy was unfair and Chubb should 
pay her claim. She asked how many similar claims  Chubb  paid.
Chubb told us its statistics on claim results were  commercially sensitive, but it applied the 
same principles to any claim of this nature.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision  is just about whether Chubb fairly and reasonably declined the claim. Our 
investigator correctly explained  that Ms F will to make a separate  complaint about the issues  
she raised about the mis-sale of the policy and credit card by the credit card business.
Ref: DRN50255392I dont uphold the complaint against  Chubb.  Ill explain  why.
The policy is very clear that it will cover an item bought on the relevant card that is stolen or 
damaged within 90 days of purchase. There is no cover for lost items. 
From what  Ms F told Chubb  and us there is no evidence  that the items were  stolen.  Ms F 
discovered she didnt  have the bag containing the items when she got to the accommodation 
but that doesnt mean the items had been  stolen from her.
Ms F says she didnt leave the bag of items unattended and shes given no explanation of 
how the items were  stolen.
From what  Ms F told Chubb  I think it can reasonably  understand that she lost the bag of 
items, which isnt covered  by the policy. 
Ms F says as the items werent found at the airport they must have been stolen. But if the 
items were stolen after having been  lost or left somewhere  there is no cover under the 
policy. 
The policy excludes  theft claims for items  left unattended in a public place or where they are 
left out of Ms Fs reach, as would be the case if the lost items were then stolen.
Another reason  Chubb rejected the claim was because the theft wasnt reported to the police  
within 48 hours. The need to report a theft of items is common for policies that provide cover  
for theft.  Ms F says she had limited  internet and phone access but she was able to contact 
the airport and it would  have been reasonable for her to contact Chubb to see if there were 
any steps she needed to take if she thought  the items had been stolen.
However, even if there had been  a police  report unless there was some  detailed evidence of 
how the theft occurred,  which fell within the policy cover, Chubb could still have declined  the 
claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5025539