K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint  arises from a central  heating insurance policy with
British Gas Insurance Limited.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in May 2020, part of which  is copied below: 
Mr and Mrs D have  held a policy with British Gas for some years. In October 2018, their
boiler broke  down and they called British  Gas out. British Gass engineer said the heat
exchanger was leaking and there was also damage  to the printed circuit board (PCB). He
said the boiler couldnt be repaired and issued a warning sticker. The engineer  said the
problems were due to the quality of the water in the central heating  system. Mr and Mrs D
say he didnt do any tests  on the water, just looked  at it. They  say the appointment only
took 25 minutes and he didnt  remove  or test any part of the boiler.
British Gas said the repairs would not be covered  under the policy  because  it excludes  cover
for repairs to damage caused by sludge, where British Gas has previously advised that a
power flush is required. It says that it has advised  Mr and Mrs D about  the water  quality
in the system on a number of occasions  dating back to January 2015. Under the terms of the
policy, it will clear  the first blockage caused by sludge  or scale and then provide advice on
how best to improve  the system [i.e. by having a power flush done]. British Gas says this 
was done in January 2015  when it cleared  a blockage at the expansion hose and it had to 
return and clear another blockage from the expansion hose in March  2018. British Gas says 
it advised Mr and Mrs D a number  of times about  the poor water quality in their heating 
system and that it would no longer  cover  any water carrying parts, as the water quality is 
having a detrimental effect  on these parts.
Mr and Mrs D say they were never  told that they needed a power flush. They  had the boiler
replaced but when  their engineer was fitting it he told them  the boiler could have been
repaired. They say they had no choice  but to have  the boiler replaced, given what
British Gas had told them and so they want compensation for the cost of this (approximately
£1,500), as it was a negligent  misstatement  by the engineer.
British Gas maintained  its position and says it is entitled to refuse cover  for this claim, which
was caused by the build-up of sludge.  In addition, it says that if their engineer  had advised
the boiler was repairable,  then they had a choice to have it repaired or replaced.  It says it
would have some  concern  that any gas engineer would fit a new boiler and then provide a
customer with information confirming that the replacement boiler was not required at all.
British Gas has also provided a copy of an online review of its service  posted by
Mr and Mrs D which it says confirms they [knew they] needed to have  a power  flush  carried 
out.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. The investigator did not recommend that
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint  be upheld, as he thought British Gass records  indicated that they
had been told previously that a power  flush was required.
Mr and Mrs D do not accept the investigators assessment. They have made  a number of
submissions, which Ive summarised  below:
 They were never advised  to have a power  flush carried out. If they had been and
Ref: DRN56361912knew they were not covered, why would  they have carried on paying  over £50 per
month for a policy that would not cover them.
 The heat exchanger wasnt sludged and wasnt leaking. The British Gas engineer
diagnosed this as a leak from the heat exchanger without removing it and examining
it properly. It was impossible to diagnose  this properly  with it in situ. He took the
cover off the boiler,  shone a torch into it and then drained down the boiler and put the
cover back  on.
 It was British  Gass engineer that said they could replace the heat exchanger  for
£400 after they asked if there was anything he could do given they had been  paying
for cover. When they declined, he proceeded to shut down the boiler  and said
British Gas would contact them with a price  for a new boiler.
 They were left with no heating and hot water, with the temperature below freezing 
at times. They have three children and this caused significant inconvenience.
 When  their engineer removed  the boiler, he said the leak was caused by the
deterioration of a washer, which had caused a small  leak.
 They asked British  Gas to communicate with them in writing but it called them  on 
the phone  and a service  manager also called at their home unannounced while  they
were out.
 The investigator said that British Gass  files record that it cleared a blockage  in
January 2015;  in 2018 issues relating to the PCB and heat exchanger  were  dealt
with; and the engineer has noted  on the visit in June 2018 a "history of sludge related
faults". However, they obtained  their files from British Gas under a subject  access
request and there is no mention of sludge related issues  in the notes  from June 2018
or elsewhere  in the files, or any of the job sheets left with them  by engineers.
 The investigator made reference to British Gas advising upgrade work. They had
changed their radiators and added inhibitor, which was the upgrade work suggested
but there was no reference to a power flush.
 They did leave an online review following refusal of their claim. British Gas asked 
the review site to remove their review on the basis  it could not identify us them  as
customers when clearly  it could.
 In the review  they refer to a flush,  this doesnt mean they were told to do a
powerflush. They [were referring to having]  flushed  out the magnafilter.
 If British Gas says it could no long cover  water carrying parts since 2015, why did it
continue to take their premiums for another four years?
Mr and Mrs D want compensation  for the time they had to spend sorting out the claim and
the new boiler; getting temporary heaters; and dealing with the complaint;  as well as a
refund of premiums paid plus interest; and compensation for the distress caused to them
being without  a working boiler in freezing temperatures.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am considering
departing from the conclusions  reached by the investigator and will explain my reasons
below.
Home emergency insurance policies such as this do not provide cover  for every eventuality
and are not intended to operate as maintenance contracts. As such, the level of cover
provided is limited by the terms,  conditions and exclusions set out in the policy.  In particular,
Ref: DRN56361913Mr and Mrs Ds policy excludes: Removing sludge or hard-water scale from your system or
appliance".
As such,  if a policyholders central  heating system requires a power flush, magna clean or
similar  procedure,  British Gas would not cover the cost of this. The policy goes further  and
also excludes:
Repairing damage  caused by scale, sludge  or other debris  if we have told you on a previous
visit that permanent  repairs,  improvements  or a power flush  (or a similar cleaning procedure)
are needed  to help ensure your appliance/system works properly".
If British Gas is seeking to rely on the above exclusion for any damage caused by sludge,
then it is required to establish, on the balance  of probabilities, that the exclusion applies. In
this case therefore  it has to establish  that Mr and Mrs D were told previously that they
needed to have a power  flush done and that the damage to the heat exchanger was caused
by sludge (which would otherwise have been removed by the power flush).  We would also
expect that when giving any such advice to have repairs, improvements or a power  flush
done, British Gas would make  clear the consequences of not doing so. This means  it would
have to make clear to a policyholder that their cover  is likely to be significantly reduced if
such work is not done.
British Gas says Mr and Mrs D were told on many occasions since 2015 that a power flush
procedure was necessary. It also seems  to imply that the heat exchanger was damaged by
sludge. However, despite requests from the investigator it has not provided any
contemporaneous notes or records  of any such advice.  In addition, I have not seen any
evidence of the water quality, such as confirmation of visual tests or sample analysis. Ive
also not seen  any convincing evidence that the heat exchanger  was damaged  by sludge and
that this would have been prevented by a power flush.
The only evidence provided  from British Gass engineer is the following system entry: claim
rejected. Heat exchanger  and pcb req. Multiple advise given on system quality".
Theres also no explanation as to how a PCB can be damaged  by sludge, as it is not a water
carrying part of the boiler.
Mr and Mrs D say this [previous diagnosis of poor water quality and sludge in the system]  
was not communicated to them, in support of this, Mr and Mrs D have provided job sheets 
from the attendances in March and June 2018,  which do not mention  a power flush or any 
other remedial work. There  is a box for any comments  the engineer has which is crossed  
through on one of the job sheets and left empty on the other.
Based on the content of the job sheets provided  by Mr and Mrs D, I am not satisfied that
British Gas informed  them that the system  needed  to be power flushed.
Against this, there  is an online  review in which Mr and Mrs D refer to having been told they
needed a flush: our last breakdown  was filters  and advised a flush  would be needed. They
have said that theyd been  advised  the filter of the magna clean needed  flushing,  which
would have been expensive but they did it themselves. However,  later in the same message
they do refer to a system flush which does suggest  it was more than just the magna  filter.
It is therefore possible they were previously  advised  to have a power flush, even  though it
was not recorded on the job checklists. However,  even if they were there is still not enough
evidence that a power flush  was needed; that the lack of a power flush  caused the
Ref: DRN56361914breakdown in October 2018 or more importantly that they were also told in clear and
unambiguous terms that future cover under the policy would be significantly reduced, if they
didnt have it carried out. There is no such record and I would expect any such information to
be conveyed to the policyholder in writing.
Given this it seems to me that British Gas has not established that the exclusion fairly
applies. Therefore,  I consider British Gas did not act fairly or reasonably by not repairing the
boiler and instead apparently seeking to charge them privately  for this work. This was, in my
view, work  which  ought reasonably to have  been  carried out under the terms and conditions
of Mr and Mrs Ds insurance  policy.
Turning to the remedy which I consider appropriate in the circumstances, I understand
Mr and Mrs D opted to have the boiler replaced.  They say this was largely because
British Gass engineer  had condemned the boiler.  I can understand why they might  have
decided that it was more economical in the long run to replace the boiler,  rather  than have it
repaired. However, that doesnt mean British Gas should reimburse  this cost.
Instead, I consider  the fair and reasonable outcome in this case  would be for British Gas to
pay what it would have  paid to replace the heat exchanger;  the work which it ought to have
carried out under the terms and conditions of the policy. Mr and Mrs D were apparently told
this would cost £400. Theres no documentary evidence of this in the papers provided to me.
I also note that British Gas said the PCB also needed replacing. However, this is not an
exact science.  There  is a lack of evidence around this, so I can only determine what I
consider to be fair and reasonable based  on the evidence available. Unless any further
evidence is provided,  I consider British Gas should  pay the sum of £400, in lieu of the repairs
that it should have carried out.
There were other consequences of British Gas failing to respond to Mr and Mrs Ds
insurance claim properly. As a result of its refusal to repair the boiler,  they had additional
appointments to accommodate  and were without heating and hot water for longer than would
otherwise have been the case.  This occurred during a particularly cold period and I
understand that Mr and Mrs D have  three  young  children  who were also affected, I have no
doubt that this would have  caused  distress  and inconvenience, I therefore consider that an
additional payment of compensation is warranted.
It seems  to me that the sum of £350 would be appropriate taking into consideration all the
circumstances of this case.  This is in line with other awards of compensation made  for
similar cases
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I am minded to uphold this complaint and recommend that
British Gas Insurance Limited do the following;
 pay Mr and Mrs D £400 together with interest at 8% simple per annum from the
date of the original  claim to the date of reimbursement; and.
 pay Mr and Mrs D £350 compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused
by its handling  of the claim.
Ref: DRN56361915responses to my provisional  decision  
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
evidence they want considered. 
British Gas doesnt accept my provisional decision. It has asked me to consider the 
following:
 Mr and Mrs D had replaced  the boiler  before  it could verify what their engineer  said.  
 Its engineer said the heat exchanger  had burst  and was leaking onto the PCB.
 Its records show it has been advising Mr and Mrs D about water  related issues  for a 
number of months previously.
 If Mr and Mrs D had taken the advice given and a filter had been fitted then there  is 
a possibility that the heat exchanger would not have leaked. 
Mr and Mrs D have confirmed that they accept my provisional decision and have nothing  
more to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas has said again that it had advised Mr and Mrs D for some  time before this claim, 
that they needed to have a power  flush carried out. It has not provided any further evidence 
to show how and when  this advice was given.  Although its internal work  record  contains 
some reference to this. There is still no contemporaneous, convincing evidence  that Mr and 
Mrs D were given  such  advice;  or that if they were  given this advice, they were also told in 
clear and unambiguous  terms  that future  cover  under the policy  would be significantly 
reduced, if they didnt have a power flush carried out. There  is also still no convincing  
evidence that a power flush  was needed; that the lack of a power flush  caused the
breakdown in October 2018.
Given this, I remain of the opinion that British Gas has not established  the exclusions it relied 
on applied. Neither  party has provided any comments regarding the cash  in lieu settlement 
that I proposed in my provisional decision, so I also remain  of the opinion that British Gas 
should pay £400 in lieu of the repairs it should have  carried out; and £350 compensation for 
the trouble its wrongful refusal  of the claim caused.  
Ref: DRN56361916my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require British Gas Insurance Limited to do the following:
pay Mr and Mrs D £400 together with interest  at 8% simple per annum from the
date of the original  claim to the date of payment; and
pay Mr and Mrs D £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
by its handling  of the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to
accept or reject my decision  before  22 July 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5636191