K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001 with a re-mortgage. Mrs G says Bank  of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her 
the PPI.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not entirely clear  how the policy was sold. Ive seen the mortgage  application and PPI 
wasnt added at that point. It seems  that PPI was set up approximately  two months after the 
mortgage started.  Ive considered that during the sale Halifax made  a recommendation to 
take PPI as this places  more responsibility  on them.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she may not remember  this.
I say this for a number  of reasons including:
The re-mortgage application states  As a responsible lender we prefer to contact all 
of our customers to ensure that they have adequate protection in place.  Ive also 
seen a summary of the mortgage application   an internal screen  shot of Halifaxs 
systems, and it indicates that PPI wasnt added during  the application.
So, it seems  reasonable  to assume that the re-mortgage was arranged without PPI 
and there  was some form of contact afterwards between Halifax  and Mrs G.. 
Another internal  screenshot shot that the PPI start date was recorded as                  
18 December 2001, approximately two months after Mrs G had arranged  the re-
mortgage. 
I dont know how the PPI was presented to Mrs G at this time and I havent seen her 
consent to taking PPI. 
But, on balance I think its more likely than not the PPI was presented  as optional, 
separate to and not a condition of the re mortgage as the mortgage was already 
arranged and had been in place  for approximately two months  before the PPI was 
taken out.
Ive also noted  that Mrs G hasnt raised a specific consent or optionality  argument as part 
of her complaint. Although  Mrs G has said that she wasnt  advised that she could buy a 
PPI policy  with another business, Halifax werent obliged  to tell her about other policies 
sold by other  businesses. As Mrs G paid for this PPI policy  by a monthly premium, she 
could cancel it at any time without  losing out and take a PPI policy  with a different 
business if she wanted to. 
Ref: DRN57858932Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs G so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was.
Ive carefully considered  Mrs Gs points  about  not needing PPI. In particular shes said 
that she was entitled  to six months full sick pay, followed by 12 months half pay if she 
was unwell and unable to work. But this policy could have paid out for up to 24 months  
for a claim. So I still think that Mrs G could have found the PPI useful. It also would have  
paid out in addition to Mrs Gs sick pay.
It also seems  that she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs G has said, including  what  shes  said about being  able to 
rely on her partners income  to make her repayments. But although Mrs Gs partner may 
have wanted to help, he may not have  been in a positon to help when needed as 
circumstances can change. So these points dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs G paid for it. But Halifax  has already  offered to give Mrs G back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs G now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5785893