K822xcomplaint
Mr B is unhappy with how Vitality Health  Limited  (Vitality) dealt with a claim he made  under  a 
health insurance policy provided  by his employer.  
All references to Vitality  include its claims handlers.  
background 
Mr B had a problem with an impacted wisdom tooth  which he made a claim to Vitality about. 
It initially turned this down  and Mr B complained to us. Early last year another  ombudsman  
reached a final decision  and said the claim should  be accepted in line with the terms and 
conditions of his policy. 
At the end of February  last year Vitality suggested  two consultants to Mr B who could carry 
out the procedure. He looked at their qualifications and experience and let it know his 
choice. Vitality then said the hospitals  that consultant operated from werent  covered by his 
policy. So if he wanted to go ahead with this hed need to pay some of the cost himself. It 
acknowledged he shouldnt  have been  offered that consultant and said it would look into 
whether he could carry out the surgery at a hospital  his plan did cover. 
Vitality was told by the consultants office  that, although consultations would need to take 
place elsewhere,  surgery could be carried out at a hospital covered by Mr Bs plan.  That was 
acceptable to Mr B and he had two consultations  with the consultant in April and May with 
surgery then arranged  for June. 
However, when Mr B sought  authorisation for that Vitality was told by the consultants office 
that, although he did carry out surgical work at the agreed hospital, he didnt carry out dental 
surgery there. Vitality told Mr B that hed need  to make a co-payment (of 40% of the cost) to 
have the treatment at a hospital his plan didnt  cover. Or he could  have the surgery  carried  
out by the other consultant it had originally offered. Mr B said he had confidence  in the 
consultant hed chosen who hed now seen twice. So he wanted him to carry out the 
operation and thought Vitality should  agree  to cover the full cost of this. 
Our investigator noted that Mr Bs policy only covered treatment costs  in full for hospitals  on 
its chosen list. And for other  hospitals the policyholder  would need  to pay 40% of the cost.  
So she thought that Vitality had acted in line with the policy  terms. And she noted  the 
position on possible co-payment had been  explained to Mr B at the start of March. 
She also thought  Vitality  had provided  a reasonable alternative which  would mean his 
treatment could be covered in full. So while she accepted Vitality  had provided some 
inaccurate information to Mr B she didnt agree it should cover  the full cost of his treatment 
at a non list hospital. However,  she recognised hed been inconvenienced by what  
happened and recommended Vitality  pay £100 to recognise the impact  of this. 
Vitality accepted this but Mr B didnt agree. He said while the position was explained  in the 
March phone call that wasnt made  clear  subsequently which led him to believe treatment 
with the consultant of his choice would be covered. Mr B also said if Vitality and its claims 
handlers were to donate £1000 each to charity hed consider that a resolution to his 
complaint (and would make a charitable  contribution himself).  Vitality didnt agree to that. So 
I need to reach a final decision. 
Ref: DRN54246102my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr Bs policy say:
If you have  one of our hospital list options,  you should only go to a hospital on your chosen 
list, as youre only covered in full for treatment at those hospitals. If you go to a hospital 
thats not on your list, then youll have to pay 40% of the costs  of your treatment (excluding 
your consultants' fees).
Mr Bs certificate of insurance says hes covered by the Countrywide hospital  list plan. And I 
understand the hospitals where  Mr B could have surgery with his chosen consultant  arent 
on the chosen list. So I think Vitality are right to say that under the terms of his policy  thats 
something hed need  to make a co-payment  for.  
Ive gone on to think about  whether its fair to apply that term given  whats happened in this 
case. Its not in dispute Vitality wrongly offered Mr B a consultant it shouldnt have. But the 
position was clarified within a few days.  And during that call it was explained to him that if he 
wanted to have treatment with that consultant hed need to contribute to this. However, after 
that call, and in an attempt to resolve the issues hed raised, Vitality told Mr B it was looking 
into whether the consultant could carry out the surgery at a hospital on its chosen  list. 
Vitality asked the consultants office whether surgery could be carried  out at one of those 
hospitals and was told it could but consultations  would need  to take place elsewhere. That 
was agreed and matters  progressed  on that basis. Unfortunately it only became apparent 
when Mr B subsequently  sought authorisation for his surgery  that while  the consultant did 
carry out surgery at an approved  hospital he didnt do dental work there. 
I appreciate that was extremely frustrating for Mr B but it does appear this was at least  in 
part because of confusion  caused by the consultants  office.  Vitality  asked  whether  the 
consultant could see a patient  at the hospital on the chosen list and after some discussion 
over whether  this would be for consultation, tests or surgery the consultants office said they 
can have the surgery there.  I appreciate  Vitality could have made it clearer  when asking 
questions exactly what surgery was required for Mr B but in the circumstances I dont think  it 
would be fair to hold it wholly responsible for the confusion over this issue. 
I also note that at the point Vitality realised Mr Bs surgery  couldnt take place at the hospital 
as scheduled  there  were  still four weeks before this was due to take place. So while  I 
appreciate Mr B would  have preferred  to continue with the consultant of his choice,  if hed 
wanted the surgery to be carried out at that point it could  still have  been  done to the same 
timescale at an approved  hospital (albeit by a different consultant). 
Im also mindful of the fact that the surgery was required as a preventative  measure and I 
understand the tooth wasnt causing  Mr B any pain or other  issues at that time. So there  
wasnt a medical need  for urgent action to be taken to resolve an acute problem. Given  that I 
dont think it would be fair to ask Vitality to pay for the full cost of Mr Bs surgery  at a hospital 
not on its chosen list. 
Ref: DRN54246103However, I do appreciate  it initially provided  him with inaccurate information  about the 
consultant who could carry out the procedure. I dont think the consultations Mr B then had 
with that consultant were in themselves wasted because they would  have needed to take 
place in any event  and those records would then have  been available  to whichever 
consultant performed the surgery. But I accept Vitality had at least a part to play in leading 
him to think  that his preferred consultant  would be able to carry out the surgery when  that 
wasnt the case.
I know Mr B would like Vitality to make a substantial contribution to charity as a resolution to 
the complaint.  But in looking at a complaint where  a business got something wrong my role 
is to try and put a consumer back in the position they would have  been  but for that failing. I 
dont think the remedy Mr B has suggested would achieve that and so I dont think  it would 
be appropriate for me to require Vitality to do that. Looking at whats  happened here and the 
impact on Mr B of this I think the £100 our investigator recommended is fair. 
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. To put things right Vitality Health Limited will 
need to pay Mr B £100. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5424610