K822xComplaint 
This complaint is about the suitability  of the investment  advice given to Mr F by Old Park 
Capital Limited (OPC)  which has led to a significant reduction in the value of his retirement 
savings.
Background
Mr F was introduced to OPC by a representative  of a business Ill refer to as J in April 2013 
so he could take a more  active approach to his retirement savings.
OPC met with Mr F on two occasions  before investing the bulk of his pension savings into an 
investment strategy  that utilised foreign exchange,  contracts for difference trades  and 
investments into unlisted and overseas  shares.  The investments were held via a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP) with J. By December  2016 the value  of the SIPP  had 
fallen significantly.  
Mr F raised  a complaint with J and OPC. J confirmed that they had only introduced  him to 
OPC and that they had no responsibility for the investment decisions that had led to a fall in 
his investment. This was the subject of a separate complaint with our service.
OPC said it didnt have a complaint to answer as Mr F had been classified as an elective  
professional client (EPC) in May 2013. It said Mr F understood the risks associated  with 
the investments  and consented to each  of them, knowing he wouldnt have recourse if he 
lost money. It provided documents  signed by Mr F confirming he should be treated as an 
EPC and that he understood the protections he was giving up.
An adjudicator ultimately upheld  the complaint. He didnt think  Mr F met the definition  of an 
EPC based on his employment history  and limited experience of buying  and selling FTSE 
100 shares. He thought it wouldve been clear  to OPC that Mr F didnt have the necessary  
investment experience required  to be classified as an EPC if it had carried out an 
appropriate assessment  of Mr Fs expertise, experience and knowledge. The investigator 
also didnt believe that the documentation  provided  had been  fully completed by Mr F prior to 
his investment in the strategies used by OPC.
OPC didnt  agree with the view and maintained it was reasonable for it to classify Mr F as an 
EPC under the regulators Conduct  of Business rules (COBS). It added  that it didnt believe 
Mr F was an eligible complainant under our rules.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  was passed to me to make  a final 
decision on the matter.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
OPC has stated that Mr F cannot be considered an eligible complainant  if he is an EPC,  so 
we dont have  jurisdiction to consider the complaint.  I think its first appropriate  to consider 
whether OPC properly  classified Mr F as an EPC before I consider any jurisdiction issues 
OPC has raised.
Ref: DRN53203652was Mr F an EPC? 
COBS 3.5.3 says: 
A firm may treat a client as an elective  professional  client if it complies with (1) and (3) and, 
where applicable, (2):
1.the firm undertakes an adequate assessment of the expertise, experience  and 
knowledge of the client that gives reasonable assurance, in light of the nature of the 
transactions or services envisaged, that the client is capable  of making  his own 
investment decisions  and understanding the risks involved (the "qualitative test").
2.in relation to MiFID or equivalent third country  business in the course of that 
assessment, at least two of the following criteria are satisfied:
a)the client has carried out transactions, in significant size, on the relevant 
market at an average frequency of 10 per quarter over the previous four 
quarters;
b)the size of the clients financial instrument  portfolio, defined as including  cash  
deposits and financial instruments, exceeds  EUR  500,000;
c)the client works or has worked in the financial sector for at least  one year in a 
professional position,  which requires knowledge of the transactions  or 
services envisaged;  (the "quantitative  test"); and
3.the following  procedure is followed:
a)the client must state in writing to the firm that it wishes to be treated as a 
professional client  either generally or in respect  of a particular service or 
transaction or type of transaction or product;
b)the firm must give the client  a clear written warning of the protections and 
investor compensation rights  the client  may lose; and
c)the client must state in writing, in a separate document from the contract, that it is 
aware of the consequences of losing such protections .
Ive considered whether OPC met the above  requirements when it classified  Mr F as an EPC 
in May 2013.
Before Mr F met with OPC he had been  advised to open a SIPP with J. Js adviser had 
carried out a fact-find  in order to understand Mr Fs needs and investment experience and 
he carried out an assessment of Mr Fs attitude  to risk. Although  this assessment was made 
over 2011  and 2012, with the recommendation having been made in July 2012, I still think  
this information  is relevant  when determining whether it was reasonable for OPC to classify  
Mr F as an EPC.
The fact-find, which covers Mr Fs circumstances  in November 2011, showed he wasnt 
working as he was in the process of forming a new company. He was living off some  
savings, around £36,000  held in his daughters name, which  he thought would last him for a 
year. He had recently sold a commercial property,  the proceeds  of which  were  held in a 
small self-administered scheme  (SSAS).  The total value of the assets held within  the SSAS 
was around £400,000. The fact-find showed  that Mr F held some  stocks and shares in a 
trading account  with a business  Ill refer to as B  the value of the stocks and shares was 
given as £35,000. But there  arent any notes to say how frequently  Mr F traded  or the value 
Ref: DRN53203653of the trades he made. It also notes that Mr F had funds of around £400,000 invested in his 
daughters name. The fact-find noted Mr Fs intention  to transfer the value of the SSAS to a 
SIPP so he could self-trade using a trading account and appointed stockbrokers.
In the suitability letter of 25 July 2012 Js adviser recommended  he open a SIPP  with J. The 
letter repeats a lot of the information  gathered  in the fact find, saying  Mr F had £400,000 of 
his own money in his daughters name invested in stocks and shares  in the trading account  
with B. However, Mr F has advised  that the account with B only ever held around  £50,000  
which was his daughters money  that he traded on her behalf. He said he was trying to grow  
the value of it whilst she was living abroad. Mr F denies having any savings held in his 
daughters name  he says the reference  to £400,000 is a mistake.
It isnt clear whether  these  documents were passed  on to OPC. But Js adviser made the 
introduction to OPC and was involved in the initial conversation Mr F had with OPC,  so OPC 
had access to this information if required.  The rules Ive set out above required OPC  to make 
an assessment of the expertise, experience and knowledge of Mr F  it couldnt simply rely 
on an assessment made by another firm. But, had it seen  the documents completed by J, 
I think it would have  highlighted the need for an assessment to be made, as per OPCs 
regulatory obligations.
OPC has provided the information it gathered about Mr F at the time, but this is limited.
OPC has provided a file note dated 17 April 2013  entitled OPC Assessment of Client 
Attitude to Risk. It refers  to the first meeting  OPC  had with Mr F on 23 March 2013. While 
this note appears to relate to the provision of advice rather than the EPC classification,  Ive 
taken it into account.  The note contains  the following statements:
The Client wants his portfolio to be managed in an adventurous manner with non-
standard exposures.
The Client has represented  that he is a big risk taker and does not mind  
concentration on big positions.
The Client does not put any restriction on the type of instruments that OPC  may be 
considering for allocation to his portfolio.
The Client has represented  that he has a significant experience  in trading a variety  of 
financial instruments including more than 5 years  of online trading experience.  He 
clearly displays a lot of knowledge with complex trading products and strategies and I 
feel he is capable of making his own investment decisions and understands the risks 
involved. He is comfortable with UK and international investments.
A form,  entitled Assessment of Financial Experience includes a table setting out different 
financial instruments and asked Mr F to set out his trading experience in these instruments. 
The form shows that for Equities, Foreign Exchange and CFDs, Mr F had carried  out more 
than 50 trades over the previous  12 months.  Although this form is signed  and dated 
8 May 2013,  Mr F denies that he completed the form in that way as this wasnt  at all an 
accurate reflection of his trading experience.
Mr F has provided  further information about  the trading account  he operated on behalf of his 
daughter and the frequency  of the trades.  This has been shared with OPC for its comments, 
but none have been forthcoming. The evidence provided by Mr F shows  that his experience 
of trading over the 12 months  prior to meeting  with OPC was limited  to 20 trades in total,  the 
largest of which  had a value  of around  £10,000. The trading was limited to listed companies  
Ref: DRN53203654and the balance of the account was under £50,000.  Mr F says he had no experience of 
trading foreign exchange or CFDs whatsoever and wouldnt have said that he did.
Im persuaded by what Mr F has told us here because  it is consistent with the information he 
provided to J about having some experience in trading stocks and shares.  So, Im unsure 
why Mr F has signed a form to say that his experience  exceeded this. Its possible that Mr F 
signed the form before it had been completed, with the information being added  by OPC 
afterwards. But I havent seen enough  evidence to say what  happened here either way.
Regardless of this, based on the evidence Ive seen  Im not persuaded that OPC  did enough 
here to comply with the qualitative test, that is to make an assessment of the expertise, 
experience and knowledge  of Mr F. The file note of 17 April 2013 states that Mr F 
represented he had significant  experience in trading  a variety of financial instruments and 
that the adviser felt he was capable  of making  his own investment decisions and 
understands the risks involved. But Im not sure how OPC arrived at this conclusion, given 
that I have  seen no evidence it undertook an adequate assessment of the expertise, 
experience and knowledge  of Mr F and that such an assessment would have led to the 
conclusion set out in the file note. And even if OPC had relied  on the fact-find carried out by 
Js adviser, this wouldve  demonstrated that Mr Fs investment knowledge and experience  
was in fact, limited.
I know that OPC says Mr F completed  the Assessment of Financial Experience  form, which  
showed his trading experience. But that form is clearly intended to satisfy COBS  3.5.3(2)  it 
checks if Mr F passes  the quantitative  test. It does not amount to the qualitative  test required 
by COBS 3.5.3(1). The rules clearly require  these two tests to be distinct, and for the 
assessment in COBS  3.5.3(1) to consist of more than checking that the threshold set out in 
COBS3.5.3(2) is met. The qualitative test would not otherwise  be required in addition  to the 
quantitative one. 
In light of the above, I dont think OPC  complied  with the requirements of the qualitative  test. 
In my view, OPC did not undertake an adequate assessment of the expertise, experience 
and knowledge  of the client  that gave reasonable assurance,  in light of the nature of the 
transactions or services envisaged, that Mr F was capable of making his own investment 
decisions and understanding the risks involved.
In terms of the quantitative test, Mr F appears to have had a financial instrument portfolio in 
excess of €500,000, but he didnt  work  in the financial sector. As Ive said above, the 
available evidence showed Mr F hadnt carried out an average of 10 transactions  per 
quarter, but a form signed by Mr F says differently. If the information in the form was taken at 
face value, Mr F wouldve met the requirements  of the quantitative test.
COBS 3.5.3(3) states that OPC  must carry out a further procedure in order to treat Mr F as 
an EPC. Essentially, this requires the client to make  a request to be treated  as an EPC,  for 
the firm to give a clear warning of the protections and compensation rights  the client would 
lose, and for the client to state in writing,  separately from the contract, they are aware  of the 
consequences of losing  the protections and compensation  rights.
OPC has provided a copy of a Notice of proposed categorisation as a professional  client  for 
potential investors to show that it did comply with the procedure  set out in COBS  3.5.3(3). 
At the bottom of the notice, Mr F signed  the following statement:
Ref: DRN53203655I have read and understood  this Notice and consent  to be treated as a Professional Client 
for the purposes  of promoting Funds and the provision of general,  non-personal  investment  
advice and understand the loss of protections as a result of this classification.
I dont think this is sufficient to meet all the requirements of COBS 3.5.3(3). I dont think Mr F 
signing a pre-populated  statement in the same  document which  requests classification as an 
EPC and warns of the protections and compensation rights Mr F would lose, can reasonably  
be taken as him stating  in writing, separately, that he understood the consequences of him 
losing the protections he would have as a retail client. 
In light of the above, I dont think OPC  properly  classified  Mr F as an EPC.
As Ive decided that Mr F wasnt an EPC under COBS 3.5.3, there are no longer any 
jurisdiction issues for me to consider.
Did OPC  give advice?  
OPC hasnt  said either way whether  it gave Mr F advice. Instead, it maintained that Mr F was 
a professional client and understood the risks he was taking, so it wasnt  responsible  for 
Mr Fs losses. But, regardless of whether Mr F was an EPC or not, if OPC gave advice it still 
needed to comply with the regulators requirements under COBS. Treating Mr F as an EPC 
did not give it the right to recommend investments to Mr F without any regard  to the 
suitability of those  investments  for him  if a personal recommendation was made, there  was 
an obligation  to ensure  it was suitable.  There was also the obligation  to act in Mr Fs best 
interests. So, for completeness, Ive looked  at whether the evidence demonstrates that OPC 
gave advice.
The Notice  of proposed categorisation as a professional  client for potential investors says 
that OPC  would provide Mr F with general, non-personal investment advice. As Ive said 
above, the evidence here is limited. But based  on what Ive seen I think  OPC was giving  
advice.
OPCs file note of 17 April 2013  shows  that it gathered information about Mr Fs risk profile 
and investment objectives. The file note confirmed Mr F had an adventurous attitude to risk 
and noted that he hadnt placed any restriction on the types of investment that OPC could 
allocate to his portfolio. OPC  then made  investments on Mr Fs behalf, and I have not seen 
sufficient evidence to show these investments were simply  introduced to Mr F and he was 
asked to decide whether he wanted  to invest.  In my view, OPC made the investment 
decisions for Mr F  it told him what he should invest in, and how much  he should invest. So 
OPC gave  investment advice.
Was OPCs  advice suitable?
Under COBS, OPC had a duty to act in Mr Fs best interests, to know  its client and give 
suitable advice.
OPCs file note records that Mr F said he was a big risk taker and wanted  his portfolio to be 
managed in an adventurous manner. But as I think it was giving Mr F advice, it was for 
OPC to determine Mr Fs risk profile, taking  into account his overall risk appetite, investment 
experience and his capacity  for loss. I havent  seen any evidence to show OPC asked Mr F 
to complete an attitude to risk questionnaire  or that it completed  its own fact-find, which 
would have allowed  it to make a suitable judgment  of Mr Fs actual risk profile.
Ref: DRN53203656J carried out an assessment of Mr Fs attitude to risk in July 2012, setting out in its 
recommendation letter that Mr F should be considered a medium-risk  investor,  which Mr F 
agreed with. In the absence of any risk assessment carried  out by OPC,  I think its fair to use 
this as the basis for Mr Fs attitude to risk in April 2013. I havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr Fs circumstances  had changed.  And I dont think Mr F had the capacity to take 
unnecessary risks with the funds held in his SIPP, which represented the entirety  of his 
retirement provisions.  So overall, I think a fair assessment of Mr Fs attitude to risk at the 
time was medium at most and that if a proper assessment had been  made  that is the 
conclusion OPC ought to have drawn, if acting  fairly  and reasonably.
OPC placed £240,000 in an account with a business Ill refer to as S in June 2013.  This 
account permitted  OPC  to trade  in CFDs.  Mr F has provided evidence showing OPC carried 
out very frequent  CFD transactions  placed on the value of foreign exchange, commodities, 
equities and bonds. CFDs,  are by their nature  very high risk and speculative.  Using  more 
than 50% of Mr Fs pension funds  to invest in such a high risk strategy  and to trade at such  a 
high frequency  was clearly unsuitable for him and disregarded his best interests.
By December 2016 the value of the account  with S was £10,463. Given  the above,  it is fair 
and reasonable to find OPC is responsible for the losses Mr F suffered as a result  of the 
CFD trading  it undertook on his behalf.  This is because I dont think  Mr F wouldve traded in 
CFDs if OPC had made a suitable recommendation in line with his attitude to risk.
In 2015 OPC advised and arranged for Mr F to purchase shares  in a privately owned oil and 
gas company based in the United States  N. OPC  facilitated the investment of 
approximately £40,000 in shares  in March 2015  and approximately £76,000  to purchase 
further shares in another scheme with N in June 2015.
I dont think having  such a large  holding, amounting  to over 25% of Mr Fs retirement funds, 
invested in one single company provides adequate  diversification. Instead, it increased the 
risk within Mr Fs portfolio,  which was already being invested in a higher risk manner. The 
shares in N were not listed  on a stock exchange  and so had no other way of being sold.  In 
effect, the shares were illiquid. I also havent seen any evidence  to show OPC carried out 
due diligence  for the investments in N. And Im aware this company was subsequently 
investigated by the US authorities  and currently has a nil value. So, I dont think  the 
investments in N were  at all suitable  for Mr F. 
I have taken into account the email  Mr F sent on 27 February  2015  to his SIPP provider, 
which said as follows:
I fully accept the risks involved in making my decision. I have had extensive conversations  
with my advisors prior to making my decision and I am aware that [N] is currently making 
losses, but I feel, after considering the acquisitions that the company has made and further 
acquisitions that are planned,  I would like to take advantage of the expected  growth of the 
company and the potential increase in production and revenues based  upon the discussions 
I have had.
The company has been very forthright in providing full details regarding  their current position 
and acquisition strategy.
My decision  has been  based upon all these  factors and I am happy to proceed  with this 
investment.
Ref: DRN53203657Mr F says that he simply forwarded  this email to the SIPP provider, having previously been 
drafted by OPC. I think thats plausible given  the way the email is constructed, the 
information provided about the companys plans and the language used. But regardless, 
I dont think this demonstrates that Mr F wouldve invested in N even if hed been advised  
not to. On the contrary it shows that he had discussed the matter  extensively with OPC.  And 
based on the evidence Ive seen  its clear that it was OPC that proposed  the investment to 
Mr F, he didnt seek out the investment opportunity himself. Mr F would never have 
considered investing in N were it not for OPC recommending it to him.
I dont think OPC should have recommended  Mr F invest in N at all. So, Mr F should  never  
have had the opportunity to proceed  with this investment on an advised basis  or otherwise. 
And if it had been  made clear to Mr F that the investment wasnt  suitable for him and that 
OPC recommended against investing  in N, Im persuaded he wouldve followed this advice. 
I say this as Mr F had no prior experience in investing in overseas unlisted companies. So, it 
follows that OPC should compensate Mr F for his investment  loss as a result  of the 
investments made in N.
Overall, I dont  think OPC invested Mr Fs retirement  funds in a manner that was consistent 
with his attitude to risk and retirement objectives. Had it met its obligations, I think  it is very 
unlikely Mr F would have  suffered  the losses he did. Finding out about  those  losses  clearly 
came as a shock to Mr F. And it must have been  very upsetting  to see he had lost most of 
his pension. So, I think it is fair and reasonable for OPC to also pay him compensation for 
that upset. I think the £400 recommended by the adjudicator  is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr F should be put as closely as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr F would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr Fs circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should OPC  do?
To compensate Mr F fairly, OPC must:
Compare the performance of Mr Fs investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
OPC should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, OPC  should pay into Mr Fs pension plan to increase its value by the 
total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should  allow  for 
the effect of charges and any available  tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
Ref: DRN53203658If OPC is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Fs pension plan, it should  pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Fs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr F is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr F would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr F £400 for the trouble and upset caused by the unsuitable advice.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If OPC deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr F how much  has been  taken off. OPC should give Mr F a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
SIPPstill 
existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income  Total 
Return  Index13 June 2013date of my 
decision8% simple per year 
from date of decision  
to date of settlement  
(if compensation is not 
paid within 28 days of 
the business being 
notified of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment due to illiquid investments. So, 
the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. OPC  should 
take ownership of any illiquid investments by paying  a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance  
paid as I set out above.
If OPC is unable to purchase the investment, the actual  value  should  be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. OPC may require  that Mr F provides an undertaking to pay 
OPC any amount  he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would  be incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension  
plan. OPC  will need  to meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
Ref: DRN53203659the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if OPC totals  all those payments and deducts  that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr F wanted  capital growth  and was willing to accept some  investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Fs circumstances  and risk attitude.
My final decision  
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend the business  to pay 
the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint.  I consider that fair compensation should  
be calculated as set out above.  My decision is that Old Park Capital Limited should pay Mr F 
the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum  of £150,000 (including distress  
and/or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest  set out above.
If Old Park Capital Limited does  not pay the recommended  amount, then any investment 
currently illiquid should be retained by Mr F. This is until any future benefit that he may 
receive from the investment together with the compensation paid by Old Park Capital 
Limited (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as set out above. 
Old Park Capital  Limited  may request an undertaking from Mr F that either he repays to Old 
Park Capital Limited any amount Mr F may receive from the investment thereafter or if 
possible, transfers the investment at that point.
Mr F should be aware that any such amount  would be paid into his pension plan so he may 
have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
Old Park Capital  Limited  should provide details of its calculation to Mr F in a clear, simple  
format.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Old Park Capital Limited pays  Mr F the balance plus any 
interest on the balance  as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  It does not bind Old Park 
Capital Limited. It is unlikely that Mr F can accept my decision and go to court  to ask for the 
balance. Mr F may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding 
Ref: DRN532036510whether to accept  this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 November  2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5320365