K821x#15Complaint
Miss M complains that MYJAR Limited lent her money that she couldnt afford to repay.
Background
Miss M took out two instalment loans with MYJAR between August 2015  and April 2016. 
Loan one was for £350 to be repaid over six months at £104  each  month.
Loan two was for £1,500  and MYJAR expected Miss M to repay  this loan over six monthly 
payments of £456.
Miss M thinks  that MYJAR shouldve realised that she was in financial difficulties and not 
agreed to lend. Miss M wants MYJAR to remove the loans from her credit file and refund the 
interest that she paid.
The adjudicator recommended that Miss Ms complaint should be upheld in part. In 
summary, she thought  that MYJAR should  not have agreed loan two.
The adjudicator asked MYJAR to remove any negative information about  loan two from   
Miss Ms credit file. The adjudicator also recommended  that MYJAR  refund the interest and 
charges that Miss M had paid on loan two.
MYJAR disagreed with the adjudicators view. Its unhappy that weve not given specific 
enough reasons  why the adjudicator recommended an uphold on loan two.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure     
Miss M could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN51199642refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that MYJAR  was required to establish  whether 
Miss M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether  the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.
As Miss M hasnt  raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loan 
one, I dont think that I need say more about it.
loan two
For loan two, Miss M borrowed £200 more than her declared monthly income  of £1,300.  
Although Miss M was able to repay loan two by instalments  the monthly repayment that 
MYJAR required  two took up a significant  proportion of Miss Ms monthly income  over an 
extended period  of time. 
In the circumstances and despite the checks that MYJAR carried out, there  was a significant 
risk that Miss M wouldnt have been  able to repay  the loan without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. I dont  consider it was reasonable to MYJAR  to agree to lend based  on 
what it knew about Miss M. It follows that I uphold Miss Ms complaint about  loan two.
Putting things  right  what  MYJAR  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges that Miss M paid on loan two;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
remove any negative information  about loan two from Miss Ms credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Miss M a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
Ref: DRN51199643My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint in part and direct MYJAR  Limited  to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2019.  
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5119964