K821x#15complaint
Miss P complains  that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has unfairly refused a claim on 
her rent guarantee  insurance policy. 
Where I refer to IPA, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
background
Miss P owns a property  she lets out. In February  2017, she took out a rent guarantee policy  
to protect  her in case the tenant  stopped  paying. 
In January 2018, Miss Ps tenant fell behind  with the rent payments by £500. As her policy  
was up for renewal the following  month,  Miss P contacted her broker  to put them on notice 
that she might need to make a claim. 
The policy renewed  in February 2018  for a further 12 month term. And as the tenant had 
failed to pay any further rent, Miss P submitted a claim. 
IPA says it will pay the rent that went unpaid within the 2017-2018 policy period, which  
amounts to £500.  But it wont pay any arrears  after the policy renewed in February  2018 
because the policy will only cover a claim until the period of insurance  ends.  It says the 
broker shouldnt have  arranged for the policy to renew because IPA is not prepared  to insure 
a landlord with an active rent guarantee claim ongoing.   
Our investigator thought it was reasonable for IPA not to pay any more, on the basis  the 
policy terms say theres  no cover beyond the end of the insurance period.
 
Miss P feels the policy terms are unfair.  She wants IPA to pay her claim for unpaid rent 
which amounts to £4,300. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In my provisional decision I said:
The policy says it will cover unpaid rent during the insured period and for up to six months 
or to the end of the tenancy periodwhichever happens sooner. 
So Ive thought about how clear  this policy term is  and whether its fair to apply it in the 
circumstances  and I dont think it is. Ill explain why. 
IPA says this term means that once the insured period ends, no further  cover  is available for 
that claim.  It says the claim is limited to six months  of rent arrears  or until the tenancy period 
ends, whichever is first. 
Miss P says this policy term is unclear.  She thinks it implies the cover would continue after 
the insured period, for up to six months  or until the tenancy period ends. To my mind,  the 
term means there is cover during  the insured period and then either up to six months or to 
the end of the tenancy period  whichever of those two events happens first. 
The rent guarantee insurance  can be purchased on a six or 12 month  term. Miss P has 
opted for the 12 months cover  and paid a premium  accordingly. But if IPA applies this term 
strictly, it will only ever pay up to six months  of unpaid rent at the very most. And in this case,  
only one month. This is a substantial limitation and I dont  think  its clear how much of a 
Ref: DRN52970862restriction this is. Especially if the tenant  stops  paying rent towards the end of the policy  term 
 as in this case. 
The policy also has a 90 day waiting period if the tenancy begins  more than 14 days  before 
the start of the policy. So whilst the policy is said to provide  12 months worth of insurance,  in 
practice Miss P effectively had cover for only one month. I think the terms unfairly restrict 
cover and this isnt made clear.
Taking all of these factors  into account,  I dont think its fair to apply the policy  term in the 
circumstances of Miss Ps case.
For these reasons I said I intended to uphold the complaint and direct Inter Partner  
Assistance SA to pay the claim for unpaid rent from January 2018 until the tenant vacated, 
together with interest*  on this amount at the simple  rate of 8% per year from the date Miss P 
made her claim to the date it makes the payment to her.
development and findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.  
Miss P has accepted  my findings. IPA says it will agree to pay the rent up to the date the 
tenant vacated, but has questioned why interest should be payable on the whole period, 
when much of the delay  has been while the case was with this service.
IPA has agreed to pay the rent arrears, so the only issue is the payment  of interest. I 
appreciate the case has been with this service  for some time. But the interest  is to reflect  the 
fact that Miss P has been deprived of that money as a result of IPAs  decision not to pay her 
claim in full. If it had dealt with the claim fairly and paid the claim at the time, this would not 
have happened  and it wouldnt be necessary to make an award  the interest  payment  
arises out of that decision. So in the circumstances its fair that the interest  should  be added.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and direct  Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay 
the claim for unpaid rent from January 2018 until the tenant  vacated, together with interest* 
on this amount at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date Miss P made her claim to the 
date it makes the payment to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN52970863*If Inter Partner Assistance  SA considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss P how much its taken off. It should  also give Miss P a 
certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate
Ref: DRN5297086