K821x#15complaint
Mr M and Mrs M say Progressive Building  Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1997. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Progressive disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what Progressive has said but Ive still decided to uphold  Mr M and Mrs Ms 
complaint. This is because I dont think Progressive gave Mr M and Mrs M clear enough 
information about the policy. I say this because the policy didnt cover conditions  that were 
existing when the policy started. And this would have mattered to Mr M and Mrs M, because 
Mrs M suffered from a medical condition which was fairly likely to cause her to need to claim; 
but shed then have found she was not able to. In fact Mr M says this is what  happened a 
few years later.
Progressive say the application form asked Have  you any physical defect of infirmity or 
medical conditions  of a recurring nature. But Im not sure that Mr M and Mrs M would 
necessarily have known  that Mrs Ms condition  fell into this category.  And even if they did, 
there was still little to warn them that a medical  condition might affect their ability to claim. 
Progressive will no doubt have known this was why the question  was being asked, but I 
dont think it would necessarily be clear to someone  not working in the banking  and 
insurance field. 
 
I dont think Mr M and Mrs M would have bought the policy if theyd properly understood the 
restrictions. So, I think theyve lost out because of what the business did wrong. 
fair compensation
Progressive should  put Mr M and Mrs M in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken  
out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt  been  cancelled  already, and Progressive 
should:
Pay Mr M and Mrs M the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.  
If Mr M and Mrs M made a successful  claim under the PPI policy, Progressive can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
Ref: DRN53694372 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Progressive Building Society to take off tax from this 
interest. Progressive  must give Mr M and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint. 
I require Progressive Building Society to pay Mr M and Mrs M compensation in accordance  
with the calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  5 September 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5369437