K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) have  delayed  and havent done 
enough to recover  her money  paid in error to a third party. Ms R is assisted  in bringing her 
complaint to this service  by her representative  Mr R.
background
On 15 and 18 February 2019 Ms R made  payments totalling £21,000 to the wrong recipient. 
On 20 February 2019 she told NatWest  about  the mistake  and asked them to request 
recovery of the payment  which  they confirmed would be actioned. NatWest didnt take action 
until 22 February 2019. The recovery request was unsuccessful  on 21 March  2019 
NatWest were told by the recipients bank that the recipient didnt consent to the debit of 
money from their account and disputed the payment by Ms R was made in error.
Ms R came to us when  NatWest didnt uphold her complaint. Our investigator found  in both 
her views that NatWest had done  enough  in trying  to recover the funds so she didnt  uphold  
the complaint.
Ms R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She was concerned the 
investigator hadnt interviewed  the recipient or their bank when coming to the conclusion that 
a recovery request two days earlier wouldnt have been successful.  And was concerned  the 
bank hadnt checked the account number and sort code shed used didnt match  the 
intended recipients  name.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have great  sympathy  for Ms R and the positon she finds herself in. I accept she made  a 
genuine mistake  and is now significantly worse off because of it. But, having considered  all 
the evidence,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  find NatWest responsible for that, so I cant uphold 
this complaint.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in the letters 
of 19 and 31 July 2019 giving her opinion and her final view of 15 August endorsing that - so 
I wont repeat it here. Theres not a great deal I can add to what the investigators  already 
told Ms R. I think shes covered most points quite clearly and I agree with her analysis.
The procedures effective  from January 2016 for customers who make  Faster Payments in 
error have  already set been out in the investigators view. But these procedures dont mean 
that any misdirected  payment  must  be returned. The guidelines only apply where a customer 
has made a payment in error, theres clear evidence  of a genuine mistake,  the recipient  
doesnt dispute what happened  and the moneys  still available. 
I know Ms R thinks if NatWest had acted on the day she initially  reported her mistake   
20 February 2019 - the money  wouldnt  have  left the third parties account. I can understand 
her concern  in finding out this wasnt done as promised and her call two days  later prompted 
NatWest to act. But, as frustrating as that undoubtedly is for Ms R, Ive got to consider 
whats actually happened, not what might have happened, and I dont think  the banks delay 
has made any difference here. Thats because the guidelines also require the recipient not to 
Ref: DRN52717542dispute whats happened. And that key element is missing  here.  Given the recipients  
insistence that the payment wasnt in error  I cant see that the recovery  request wouldve 
been successful.  And theres nothing before me to suggest even if NatWest had acted 
immediately on 20 February  2019 the recipient wouldve taken a different stance and agreed 
to the recovery request.
I fully appreciate Ms R feels  strongly about whats  happened and that she intends to pursue 
the matter further  through other routes  I understand a criminal  investigation  is ongoing. But 
my decision  brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve her dispute with NatWest  
informally  can do for her. Im sorry if this disappoints Ms R.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5271754