K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Covea Insurance plc cancelled  her motor insurance policy from the 
start (voided it). She doesnt want the policy to be void.
 
background
Covea declined Miss Hs claim following an incident and declared her policy void. It said this 
was because Miss H hadnt told it about  a speeding conviction, an MS90,  when she took out 
her policy.  But Miss H said this was from three years earlier and she didnt know  she had to 
declare it.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Covea 
had asked Miss H a question about  convictions within  the previous five years and Miss H 
had answered  incorrectly.  She thought Covea had shown  that it wouldnt have offered cover  
if Miss H had declared the conviction. So she thought it was fair and reasonable for Covea to 
void the policy and decline  the claim.
Miss H asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H had six penalty points on her licence in 2015 for the MS90  conviction. I can see that 
she says that she thought  she didnt  need  to declare them  as shed been told that they were 
spent. But Covea said she should  have told it about  them. 
Under the relevant legislation, where  a complaint arises from non-disclosure of information 
important to an insurer, we look to see that it asked  a clear question  when the policy was 
taken out. We check that the information given would  affect  whether a policy  was offered. 
And we check whether  the informant has acted  carelessly or deliberately  in making  the non-
disclosure. 
Miss H took out her policy  through an online comparison site. Ive seen the question she was 
then asked about previous convictions.  I think this clearly  states  in the question  asked, and 
in the pop up box providing  further guidance, that she needs to say whether or not she had 
any previous convictions  within the previous five years. Miss H told us that she answered 
No. But I think this was incorrect  as she had the MS90  three years previously.  
The documents then sent to Miss H ask her to check the information shed provided  and 
make any corrections. These state that Miss H had answered No to the question about  
convictions within the previous five years. But Miss H didnt amend the information shed 
provided about her convictions.
Covea has provided  us with an extract from its underwriting guidelines showing that it 
wouldnt have offered cover if Miss H had declared  the MS90. 
Ref: DRN57404672And so I think Covea asked Miss H a clear question which she answered  incorrectly.  Its 
shown that it wouldnt  have offered cover if Miss H had answered correctly. So, under the 
relevant legislation, I think Covea was entitled  to void the policy and decline the claim.  
Covea considered that Miss H had answered the question carelessly and so it refunded her 
premiums. So I cant  say that Cove has acted unfairly or unreasonably. And I cant  require it 
to change its decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5740467