K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined  their claim 
under their home insurance  policy for damage  caused by an external  leaking  pipe.
background 
Mr and Mrs K first bought  their home  insurance policy from Admiral in January 2016  when  
they moved into their flat and it was renewed in January 2017. A Homebuyers Report had 
been done on the property in July 2015  before  they bought the flat which showed urgent 
repairs were needed  to the roofing  and rainwater fittings at the property. At the time of 
purchase of the property,  roof and gutter  repairs to the building  were  scheduled to be done  
by the Council but in the end these  were only completed in July 2016.  On 24 December 
2016, water  began leaking through the roof and wall into the kitchen. Mr and Mrs K say they 
contacted Admiral about the claims process  in January 2017. They say Admiral  told them 
that the damage described was due to an escape  of water. Because  their property is in a 
tenement building,  they were advised to contact the factors responsible  for the buildings 
maintenance about repairs.
Mr and Mrs K contacted the factors and after three  surveys were carried  out, the leak was 
found to be due to a damaged downpipe and the downpipe was finally  replaced  in February 
2018. Because of the length of time the leak went on for, it caused mould and damp to the 
walls and units in the kitchen. In March 2018,  Mr and Mrs K contacted  Admiral  to make  a 
claim for the internal damage.
Admiral sent a loss adjuster to the property in April 2018. Mr and Mrs K say they were told 
that the loss adjuster would recommend that they should receive  a new kitchen along with 
repairs to the wall and roof. But a few days later they received a call from the loss adjuster to 
say Admiral was declining the claim. It said this was because it believed  the damage to the 
downpipe was a pre-existing issue when the policy  was taken out.
Mr and Mrs K then contacted the Councils environmental health officer who was supervising 
the works  on the gutters  to find out if the downpipe had been replaced as part of the repairs.  
He told them that the surveyors and architects involved in the repairs  had advised the 
downpipes were  in good working order before the repairs  and did not need  to be replaced. 
So Mr and Mrs K appealed the decision to decline their claim.
The loss adjuster rejected their appeal. It said the claim was declined  because the damage 
was caused by an on-going problem not a one-off incident. It also said it believed  the gutters  
had been putting excessive pressure  on the downpipe before the repairs  which  may have 
caused the problem. Mr and Mrs K then complained to Admiral. It rejected their complaint 
saying the claim had been declined  properly under the exclusion terms related to gradual  
causes and existing  damage.
Mr and Mrs K were  unhappy with this so they came  to this service.  Our investigator looked 
into the complaint  and thought it should be upheld. She disagreed  that the problem with the 
downpipe was pre-existing when the policy was taken out and she thought  Admiral  hadnt 
done enough to look into the evidence provided by Mr and Mrs K about the condition  of the 
downpipe when  the repairs were carried out. As there was no evidence  of damage to the 
walls of the kitchen  when the Homebuyers Report  was done, she didnt think it was 
reasonable to conclude  that the damage  was due to gradual causes. So, in her view in July
Ref: DRN509843922019 she recommended  that Admiral should  reconsider  the claim  without applying  the 
exclusion clauses it had originally relied  on.
Mr and Mrs K accepted this view but Admiral disagreed. It responded firstly on 28 August 
2019 with further information  on the reasons for declining  the claim based  on the gradually 
operating causes  general exclusion under the policy. But the investigator said this didnt 
change her view on the case. Admiral  then followed up with new reasons for declining  the 
claim. It said
Weve reviewed the complaint again, whilst  we appreciate that there are errors, we still feel 
the claim is repudiated. Our thoughts below;
It was originally considered under the EOW (escape of water) peril,  which  is wrong. On page 
21 of the policy wording,  we considered any EOW from fixed water tanks [] water pipes 
[] fixed central heating unit [] and any domestic appliance. An external drainpipe  does 
not come  under any of these aspects. We then exclude Loss  or damage caused: [] by 
water escaping from external pipes  that are above ground which also means we should  not 
cover it under this peril whatsoever(p 21).
The Claim could be considered under the AD Buildings (II) peril.  However  this would be 
repudiated under the AD Buildings exclusion  Loss or damage caused: [] by water entering 
the home other than by storm or flood or by cleaning, repairing, changing, or restoring 
(p27) where the insured has said that Hacking  and Patterson (the factor)  performed initial  
repairs prior to his purchase  of the property and did not replace the downpipe  but instead 
must have  reconnected it to the replaced  guttering (according to the Building Control / 
Environmental Health assessor).
It also maintained that, in any event, the claim would  have been declined  as the damage had 
built up over a long amount of time. The investigator responded to this email to say it didnt 
change her view. So Admiral asked for review by an ombudsman  and the complaint came  to 
me for consideration.  
I felt the new reasons  given by Admiral changed the position. So I issued a provisional 
decision saying I was minded to uphold  the complaint in part on the basis that Admiral  had 
taken too long to give clear  reasons  for declining the claim and that this had caused Mr and 
Mrs K significant trouble  and upset. I initially indicated that I thought  Admiral  should pay Mr 
and Mrs K £750 as compensation  for that. Admiral accepted my provisional decision but Mr 
and Mrs K gave more information about  the impact the delay had had on them and asked 
me to reconsider the level of compensation. Based  on the information they gave  me, I 
revised the level of compensation  to £1,250  and gave the business and Mr and Mrs K the 
chance to make any comments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken account of the further 
information and comments  provided by Mr and Mrs K in response to my provisional  decision 
of 21 November 2019 and Admirals comments about the level of compensation in response 
to my further  findings about the level of compensation sent by email on 11 December  2019.  I 
note that Mr and Mrs K accepted my findings  and Admiral also accepted the higher 
compensation in the interests of settling the case.
As set out in my provisional  decision, having  looked  at the complaint in light of the new 
reasons for decline provided by Admiral in August 2019, I find that it was reasonable for 
Ref: DRN50984393Admiral to decline the claim. However,  I find that Admirals handling of the claim was below 
the standard I would  expect to see and that this contributed  to the ongoing upset caused to 
Mr and Mrs K since they first contacted Admiral in January 2017.
Escape of Water
The claim was originally  considered as a claim for escape of water.  The policy covers this 
peril but states  that it does not cover loss or damage  caused  by water escaping from 
external pipes that are above  ground.  As the damage was caused by the leaking downpipe 
which is an external  pipe above  ground,  I think its reasonable for Admiral  to decline a claim  
under the escape of water peril on this basis.
Buildings Accidental Damage
Ive also considered the possibility of making the claim under the buildings accidental  
damage peril. But the policy states it doesnt  cover  loss or damage under  this peril caused  
by water entering the home other  than by storm or flood. As the damage was caused by 
water entering from a leak to an external pipe, this wouldnt be covered under the policy.  
Admiral noted other exclusions  that could apply such as damage caused by cleaning,  
repairing, changing or restoring  and the general  exclusion for gradually operating  causes 
that the loss adjuster initially relied on to decline the claim. While these exclusions could also 
apply, these are more open  to interpretation and I dont think its necessary to look into these 
because the damage would  already be excluded because it was caused by water entering 
the home other than by storm or flood.
Poor Service
Mr and Mrs K say they initially contacted Admiral about the leak in January 2017 and were 
informed that this incident amounted to escape  of water and that the excess  would equal 
£450. They  say the advisor  informed them that due to the premises being  contained  within a 
tenement building,  they could contact the building factors as a possible alternative remedy.  I 
havent heard this call so I cant tell exactly what the adviser told them at that point. But once 
theyd contacted the building  factors to get the problem with the pipe fixed, they got back in 
touch with Admiral to make the claim for internal  damage  caused  by escape of water in 
March 2018.
Admiral considered the claim  under the escape  of water peril.  Mr and Mrs K say the loss 
adjuster who visited  the property  told them theyd  be able to claim to replace their kitchen. 
But eventually Admiral  decided to decline the claim using general exclusions of pre-inception 
damage and gradually operating causes which it relied on until its email of 18 September 
2019. Only then did it point out that that the claim wouldnt be covered because  of the 
specific exclusion under  the escape  of water peril for water escaping  from external pipes that 
are above  ground. It shouldve been  clear at the latest when the claim  was made in March 
2018 that an escape of water claim would be excluded for this reason. If this had been 
explained to Mr and Mrs K once the reason for the leak was clear, they couldve avoided  a 
great deal of trouble and upset trying  to sort things out.
Because Admiral  failed  to make this point to Mr and Mrs K for eighteen months, they spent 
significant time and effort  getting evidence from the buildings factors about  the state of the 
downpipe and the details  of the repairs to the buildings which were completely unnecessary 
in the circumstances. Theyve  also spent two years trying to sort things out through the loss 
Ref: DRN50984394adjuster, Admiral and with this Service. This could all have been avoided if the correct 
reasons for exclusion had been  given when the claim was made.
To assess how much Admiral should pay Mr and Mrs K for the trouble and upset caused by 
the mishandling  of their claim, I need  to consider the impact this wouldve had on Mr and Mrs 
K in all the circumstances  of this case. The context  of the claim was significant damage to 
Mr and Mrs Ks kitchen,  a situation which would be distressing in itself.  But Mr and Mrs K 
had a small child and Mrs K was pregnant and gave  birth to a new baby over this time.  So 
the health risks of mould and ongoing  problems with the kitchen  wouldve  been particularly 
worrying and inconvenient for them at this time. I take account of the unnecessary trouble Mr 
and Mrs K were put to finding  evidence to support their claim as well as the eighteen months 
wasted in arguing against the wrong exclusion  clause. Over that time, they couldve been 
pursuing alternative remedies and sorting things out. Weighing all this up, I think  Admirals  
poor handling of the claim caused Mr and Mrs K significant distress  over a long period. To 
reflect this, Admiral should pay Mr and Mrs K £1,250 as compensation for the trouble and 
upset it caused  them.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is upheld in part.
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  should pay Mr and Mrs K £1,250  as compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused by its poor service in handling their claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 January 2020.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5098439