K822xcomplaint
Mr A has complained that Great  Lakes Insurance SE rejected a claim he made on his home 
emergency insurance policy and about its handling of it.
All references to Great Lakes  include  its agents.  
background 
Mr A has a home  emergency  insurance policy as part of his buildings  insurance. He made a 
claim on his policy because he discovered  a leak in his bathroom. He told Great Lakes that 
the leak started a week before he reported  it. 
Great Lakes initially told Mr A that he could claim under  his buildings insurance  for escape 
of water but his excess would  be £750. It then passed him to its home  emergency  team.  
The home emergency team rejected the claim to repair the leak.  It said because  the leak 
started the week before, it wasnt an emergency  and therefore not covered by the policy.  
Mr A called his own plumber who repaired the leak. He then complained  to Great  Lakes and 
asked to be reimbursed  for the plumbers bill and also asked for a refund  of his yearly  
premium. Great Lakes  didnt think it had done  anything wrong  and rejected the complaint. 
Mr A then complained to us. Our investigator  thought the complaint should be upheld. She 
thought the leak was an emergency and also didnt think that Great  Lakes had been 
prejudiced by the delay in being  notified  of the leak. She asked Great  Lakes to pay the cost 
of the plumber plus interest and £100  compensation to Mr A. 
Great Lakes agreed  with everything  apart from the compensation.  It offered £50 instead. 
Mr A didnt accept this offer. He said the compensation should be £500. He also said hed be 
happy to accept a refund  of the premium and the plumbers fee instead. Our investigator 
didnt think any further compensation  was warranted. 
As there was no resolution, the complaint  was passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it 
in part. 
As far as Im aware Mr A didnt want to claim on his buildings insurance policy so for the 
purposes of this decision Im only looking at the terms  of the home  emergency  cover.  
The home emergency policy provides cover for issues such  as damage to or failure of the 
plumbing and drainage  system where  internal flooding or water  damage to the property is a 
likely consequence. The policy only covers emergencies which  it defines  as a sudden  and 
unforeseen situation which if not dealt with quickly would result  in damage that would 
otherwise be unstoppable  and... among other things ..damage  or cause further damage to 
the property...
When Mr A called to make the claim he spoke to the buildings  insurance team  rather than 
the home emergency team. As a result  he was told the policy wouldnt pay for a plumber to 
Ref: DRN53988952stop the leak but would pay for the damage  caused  by the leak.  From what  I understand 
Mr A spoke to two advisors before he was passed  to the home emergency team. Great 
Lakes said that this was because Mr A called the customer services  department  to begin 
with which  might explain why he didnt speak to a home emergency  advisor  from the start. 
Mr A said he didnt  have the number for the home  emergency team but Ive seen his policy 
documents and I think the number is clearly set out on the cover page.  Great  Lakes also 
said it emailed Mr A instructions on how to access his policy  documents when  he bought the 
policy. Ive seen a copy of that email and I think Great Lakes did enough to bring  this to 
Mr As attention. But even  if I didnt  think that was the case, I dont think Mr A was 
inconvenienced to such an extent for me to me to award him compensation for this part of 
his complaint. 
When Mr A got through to the home  emergency  team it rejected his claim because it didnt 
consider it an emergency. But I dont think this was necessarily correct.  I dont think the fact 
that Mr A said that the leak started  about a week before the claim was reported meant it 
wasnt an emergency. Mr A said the bathroom  wall looked damp and started  to flake.  He 
said there was no water  on the floor or under  the toilet  but there was a leak somewhere. It 
doesnt seem to me that Great Lakes investigated the matter properly or at all before it 
rejected the claim. 
Great Lakes has since agreed  to pay for the plumber and I think  this is fair. But I still think  it 
caused Mr A some  unnecessary inconvenience  because he had to call a plumber out 
himself in order to stop the leak. I think Great Lakes should pay him £50 for the 
inconvenience it caused him as a result of this. 
I note that the £50 compensation offer was put to Mr A by our investigator but he rejected it 
and said £500  would  be more appropriate.  I dont agree that the distress and inconvenience 
Mr A suffered  warrants  such a high award. I note from the plumbers invoice that he attended  
Mr As property  on the same day that Mr A tried to claim on his policy. And from what I 
understand he managed to complete the repairs during that visit. 
Mr A said he is self-employed  and earns  £150 per day. Other than what  hes said,  I havent 
seen any evidence in support of this but in any event  Mr A wouldve had to spend time 
dealing with the claim and with a plumber whether hed gone through  Great  Lakes or not. So 
I dont think I can increase his compensation for that reason.
Mr A said he wants his premium back. I cant see that Mr A asked to cancel  his policy  but 
even if he did, the policy wouldnt allow  for a refund to be paid if Great Lakes has already 
dealt with a claim on the policy.  As Great Lakes is now dealing  with the claim, I wont  ask it 
to refund Mr As premium. In any event, as pointed out by our investigator the policy 
premium also includes  Mr As buildings and contents cover. And from what Ive seen on his 
home emergency schedule his premium  for that policy alone is marked  as £0.00.
I appreciate that Mr A will be disappointed  with my decision but for the reasons Ive given I 
dont think I can ask Great Lakes  to pay him further  compensation or to refund his entire 
home insurance premium.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im upholding Mr As complaint against Great Lakes 
Insurance SE in part. Great Lakes  Insurance SE must pay Mr A the following:
Ref: DRN53988953£196.80 for the cost of repairing the leak plus interest at 8%  per year simple  from the 
date of the invoice which is the same as the date of the claim, to the date of settlement*; 
and
£50 for the distress  and inconvenience  it caused  him.
Great Lakes Insurance SE must  pay the above within  28 days  from the date we tell it Mr A 
has accepted  my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
*If Great Lakes Insurance SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a tax deduction certificate  if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5398895