K820x#14complaint
Mr K instructed myclaimsolved ltd (MCS) to investigate possible mis-sold  PPI policies and 
possible mis-advice on a pension transfer.
background
Mr K is unhappy about the pension claim. He has complained that he was cold called by the 
MCS sales team after telling them he didnt want to pursue  this. He says that, during this 
call, MCS misled him and pressured him into agreeing  to pursue the pension claim.
This complaint was originally investigated  by the Legal Ombudsman, but was transferred to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman Service) as part of the 
change in the regulation  of claims management companies. The Legal Ombudsman  
investigator found the business had provided  a reasonable service and she didnt uphold the 
complaint.
MCS agreed with the Legal Ombudsman but Mr K didnt agree. He feels it is suspicious that 
MCS provided copies  of some call recordings, after saying they werent available,  none of 
which support his complaint. Mr K believes MCS may have removed or withheld evidence  in 
his favour. He also says that MCS continue to press  him to continue the pension claim, even 
though it has been cancelled.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I have listened  to the calls between Mr K and the company. In these calls Mr K:
Contacts MCS to say he thinks he had been  mis-advised on a pension  transfer.
Asked how MCSs fee would be paid if the claim was successful. He was concerned 
that if compensation was paid directly into his pension  he would still have to pay 
MCSs fee. MCS confirmed that they could set up an interest free payment plan.
Advised MCS that he didnt want to continue the claim in the current  financial year as 
it may complicate his tax affairs. 
Said he was unhappy  at how things  worked out as the claim concluded  too quickly.  
After being told it could take up to a year, Mr K expected this to take a year and felt 
he had been lied to when it didnt.
Mr K instructed the company to make a pension claim on 11 May 2018.  This was after the 
initial calls he had had with MCS. Mr K considers MCS gave him the hard sell on these 
calls, but copies arent available. MCS say this is because they dont keep recordings of 
acquisition calls, but they say the calls would  have been reviewed for compliance  purposes.  
When Mr K spoke  to MCS there  wasnt a legal or regulatory  requirement for them  to record 
calls or keep recorded calls for any fixed time period. Because of this, the lack of call 
recordings doesnt mean MCS are trying  to hide something. I cant uphold a complaint  on 
the lack of call recordings  alone.
Ref: DRN56670772Ive not seen any evidence of a hard  sell and if Mr K didnt want to discuss his pension with 
MCS he couldve told them this. The calls show that, after making the claim, Mr K 
considered cancelling but decided not to. They also show he was aware  of the cooling-off 
period. This means that, even if he felt pressured  to instruct MCS initially,  he could have  
cancelled but chose not to.
The claim was successful,  but the pension company  needed some information from Mr K 
before they could  calculate his compensation. Mr K was reluctant  to provide this, as he didnt 
want the claim to be successful until after April 2019  (the next tax year). MCS said they 
could cancel the claim, but would have to charge Mr K their costs to date.  Mr K didnt want  to 
do this if it was going to cost too much. He asked for an estimate of the costs,  but MCS 
didnt provide this.
It was reasonable  MCS told Mr K his claim could take some time, and I dont consider this 
was wrong or misleading even though the claim took less time than expected. It is also 
reasonable that MCS continue to ask Mr K for the paperwork needed  to calculate the 
compensation  while  Mr K says that he has cancelled his claim, there  is nothing  to show  
that he has. It is for Mr K to contact  MCS directly if he would like to cancel his claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I agree that myclaimsolved ltd provided Mr K with a 
reasonable service.
If Mr K still wants to cancel his claim, I would expect myclaimsolved ltd to let him know  how 
much their costs would be, so he can make an informed decision. If he doesnt cancel, then 
it is reasonable that myclaimsolved ltd ask him for what is needed to finish the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5667077