K820x#14Complaint
Mr A says Barclays  Bank UK Plc mis-sold him two payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policies with a credit card account he had over an extended time period. He says he never 
knew he had an option about having PPI and that he doesnt remember ever agreeing  to it. 
He says he didnt  need cover like this either.
Background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. 
However Mr A has already received some money back for the commission Barclays 
received from selling him the PPI. However, he still thinks he was mis-sold the PPI in the first 
place and disagrees with the adjudicator. The complaint  has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
These events took place  a considerable time ago and I certainly  dont doubt Mr As 
recollections about being mis-sold the PPI are genuinely and honestly held. Records show  
that he actually  applied for his credit card in 1999  and he filled out an application  form
Ive been sent a copy of that form and in my view it does clearly  show that Mr A was offered 
an option about having PPI and he chose to have  it. The application had a section about 
PPI on it and to get the cover added, applicants needed to say so. Mr A selected the yes 
option and left the no one blank. He also signed  the form, so I think  this shows  Barclays  
got his consent and he would have been able to see there  were  two obvious PPI choices.
I see that he kept PPI on his card for just over a year after which it stopped.  But he retained  
his credit card account and the PPI was re-activated, by way of a further application, in 
2003. This time the PPI sale looks  to have taken place over the telephone.
Weve got no record  of the actual call, but after 16 years thats  not particularly surprising. 
Nevertheless weve seen  quite a few similar  sales to this and have examined Barclays 
processes to find out what consumers were normally told during  these  calls.  We know, for 
example, that a phone script was expected to be followed by the call-handler  and that 
script did tell them  to point out that the PPI was optional. It also said that the agreement of 
the consumer  was needed for the PPI to be set up.
Theres no doubt Mr A already had PPI previously, between 1999 and 2000. And I think 
hed have been instrumental  in cancelling that policy. So the circumstances in 2003 show 
he probably agreed to the PPI being  re-applied when he spoke  to Barclays on the phone.  
Having asked for PPI in 1999, being charged  for it and having also subsequently cancelled  
that policy, I think he would have known what the PPI was for.
Ref: DRN52759812Ive also seen that his monthly  statements after the 2003 sale started  to show  charges 
being applied  for Payment  Protection Plan . I think if he hadnt wanted PPI again, Mr A 
would have wanted to know why these  charges  were starting  to re-occur.
As a result of these things, I think theres good  evidence Mr A agreed to the PPI cover  on 
both these occasions.
Barclays concedes that it probably recommended the PPI to Mr A which  means it had a duty 
to ensure this type of cover  was suitable for him. Overall,  I think  it probably was.
This is because Ive looked at Mr As situation.  I think he was eligible for the cover and not 
caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy.  The PPI policy  
would have paid out 10% of his outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if hed 
needed to claim. This wouldve been in addition to any other  means he had at that time.  I 
also think the cost was affordable for him.
So I think this policy was suitable for Mr A.
Barclays still needed to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading  so Mr A 
could make an informed  choice about whether or not to go ahead and buy the PPI. After so 
long I obviously cant say Barclays  did everything right. However,  I do think Mr A would have 
probably been given some  written and verbal  information about the policy.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr A but I think the evidence shows  he most likely  chose  the PPI and 
would have known  it wasnt something  he needed  to have. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr A. My understanding is that its already paid him for the commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5275981