K820x#14complaint
Company A complains  AXA Insurance UK Plc has unfairly refused to disclose the impact on 
an open claim on the renewal price  of its commercial motor insurance  policy.
background
Recently I issued a provisional decision for this complaint. It forms part of this final decision  
so Ive copied it in below.   In it I explained  why I didnt intend to interfere with AXAs  decision 
not to provide Company  A with the premium information its asked for. 
I also asked Company A and AXA if they had any further information they would like me to 
consider before I issue a final decision. AXA didnt respond. Company A did. It provided  
some comments. Ive responded to those,  where  necessary,  below.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Company A says it doesnt require AXA to explain  how it has calculated its policy premium. It 
only wants to be told how much the open  claim  has increased the cost of the cover. I 
understand that. But as I explained  in my provisional decision AXA says it cant provide this 
information. It says, due to the nature of the policy, it cant  give a figure  for the impact  of that 
one claim in isolation. As I said Ive no reason to doubt what  it says.  
As a small business, Company A says, the increase in its policy  price has had a significant  
impact. I understand why its frustrated about this. But I feel AXAs explanation for why it 
cant provide the information it wants is fair and reasonable. So Im not interfering  with AXAs  
decision not to provide  Company A with the information its asked for.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making AXA Insurance  UK Plc to do anything  
differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Company A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2020.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN58175002PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Company A complains AXA Insurance UK Plc has unfairly refused to disclose  the impact  on an open 
claim on the renewal price of its commercial motor  insurance policy.
background
In November 2016 one of Company As drivers was involved in a collision  with a third partys vehicle.  
The third party made a claim against its AXA fleet insurance  policy. The claim  wasnt settled  by the 
time Company As policy renewed in October  2017.  It still hasnt been.  
At renewal  the premium increased from about  £6,000 to around £13,000. Company  A feels that was 
caused by the open claim. So it wants to include the extra its paid as a loss in its claim against the 
third party. It asked AXA to tell it how much the open claim increased the cost of cover by. But AXA 
refused to provide  that information. 
In response to Company As complaint it said the premium had been calculated with consideration of 
a number of factors  not just the one claim. It added that how it calculates  premium is commercially 
sensitive so it couldnt provide any additional  information  about  its pricing  system. 
Company A says the as the policyholder its entitled to know  this information. It says the increase  has 
had a significant  impact. So reclaiming this cost would make a big difference to the company. It feels 
that AXA isnt treating  it fairly.  And if it fails to provide the information it should  be held liable for 
Company As loss. 
Our Investigator said once the open claim had been settled Company A should request a refund of 
any related  additional premium from AXA.  Company  A wasnt happy with that as AXA had said it 
wouldnt be able to do that. AXA  said its not the practice, with commercial lines fleet policies, to 
refund a premium increase specific to a claim if it is determined that there are no losses. In response  
the Investigator said its usual  practice  with motor insurance to do so. She didnt see why the policy  
being a commercial  one meant it wasnt possible.  AXA didnt accept  that. So the complaint has come 
to me for a final decision
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Our Investigator considered if AXA should, in the event the claim  closes as no loss, refund any portion  
of the premium related to it. I havent made a decision on that in this decision.  Thats because 
Company A hasnt complained about that to this service.  Instead its complaint is about  AXAs  refusal  
to tell it by how much the open claim increased  its renewal premium in 2017. So Ive considered if 
AXAs acted fairly and reasonably. 
AXAs provided  a detailed explanation of why it feels it cant provide the information Company A 
wants. Ive only provided a summary of it here. AXA says thats  down to the nature  of its pricing 
approach with this type of policy. Its explained as a fleet policy it was for 13 vehicles  with five claims. 
It says the total costs and number  of incidents are used to calculate an expected cost of claims. 
AXA adds its underwriters  can with atypical claims  limit or ignore the impact of that loss. (With this 
claim it says it used an adjusted cost estimate of £10,000  rather than the actual one of about 
£75,000). It feels this manual aspect of the calculation makes it difficult  to demonstrate the impact of 
any one loss. Ive no reason  to doubt  what AXAs says about  this. Its explanation seems fair and 
Ref: DRN58175003reasonable. So I dont  intend to interfere with its decision not to provide Company  A with the premium 
information it wants.  
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont intend to require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do anything 
differently.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5817500