K820x#14complaint
Ms S has complained about Saga Services Limited. It arranged her property insurance and 
she thinks it failed to properly inform her about a significant restriction  that had been  
applied to the cover.
background
In 2016 the insurance for a property belonging to Mrs S came  up for renewal. The property 
at that time had recently become vacant.  The cover  renewed in early January 2017.
The insurance came up for renewal again and an invite was sent to Mrs S in December 
2017 to renew  in January 2018. The covering letter Saga sent with the renewal paperwork 
said (emphasis as applied  by Saga):
There has been a significant change  to the level  of cover on your  policy, please 
refer to the following Endorsement  numbers in your Statement of insurance,  3 and 
999. There are specific Endorsements that require your  immediate  attention, please 
refer to your Statement of Insurance for details .
Mrs S called Saga to query the renewal  price and she said she was unsure what was 
meant by this paragraph. The Saga representative  said Mrs S needed to refer to page 5 
and 6 of the paperwork.  Mrs S did so and said shed found the endorsements now,  shed 
overlooked them before.
After the cover renewed there was a water leak at the property. Mrs S made a claim to the 
insurer which was declined. Mrs S was told this was because one of the endorsements 
applied to her policy at renewal meant the insurer was only offering restricted  cover against  
damage caused by certain events (commonly known as FLEA cover), which  didnt include 
water leaks.
Mrs S complained to Saga. She said she felt shed  been misled  by it in relation to the 
endorsements. Saga said it had highlighted the fact of the endorsements in its renewal 
invite letter.  It said it had also directed Mrs S to the endorsements when she had called it 
before the renewal  was confirmed.
Mrs S complained to this service. She said that if shed been told about the endorsements 
she wouldnt  have renewed  the cover. She said she wanted Saga to honour the claim.
My colleague considered  Mrs Ss complaint and felt it should be upheld.  She thought the 
paperwork was unclear and that Saga  should have done more  when Mrs S called it to 
explain the significance  of the endorsements. She said Saga should meet the claim and 
pay compensation.
Saga didnt think this was fair. It said it wasnt responsible for the policy paperwork  that 
was produced by it but on the authority of the insurer. It sent an extract from its contract  
with the insurer  to evidence this. It said it had correctly directed Mrs S to the location of the 
endorsements when  she had asked it about them.
Ref: DRN58871752As Saga didnt  agree  the complaint was passed to me for a decision to be made.  My view 
was different to that of my colleague.  I issued provisional decision to explain my thoughts 
on the complaint  to both parties.  My provisional  findings were:
renewal paperwork
Given the evidence  Saga has recently supplied Im satisfied that it isnt responsible  for the 
paperwork, the way it is set out, the content  of it or the way the endorsements are worded. 
The insurer  is liable for that. So that means  I cant consider the clarity or otherwise of the 
documents sent to Mrs S at renewal under this complaint against Saga. I can consider the 
renewal invite letter as Saga produces  that under its own authority.
Sagas liability
Saga doesnt sell insurance  on an advised basis. That means  it is up to its policyholders to 
ensure the cover meets their needs.  All Saga has to do is draw any significant or unusual 
terms to their attention.
The restriction in cover isnt unusual  it is commonly applied  at renewal once a property 
has been empty for more than a year (sometimes six months). But as it takes away most of 
the cover  the policyholder was expecting  to receive it is significant.
But Saga  doesnt have to explain significant  endorsements to their customers or make  sure 
they understand them. It only has to make  sure they know  theyre  there. And the renewal  
invite letter  Saga provided did do that.
The letter contained the quote set out above.  It is written in bold in the letter  itself. In that 
way it stands out from the rest of the letter and is, effectively, highlighted. I dont think the 
sentence immediately above this (which isnt set out in bold)   remember your Saga policy 
includes many  great  features and benefits  detracts from the highlighted warning at all or 
makes it unclear. I think that in setting out the warning in this way Saga clearly  drew the 
presence of the significant  restriction in cover  to Mrs Ss attention.
However, Saga is the insurance expert.  Therefore, if Mrs S asked Saga to explain the 
restriction to her then Id likely say that in order to have treated her fairly  it should have 
done that.
did Saga  treat Mrs S fairly?
Ive listened to the call Mrs S had with Saga prior to her cover renewing. Ive detailed some  
of that in my background  above. Whilst Mrs S told Saga at the start of the call that she was 
unclear about  the restrictions it is evident from the way the conversation  developed that she 
hadnt, at that point,  read the endorsements. Rather  Mrs Ss lack of clarity at that point  was 
because she couldnt find the endorsements referred to in the invite letter.  The Saga 
representative told Mrs S where to find the endorsements and Mrs S indicated  she had 
now found them. After  that she didnt say or suggest that she didnt understand them.  And 
at no point  before  the policy then renewed did Mrs S tell Saga she didnt understand the 
endorsements or what they meant  for the cover being offered. Taking  all that into account  
Im satisfied that Saga treated Mrs S fairly.
did Saga  mislead  Mrs S into taking out the cover?
Ref: DRN58871753I dont think it did. Saga gave  Mrs S all of the information she needed to make  an informed 
decision about whether to go ahead with the cover. When she asked it about the 
endorsements it told her where  to find them and if she was unclear as to their meaning  it 
wasnt made aware of this. It didnt, as far as I can see, suggest that Mrs S had more cover 
than what was actually  available to her.
overall
I know  this has been a difficult time for Mrs S but Im not convinced that Saga is responsible  
for the position shes found herself in. I dont think it would be fair to make it meet her claim 
for damage caused  by the water leak. As I havent found that Saga failed Mrs S I also dont 
think it would  be fair to make it pay her any compensation.
responses to my provisional  decision
Saga said it had nothing to add. Mrs S, understandably,  was disappointed. 
Mrs S said this had never been about her not being able to find the terms but always that 
Saga should  have  explained them to her. She said these  might be commonly understood 
within the insurance industry but their meaning  wasnt obvious to her  in fact she read the 
term restricting cover very differently. Mrs S said that as Saga sold the policy  it should  be 
seen as responsible for the policy wording  which she still feels is unclear.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate how frustrating this is for Mrs S. However, Saga only had to draw her attention  
to the key terms that had been  added to her cover. It didnt need to explain  them  and nor did 
it need to ensure the cover met her needs,  or that she understood that there  was a 
significant change  from the level of cover  shed had the year before.  
Saga as the seller of the policy doesnt  produce  the paperwork   that is done by the insurer.  
In effect all Saga did was arrange and facilitate a contract for cover  between Mrs S and the 
insurer, the insurer being responsible for the related policy paperwork provided. 
I understand that we have already set up a complaint  against  the insurer  which  my 
colleague, in the first instance, will now consider. But in respect of Mrs Ss complaint about 
Saga, Im satisfied that it told her what it needed  to tell her, that it did treat her fairly and that 
it didnt mislead her into renewing  unsuitable  cover.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make  any award against  Saga Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN58871754
Ref: DRN5887175