K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains Arrow Global Limited is wrongly pursuing her for a debt and instructing 
unauthorised third parties to collect the debt.  She wants Arrow Global to withdraw its action 
and write  off the debt.
background
On 20 January 2015, Arrow Global purchased an outstanding debt of £3,661.16 from HSBC. 
The account  pertained to a credit card account in Mrs Ms name.
In September  2017, Mrs M wrote to Arrow  Global disputing the outstanding  debt and 
requesting evidence to prove the account was her responsibility, as she didnt recognise it. 
She says the documents it provided  were redacted, added  to and were a composition of 
multiple documents. She asserts  there is no evidence, which binds  the credit  agreement 
provided, to this account. 
Mrs M says that Arrow Global hasnt provided  enough  evidence and has referred her 
account to third party solicitors, who she believes to be unauthorised, to pursue  her for this 
debt. She points out a county court action has been  stayed  and she asks that the 
outstanding debt be written off.
Arrow Global  says it has purchased this account in good faith and responded to her requests 
for information. In its final response, it didnt  uphold Mrs Ms complaint. It said it had applied 
to the original lender for the required information  and when it was made available sent 
copies directly to Mrs M, having  updated her on the progress  in the interim. It felt the 
evidence was sufficient  to show this account was Mrs Ms responsibility and reiterated its 
right to issue legal  proceedings through its third-party solicitors.
Mrs M brought her complaint to this service and an investigator looked into matters for her. 
He contacted the original lender who confirmed Mrs Ms details  and that this was a credit  
card account  taken out in her name. It confirmed no repayments had been made towards the 
outstanding balance. It provided system evidence to show  it had previously engaged the 
services of two other debt collecting agents before it sold the debt to Arrow Global. He noted 
that Mrs M didnt dispute having an account  with the original lender and the credit agreement  
appeared to contain personal information relating to Mrs M and her signature.  
On balance, he thought there was enough evidence  to show Arrow Global had fairly and 
reasonably pursued  Mrs M for a debt it acquired in good faith.  It had taken steps to provide 
Mrs M with as much information as was available from the original lender and in his view,   
there was enough  to persuade the outstanding balance was Mrs Ms responsibility.
Mrs M disagreed. She says the investigators view failed to address  several  points, she 
asserts:
Arrow Global is unlawfully engaging  a third-party  solicitor  to recover the debt 
Arrow Global has repeatedly breached  S78 of CCA 1974
Arrow Global has failed to provide evidence that this debt belongs  to her and the 
evidence provided has been  altered or doesnt appear genuine.
Mrs M asked  for an ombudsman review.
Ref: DRN57438352my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information from both 
parties afresh. Having  done so, Ive reached  the same  view as the investigator. I understand 
this will come as a disappointment to Mrs M, Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Firstly, Ive looked at the information from the original lender, which has been  provided to 
Mrs M. The credit agreement has Mrs Ms name  on it, contains personal information  
pertaining to her and appears to have  her signature. Ive also seen information from the 
original lender that confirms the debt was sold to Arrow Global and so Im persuaded there is 
enough evidence  to show Arrow  Global  purchased  the debt in good faith and hasnt acted  
unreasonably in relying on the information supplied by the original lender in seeking 
repayment from Mrs M.
I appreciate Mrs M has raised a number of concerns about the use of third-party solicitors 
and whether or not they are authorised to carry out debt collecting. But this is not a matter on 
which Im able to comment.  This service doesnt act in the capacity  of a regulator that is the 
role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), whom I understand Mrs M has already been  in 
contact with.
Im also not able to comment on whether or not a debt is enforceable, that is a matter for the 
courts to decide.  My role is to consider  all the available information from both parties. Where 
the information Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some  of it is here, I have  
to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.  That is to say, what  I think  is more likely  
to be the case.  
From what  Ive seen, I dont find Arrow Global have acted unreasonably or unfairly in 
pursuing Mrs M for the outstanding debt. Ive noted Mrs M hasnt disputed that she had a 
credit card account with the original lender, but if she wishes  to dispute the legitimacy of the 
account, she is at liberty to raise  a complaint directly with the original lender as the 
investigator has already  explained.
I appreciate Mrs M holds a different view and will be disappointed with my decision but Im 
not going to ask Arrow Global to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 September  2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5743835