K820x#14complaint
This complaints about an equity release  lifetime  mortgage that Mr and Mrs C took out on the 
advice of Age Partnership Limited (APL). The complaint is that the lifetime  mortgage was 
mis-sold, firstly because it was unsuitable  and secondly, because APL didnt give them 
adequate information.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in my own words, and in rather less detail than 
theyve been presented.  No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal  
service we provide,  and if I dont mention something, it wont  be because  Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt  think it was material to the outcome  of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr and Mrs C when my 
decision is published. Also, the monetary amount has been rounded  slightly;  thats 
deliberate, again because  it reduces the risk of identification.
In November 2012, Mr and Mrs C applied for a lifetime mortgage of around £290,000, on 
advice from APL. The terms of the mortgage  provide that no monthly repayments are 
required. The mortgage is only due to be repaid if the borrower sells the property voluntarily, 
goes into full-time nursing  care or after their death.  Interest on the loan is rolled up into the 
outstanding balance, and is compounded. This means that if the loan runs for a number of 
years, there can be a significant balance to be repaid. However, if its repaid early, then an 
early repayment charge  (ERC) can be payable. Thats  what  Mr and Mrs C now wish to do, 
prompting them to complain.
The basis  of their complaint is that the lifetime  mortgage was unsuitable for them because 
they always intended selling the house, downsizing and repaying  most or all of the 
mortgage. They also say the terms of the ERC, how it was calculated, and the factors that 
might influence the amount, werent  adequately explained to them.
APL rejected the complaint, prompting Mr and Mrs C, represented here by their son Mr C1, 
to refer it to us. Our adjudicator didnt think APL had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs C 
have asked that the complaint be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Since the complaint came to us, Mr C1 has told us of a new problem, as it seems  the lender 
wont allow  Mr and Mrs C to repay  only part of the mortgage. Thats  something theyd need  
to complaint to the lender  about, and then to us separately if not happy  with its response. I 
cant consider it here as part of the complaint about  APLs sale of the mortgage as it didnt 
form part of the complaint  referred to us following APLs  final response.  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If the available evidence is incomplete  
and/or contradictory,  we reach our findings on what we consider  is most  likely to have 
happened, on the balance  of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts  use in 
civil cases.
Ref: DRN56528832The starting point  here is the point-of-sale documentation from November 2012. The value of 
such documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what  was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly or missed  altogether.  
But where the consumer has signed  to confirm that the information is accurate, and 
Mr and Mrs C did just that when  they signed  the application form for the mortgage in 
November 2012,  well generally attach some weight  to it. Its typically  more reliable than 
peoples individual  recollections at a distance of time which,  although given in good faith, can 
sometimes be inaccurate or contradictory.  On  signing the application form, Mr and Mrs C 
also confirmed that theyd discussed  their plans with family members.
In this case, the point-of-sale documentation recorded that Mr and Mrs C had no plans to 
move in the near future.  Mr C1 takes issue with the phrase in the near future, saying its 
open to interpretation and that he takes  it to mean  a matter of months rather than years.  
Mr C1 is right to say that the phrase is open to interpretation, and of course when he refers  
to it as meaning months, thats his interpretation.  What matters here is the interpretation  that 
his parents intended when they applied for the mortgage. 
I cant know for certain what Mr and Mrs C regarded the near future in November 2012, but 
its worth  observing that on the application  form for the mortgage,  just above their declaration 
and signature,  the following narrative was prominently  positioned in large  (and bold) type.
You should not use the lifetime mortgage  to raise cash for the short term. If you can 
think of a time when  you might want to repay the loan (other than on your death or 
when you move into long-term care) you should consider alternative types of finance. 
If you choose to repay the loan early you may have to pay a substantial early 
repayment charge.
A lifetime mortgage is by its nature a long term product. However  phrases like the near 
future or short term might be interpreted, it seems to me that the above extract is pretty  
unequivocal. It says that this type of loan isnt for someone who thinks theyll want  to repay 
the mortgage unless its in one or other of two specific  sets of circumstances (downsizing not 
being one of them).
In that context, Im not persuaded APL would have recommended the equity release 
mortgage if Mr and Mrs C had expressed  then the intention  to downsize theyre expressing 
now. Nor, taking into account  what Mr C has told us about his former occupation  and 
experience, am I persuaded Mr and Mrs C would have accepted  such a recommendation if 
the intention to downsize theyre  expressing  now was the one theyd held in November 2012.
That brings me to the ERC, which  is linked to an investment index. The mortgage offer 
showed illustrative examples of the ERC  that might be chargeable, depending on timing and 
how the index  moved.  Mr and Mrs C may feel the documents were too complex to ensure a 
proper understanding of the mortgage. I cant know  how much  of the information they 
assimilated; but again, Im mindful  of what Mr C has said about how he made his living  
before retirement.  
Ultimately, the documents presented the information in a format that was consistent  with the 
requirements set by the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA) which regulates the sale of 
mortgages. I have  no regulatory power,  and its not for me to say APL should have given 
Ref: DRN56528833Mr and Mrs C more information about the ERC than the FCA required it to give them. 
Similarly, it would be for the FCA rather than me to consider if the index in question  was an 
appropriate mechanism  for lenders to use when  calculating ERCs.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C (or 
Mr C1 on their behalf) to accept or reject  my decision before 16 August 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5652883