K821x#15complaint
Mr G wishes to reject a car he acquired on hire purchase from Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (trading as Porsche  Financial Services) (VWFS), as he says it isnt of 
satisfactory quality.
background
Mr G acquired  a new car using finance provided  by VWFS. Mr G took collection of the car 
around the middle of 2017.  
Mr G said he experienced problems with the car a few months  after he collected  it. In 
particular he said the car juddered when turning. Mr G said he spoke with VWFS and was 
told this was a characteristic of the car. 
In early 2018 Mr G took the car into the garage  as the juddering  had got worse. The garage 
replaced the transfer box under warranty as it was faulty. VWFS said this fixed the issue, 
however Mr G said the fault was still present. Mr G then took the car to a different 
manufacturing dealer who road tested the car and said the juddering was a characteristic of 
the car. Mr G has also raised  other issues with the car since then. 
VWFS looked into Mr Gs complaint and said Mr Gs concerns with the car are due to the 
Ackermann angle  phenomenon which is normal for the car Mr G has. Our investigator 
looked into Mr Gs complaint and didnt uphold  it. He explained Mr G hadnt  been able to 
show the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Mr G disagreed so the complaint has come to me. 
I asked VWFS to arrange for an independent  engineer to review the car to show  whether it 
was operating as expected. The independent engineers report said the juddering  was worse 
than hed experienced on similar cars and recommended  returning the car to the garage to 
determine exactly what the fault was. VWFS disputed the engineers findings, they said as 
he wasnt a specialist in this type of car they didnt think he was in the best position to say 
whether it was faulty. 
VWFS explained that putting different tyres  on the car could help with the juddering and said 
they would  offer to do this. VWFS  then withdrew the offer and said it was too expensive to 
do and ultimately they dont think  there  is a fault with the car. VWFS also said they havent 
had the opportunity to repair the car as would be their right under  the Consumer Rights Act 
(CRA). 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 March 2019 where I said:
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  time.
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such, this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
VWFS is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement,  and responsible for a 
complaint about  their quality.
Ref: DRN57227412The relevant  law, in this case  the CRA, says that under  a contract  to supply goods, there is 
an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The quality of goods  is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account  any description of the goods, the price  and all the other  relevant 
circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant 
circumstances a court would take into account might include things  like the price,  age and 
mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of goods.
In this case the car was brand new when Mr G acquired it. The cash  price was £75,450.  
In Mr Gs case he said the juddering occurred within the first few months. The first recorded  
issue Ive seen was in early 2018; just over six months after Mr G acquired the car. 
VWFS agreed in their final response  there was a fault but it was repaired by replacing the 
transfer box at the start of 2018 under warranty. Given Mr G had been using the car for six 
months and had travelled almost 4,000 miles before it was repaired, I think  it was fair to 
repair the car at this point. I also dont agree therefore that VWFS  hasnt had an opportunity  
to repair  the car as they suggest.  
Mr Gs main complaint is that the car judders.  Ill come to that below, but in addition  to the 
juddering there were  other faults complained about with this car which  include the boot struts 
needing replacing, the hand brake failing and the centre caps  being  replaced. Ive not seen 
any job sheets or mention  of the handbrake not working on any other  reports  and Mr G 
hasnt complained about this issue further.  
But I can see from the job sheets  that Mr Gs car went into the garage in February  2018  and 
the off side boot strut was repaired.  His car then went back  into the garage in March  2018 for 
the nearside boot strut to be repaired. Mr Gs car was returned  to the garage again in June  
2018 when all of the centre caps were replaced because  of corrosion. 
Mr Gs car has been into the garage on at least four occasions when repairs  have been 
carried out to Mr Gs car. 
Looking at these  issues, along with the fact that the transfer box was replaced, and taking 
into account the relevant circumstances, I dont think a reasonable person would expect to 
experience problems such as these in a brand new car at this cash price. I dont think the car 
was likely to have been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.  
But as these issues, aside  from the juddering, have been repaired I focus  on the juddering  
issue.
 
As I set out above, when Mr G initially complained of the juddering, the transfer  box was 
replaced. Mr G says that this hasnt  rectified the juddering which is still there.    
Ref: DRN57227413VWFS contacted the manufacturer  about the juddering. The manufacturer says because this 
car is designed for sportier  handling  it uses a higher level of Ackermann angle  on the 
suspension geometry.  Theyve said the sensation Mr Gs experiencing is owing to this 
Ackermann angle  but the extent of it depends on what wheels and tyres are being used 
along with the road temperature. They said the compromise for this improved handling  at 
higher speeds  is the tyre judder at parking  speeds. The manufacturer has also suggested 
using winter tyres below  seven degrees  celsius because using summer tyres  below this 
temperature accentuates the tyre judder. 
In order to investigate  whether  the juddering still exists and whether this is a fault or a 
characteristic of the car, VWFS arranged for an independent engineer  to inspect the car. 
This was after we asked VWFS to do this and specifically asked VWFS to ensure the report  
was carried out by someone who specialises in cars like Mr Gs. Im therefore surprised by 
VWFSs comments questioning the findings  in the report and saying a manufacturing 
engineer would understand cars similar to Mr Gs better than the engineer  they had 
instructed. 
The independent engineers report says the engineer does not recognise these symptoms 
as being a characteristic of the model  variant  whilst road testing similar vehicles during the 
course of his duties.  Therefore, the engineer recommends the vehicle  be returned to the 
dealership for further investigation. In addition the engineer also noted heavy wear to both 
the inner and outer edges of the front tyres with the outer edges being almost  bald. The 
engineer said no feathering was evident  despite heavy wear to suggest incorrect geometry 
setting. This type of wear could be caused by tight turning  into spaces and/or high speed 
cornering. At the time the engineers report was completed the car had travelled  around 
9,000 miles. 
While VWFS say the juddering is a characteristic, Im more persuaded by the engineers 
comment  he doesnt recognise the symptoms in Mr Gs particular car to be a 
characteristic. In addition  to this the dealership  also initially changed the transfer box as they 
agreed there  was a fault when Mr G complained about juddering.  Within  two days of getting 
the car back  Mr G took the car into the garage as he said the issued remained. 
The initial repair  combined with the engineers report persuades me there is an issue  with Mr 
Gs particular car which isnt a characteristic of the car. Taking  everything into account, I am 
satisfied that the juddering in this case is because of a fault and that the car is of 
unsatisfactory quality.   
I now need to decide what VWFS  needs to do to put things right.  I find that Mr G has been 
patient with VWFS and has allowed repairs and inspections to be completed.  I also dont  
think a further inspection/repair attempt will remedy the issue given the car has been  in to 
the garage multiple times  already and that VWFS doesnt consider the car to actually be 
faulty.
Having carefully considered all of this, I think it reasonable  for Mr G to be able to reject  the 
car and end his agreement  with VWFS. When ending the agreement and writing off anything 
more that was due, VWFS should  also refund the deposit Mr G paid at the outset,  along  with 
simple interest. The finance agreement shows a deposit payment of £30,950 but the order 
form shows £1,000  of this was the dealer contribution. VWFS  should  therefore refund Mr Gs 
deposit of £29,950.  
Ref: DRN57227414Despite the problems and repair, Mr G has been  able to use the car most of the time. I 
understand a replacement  car was also provided while he was without use of his car. As Mr 
G has been able to use the car, or a replacement courtesy car, I think  he should  pay towards 
that use through the monthly repayments  under the agreement. 
However Mr G has been caused  inconvenience  by having to return to the dealership and 
having to drive the car when its had problems with it. This is a high performance  car and I 
can see how the juddering might  have been  frustrating for Mr G along with the 
inconvenience of having to return to the garage. Given the loss of and impaired use, as well 
as the inconvenience, I think VWFS  should pay £300.  
Im not aware of any adverse  information  having been added to Mr Gs credit  file. However if 
there was, VWFS  should  remove  it. 
Mr G has responded to say he accepts  the decision. VWFS responded and said the issue 
with Mr Gs car is down to the Ackermann  effect and while  the engineers report  suggests  
otherwise it requires further  investigation  by a specialist garage.  VWFS  went  on to say a 
manufacturing garage has already confirmed that its a characteristic and not a fault. 
Because of this VWFS didnt accept my provisional findings. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The points raised by VWFS reiterate  that the issue with Mr Gs car is a characteristic and not 
a fault. VWFS have  suggested I go online and read articles about the Ackermann effect 
further to understand it. Theyve explained  when turning a tight corner the inside tyre will 
drag the outside tyre because of its width and weight. I am aware of the general impact of 
the Ackermann  effect through information  commonly available. It would however be more 
helpful if VWFS refers to specific  sources and submits those for consideration in this 
particular case.  
In any event VWFS have already sent me the retailers  explanation of the Ackermann effect 
and an online article  which Ive considered,  so I see no benefit to find other  articles  
explaining it further. I also say this because  VWFS appointed an engineer  to inspect this car 
to determine whether  this was a characteristic  or a fault. The engineers  report  refers to 
driving similar vehicles so Im not persuaded by VWFS opinion  that the engineer wouldnt be 
as qualified as a specialist garage. Ive also considered  the fact it was VWFS who instructed 
the engineer to look at this particular issue. Im therefore surprised by their comments that 
the engineer they appointed wouldnt  be as qualified as a specialist garage.
VWFS said a manufacturing garage  has already  looked at the car and said the issue  Mr G is 
experiencing is a characteristic.  For the reasons explained in my provisional decision Im 
more persuaded  that on this particular car there  is a fault, as confirmed by the engineers 
report. So I see no reason why this car should  be returned to a manufacturing garage for 
further investigation. Im therefore not persuaded to change from my provisional decision 
and I still find that Mr G should be allowed to reject the car. 
Ref: DRN57227415my final decision
For the reasons  explained above my final decision  is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint and 
require Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  trading  as Porsche Financial Services  
to:
1.End the agreement with nothing further  owed and take the car back at no cost to
Mr G.
2.Refund the £29,950 deposit payment
3.Pay £300 for the distress and inconvenience
4.Mark Mr Gs credit  file as settled and ensure any adverse information is removed. 
Interest of 8% simple per year should be applied to 2 above and should be calculated  from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement1. 
If settlement  is not made within 28 days of Mr G accepting my final decision interest,  at the 
same rate above,  should be added to the £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
1 If Volkswagen  Financial Services (UK) Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken  off. It should 
also give Mr G a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN5722741