K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) didnt tell him 
about an Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM)  being held by a company in which he owned 
shares. He says if hed known about  it, hed have sold his shares and avoided losses he 
later suffered.
background 
Mr M held shares in a company Ill call A through HL. In late 2018 A announced  an EGM 
during which  shareholders  could vote on a proposal to amend its listing  on the London Stock 
Exchange from premium to standard. It posted the announcement  online  and sent it to its 
shareholders. The proposal passed.
A few months later, A announced  it had received an offer to buy the company which it was 
recommending to shareholders. The offer was at a steep discount to As share  price  at the 
time, and its share price subsequently  fell.
Mr M complained to HL. He said it ought to have  told him about the EGM and proposed  
change to As listing status  as it resulted in As board being able to sell part of the 
companys assets  without  shareholder  approval.  He said if hed known  about  it, he would 
have sold his shares sooner.
HL didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said under Mr Ms account terms and 
conditions, it would  only notify him about corporate actions. It didnt consider the EGM and 
vote A announced  in late 2018  to satisfy its definition  of a corporate action, which is why it 
hadnt told him about it.
Mr M wasnt happy with HLs answer  and brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into things. She thought HL should have told Mr M about the EGM. She 
said while  it might  not have met HLs definition of a corporate action, this announcement was 
important enough  to Mr Ms shareholding that, as the nominee  shareholder  on his behalf,  HL 
ought to have informed him of it.
But our investigator didnt agree that this failing caused the losses Mr M was claiming for. 
She noted the share price  had risen after the proposal passed  at the meeting, and only fell a 
few months later when  A announced the offer it had received. She wasnt  persuaded that if 
Mr M had known about the meeting  hed have sold his shares any earlier.  But she thought  
being deprived of an awareness  of the meeting  and an opportunity to vote on the proposal 
had been upsetting for Mr M, and recommended HL pay him £150 to say sorry.
HL agreed to her recommendation  to settle  the complaint. But Mr M didnt, and asked for an 
ombudsman to make a decision. He thought  HL should take responsibility for some of the 
losses hed suffered, which were much  more than the compensation payment the 
investigator had recommended.
Ref: DRN54565182my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator explained why she thought HL ought to have notified Mr M of the EGM 
when it received notice  itself from A. I agree that, in the particular circumstances of this case, 
HL ought to have passed that information on, for broadly the same reasons given by the 
investigator. Im pleased  to see that HL accepted  her recommendation for how to put things 
right, and so I dont  consider it necessary to go over that ground again here in detail. 
What remains in dispute is Mr Ms assertion that the losses he suffered as a result  of HLs 
failure to notify  him were  in fact much greater, and warrant  a larger payment in 
compensation.
Ive therefore  considered  what impact this had on Mr M. To what  extent did failure to send 
him notice  of the EGM cause the losses hes now claiming for?
The announcement of the meeting was given in late November 2018.  When  the proposal 
passed, the change of listing was announced in mid-December 2018. And in January 2019,  
A announced the proposed takeover which precipitated the fall in its share price.
While I think HL ought to have informed Mr M of the EGM in advance, I think the outcome of 
the vote and the change of listing is something  he could have taken reasonable steps to 
discover by looking  at the information A had published in the public domain. 
Further, I note that following  the EGM announcement  As share  price  in fact rose 
considerably, and stayed at a higher level until the takeover announcement  in January 2019. 
The change in listing didnt  guarantee  any sale of As assets or takeover of the company. 
And I think Mr M ought  to have known the position of the company with regard  to its listing  
status for some time before the takeover  was announced. 
Ultimately Im not persuaded that the failure to inform Mr M of the EGM was the cause of his 
losses. He ought  to have been  told about  an opportunity to exercise his shareholder rights in 
a matter which would have a potentially material impact on the company. But he retained 
some responsibility for having an awareness of news  about A. And Im not persuaded that 
the takeover announced in January 2019, and subsequent fall in As share price, flowed from 
Mr Ms lack of knowledge of the EGM a month prior.
It follows that I dont think HL should  fairly be held responsible  for the losses Mr M suffered 
on his A shares.  But, like our investigator I agree that not being informed of the EGM and his 
opportunity to vote on the proposal would have been upsetting. I think £150  is fair 
compensation for that.
Ref: DRN54565183my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Hargreaves Lansdown  Asset Management Limited should pay 
Mr M £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5456518