K821x#15Complaint
Mr I complains about mistakes made  by The Co-operative Bank Plc in relation to a career  
development loan.  
Background
Mr I took out a loan via Co-op in December  2014 and the first payment was due on 
13 December 2015 but wasnt made. Mr I then asked to change  the payment date to the 30th 
of the month which meant the first payment Co-op  collected was received on 
1 February 2016.  The delay in taking the first monthly payment meant Mr Is loan was 
technically in arrears  but he wasnt notified or asked to make  it up. 
On 30 January 2018 Co-op wrote to Mr I to say his payment  hadnt  been received. Mr I 
made the payment up and it was received on 7 February 2018. 
Co-op sent a default notice in March  2018 and followed that with a final demand in 
April 2018. 
When Mr I contacted Co-op he was advised  that his loan was two payments in arrears. In 
August 2018 Co-op clarified that the first monthly  payment had been missed. Mr I offered to 
clear the missed payment but Co-op didnt agree. 
In October  2018 Co-op transferred the debt to a third party  which contacted  Mr I. Mr I says 
that the third party has previously acted as a debt collector in relation to debts held by family 
members. Hes explained how upsetting it is to be contacted by this business again. In 
addition, around  this time Co-op sent Mr I a letter saying hed made overpayments  to the 
loan which  was wrong. 
Mr I complained and Co-op agreed it had made several mistakes. Co-op advised it couldnt 
get the debt back  from the third party but said the loan was now interest free and confirmed 
it wasnt reported on Mr Is credit  file. Co-op  offered Mr I £100 and apologised for the errors it 
made. 
Mr I referred his complaint  to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator upheld  the complaint and asked  Co-op to increase the compensation to £300.  
Co-op agreed but Mr I didnt accept so his complaint has been  passed to me to make a 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief above in setting out what happened in this case. All parties 
broadly agree that Co-op  made  several unnecessary mistakes and missed opportunities to 
give Mr I the correct information about his account.  Its clear  that no one told Mr I that his 
loan was one month  in arrears after he changed  the payment date for his first payment.  I 
have no doubt  Mr I would have made  that payment up and returned the account to an up to 
date position if hed been told. 
Ref: DRN54033612I agree  with the investigator that Co-op didnt  act fairly when it wrote  to Mr I with a default 
notice in March  2018. At that point,  even taking the first missed payment into account, the 
loan was only two payments  in arrears. And industry  guidance says a business will generally 
default an account once its three payments in arrears. I agree with the investigator that the 
decision to default  the loan was taken earlier than it should have been. 
Co-op later took the decision to transfer  the debt to a third party to administer. Its explained 
that, due to the nature of the loan and how its funded, it cant  now get the debt back from 
the third party.  That means Mr I will have  to deal with the new business in the future when 
making repayments. 
I understand Mr Is family has previously  had dealings with the third party.  But Co-op was 
entitled to transfer  the debt to a third party under the loans terms and conditions.  As Co-op  
was allowed to transfer the debt to the third party I cant  tell it to retrieve it now.  If Mr I is 
concerned about  treatment he receives from the third party he has the option  of raising a 
complaint about  its actions. 
In October  2018 Co-op sent Mr I a letter  incorrectly saying it had received an overpayment  
for his loan account. I can understand why, after receiving such  confusing  information, Mr I 
was annoyed  at the contents of Co-ops  letter and upset when he was told it had been sent 
in error.  
As a service,  one of our key focuses  is whether  errors by a business have led to a financial 
loss for its customer. In this case, I agree  Co-op  has made several  errors  and provided 
incorrect and unclear information to Mr I. But there doesnt appear to have been a financial 
loss. 
Mr Is loan is no longer subject to interest. That means the borrowing costs are lower than 
agreed when he took the loan out. In addition, Co-op has confirmed details of the loan arent  
reported on Mr Is credit file. That means  the arrears position  or decision to default  the loan 
werent reported on Mr Is credit file. As Mr I hasnt had to pay any additional interest  (he isnt 
paying interest at all) and no information about the loan has been  reported externally, there 
isnt a financial loss here.  
I appreciate Mr I would  like us to tell Co-op to waive the outstanding loan balance but I dont 
agree thats  a fair way to resolve the complaint. Whilst  its clear Co-op handled  his loan 
account poorly, Mr I did agree to repay the funds he borrowed in 2014 and Im satisfied there  
are other ways to fairly resolve  this complaint. 
The investigator asked  Co-op to increase  its offer to £300 which she felt fairly  took the 
trouble and upset  caused by its actions into account. Co-op agreed but Mr I didnt accept. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr I but I think the £300 Co-op has agreed to pay fairly reflects the 
impact of the various errors it made. Ive thought about what  Mr I has told us but Im satisfied 
£300 is fair in all the circumstances.  As a result, I agree that this complaint should be upheld 
and Co-op should pay Mr I £300.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  The Co-operative  Bank  Plc to pay Mr I 
£300 less any compensation already paid. 
Ref: DRN54033613Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5403361