complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  wont refund a disputed
transaction made from his current account.
background
I issued a provisional decision in September 2019 to explain why I thought Mr As complaint  
shouldnt be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone  wanted to give me. This is 
an extract  from that provisional  decision:
Mr A says that a fraudulent transaction totalling  £2,499.80 was made from his NatWest 
current account to an online foreign exchange  company  on 12 June 2017.
On 15 June 2017, Mr A contacted NatWest to report the fraudulent transaction. Mr A said he 
didnt recognise  the transaction  and he didnt make it himself. He said someone in a shop 
must have  copied  his card details and made the transaction without his authorisation.
NatWest said it wouldnt  refund the transaction to Mr A. It said it had contacted the foreign 
exchange company  and it had confirmed the transaction was genuine  a number of 
personal details  about Mr A had been  entered into the website in order  to process the 
transaction. And all of Mr As genuine card details had been used. NatWest  said the 
information held by the foreign exchange company matched the information they held 
about Mr A.
It also said the transaction  had flagged as suspicious on its security systems and an 
automated security text message was sent to the mobile number NatWest had on file 
for Mr A. In response  to this text message, someone called NatWest, was able to 
answer all of Mr As security questions, and confirm the transaction was genuine. 
NatWest were satisfied  this was Mr A and so went ahead and processed the 
transaction. NatWest  has provided a copy of this call recording to our service.
NatWest said there was a large credit into Mr As account just before the transaction  took 
place. This credit was unusual for Mr A. And he wouldnt  have had enough funds in his 
account to allow the transaction had this amount not been credited.  NatWest has 
questioned how a fraudster wouldve known that an amount had been credited to the 
account to allow the transaction to take place on the same  day. Its also pointed out that 
Mr A has raised four fraud claims since 2014.
NatWest also said the foreign exchange company  provided it with evidence that the 
requested currency was sent to Mr As registered  address and was delivered and signed for 
by Royal  Mail on 14 June  2017. NatWest provided a copy of the signature provided and our 
investigator sent a copy of this to Mr A. Mr A said this wasnt  his signature and sent us a 
copy of his driving licence  to support this.
After rejecting Mr As complaint, NatWest  wrote  to Mr A to explain it had taken the 
decision to close his account  giving him 60 days notice.
Mr A didnt  agree with NatWests decision and he asked us to investigate.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. In summary, she felt unable  to 
conclude that the transaction had been  made  fraudulently and she was persuaded it was 
most likely authorised by Mr A.
Ref: DRN5548642Mr A asked  for the investigators  assessment to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me to look into.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions  
as our investigator previously set out - and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
But before  I do, I want to highlight that Mr A has not raised a complaint about  
NatWests decision to close his account.  And so I wont be looking into NatWests 
decision to close the account further  here.
authorisation
Generally, NatWest can hold Mr A liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made it himself  or he authorised  
someone else to make it on his behalf.
Im satisfied from NatWests technical  evidence that Mr As genuine card details and security  
information was used to make the disputed transaction. But the regulations relevant to this 
case say that this is not, on its own, enough  to enable NatWest to hold Mr A liable. So I also 
need to think about whether the evidence  suggests  that its more  likely than not that Mr A 
consented to the transaction.
From what  Ive seen, I think its reasonable for NatWest to conclude that Mr A authorised the 
transaction himself  or authorised someone else to make the transaction  on his behalf. This 
is because:
The disputed transaction was placed online using Mr As genuine card details - the 
16 digit number on the front of the card,  the expiry date and the 3 digit security  
code on the back  of the card. Mr A has told us he keeps his card in his wallet,  
which is usually kept with him. When Mr A reports the fraud  to NatWest, it is still in 
his possession. Mr A says no-one has access to his card details. And the only way 
he thinks the transaction couldve  taken  place is if someone took a copy of his 
card details  in a shop.  But I think this scenario is unlikely. Its plausible  that 
someone may have  taken a copy of Mr As card details but whoever made the 
transaction also entered a number  of Mr As personal details into the website to 
process the transaction. This included his address and phone number. Im not 
persuaded that a fraudster who had simply got hold of Mr As card details wouldve 
have known, or would  have  been able to guess, Mr As address or mobile phone 
number.
NatWest flagged the transaction as suspicious and sent an automated  security  
text message to the number it held on its systems  for Mr A. This text message 
prompts a call to NatWest from someone purporting  to be Mr A. This person 
confirms the transaction is genuine.
Ive listened to a recording of this call. And Ive also listened to a recording of a call 
between Mr A and NatWest. Im not persuaded that the two calls are made by the 
same person. I dont  think the person releasing the transaction sounds  like Mr A. 
And the person who makes this call also confirms that the number NatWest holds 
for him is no longer his mobile  number.  However, I dont think  it automatically 
Ref: DRN5548642follows that Mr A did not authorise the transaction.  This is because Mr A couldve 
asked someone else to take this call on his behalf.  And I think  this is what likely 
happened here. Ill explain why.
The person  on the call confirms the number NatWest have  on file is no longer his 
mobile number. However, the text message saying the transaction has been 
blocked has been sent to this number.  And there is no plausible  explanation as to 
how a fraudster who had been able to note down Mr As card details in a shop 
wouldve had access to Mr As old mobile  telephone  number. And whoever  made 
the transaction must  have  seen  the security text. There wouldve been  no reason 
to contact NatWest if this hadnt been  received. The fraudster wouldnt have been 
aware that the transaction had been  blocked.
NatWests advisor also asks the person  on the call three very specific  security 
questions about  genuine transactions on Mr As current account, including  whether  
he makes regular payments to a charity  and whether he subscribes to a car 
breakdown service. The person on the phone  is able to correctly  answer  all of Mr As 
security questions. Im not persuaded that a fraudster who had got access  to Mr As 
card details wouldve  known such personal information about Mr A or been able to 
simply guess the correct answers.  I think its most likely that Mr A received  the text 
message from NatWest and asked someone  else to make the call on his behalf.
The transaction was for foreign currency. And the currency was sent to Mr As 
home address   the same  address  both we and NatWest hold on file for him. The 
third party  travel company  has confirmed  the currency was delivered  by Royal  Mail 
 to Mr As home address  on 14 June  2017  and was signed for. So, for me to be 
persuaded that a fraudster had intercepted this parcel, Id have to be persuaded 
that theyd  been able to find out his address, based  on his card details, and then 
have been able to wait outside Mr As address or have been outside Mr As 
address at the exact time the parcel  was delivered without being detected by Mr A 
or anyone who lives with him. I think this scenario is unlikely. Theres no plausible  
explanation as to how a fraudster wouldve got hold of Mr As address. And waiting 
at Mr As property  wouldve put the fraudster at significant risk of detection.  
And so I think its more  likely than not that the parcel was received by Mr A. Ive 
taken into account  what Mr A has said about  the signature used to sign for the 
parcel not being the same as his. But signatures  are easily  changed. And I dont 
think this is enough  to persuade me that the parcel  wasnt signed for by Mr A 
himself.
Ref: DRN5548642K820x#14The disputed transaction was successfully  processed because a large  credit  was 
transferred into Mr As account  on the same  day. If this credit had not gone into 
Mr As account, there wouldve been insufficient  funds in his account and the 
transaction wouldve been declined.  This indicates to me that whoever was using the 
card details  knew there was a substantial amount  of money available in the account - 
the transaction wouldnt have been  allowed just hours before. I think its unlikely 
someone using  the card details without Mr As consent wouldve known this - 
especially given that Mr A usually maintained a very low balance.  
Ive looked at Mr As account statements from around the same time and he only very 
rarely has more than £100 in his account in the months prior to this transfer.  And it 
wouldnt have been possible  for someone to check Mr As balance as they wouldnt 
have known Mr As PIN. So Im satisfied that having  such a large balance  available  
was unusual for Mr A. And it appears  that whoever was using the card was aware 
that enough  money  had been credited into the account to allow  the transaction. And I 
dont think a fraudster  who didnt have access to Mr As PIN wouldve known this 
information.
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mr A authorised, or authorised 
someone to make the transaction on his behalf. It follows that Im currently minded to say 
NatWest is entitled to hold him liable for it.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased to say NatWest has told me it agrees with my provisional decision and it has 
nothing further  to add. Mr A didnt respond  to my provisional decision with any further  points. 
As no further  points  have  been put forward by either  NatWest or Mr A, Ive reached  the 
same conclusions I did in my provisional  decision, for the same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I do not uphold  this complaint about National Westminster  Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5548642