K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about the amount  of contact he received from Black Horse Limited (trading 
as Land Rover Financial  Services) in relation to his account. Hes also unhappy about a 
default which has been recorded on his credit file.
background
Mr K voluntary terminated his agreement with Black  Horse and the car supplied to him was 
sold at auction  on or around 11 September 2018.  There was an outstanding balance of 
approximately £7000  on the account  after deduction  of the proceeds of sale.
Black Horse  tried to contact Mr K about  the outstanding balance.  Mr K told Black Horse  he 
was experiencing financial  difficulties. Black  Horse asked Mr K to provide details of his 
income and expenditure so that a payment plan could be set up.
Mr K had difficulties in submitting his income and expenditure details online. He asked  Black  
Horse to post him an income and expenditure form but Black  Horse said it couldnt do this.
Following a review of Mr Ks account Black Horse  decided to write  off the outstanding 
balance. Because  the balance hadnt  been  paid in full following the voluntary termination, a 
default was recorded against Mr Ks credit file.
Mr K is unhappy that a default has been  recorded. He says hes been  prevented  from 
remortgaging as a result.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said there  wasnt enough evidence to say 
that Black  Horse had made too many daily attempts to contact Mr K. She also said that 
because Mr K had an outstanding  balance  on his account which he wasnt able to settle in 
full, Black Horse hadnt done anything wrong  in recording the default.
Mr K didnt agree so Ive been asked  to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K is unhappy about the number of calls he received from Black Horse. Ive reviewed  the 
customer contact notes  provided by Black  Horse which give an indication  of the number of 
times that successful contact was made.  I dont have  any information about  the number of 
automated (and unsuccessful) attempts which Black Horse  made  to try and contact Mr K. 
Black Horse  has explained that when an account  is in arrears or has an outstanding balance  
it makes up to ten attempts each  day to contact the account holder.
I would expect Black Horse to reduce the number of attempts it made  to contact Mr K once  
he had told them he was experiencing  financial difficulties. I cant  be certain of how many 
times Black Horse  tried to contact Mr K throughout September  2018. But I can see that Mr K 
spoke to Black Horse on at least two occasions in early October  2018  to discuss  his income 
and expenditure.
Ref: DRN51486972I cant say, based  on the information available, that Black Horse tried to contact Mr K too 
many times. Im satisfied  that the nature of Black Horses contact with Mr K changed 
appropriately after he told it he was experiencing financial difficulties. 
I appreciate that Mr K is unhappy that a default  has been recorded on his credit  file. Ive 
looked at Mr Ks account statement and I can see that there was an outstanding balance  of 
approximately £7000  following the sale of the car. This balance was required to be paid in 
full but Mr K wasnt able to do that. This means that Mr K defaulted on his obligations under 
the credit  agreement. So Im unable to say that Black Horse  has done anything  wrong  in 
recording a default.
I understand that the outstanding balance has since been written  off by Black  Horse. This 
means that Mr K is still liable for the outstanding balance  but that Black Horse  wont pursue 
him for payment. In these  circumstances,  Mr K has still defaulted on his obligations  under 
the agreement. The fact that the outstanding  balance has been written off doesnt mean that 
the default should be removed from his credit file.
I appreciate that the default  is causing  difficulties for Mr K. If Mr K decided  to pay the 
outstanding balance, the default would be marked as satisfied. This would still show  on his 
credit file for 6 years but may improve his chances  of remortgaging  or obtaining credit.
For the reasons  Ive explained Im unable  to say that Black Horse has acted unfairly.  So I 
wont be asking it to remove the default.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5148697