K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Close Brothers  Limited  (Close Brothers)  have not adequately  
compensated her for problems she had with a lease car they were  financing for her.
 
background
In November 2017 Mrs S took receipt of a used car. She financed  the deal through  a 
conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers.  At the point of supply the car was about four 
years old and had already  completed about 80,000  miles.
Mrs S had problems with the car and reported them to Close  Brothers in April 2018. It took 
some time to agree  a way forward as an independent inspection was arranged. But 
eventually, in November  2018, Close Brothers agreed to allow  Mrs S to reject  the car and 
terminate the finance  arrangement. They repaid seven monthly finance instalments from 
April 2018 and they refunded Mrs Ss deposit.  They  also agreed to compensate Mrs S with 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience  shed experienced.
But Mrs S was dissatisfied with their offer of compensation.  She explained that the business 
hadnt provided a courtesy car when her car was off the road and that this had been 
extremely inconvenient. As a single mum with three children at different schools shed had 
extensive and expensive travel to do each  day on public  transport.  So she asked  this service 
to take a look at her complaint.
Our adjudicator agreed with Mrs S. He thought the distress and inconvenience shed 
experienced warranty a further £200 compensation. He also noted that Close  Brothers 
hadnt paid interest  on the deposit  and he therefore suggested they pay 8% per annum. He 
thought they should  remove any adverse  data that may have  been  reported to Mrs Ss credit 
file in relation  to this issue.
The business didnt  agree with the adjudicators opinion. It said it had already considered the 
payment for distress and inconvenience and that it was sufficient. Mrs S didnt agree either 
so the complaint was referred  to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view so please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs S acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Ref: DRN52096772I can understand the inconvenience Mrs S experienced. It would be usual in these 
circumstances for a business  to supply a courtesy car and if Close Brothers  had done I think  
that would  mitigate  the need  to compensate  for inconvenience as less would  have occurred. 
I understand that Mrs S would have had to get her children to school and run errands that 
she would  normally have  done with little trouble. The lack of a vehicle  whilst  Close  Brothers 
investigated this matter has, I think, caused some distress and Id therefore agree with the 
adjudicators suggestion  that a further £200  is paid. 
Its usual in these  circumstances for the business to refund the deposit  on the car and Im 
pleased to see Close Brothers have done  this. But they should  also pay interest  on that 
deposit as Mrs S has been deprived  of that money since it was paid. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above I uphold  this complaint and tell Close  Brothers Limited 
to:
pay an additional £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  that Mrs S 
has experienced;
pay 8% simple interest on the returned  deposit  from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement of this complaint;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Ss credit  file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5209677