K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Canada Square  Operations Limited (Canada Square) mis-sold him regular 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) to cover his credit card repayments.
background
Mr G applied for a credit  card over the internet in 1999. At the same time he took out a PPI 
policy (policy one) to cover his credit card repayments. The policy ran until 2004  and then a 
further PPI policy  (policy two) was sold in 2006  before being cancelled a few months later.  
The PPI cost £0.59 per £100 of the balance on Mr Gs credit card. A successful claim on the 
policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance for up to 12 months per claim if Mr G 
was unable to work  due to accident or sickness or lost his job.
Canada Square  refunded  the cost of policy  two with interest and the commission  element of 
policy one. Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Gs complaint should  be upheld  because he 
thought that Canada Square had compensated Mr G fairly  in regards to both policies and 
didnt think policy one had been mis-sold.  
Mr G disagrees.  He says he didnt knowingly take out policy  one and wants a full refund of 
the policys costs.   
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Gs complaint.
Having done so Im in agreement with our adjudicator  and Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs 
complaint. I think our adjudicators view is correct in regards to the compensation awarded  
on policy two in that what has been paid to Mr G is in line with what I would expect. So in my 
decision the focus will be on the mis-sale complaint  in relation to policy one. 
The PPI was applied  for online when Mr G applied for a credit  card.  Canada  Square have 
given us a copy  of the screen shots  of the application form Mr G wouldve seen and 
completed when  he applied for his credit card. 
I can see that theres a separate  section  on the application form that deals with PPI. Within 
this section it briefly explains what the cost of PPI is along with what  it protects against. 
Directly under this it gives two options:  
Yes, I would like to protect my repayments; or 
No, I do not wish to protect my repayment 
Canada Square  say Mr G wouldnt  have been able to continue  with the application  without 
selecting one of these options.  Ive also seen a print out of a screen  shot which records  PPI 
as being taken. I think because Mr G had PPI its likely  he selected to take PPI. If Mr G 
didnt want to take out PPI he couldve selected  not to take the cover. So I think  its likely 
Ref: DRN55781482Mr G understood he had a choice  in taking out the PPI and chose to take it because  he 
wanted the cover - though  I can understand  given the amount of time since  the sale why he 
may not remember this.
Because the PPI was taken out over the internet I dont  think  Canada Square  advised Mr G 
to take PPI. What  this means is that Canada Square  didnt recommend PPI to Mr G, they 
just gave him information about PPI. This information needed to be given in a way that was 
clear, fair and not misleading so he could  make an informed choice about buying PPI.
I can see the cost of the policy  is shown on the application form. But I cant  say whether all 
the proper information needed  was given. That being said even if Canada  Square did give all 
the information Mr G needed  to make  an informed choice on taking out the policy, I think he 
wouldve still taken the policy  because at the time of sale:
He was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr G says had no sick pay or savings he could  rely on if he 
couldnt work  but his family  and girlfriend wouldve helped him with his repayments. But 
there is no guarantee they would be in a position to help and the policy wouldve 
covered his repayments for up to 12 months  if he was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness or if he became  unemployed.  So I cant see how knowing this information 
wouldve put him off buying it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr G and he could cancel  the 
policy if he no longer  wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr G on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to him.
Which means Canada Square doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
Ref: DRN55781483But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
When the policy was sold, Canada Square expected to get a high level of commission  
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr G about 
that. Because Canada Square didnt tell Mr G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square  has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy one wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited does  not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr G any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5578148