K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays  Bank UK PLC,  trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a 
claims management company.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2003.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ws credit card account when he applied for the card by post.  The policy  covered him for 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  Mr W disagreed. 
His representative said, on his behalf  and in summary, that:
 Mr W had significant sick pay entitlements so didnt need the PPI.
 Mr W wasnt made aware that the policy was optional.
 If the costs and benefits of the policy had been made clear, he wouldnt have taken it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint because:
The postal application form included a separate section for optional  benefits. There were  
equally clear options to accept or decline the PPI and Mr W ticked the Yes box to show  that 
he wanted it. I note from the application form that Mr W declined  to take out other insurance, 
(card protection)  at the same time. This suggests  to me that he understood he was free to 
make his own choice. So, overall, I think Barclaycard made Mr W aware that the PPI was 
optional and that he chose to take it.
Barclaycard didnt advise Mr W to take the policy so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for him. But it did need to provide enough clear information  for Mr W to decide  for himself if 
the policy was suitable for his circumstances. Hes said he wouldve received generous  sick 
pay from his employer  six months full pay followed  by six months half pay. But the policy 
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months in addition.  And it covered  him if hed become 
unemployed. So I think the policy couldve been  a useful benefit to him, despite his existing 
arrangements.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been. But Mr W chose to take out the policy and so appears  to have wanted 
this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy  
was competitively priced and apparently affordable.  So I think it unlikely  despite what he 
says now  that Mr W would have made a different decision if better information had been 
provided. On balance I think he would still have taken out the policy.
Ref: DRN55398302But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about that. Because  Barclaycard didnt tell Mr W, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, does have to pay back to Mr W any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5539830