K820x#14complaint
Ms Ws complaint is about the handling  of a claim under her home emergency insurance  
policy, underwritten by Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA).
background
In June 2018, Ms W made a claim under her policy when her front door lock failed and she 
couldnt get into her house. IPA sent out a contractor who said wear  and tear had caused the 
lock mechanism to fail. He didnt have  a suitable replacement lock and so gained access into 
the property, so Ms W could get in, and mended  the lock with temporary parts.  IPAs  
contractor provided a quote  for a replacement  lock, which it said shed have to pay for 
privately.
Ms W is not happy with the standard of the repairs. She says the lock has a gap around it 
and the door does  not close properly, as a result of which  Ms W says her home is not 
secure. Ms W says the policy does  not say that it will only cover temporary repairs  and is 
misleading. She also says the policy was mis-sold to her.
IPA says the policy only covers emergency repairs required  to make a property secure  and 
safe. It says it has done so and does not accept that it should  have  paid for a replacement 
lock or other permanent  repair. IPA did however, offer £75 compensation as it had not dealt  
with her complaint  properly.  
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he said the policy was sufficiently clear  that it covers  temporary  repairs  only and 
the policy specifically  excludes the repair or replacement of complete multipoint locking 
systems. 
Ms W doesnt accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
Ms W says her property is not secure.  When she made a claim under the policy for a fault 
with her shower, it replaced  the necessary part so she doesnt understand why IPA as not 
done so here. 
Ms W has also asked  for me to contact her by phone to discuss  the case.  However, deciding
ombudsman dont routinely talk to either  party to the complaint,  as fairness would usually
require that both parties be involved  in any discussion  at the same time. We may
do so if there  is information that is unclear or a dispute about  the facts  of the case that we
consider can only be clarified by discussing  it with the parties. Ms W has made  her case
clearly both in writing and verbally to the investigator. This case  turns  on the policy  wording 
and provision and so I dont consider it is necessary to discuss  this case with the parties in 
order to fairly determine the matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ws policy provides cover for various  specified  home emergencies. The relevant parts of 
her policy are set out below:  
Ref: DRN51778242for the purposes of this policy  a home  emergency is an event that happens suddenly  and 
unexpectedly and needs immediate action to:
a) prevent damage or further damage  to your home; and/or
b) make your home safe, secure and habitable...
The insurer  will appoint  the required suppliers and will pay up to £2,000 per insured event, 
for call out, labour,  parts, materials and VAT following  an insured event which  occurs  during 
the period of insurance
Key and locks
A home emergency  relating  to:
a) An external  door where you or your tenant  have no access  to your home, and there  is no 
other access available due to failure  of the external locking mechanism to the door.
You are not covered for repair  or replacement of complete  multipoint locking
mechanisms. 
I agree  with Ms W that this wording does  not make clear that IPA would only ever need to 
make the property secure and that the temporary  repair of the lock would always  be enough  
to discharge its obligations  under the policy. I note that the next section of cover relating to 
windows states:  We will undertake an emergency  repair using boarding or similar material  
to resolve the immediate  home emergency. If IPA intended the lock and keys section of 
cover to only ever cover temporary repairs, it could have added similar wording to that 
section of cover. 
However, the replacement and repair of multipoint locking  mechanisms is clearly excluded. 
Ms Ws lock is a long, three-barrelled lock and so would be considered a multi point lock. So, 
when also taken together with the definition of a home emergency (i.e. work required to 
make the home safe and secure) I do consider that IPA has done enough under the policy  in 
this case by gaining  access to the property  for Ms W when she was locked  out and making 
sure the door can be locked. 
I note Ms A says the property is not secure,  as there  is a gap around the door even when 
locked and the door only stays shut if locked.  However, I am not persuaded that this is not 
secure, as the door can be locked. The replacement of this type of lock is specifically 
excluded, so while I understand  Ms Ws concern,  I do not consider IPA needs  to do anything 
further.
IPA has paid £75 compensation  for not dealing with Ms Ws complaint as quickly as it should 
have done. When  she first complained about the work done to her door,  it treated this as 
feedback rather than a complaint and failed to follow the normal complaints procedure.  This 
was entirely incorrect and should not have happened. It did however  rectify this and the 
complaint was still dealt  with and responded to within  a reasonable time overall. I therefore 
consider the £75 offered  to be reasonable compensation for this.  
Ms W also says the policy was mis-sold as this restriction  on cover was not explained to her 
at the outset. She says that the attraction of the home emergency  cover was that there 
would be no excess to pay and no effect  on her premiums if she made any claims.  While she 
is disappointed  with the fact this claim was not met, this would not necessarily automatically  
mean a policy  has been  mis-sold. However, I can make no finding about this here as IPA 
didnt sell the policy to Ms W. 
Ref: DRN51778243my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint,  as IPA has already offered reasonable compensation taking 
account of all the circumstances of the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5177824