K820x#14complaint
Mr D has a motor insurance policy with U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI).  He says it provided 
very poor service to him after he reported what he thought was a non-fault  accident to it.
background
Mr D says that on 29 April 2018 he was turning left at a T-junction when another car 
reversed along  the road he was turning into and collided with the side of his car. The other 
driver said he was driving forwards along the road when Mr D entered  it and collided with the 
rear of his car. Mr D sent UKI photos that he thought showed conclusively that he wasnt  at 
fault. UKI didnt agree.  Mr D says UKI didnt communicate with him properly about the claim. 
He says it didnt  reply to his calls and emails or provide  updates. 
UKI offered Mr D £100  compensation for its poor service. It said the claim was still open but 
was likely to be settled  against him. But it said a senior advisor would  review  the photos and 
write to Mr D. He says UKI went on to provide more poor service and no information.
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ds complaint. She said UKI had tried to settle the 
claim in Mr Ds favour, but the other  insurer wouldnt agree to that. UKI didnt think it could 
prove that the other  driver was at fault.  The investigator thought its decision was reasonable, 
as in her view UKI had taken into account all the available  information.  
The investigator noted that UKI had compensated Mr D for the poor service he got up to 
then end of August 2018. She said the person who dealt with his complaint at that point told 
Mr D that UKI was still assessing the claim, as the other driver had claimed for personal 
injury. She said when she asked about further updates,  UKI told her it hadnt  contacted  Mr D 
since then as there was nothing  to report.
Mr D said hed never been updated on progress  throughout the claim and that UKIs  service 
was worse after his complaint  was dealt with. He said compensation wasnt  his priority.  He 
wanted UKI to admit  it had fouled  up and had treated him, as a customer,  like dirt. He said 
it had failed to investigate or consider  the evidence properly and had made  decisions that 
defied common sense.  He said UKI had never  involved him in discussions about the claim. 
As Mr D wanted his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman,  it was passed to me.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think if UKI had communicated better with Mr D about the liability  decision it would have 
prevented confusion and frustration on his part. The claims notes show that it told him the 
other driver said his car had been hit in the rear. Despite Mr D saying that was physically 
impossible  and providing photos  to prove it - it seems UKI didnt ever clarify that point. 
I think Mr D was correct  when  he insisted  that there was no damage  to the rear of the other 
car, and no damage  to the front of his car. I think the photos show that the damage was to 
the rear side of the other car, and to the front side of Mr Ds car. I think that damage could 
have arisen from the account of events Mr D gave UKI. 
Ref: DRN52547172Although I think UKI should have clarified the point about rear damage,  I understand why it 
didnt accept Mr Ds view that the photos  show conclusively that he wasnt  at fault. I think 
they show that he didnt drive  into the rear of the other car. But I think it was reasonable for 
UKI to conclude that it couldnt prove Mr D wasnt at fault. The damage  could also have 
arisen from the other drivers version of events.  
After Mr Ds complaint was dealt with, the files notes  show that a claims handler  discussed 
liability with him on two occasions  in October  2018  - although only when he called for 
updates. In the first call, she said Mr D was moving  out of a side road (into a road where  the 
other driver had right of way). She said there was no evidence  that the other driver was 
reversing. In the second call, the claims handler  repeated the last point and said the burden  
of proof  was on Mr D to show the other  driver was at fault.
It looks as though prior to these calls UKI hadnt  set out its reasoning  to Mr D. It certainly 
wasnt explained during the call in which Mr Ds complaint was addressed. I think  UKIs  
failure to try to explain the situation  to Mr D early  on  despite  his numerous requests - was 
very poor service on its part. I think it caused him unnecessary upset and inconvenience, as 
he had no option  but to keep calling and emailing UKI to try to get an explanation. 
Under the policy, UKI has the right to settle any claim as it sees fit. We only intervene if we 
think an insurer hasnt carried out a proper investigation or has reached  a perverse decision 
given the available evidence. I dont agree with Mr D that UKI didnt take all the evidence into 
account or that its reasoning defied common sense. I agree  that in this case  it should  have 
discussed its reasoning with him, but I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to believe 
there wasnt enough evidence for it to defend the claim.
UKI has accepted  that its communication with Mr D was very poor. I think it could have 
provided more compensation given the extent of the poor service, but Mr D says that wasnt  
his priority anyway. He says that after his complaint was dealt with, UKIs contact with him 
got worse. But he didnt complain to UKI about  that - and the claim was still being assessed.  
As I think  UKI acted  reasonably in dealing with liability during the period Ive considered, and 
compensated Mr D for its poor service, I cant uphold his complaint.      
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 13 February 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5254717