K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly refused to pay her claim 
under her pet policy.
background
Mrs B rescued her dog from a sanctuary in March 2018. She took out her pet insurance on 
3 March. She took her dog to the vet on 12 March  to be checked over, as he was a rescue.  
Her dog at the time had a slight limp in his right foreleg. The vet x-rayed it and said there 
was possibly an issue there.
Mrs B made a claim for these vet fees but UKI said as the fees were  incurred within  the first 
14 days of the policys  start date,  those fees werent covered by her policy.
In January 2019, Mrs Bs dog fractured his right elbow running down the stairs and landing 
awkwardly. He required  surgery.  Mrs B then claimed for these vet amounting to £1,774.66.  
UKI refused to pay her claim saying this was related to his lameness in March  2018 and 
therefore was excluded.
Mrs B didnt agree and brought her complaint. The investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. Mrs B didnt agree so her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why. 
Like all insurance policies,  Mrs Bs policy has limitations on what  is covered. Almost  all pet 
policies refuse to provide any cover for any issue, which starts in the first 14 days  of cover. 
So I dont  consider it was unusual or wrong for UKI to refuse to pay Mrs Bs first claim.
Her policy goes on to exclude cover  for 
any claim for a recurring condition thats in any way connected to or as a result  of 
i) a pre-existing condition
ii) any illness  that arose within the first 14 days of your pet being covered 
under this insurance.
It also defines a recurring  condition  as a condition that may come  or that the pet is prone to, 
no matter how many times the conditions comes back or how many areas of the body are 
affected.
UKIs vet nurse examined the vet history for Mrs Bs dog. She noted  that Mrs Bs vet 
believed her dogs  initial lameness could  have been  due to a previous osteotomy for a 
premature growth  plate  or a previous  fracture. She also noted  the claim for the fractured 
elbow was submitted  by Mrs Bs vet as IOHC,  which  is an incomplete  ossification of the 
humeral condyle.  She explained this occurred mostly in the type of breed of Mrs Bs dog. 
Some dogs are affected as puppies, but the majority  develop  a fissure in their humeral 
condyle when  they are adults. The dog will often  become lame  when the fissure  first 
Ref: DRN54339602develops and in other cases, its not identified until the bone breaks  completely  with the 
development of the humeral condylar fracture. So she was of the view this was connected to 
the first issues of lameness when Mrs B first rescued her dog.
The investigator spoke  to Mrs Bs vet who told him it was more likely than not that Mrs Bs 
dog had IOHC when  Mrs B got him. But she would have never known that. 
Therefore, I think on the balance of probability from the evidence of the vet nurse and 
Mrs Bs own vet that sadly her dog exhibited this issue in March 2018 during  the 14 days  of 
cover. This means the fracture and the consequent claim Mrs B made in January 2019 was 
connected to the issue  of lameness in March 2018. This is clearly excluded  by the terms of 
her policy.
Mrs B is concerned though, that this was never diagnosed at the time and she obviously 
could not have known about  it. She thinks its unfair that UKI takes her premium but then can 
exclude something she could have never known about. I do understand Mrs Bs concerns 
but the policy doesnt ask for it to have been  clearly  diagnosed, or indeed for her to have 
known about it. It merely  has to be connected.  And here the evidence on the balance  of 
probability in my view does point to the issue that the fracture was connected  to the initial 
lameness her dog presented with in March 2018  during  the first 14 days  of cover. Or indeed, 
it could have been a pre-existing condition on that evidence  too. And Mrs B policy  simply 
doesnt provide  cover  for either of these scenarios
So I dont  think UKI has done anything wrong in refusing  to pay her claim. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5433960