K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that he was mis-sold a mortgage  payment protection insurance, (MPPI), 
policy. Intrinsic  Mortgage Planning Ltd, (Intrinsic), are responsible  for the sale,  so for 
simplicity Ive referred to them throughout.
background
Mr F bought  the monthly-premium  policy in 2008 during a meeting. The premiums were  free 
for the first 3 months and then were about £67 a month. Mr F and his wife also took out a 
mortgage with a lender at around  the same time.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Mr F disagreed 
the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in Mr Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Fs complaint  because:
I think that Mr F knew that the policy was optional and that he chose to take it. I say this 
because Ive seen  the demands  and needs letter that Intrinsic sent to him. This says that 
during its interview with him he agreed that he needed MPPI cover. Ive also seen 
Intrinsics record  of the interview  which records that MPPI  cover is in scope, but cover 
for some other types of insurance,  such as building and contents, is outside scope. I 
think its reasonable for me to take this to be a note of what the meeting was intended  to 
discuss.
Ive also seen that the policy could  have covered Mr F for accident  and sickness, as well 
as unemployment.  But that only unemployment  cover was taken. Further,  as Mr Fs wife 
was a party to the mortgage,  she could also have been on the MPPI. I find these facts 
make it likely that Mr F knew he had a choice over the cover he took.
 
Mr F has told us that Intrinsic said that his lender would need  the MPPI  in order  to 
grant or continue the mortgage.  Because  the sale was during a meeting I cant  be sure 
what was said. And as the meeting  was many years ago I dont  think  that I can fairly 
rely just on Mr Fs memory.  And in the light of what Ive noted above,  and in the 
absence of any more persuasive  evidence, I dont think that I can fairly and reasonably 
say that Intrinsic didnt make it clear to Mr F that the policy  was optional;
Mr F says that Intrinsic pushed him very firmly  to take the insurance. He told us that 
Intrinsic made him frightened that he could lose his home and said how dangerous that 
would be. As the sale took place  face-to-face, I dont know  what Intrinsic actually said to 
Mr F. However if Mr F had become unemployed, without other appropriate means to 
make his mortgage repayments, it was indeed possible that he could have lost his home. 
So again,  without  any more persuasive evidence, I dont find that it would be fair and 
reasonable to conclude  that Intrinsic pressurised Mr F to take the policy;
Ref: DRN59476302Intrinsic recommended the MPPI  to Mr F. So it had to take reasonable steps to ensure 
that it was suitable  for his needs. I dont know what steps it took, but Im satisfied that the 
policy was suitable. I say this because, knowing what I do about Mr Fs circumstances at 
the time and the terms and conditions of the policy, I find:
oMr F was eligible  for the MPPI. And he wasnt caught by any of the policys  main  
limitations and restrictions - such as those  affecting someone who was self-
employed;
oMr F has told us that he was entitled  to some sick pay from his employer but that he 
had no savings or other insurance  to help him make his payments if he hadnt been  
working. But if Mr F had been made redundant, following a successful claim the 
MPPI would  have paid out over £1,460 a month for up to 12 months. So I find that it 
could have been of use to Mr F;
oThe policy was competitively priced  by reference to similar policies available  in the 
market at the time. And it had a reasonable benefit. And, although  Mr F has said that 
the costs of the policy were a financial struggle for most of the years that he held it, I 
havent seen anything to suggest that Mr F couldnt  actually afford the premiums at 
the time he took out the insurance. In any event, as it was paid for monthly, Mr F 
could have cancelled  the policy at any time without  further cost had he later felt that it 
was unaffordable or he no longer wanted  it;
Its possible that Intrinsic didnt tell Mr F everything that it ought to have done  so that he 
could make an informed  decision  whether  to take it or not. But, as Ive concluded above 
that it was suitable  for him, I dont think that clearer information  would have  changed 
Mr Fs mind and stopped  him taking it;
This means  that Mr F hasnt lost out because of anything that Intrinsic might  have  
omitted to do or done wrong  during  the sale. So theres nothing  I require it to put right.
As Ive explained above, Ive considered everything that Mr F has told us. This includes that 
he says that he was caught by limitations in the policy  which meant that there was no 
prospect of any claim being successful on the policy for several years.  He has told us that 
this was because I was nothing and the policy paid out in relation to my income. Im not 
quite clear what Mr F meant by this. But the record of Intrinsics interview with Mr F says that 
he was in employment at time of the sale. And the level of his income, also recorded, was 
such that it wouldnt have  reduced the monthly benefit to which he was entitled. So I find 
that, at the time he bought  the MPPI, Mr Fs earnings were such  that they wouldnt have 
limited any claim  to which he would have been  entitled. So this and Mr Fs other  comments  
dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out my decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5947630