K821x#15Complaint
Miss K complains  that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited has mishandled her account 
and had charged her for money she didnt owe.
Background
Miss K has had an account with Shop Direct  for many years. She fell into arrears  and 
entered into arrangements to pay. She has made a number of complaints and in November  
2017 she contacted Shop Direct to make the complaint which is the basis of this decision. 
She said that it had been agreed  that her account  would  be placed on hold in 2014 for 36 
months and she would pay £1 a month.
In May 2015  a revised arrangement was put in place under which  she agreed to pay £5 per 
month. However she was contacted by Shop Direct in October 2017 and told the 
arrangement had come to an end. It was agreed the account would be put on hold for 28 
days while Miss K contacted her debt management  charity to pull together an up to date 
income and expenditure statement.
Miss K says she asked  for recordings of all the calls she had with the business in recent  
years. Shortly after this she says her credit file was updated to record  her debt with the 
business as default level 6 as if she hadnt made the agreed  payments. 
Miss K made several more calls in October one of which was problematic as the line was 
poor and she felt that the call handler  hadnt  been helpful. In the subsequent call she said 
the income and expenditure  document would  be sent soon and she says she was told her 
account would remain on hold for 28 days and interest and charges would be frozen.
She was told the fee for her subject access request for the phone call recordings would  be 
added to her account. This proved to be inaccurate. She also says she was told all the 
relevant documents had been  sent to her on 19 October. She says these werent received. 
In her letter of complaint  dated 12 November she listed 41 calls for which she wanted  copies  
of the recordings. These ran from August 2015  to October 2017.
She said she believed  she owed somewhere in the region of 2,133 and not £6,423.38. She 
asked that her credit file be amended  as a matter of urgency and her account and the 
various calls be investigated thoroughly.  She also asked that her account be frozen  of all 
charges and interest and charges for the next three years.
Ship Direct responded in January 2018  and said its records show  the following 
arrangements were in place on the account:
Arrangement first due date: 28/03/2014 Last instalment due: 25/04/2014
Arrangement first due date: 12/09/2014 Last instalment due: 10/10/2014
Arrangement first due date: 07/11/2014 Last instalment due: 14/07/2017
Arrangement first due date: 19/06/2015 Last instalment due: 23/02/2018
It said the latest arrangement was still in place  and payment had been received. It said it 
would have Miss Ks credit file amended to reflect this. It apologised for the incorrect 
Ref: DRN57261732information about the payment for the subject access  request. It also noted that Miss K had 
not been charged interest since July 2014 and the last administration charge  had been  made  
in May 2015.  It went on to list seven complaints Miss K had made which  it said had been 
dealt with. However, it upheld her complaint  and arranged for a payment of £120 to be 
made. 
Miss K brought her complaint to this service where  it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended  it be upheld. She said that any of the issues  covered in the 
decision issued by an ombudsman in 2014 couldnt be considered  as that was a final 
decision. She said she could look at any issues regarding the calculation of the debt that fell 
after that decision if Miss K could  provide  any further  evidence and an explanation  of the 
errors.
Our investigator referred  to the final arrangement  plan and said Shop Direct had been 
unable to provide  a recording  of the call where this was agreed.  However, looking at the 
information she had seen she considered Shop  Direct hadnt made it sufficiently clear that 
the overpayments she had made  would cause the arrangement  to end early. She 
recommended the business amend her credit file to show she was in an arrangement until 
23 February 2018. She also thought  it should  increase the compensation to £200.
She didnt  believe  there  was a basis for continuing  to freeze the interest and suggested 
Miss K contact  Shop  Direct with income and expenditure details.
Mis K didnt agree and said she was still waiting  for copies of the 42 calls as they contained 
information relevant  to her complaint. She said a letter detailing  her finances had been sent 
to Shop Direct  many  months  previously and she was awaiting its response.  Our investigator 
said that this service wasnt responsible for the supply of the call recordings and this fell 
within the ambit of the Information Commissioners Office. She also said that while Miss Ks 
debt management  charity had contacted Shop Direct the process  wasnt  completed as a far 
as she was aware.
Shop Direct said that after a further review it concluded Miss K was unlikely to be able to 
clear her account and it proposed refunding all interest amounting  to £547.48 and 
administration charges on the account. It agreed to pay Miss K £75 the proposed  additional 
compensation. It also said that it would default the account and backdate  that default to June 
2014 as it was clear  that at that point the account wouldnt have been brought  up to date in a 
reasonable time.
It also said that the arrangement to pay had left her in a worse  position than if she had 
simply not paid anything and by backdating the default it meant her credit file would be 
cleared by 2020 and following this it would placed with its internal debt recovery department 
and it wouldnt pursue her for the outstanding  debt. 
In the meantime Miss K contacted Shop Direct  to set up a payment  plan and says she was 
told this couldnt  be done while her complaint as being  considered  by this service. She says 
she was also told that her debt would be sold. Shop Direct apologised and explained that the 
call handler didnt have  access  to the complaint information.
Miss K said that she accepted she owed a proportion  of the sum claimed and proposed she 
pay £2,500 by instalments, interest  be frozen,  her credit file updated  and £200 compensation 
be paid by bank  transfer. Shop Direct didnt understand  why Miss K was offering to pay a 
debt it was prepared  to forget.
Ref: DRN57261733My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service  is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award  redress where  appropriate.  I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have  the power to make rules for financial businesses  or 
to punish them.
Miss K complained about Shop Direct some years ago and that was considered  by one of 
my colleagues who issued final decision in March 2014. Amongst  other matters  the decision 
dealt with the sums charged by the business for various items and the lack of telephone call 
records made available to her. My colleague concluded that Shop Direct had refunded  
charges for disputed  items and he didnt consider there were any grounds to believe the sum 
it was charging was wrong.  Nor did he think there were grounds  for upholding any aspect of 
her complaint.
A final decision is, as it says, final and it is not open to me to revisit those issues  covered by 
that decision. It is clear  Miss K is extremely unhappy  with the behaviour  of Shop Direct and 
she has sought to revisit  her earlier concerns,  but I will limit this decision  to matters 
subsequent to those covered in the March 2014 decision.  I would add that I appreciate that 
her personal  circumstances caused  her to defer pursuing her concerns for several years.
On the matter of the phone recordings requested by Miss K this is an issue which falls to the 
Information Commissioners Office  to consider and it is not one for this service, as has been 
pointed out by the adjudicator.
Miss K says the correct balance due is £2,133 less the sums she has paid. I have  seen 
nothing to show how that that figure has been calculated. However, I am satisfied her 
account was in arrears  and she entered into a number of payment arrangements. It seems 
there has been some confusion about  the state of her account and what  payments were  
due. She has made some  overpayments and these have also had an impact on her account.  
Shop Direct has accepted that it hadnt  made it clear to Miss K the impact the overpayments  
would have and it also accepted that it had been  wrong in not realising  her last arrangement 
was still in place  until 23 February 2018  and payments had been received as arranged.  It 
agreed to have her credit  file amended to reflect that. It also agreed she had been given 
incorrect information about the payment for the subject access request. For these errors it 
offered her compensation of £120. I consider that to be reasonable.
Miss K says the answers to her concerns can be found in the call recordings. I am not 
persuaded this is the case. In short, I have seen nothing that would allow  me to question the 
sum sought by Shop  Direct and as for the handling of her account I believe there have been 
some errors as set out above, but nothing that would cause me to agree  with Miss Ks 
proposals. The statements for her account  set out the balance  and as I have said I cannot  
reopen the conclusions of my colleague,  not that I have seen grounds to do so. 
Regardless of the sum due Miss K has been in arrears and that will have an impact on her 
credit file. I have seen nothing that would allow me to conclude that it should be amended or 
Ref: DRN57261734that it be wiped clean. However,  Shop  Direct has decided to make  an offer to settle the 
complaint which  goes beyond what I would have  recommended.
As such I consider Shop Directs recent offer to be fair and reasonable. In essence  it says 
the sum it has been seeking is right, but it recognises Miss K is unlikely to ever be able to 
repay it. As such it wont  write off the debt, but it wont  seek payment either. I appreciate  
Miss K has said she believe she owes some £2,500 and is willing to pay this. It remains 
open to her to do so, but the business is not asking for that money to be paid. It has also 
agreed to backdate the default to June 2014  which  means it will fall off her credit file in the 
summer of 2020 which is earlier than it otherwise would. 
It has also agreed to pay compensation of £200  direct to Miss K. I consider this to be fair for 
the errors  it has made, but for the avoidance  of doubt I dont believe it has behaved  
appallingly as claimed by Miss K.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I direct Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited  to pay Miss K compensation of £200. I appreciate it has sent her cheque  
for part of this, but I believe this hasnt been  cashed. If that is the case the business should 
arrange for it to be paid again. In order to formalise matters  I also direct the business to 
refund interest  charges  from March  2014  and default the account  with effect from June 2014. 
It should also put the account into its internal debt recovery department such  that it doesnt  
seek payment from Miss K and the debt should  not be sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October  2019.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5726173