K820x#14complaint
Miss W says Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold  her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss W applied for a credit  card in 2004.  The PPI was added to the credit  card at the same  
time and covered her repayments if she couldnt  work due to disability or unemployment. It 
also included life and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Miss W disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Miss Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Halifax should have  made it clear  to Miss W that the PPI was optional and got her 
agreement before adding it. While I cant be sure what was said in the meeting, Ive looked  
closely at all of the information I have about  this sale,  including what Miss Ws said about  not 
being made aware the PPI was optional.
Halifax has sent me a copy of the credit card application Miss W signed and dated. It 
included a clear  and prominent  box to mark if she wanted PPI and a separate  box next to it 
for another  insurance  product it was selling.  Theres a printed cross in the PPI box, but not in 
the other box. I think the application, together with experience of how Halifax sold PPI at the 
time, suggest there was a discussion between Miss W and the adviser about insurance.  And 
that she chose  to take PPI, knowing she didnt have to.
I think Halifax recommended the PPI to Miss W. This means  it had to look into whether PPI 
was right for her. I dont  know if it did that. But, from what Halifax  has sent me and what  
Miss Ws told me about her circumstances at the time of the sale,  I think  the PPI was right 
for her in any case because:
She was eligible for the PPI. And I dont think she was affected  by any of the main 
things the PPI excluded or limited cover for. 
She says she was entitled to generous sick pay and some redundancy pay from her 
public sector employer.  But the PPI benefits would have paid out on top of that, and 
for longer  at up to 12 months  per claim. Overall, I think  the PPI would have been of 
use to her. 
Theres nothing to suggest Miss W couldnt  afford the PPI. And, if she no longer 
wanted it, the PPI was flexible  enough  that she could  have  cancelled  it at no extra  
cost.
Ref: DRN55810732Halifax also had to make  sure it told Miss W enough  about the PPI for her to make up her 
own mind about whether  it was right for her. And it had to do this in a clear,  fair and not 
misleading way. I dont know for sure how much information Halifax  gave Miss W or how 
well it was explained. But, for the same  reasons I think the PPI was right for her, I dont think 
better information would  have  made a difference to her decision to take it out.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss W paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Miss W back  some of the cost of 
the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Miss W now Ive issued my final decision, if it hasnt 
already done so.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5581073