K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with Ageas Insurance Limited for declining  their claims and 
voiding (cancelling from the start) their home insurance policy for misrepresentation 
(providing incorrect answers  to questions).
Ill refer to Mr M throughout this decision. The property in question is owned by Mr and 
Mrs M but was let to a tenant.
background
Mr M made a claim once  he became aware  of the roof leaking.  A contractor found that lead 
had been removed and this was the cause of the leak. The impression given was that the 
tenant had caused this.
There had been  issues with the tenant  and after theyd moved out Mr M inspected the 
property and found pipes and the kitchen and bathroom had been  damaged.  The water 
damage was extensive. Mr M made a claim and Ageas reviewed it. Mr M confirmed  that the 
tenants rent had been funded by a government  department and because  of this Ageas 
declined the claim  and voided  the policy. Unhappy with this Mr M brought  his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He referred to The Consumer  Insurance  
(Directive and Representations) Act 2012  (CIDRA) and the requirement for consumers  to 
provide accurate information and not to make a misrepresentation.
Our investigator said it was Mr Ms responsibility to make sure that any information  he 
provided was correct. He confirmed based  on Ageass acceptance criteria that if the tenants  
were funded through the Department for Work and Pensions then policy cover wouldve 
been declined.  He said Ageas decision to decline the claim, void the policy and refund the 
premiums was reasonable  as this was a qualifying misrepresentation.
Mr M didnt  accept this and asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision. Mr M also said he took advice from a broker  and so our investigator confirmed 
that If Mr M felt that there was an issue with the way the broker sold the policy Mr M could 
complain to the broker.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has raised many further  and extra points that our investigator has been through  in 
detail. For the purpose of this decision I confirm Ive seen and reviewed everything Mr M has 
put forward for consideration. But Im going to deal only with the central facts around what  
actually happened  and how Ageas dealt with that.
The relevant  law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers  to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer contract  (a policy). The standard of care 
required is that of a reasonable consumer.
Ref: DRN53639422And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes  as a qualifying  misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation  the insurer has to show it wouldve offered the policy  on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt  made the misrepresentation 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding  whether  the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers  questions were.  And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA  depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless, 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer  can show  it wouldve at 
least offered the policy on different terms, its entitled to void the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid  the policy, the insurer must show  it wouldnt 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation.
If the insurer is entitled to void the policy, it means  it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying  misrepresentation was careless and the insurer wouldve charged  a 
higher premium if the consumer hadnt  made the misrepresentation, it will have  to consider 
the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it.
Mr M was responsible when he set the policy up and at each subsequent renewal to ensure  
he didnt misrepresent. Within the details Ageas asked this question:  
Is the property rented to tenants funding rent through  the Department  of Work and 
Pensions?
Mr Ms answer was no. Mr M has told us that he didnt know the answer and that he said 
so. This is different to the answer recorded  on the policy  detail. Mr M said he told the broker  
he didnt know but as mentioned above thats  a separate  point he needs to take up with the 
broker. From  the point of view of this policy it was recorded as no, and Ageas has provided 
details from its acceptance  criteria  to show that if it had been  told the answer was yes it 
would never  have offered Mr M a policy as it wouldve been  outside its criteria.
As our investigator pointed out  the responsibility for knowing the answer to this question 
lay with Mr M. It was down to Mr M to make sure the information provided to Ageas was 
right.
Based on the acceptance criteria  Im satisfied that Ageas has shown that if it had been told 
the right answers  it would never have offered a policy to Mr M. I think  Mr M failed to take 
reasonable care because  he says he didnt know the answer but then took no action to find 
out. Instead Mr M just went  ahead  so he failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. I think this was a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation. So, I think  this 
is a qualifying misrepresentation and Ageas was entitled to void the policy, refund the 
premiums and decline any claims in line with CIDRA. It means Ageas could treat the policy 
as if it never  existed. I think this is a fair and reasonable outcome.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
I make  no award against Ageas Insurance Limited.
Ref: DRN53639423Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2020.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5363942