K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Vauxhall Finance plc has refused to carry out repairs  to the front 
sensors on her car free of charge. Shes  also unhappy that Vauxhall  supplied her with a car 
that had parking sensors which werent  factory fitted. As a result, she feels  the finance 
agreement was mis-sold.
background
In April 2015 Mrs W was supplied with a brand new car and entered  into a conditional  sale 
agreement with Vauxhall Finance.
In May 2018  the front parking sensors stopped working. The 3 year warranty on the car had 
expired so Mrs W took the car to an independent garage who told her that the sensors 
werent factory fitted and would  therefore be expensive to repair.
Mrs W is unhappy because she says she specified and paid for factory  fitted  sensors at the 
point of supply.  She feels that there  has been  a breach of contract and wants Vauxhall  to 
repair the front sensors free of charge.
In its final response Vauxhall  Finance said the 3 year warranty had expired so Mrs W was 
responsible for the costs of repair  in any event. It also said that the sensors were optional 
extras purchased  at additional  cost at the point  of sale and as a result were  not factory fitted 
but fitted by a third party Vauxhall  approved company that fits XVision parking sensors.
Mrs W wasnt happy with the response  so she complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that the specification for the car which 
was supplied to Mrs W didnt include parking sensors and that hed seen evidence that the 
sensors were fitted as an optional extra by a third party company. The investigator also said 
that even if the car did have factory fitted sensors, Mrs W would be responsible  for the costs 
of repairing  these as the car was out of warranty.
Mrs W didnt agree. She said she wasnt disputing that the warranty  had expired. She said 
she remembered choosing and paying for factory fitted parking sensors  when she visited  the 
dealership. She said the sale documentation  listed front and rear parking sensors under 
Vehicle - special bodywork factory  fitted options and that there  had been  a breach of 
contract and/or a misrepresentation. Mrs W also said that the independent garage had told 
her that if the sensors had been  factory fitted they would  be easy and cheap  to repair. But 
because the sensors  were not factory fitted the repairs were  likely to cost more.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive approached Mrs Ws complaint from the perspective that theres  been a 
misrepresentation and/or a breach of contract.  A misrepresentation is an untrue  statement 
of fact that causes  the consumer to go ahead  with the contract. A breach  of contract is 
where the supplier  fails to do what the contract  says it must.
Ive looked at the Vehicle  Order Form to decide  whether the car was represented as having 
factory fitted sensors. The heading  on the form says Vehicle  Special Bodywork, Factory  
Ref: DRN57354842Fitted Options. Underneath it says Front  and rear parking sensors  and Metallic  
Peppermint Green. Vauxhall has explained  that the front and rear parking sensors fall into 
the Special Bodywork  category and that it is the metallic paint which is done at the factory.
Ive also looked  at the specification for Mrs Ws car (the Excite). This doesnt show  the car 
as coming with factory fitted  parking  sensors.  So the only way in which this car could ever 
have parking sensors would be to have them fitted  as an optional extra.  Fitted  in this 
context doesnt  mean  factory  fitted but rather fitted by a third party. I can understand why 
confusion may have arisen because the order form could have been made clearer  but I cant 
say that this amounts to a misrepresentation or a breach of contract  as theres no evidence 
that the car was represented as having  (or came with the ability  to have)  factory fitted 
parking sensors.  The Vehicle Order form and the vehicle specification  point to the contrary.  
Ive noted Mrs Ws comments  that its more expensive to repair a non factory fitted  sensor 
than a factory fitted sensor. Vauxhall  has said the opposite   that it would be more  
expensive to change  a factory fitted sensor  than a non factory  fitted sensor as the 
manufacturers items are usually more expensive than non-manufacturer fitted items. I 
havent been provided with any evidence of the cost of repairing a factory fitted sensor  or a 
non factory  fitted  sensor  so Im unable to compare  these  or to say whether one is more  
expensive than the other.
Ive taken account of Mrs Ws comments that the salesman told her the sensors  would be 
factory fitted. I wasnt present when  Mrs W visited the dealership so I cant  be certain of 
exactly what was said. There are no notes  of the conversation. I understand that the 
salesperson that assisted  Mrs W is no longer employed by the dealership so it hasnt been  
possible to obtain  a statement from him. In the circumstances,  I have to base my decision on 
the documents which were available and/or came into existence  at the time. And as Ive said 
above, those documents  point towards the sensors  being fitted by a third party  as an 
optional extra.
I appreciate Mrs Ws frustration but in respect  of her comments that factory fitted sensors  
would still be working Im unable to safely conclude that this would be the case. 
Unfortunately, as cars get older, the component parts  suffer wear and tear. Theres  nothing  
to say that even  if factory  fitted  sensors  had been  fitted that these wouldnt also have failed.
I can only hold Vauxhall Finance  responsible  for the costs of repairs  if Im satisfied that 
theres been a misrepresentation  or a breach of contract. On the available evidence, Im not 
satisfied that this has been shown.  So it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Vauxhall to cover the 
costs of repairs to the sensors.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5735484