K822xcomplaint
Mrs H complains that Equiniti Financial  Services Limited (trading as Selftrade)  removed 
some shares from her SIPP without her authority and then failed to return  them  to the SIPP 
or to sell them.
background 
Mrs H held an investment account  with Selftrade under her SIPP. In February 2016, 
Selftrade notified Mrs H that some  shares within her account were being  de-listed from the 
UK stock exchange. Mrs H was given  the option to sell the shares or later was given the 
option to keep them within Crest  in the SIPP. In error, Selftrade removed the shares from the 
account and issued a share certificate. Selftrade didnt notify Mrs H that this had happened.
In or around June  2016 Mrs H was unable to see the shares in her account,  so she 
contacted Selftrade. It took some time for Selftrade  to work out what had happened.  In 
August 2017,  Selftrade asked Mrs H to complete and return forms so that the stock could be 
deposited in Crest and transferred back to the SIPP. Mrs H returned the forms. In April 2018, 
Mrs H was informed that the forms and share  certificates were missing. She was asked to 
complete them again, which she did. Mrs Hs representative gave instructions for the shares  
to be sold on the US stock market in or round 2017  and a further  request  was made in 
March 2018. Mrs H says she lost the chance  to sell the shares  as they were effectively 
frozen and Selftrade continued  to fail to take steps to rectify their mistakes.  Mrs H was 
concerned about  her tax position as dividends had been paid to her personally  rather  than 
into the SIPP. 
Selftrade accept  that Mrs H received less than a satisfactory service and theyve apologised 
for the distress and inconvenience this has caused.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  He thought that Selftrade could have done more 
to put things right and thought they had caused  unnecessary delays. He asked  Selftrade  to 
put the shares back into the SIPP, to restore Mrs Hs tax position  as if the shares  had never 
been removed  and to pay Mrs H £300 in compensation for the trouble and upset she had 
been caused.
Mrs Hs representative doesnt  agree  with the view. He says that Selftrade failed to sell the 
shares when they were  asked to do so, so compensation for financial loss should be given  in 
addition to an increased award for trouble and upset.
The matter  has come now to me for a decision.  Selftrade have now confirmed that the stock 
was credited back to Mrs Hs SIPP in November 2018 and dividends totalling  £281.37  were  
also credited to the account. Selftrade have confirmed they will not be asking Mrs H to return 
the dividends  that were  paid directly to her. Theyve also now agreed to pay £600 for the 
trouble and upset  caused to Mrs H.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Selftrade made a mistake  when they initially transferred the shares  out of the 
SIPP and they accept this error wasnt identified or rectified at the time. They  also accept 
Ref: DRN54630662that some  documents were lost but say this was likely down to the US postal system. In any 
event, Selftrade  didnt identify that this had happened at the time, which led to further delays. 
Selftrade have  apologised  for these  mistakes.
Having listened  to the calls, it is also clear that there  was confusion  about what had 
happened and that meant  some misleading information was given to Mrs H and/or her 
representative. Ive seen that Mrs Hs representative had to drive  this matter forwards.  In my 
view a series of errors were made  and there was a pattern of poor communication.  It is 
disappointing that it has taken nearly three  years  for Selftrade to rectify the original mistake.
putting things  right
Ive thought carefully about this. Selftrade  have now put the stock  back into the SIPP  and 
theyve credited the dividends which should have been paid in, had the stock remained in 
the SIPP. Selftrade have agreed  not to pursue  Mrs H for the dividends  that were  paid to her 
personally and I think  thats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  Ive taken into account 
that Mrs H has had the benefit of keeping the sums paid directly  to her. Selftrade have also 
confirmed that they will indemnify  Mrs H for any adverse tax consequences,  should they 
arise. Again I consider that is fair and reasonable.
I accept this matter has caused  Mrs H distress and inconvenience  over an extended period 
of time. Selftrade didnt  handle this matter well. At times misleading  information was given 
and Ive seen  that Mrs H had to push for updates. Selftrade also failed to act on and give 
clear information in response to requests for the stock to be sold. As the stock  is now back  in 
the SIPP, I dont  think it is fair to award separate compensation  for the loss of a chance  of 
selling that stock and I cant  fairly say what might have happened. However, I do accept that 
requests were likely  made and the confusion around  this likely increased the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs H. Selftrade have  also confirmed that despite putting the 
shares back into the SIPP in November, they didnt communicate this to Mrs H and didnt tell 
her they wouldnt be pursuing her for the dividends. In my view the pattern of poor 
communication has continued  since our investigator considered  the complaint.
Mrs Hs representative feels a significant  fine should  be made. I dont  underestimate the 
strength of feeling  surrounding this matter,  its clear this has been  a very frustrating time. But 
I think its helpful if I explain our role. We provide an informal, dispute resolution service, 
where we consider each case on its own facts. We have no regulatory  or disciplinary role. 
Where things have gone  wrong, we make awards  to compensate  consumers for the trouble 
and upset they have suffered on a fair and reasonable basis.
Taking everything into account,  I think it is fair and reasonable to compensate  Mrs H for 
distress and inconvenience she has been caused. In my view £600  is a fair and reasonable 
award in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am upholding this complaint. I direct  Equiniti Financial Services 
Limited to put things  right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Ref: DRN54630663Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5463066