K820x#14complaint
Mr Ws complaint  is about the time taken to transfer  his self-invested personal (SIPP) from 
his existing provider  to a new SIPP with James  Hay Administration Company Limited and 
the delay in accessing his pension benefits,  in particular  his pension commencement  lump 
sum (PCLS). 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 21 April 2020. I didnt uphold the complaint. Essentially I 
said I didnt think there  was any unreasonable or unnecessary delay on James  Hays part in 
dealing with the matter. Nor did I think James Hay was responsible for any financial  loss that 
Mr W had suffered because the payment of his PCLS was delayed. And I didnt think James 
Hay was responsible for the distress  and inconvenience Mr W has suffered.  
James Hay accepted  that and didnt have  anything further to add. Mr W asked me to 
reconsider. He confirmed his property purchase was already  underway  by the time he 
needed to tell his existing  SIPP provider  if he didnt consent to the transfer. But the point 
wasnt that he had time to make other arrangements.  There  wouldnt have been  a problem if 
the transfer had been  completed within a reasonable  time, even if thered been some delay. 
Mr W explained that he didnt know what the build costs for the new house he wanted  to 
build would  be. Various site tests  were undertaken and a quantity surveyor had been  
appointed to cost the build options. Mr W requested the PCLS  at the end of January 2016  as 
he wanted to submit a planning application,  detailing the house size and construction.  The 
amount of money  available  directly impacted on that and the timing of the planning 
application. Mr W needed the PCLS to help fund the project. He needed to know how much  
he had to spend so the planning application  was delayed  until June 2016. Hed been told 
then by all parties that hed get the PCLS in September  2016.  
Mr W noted what Id said about it not being in dispute that the transfer had taken much 
longer than any of the parties  involved anticipated. Just focusing  on a claim for interest  for 
late payment Mr W calculated he should have received a PCLS of £300,468.83 on 31 March 
2016 (thats  after making an allowance for the increase in value he gained because  the fund 
stayed invested). Interest  at 8% is £24,037.48 a year or £2,003.12 a month. Mr W calculated  
total interest of £22,725 as due. Taking  into account  the investment gain and if another  party 
paid the compensation Id suggested that left a shortfall of £13,997.83  plus distress  and 
inconvenience. Mr W said it has been established  there was a long delay. So responsibility  
should be met between the parties involved. 
He added that the situation wasnt of his making   it was due to his existing provider 
withdrawing from the SIPP market. Being given the chance to opt out was only slightly better 
than given no choice  at all. If hed been asked to opt in then that would have given a clear 
message that he understood  and accepted  the implications. Opting out required a lot of 
knowledge about a specialist area. 
Id said that SIPP providers werent expected to second guess a mortgagees  requirements. 
But it was entirely  reasonable to expect them to have adequate knowledge of the processes 
involved and not assume that novation would be acceptable to a lender  and that the lender 
would consent.  That demonstrated inadequate knowledge of their specialist fields.  
The information provided did say the transfer  could take some time and that requesting a 
PCLS after the transfer process had started would  delay  the transfer. But that was vague. It 
Ref: DRN58915222could be assumed the delay might be anything from a few days to a few weeks. Hed applied 
for the PCLS in January 2016 expecting to receive  it by the end of March 2016.  His existing 
SIPP provider usually  quoted a timescale of between one and six months.  Instead  the 
transfer had taken about seventeen months. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered elsewhere the impact of the delayed payment of the PCLS on Mr Ws 
building project.  Essentially  I said planning  permission had been  applied for in June  2016  
and granted in September 2016.  But work hadnt  commenced until late November 2017. So 
it seemed his building project  hadnt been delayed by the fact that the PCLS (or the bulk of it 
at least) wasnt paid until January 2017.
It seems  from what Mr W has more recently  said that he wanted  the certainty and security of 
the PCLS actually  having been  paid before deciding on the final design and build options 
and the costs before submitting a planning  application. I can understand why Mr W may 
have perhaps felt more  comfortable in waiting until the PCLS  had been paid or was, so he 
was told, fairly imminent. But I think that was his decision. Building costs are generally only 
estimates. I think  Mr W would have  known, as far as possible, the expected cost of the 
various options. And he knew  what his PCLS was likely to be, or he could have asked his 
adviser for an up to date estimate. I dont  think it would be reasonable to say the fact that the 
PCLS hadnt actually  been paid stopped him moving  forward  with his building project when 
he knew the amount  of the PCLS that was available and which  would be paid eventually. 
Ive also considered Mr Ws interest  calculations. But they are based  on the assumption that 
he applied  for his PCLS in January 2016  and it had been paid in March 2016.  I dont think 
that sort of timescale, given the commercial property held in the SIPP,  was realistic. And, as 
far as James  Hay is concerned, it wasnt until March 2016  that accessing  the PCLS  was 
mentioned to James  Hay who said the transfer needed to be completed first. So I cant 
agree with Mr W that hes entitled to interest  for delayed payment from March 2016.  When  
Mr W did need to access his PCLS, James Hay made special arrangement to facilitate the 
payment of the bulk of the PCLS.  And its possible,  if Mr W had made  it clear  earlier  that he 
needed the PCLS urgently, James Hay would  have helped him then.  
It was unfortunate  that it wasnt possible to novate the loan as planned initially.  But I dont 
think that points  to a lack of expertise on James Hays (or the existing SIPP providers) part. 
They may have  considerable experience of dealing with mortgaged  commercial properties 
held in SIPPs. But different lenders requirements  will vary, depending  on the particular 
property and other factors. 
As Ive acknowledged there was a considerable delay in completing the transfer.  But 
sometimes a transaction  will turn out to be particularly complex and take more time than 
could have been anticipated. But that wont always mean that one or more of the parties 
involved must have been  at fault.  Or that all the delays could have been avoided. From what  
Ive seen James Hay was proactive, turned things round  promptly  and generally tried to 
move the transfer  forward.  
Ref: DRN58915223my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against James  Hay Administration Company Limited and Im 
not making any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.  
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN58915224PROVISIONAL DECISION dated 21 April 2020
complaint
Mr Ws complaint  is about  the time taken to transfer his self-invested personal  (SIPP) from his existing 
provider to a new SIPP with James Hay Administration  Company Limited  and the delay in accessing  
his pension benefits,  in particular his pension  commencement lump sum (PCLS). 
background
Mr Ws existing SIPP provider wrote to its SIPP  customers  in July 2015 to tell them  its third party  SIPP 
administrator had decided to withdraw from the market. Mr Ws SIPP provider had decided not to find 
another third party administrator. If the value  of the self invested assets held in the SIPP was over 
£1,000 theyd  be transferred to a new SIPP  with James Hay. The insured funds could stay with the 
existing provider (unless their value  was less than £1,000). 
Customers who agreed to the transfer didnt have to do anything. Those who wanted to opt out 
needed to tell the existing  provider by 28 September 2015. If it didnt hear by then it would go ahead  
and begin the transfer of the self invested assets to James Hay in October  2015.   
The information provided said the transfer could take some time.  And, if a PCLS  was requested, that 
might delay matters.  A property transfer guide was supplied. Amongst  other things, it explained  the 
outgoing administrator and James  Hay had agreed  a streamlined process  for property transfers. 
Solicitors would be jointly instructed. If there was a mortgage  in place, a novation agreement would be 
used, where  possible, to transfer the existing mortgage to the new SIPP provider.   
Mr W didnt  opt out. His SIPP contained a commercial  property  so that had to be transferred to the 
new SIPP. The property  was subject to a mortgage. In November 2015 the outgoing administrator 
asked the mortgagee to commence the novation process of the loan. 
Unfortunately the re-registration of the loan to James  Hay was protracted and this delayed the 
transfer of the commercial  property to James Hay. 
Towards the end of January 2016 Mr W wanted his PCLS to be paid. On 18 March 2016 his 
independent financial  adviser (IFA) had a conversation with James Hay about Mr W accessing his 
pension benefits. Following that James  Hay emailed the IFA forms for completion  and return. James 
Hay told Mr Ws IFA that under James Hays  SIPP  terms and conditions benefits could only be 
calculated and paid once the transfer had been  fully completed. 
Between August  2016  and January 2017 Mr Ws IFA continued to query progress  and highlighted  Mr 
Ws increasing frustration.  On 5 January 2017  Mr W said hed be taking legal  proceedings and 
making the press  aware if he didnt  get paid by 26 January 2017  he said that was a year after hed 
first requested payment.  
James Hay paid £249,081 in January 2017.  The property transfer  completed in March 2017.  James 
Hay paid the balance of the PCLS - £54,200 - on 16 August 2017.  
Mr W had by then complained to James Hay. It didnt  uphold his complaint. It said thered  been a 
considerable amount of correspondence between the mortgagee and its solicitors. James  Hay noted 
that Mr W had already complained to the mortgagee whod accepted responsibility for the delay. 
James Hay had agreed to pay Mr W as much  of his PCLS  as it could, whilst the final element of the 
transfer, the property,  was still awaited. James  Hay described that as a non standard approach  
agreed internally  as it was acutely aware of the extended timescale taken  so far for Mr W to access 
his pension fund and to mitigate the impact of waiting even  longer. Once the property had been 
transferred the balance of the PCLS due to Mr W could be calculated.  
Ref: DRN58915225James Hay was satisfied  it hadnt caused any delays and had responded to every request from the 
mortgagee in a timely way. 
One of adjudicators looked  into what had happened. James Hay provided a very detailed response to 
the complaint (its letter dated 25 January 2018). Mr W has seen that letter. So Im not going to set out 
here all James Hay said. 
The adjudicator acknowledged that the transfer of the SIPP had taken a long time.  But he didnt think  
James Hay had caused  any unreasonable delays. He said the in specie  property transfer  which 
involved re-registration of the mortgage to James Hay and when simply novating  the loan hadnt 
proved possible    had taken several months. Mr W hadnt  been able to access  his PCLS  in January 
2016 but at that point James  Hay was waiting for the funds to be transferred from Mr Ws existing  
SIPP provider. And James Hay had made a payment to Mr W in January 2017  before the in specie  
transfer of the property  had been completed and when James Hay could have insisted on that 
happening first. 
We later asked James Hay for some  further information about what had happened between March 
2017 and August  2017,  leading  up to the payment of the balance of the PCLS. James Hay replied in 
detail and Mr W has seen that response. So again Im not going to set out here all James Hay said. 
But, in summary, James Hay said there were  complicating factors which meant the payment couldnt 
be made until August 2017. 
Mr W didnt  accept the adjudicators view. He said the whole thing caused him and his wife 
considerable distress. In November 2015 theyd purchased an old bungalow, intending to demolish it 
and build a new house. The majority of the build  cost was to be paid for by the PCLS  which Mr W 
applied for in January 2016. He was unable to access the major  part of it until late January  2017.  He 
couldnt start the work until after then and so there was a delay in completing the build. Mr W said he 
could have received a monthly rental income  of £4,000 for the new house and because of the delay  
hed incurred  a loss of £30,800. He later said the delay meant he couldnt  move into the property as 
soon as hed planned and so he and his wife had to stay in rental  accommodation longer than theyd 
budgeted for at a total extra cost of £17,000. 
Mr W said his understanding was that if someone was unable to access money that was his, he 
should get interest at 8% above Bank of England base rate. Mr W said hed asked for his PCLS  
(about £305,000)  on 26 January 2016. Hed been  paid £249,081 on 12 January  2017,  352 days after 
hed applied.  And a further £54,000 on 16 August 2017, 568 days after applying. It shouldnt take 
more than 28 days to access his money. Allowing for that and applying interest at 8.5% was 
£18,793.67 on the first payment and £6,790.68 on the second, in total £25,584.35.
Even taking  into account the increase in his fund value and what hed been offered (by other parties) 
hed still lost out. He also queried the increase in the value and whether  some of it was income from 
the property  or all a return on investments. And why if the transfer (of the insured funds) took place on 
3 June 2016  it had then taken James Hay until January 2017 to make an interim payment. He said 
the only reason for the interim payment was that he was threatening  legal action.  
Mr W also said that James  Hay should have realised that a novation agreement wouldnt suffice  
James Hay has some  40 years experience in managing pensions and so should  have  been aware  of 
the legal position  in transferring ownership of the property. Mr W didnt feel the solicitors instructed 
were the most  efficient and the person dealing with the matter only worked part time.  None of the 
parties involved  cared how long the process took  there was no extra income for any of them  in 
expediting the transfer. 
Mr W has said hed settle for £25,584.35 for not having access  to his money and a further £17,000 for 
the extra  rent hed had to pay. He said he wasnt qualified on how that should  be apportioned  
between the parties hed complained about.  
my provisional  findings
Ref: DRN58915226Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I sympathise with Mr W that, following  his existing providers decision to withdraw from this sector of 
the market, Mr W had to transfer his SIPP to a new provider. Mr W didnt instigate the transfer and the 
timing was particularly inconvenient for him given his property purchase and his need to access  his 
PCLS to fund his building project.  
A further issue is that, although the whole process was instigated by Mr Ws existing provider,  a 
number of other parties were involved in the transfer.  Mr W has complained not just about  James Hay 
but about  his existing SIPP provider and the mortgagee of the commercial property held in his SIPP. 
Weve dealt  with those complaints under separate references. But weve  considered all three 
complaints together.  Mr W is also critical of the solicitors acting  for the mortgagee and Mr Ws existing 
SIPP provider. The solicitors arent strictly within our jurisdiction but Ive treated them as agents for 
the parties they were  acting  for. I havent looked separately  at the solicitors part in the matter. 
I dont think theres any dispute that the transfer took much longer  than Mr W or any of the other 
parties involved  anticipated. I accept the transfer wasnt straightforward. The SIPP  held a commercial  
property subject to a loan. I think it was always likely that would cause some issues.  At the outset a 
relatively simple loan novation  was anticipated. But it seems that wasnt possible and a new loan 
agreement had to be set up. 
I dont see that James  Hay is responsible for requirements imposed by the mortgagee. I dont agree  
with Mr W that James  Hay should have known that a novation agreement wouldnt suffice. Despite 
James Hays experience in this sector of the industry I maintain that it cant  be expected to second  
guess a particular  mortgagees requirements. Nor is James Hay responsible for delays on the 
mortgagees part. 
All Im looking at here is what James Hay did (or didnt do). Ive considered very carefully the 
information which James Hay has provided and which  sets out its involvement in the matter  in detail 
and, in particular,  its dealings with the mortgagee of the commercial property.  From what Ive seen I 
dont think James Hay was responsible for any delays. It seems to have tried to move  things forward  
quickly. For example,  when  revised loan documentation  was set to James Hay on 15 June 2016 
James Hay reviewed it and returned the slightly  amended  documentation to the mortgagee within an 
hour or so. 
I can see that there were a number of instances where James Hay didnt  hear back from the 
mortgagee or its solicitors  as promised.  James Hay seems to have  chased up replies in an attempt  to 
keep the matter  moving. For example, James Hay, having been  told by the mortgagee  on 23 June 
2016 that documents  would be posted that day, chased the mortgagee  up on 12 and 20 July 2016 
and 2 August  2016.
Mr W may have thought James Hays  comments on the new loan agreement added to the time taken. 
But I think James Hays  approach  was correct and aimed at protecting Mr Ws position by ensuring 
that the terms of the new loan, as far as possible, mirrored the existing loan facility and werent  any 
less favourable to Mr W.  
For example, I note the query around the end date for the loan: it seems that a fifteen  year term was 
initially agreed in 2006 which would mean an end date of June 2021 whereas the mortgagee  
suggested the loan facility would end in 2017.  
I think  that and other queries  were worthwhile and necessary. With hindsight James Hay suggests  it 
could perhaps have  referred matters to Mr W and his IFA but that could have resulted in further fees 
for Mr W. And theres no guarantee it would have resulted in less time being taken  overall. 
Ref: DRN58915227I note that the mortgagee did agree  the later end date which protected Mr Ws position and was to his 
advantage. And James Hay did explain that to Mr W in its email  of 24 August 2016 and copied  to Mr 
Ws IFA. The email was also copied to the other parties  the existing SIPP provider, the mortgagee 
and the solicitors   in what  was in my view a clear attempt to draw the issues about  the loan together 
and to a close and to enable the transfer to proceed. 
James Hay followed that up by emailing  the mortgagee on 9 September 2016 for an update and 
referring to the need to keep the pressure  on all concerned to get this through  without further delay  
especially with such an unhappy client.  James Hay chased the mortgagee  again  on 15 September  
2016. So I think theres clear  evidence that James  Hay was pushing  to try to get the loan and the 
transfer completed. 
Thats also demonstrated by the fact that once  it became  clear  that the mortgagee  had further legal  
requirements, the cost of which the existing  provider  agreed to cover,  James Hay asked that provider 
to expedite payment, in order that the property searches could be undertaken immediately. 
Ive seen that James  Hay did at one stage misplace a document. But I dont see that added  to the 
time taken. Although a replacement document had to be issued, agreement about  the new loan and 
drawing down  on it was still outstanding.  
James Hay made two payments in respect of Mr Ws PCLS  an interim  payment of £249,081  on 12 
January 2017 and a further payment of £54,200 on 16 August 2017.  Mr W says he requested his 
PCLS on 26 January 2016. But whatever request  may have been made to Mr Ws existing SIPP  
provider no request  was made to James Hay until September 2016.
Initially James Hays  position  was that the PCLS was only payable once the transfer had been fully 
completed. I think at that stage James Hay was probably still hopeful that the transfer would  complete 
soon. But by January 2017 that hadnt happened  and so James Hay took the unusual step of paying 
an interim PCLS. 
I think  James Hay did what it could to mitigate the situation. Mr W says James Hay could have  made 
that payment earlier. But James Hay wasnt  obliged to do make any payment then. James Hay could  
have insisted  on all aspects  of the transfer having been  completed  and the transfer of the property  
was still outstanding. But, in an effort  to mitigate Mr Ws position,  James Hay made  an interim 
payment. 
James Hays decision may well have been influenced  to some extent by Mr Ws increasing frustration 
and his indication  that he was going  to take the matter forward  by legal proceedings or involving the 
press. I note here Mr Ws email of 5 January 2017. But I dont think it would  be right to say that James 
Hay should have made  that payment sooner and when, as Ive said, it could have insisted on waiting  
until the transfer had been fully completed. 
James Hay initially approached  Mr Ws existing provider  to see if it could make a payment  of PCLS to 
Mr W. But by then the cash  funds had already been sent, at Mr Ws request, to James Hay  it held 
funds approaching  £1 million. James Hay then agreed, as a concession, to make a PCLS  payment 
based on the value of the cash and assets already  transferred  from the existing provider. James Hay 
received Mr Ws new correctly completed benefits payment form on 13 January 2017. Payment was 
then promptly made on 18 January 2017. 
There was some delay between the transfer of the property being  completed in March  2017 and 
payment of the balance of the PCLS on 16 August  2017. But, and as James Hay has explained (in its 
letter of 13 March  2018),  there were  complications  surrounding  the calculation and payment of the 
second tranche of the PCLS.  
These included an overpayment  having  been made by Mr Ws existing SIPP  provider; a new benefits 
claim form being required;  the desktop valuation of the property not being  completed until 22 June 
2017; a reconciled unit transaction statement  for one of Mr Ws holdings being  required;  and a revised 
Ref: DRN58915228Protected Lifetime Allowance Charge Certificate being issued on 13 July 2017 (which meant James 
Hays initial calculations of Mr Ws lifetime allowance done in January 2017  were incorrect). I dont 
see that James Hay was in a position  to calculate and pay the balance  of the PCLS  until those  issues, 
which werent of James Hays making, had been resolved. 
Overall I dont think there was any unreasonable or unnecessary delay on James Hays  part in 
dealing with the matter.  It follows that I dont think James Hay is responsible for any financial loss that 
Mr W says hes suffered because the payment of his PCLS was delayed.  Nor do I think that James 
Hay is responsible for the distress and inconvenience Mr W has suffered.   
my provisional  decision
I dont uphold  Mr Ws complaint against James Hay and I dont make any award.  
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5891522