K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  as a director of LA, a limited  company, that Barclays  Bank UK Plc 
(Barclays) wont reimburse  LA for two online transfers made after they fell victim to a scam.
 
background
Mr L says that in July 2018 LA sent an email to one of their clients who replied with their 
bank details, in order for payment to be made. But that the email  was intercepted and the 
bank details were  changed. This happened  again  on the same day with another  email to a 
separate client. Two separate  payments were made by LA to two separate accounts held 
with Bank  A and Bank  B. The details as follows:
Date Time Payee Type of transaction Amount
26.7.2018 09:16 JR Bill Payment   PC/Online  banking (Bank A) £13,855.81
26.7.2018 09:24 MJ Bill payment  PC/Online banking
(Bank B)£1,953.80
Mr L says the client called to say they hadnt  received the funds, at which point they became  
aware they were  the victims of a scam. Mr L says they contacted Barclays  the following day, 
27 July 2018,  between 9 and 10am to let them  know and in an attempt to get the funds back  
on both transfers.  
During a call with Barclays 1 August 2018, Mr L became aware that a case hadnt been  
raised about the fraud. At this point Barclays raised a fraud case and took steps to attempt to 
recover the funds  from the receiving  banks.
Barclays say they got in touch with Bank A and Bank  B but were  unable to get any funds 
back for either of the transfers, as they had left the recipients  accounts.  
Mr L raised a complaint  with Barclays unhappy that they hadnt  raised  a fraud  case  when 
they originally got in touch in July. And asked Barclays to refund LA for both of the transfers.
Barclays investigated and issued their final response to LA in August  2018, advising they 
were unable to recover  the funds.  But Barclays acknowledged that a fraud  case shouldve 
been raised when they were first contacted  in July, in recognition of the error they paid £200 
to LA.
LA didnt agree with Barclays decision and asked us to look into their complaint. They raised 
a concern that Barclays hadnt checked the name of the payee on either  transfer against the 
name on the recipients  account. Saying that if Barclays  had, they wouldve seen that the 
details didnt match and couldve  stopped both transfers.
Our investigator looked into LAs complaint and upheld it. They  explained that at the time of 
transfer it wasnt standard practice  for Barclays to check the name  of the payee against the 
account name  so they didnt feel Barclays had done  anything wrong in actioning the 
transfer requests.  But they felt Barclays shouldve got in touch with the receiving banks 
sooner, and that if they had £15.79 wouldve been  recoverable. So, they recommended that 
Barclays should refund £15.79 and add 8% simple interest. 
Ref: DRN55989912LA disagreed with the investigators opinion particularly around whether or not Barclays  
shouldve checked  the name of the account  against the payment  instructions. Barclays  also 
disagreed with the investigators opinion saying that they thought  the timing of the 
transactions that debited the recipients account  may not be correct, saying they doubted any 
funds were recoverable.  So, the case was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As part of this Im required to take into 
account relevant:  law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards;  codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises  it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services  
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  
But that is not the end of the story:  
the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty)
regulated firms  like Barclays are also required  to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6). 
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice,  which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available. 
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
Ref: DRN55989913So, taking all of this into account, in this case I need  to decide whether Barclays  acted fairly 
and reasonably in its dealings  when  LA made  two online transfers for £13,855.81  and 
£1,953.80, or whether it should  have done more  than it did.
should Barclays have  done more to prevent  the payment
LA feels  that Barclays shouldve checked the name  on the transfer  against  the recipients 
bank account  name.  As the names  didnt match, they feel Barclays  shouldve stopped the 
transfer request  from being processed. But the regulations  and industry guidelines at the 
time of these two transfers only required Barclays to check the unique identifiers (i.e. the 
sort code  and account number). In this case LA provided a valid sort code and account 
number, albeit for the accounts held by the scammers. While there is change happening  
around industry guidelines  for the confirmation of payee name  against  the account  name   
this wasnt in place  at the time and cant fairly be retrospectively applied to LAs situation. I 
appreciate LAs frustration  in this matter, but Barclays were  required  to process LAs transfer 
request, and I cant fairly say that they needed  to check the account name when doing so in 
these circumstances.
But I have also thought about whether this was a situation where the transfers  were  so out of 
character that Barclays  shouldve asked more questions before processing  them.  
The two transfers  were for £13,855.81 and £1,953.80 and were done via online banking with 
new payees set up in order to make  them.  Having  reviewed  LAs accounts I can see that 
they regularly  set up new payees,  including  nine in June 2018 and seven in May 2018.  So, it 
wasnt unusual for LA to set up new payees.  Also, while the first transfer was for a large 
amount, it wasnt unusual when looking at LAs account history for online transfers, Below is 
an example of transactions made from LAs account  prior to the two transfers in question.
Date Time Type of transaction Amount Account balance
19.7.2018 Bill payment  PC/Online banking £5,799.33 £76,386.66
28.6.2018 Bill payment  PC/Online banking £9,589.78 £33,113.30
30.5.2018 Bill payment  PC/Online banking £12,763,92 £3,3199.58
23.5.2018 Bill payment  PC/Online banking £50,000.00 £15,603.10
As the table shows LA had previously  made  online transfers for similar or larger amounts 
through online banking. And while the scam payments affected the balance  of LAs account, 
they didnt dramatically alter the balance. LAs account balance in the prior six months had 
fluctuated repeatedly, from as low as a few hundred pounds to times when it was as high as 
£60,000 or more.  So, the affect  on the balance of the two transfers wasnt  unusual and didnt 
stand out.
Based on what Ive seen  I cant fairly say that there  was anything  about the two transfers 
that made them so unusual  or out of character compared to previous account use, that I 
wouldve expected  them to concern Barclays that LA might  be at risk of being scammed. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded that Barclays acted  unreasonably in allowing the payments, or 
that it didnt contact Mr L or another authority on LAs account to query  the transfers.
Ive then considered  whether Barclays couldve done more to try and retrieve  the funds, 
once Mr L made them  aware theyd  been the victim of a scam.
could Barclays have  retrieved the funds
Ref: DRN55989914Weve had information from both Bank A and Bank  B showing the funds crediting the 
recipient accounts  and when the funds were withdrawn. The two scam payments left LAs 
account on 26 July 2018 and were  credited to the recipient  accounts  the same  day.  
The recipient  of the second transfer  for £1,953.83 held an account  with Bank B, and 
withdrew all of the funds  on the same day they received them  - 26 July 2018. This means 
that even if Barclays  had contacted Bank  B on 27 July 2018 when Mr L first got in touch with 
them, the funds  had already been  withdrawn and couldnt be recovered. So, whilst there was 
a delay by Barclays  in contacting Bank  B I dont think  this contributed  to LAs losses  as the 
money had already been withdrawn by the time Mr L put them  on notice of the scam. 
The recipient  of the first transfer  for £13,855.81 held an account  with Bank A. Bank A 
provided evidence  of when the funds were debited from the account, and theyve confirmed 
that the times we were  given  as part of that evidence are the correct. This shows  that while  
most of the funds  were debited from the recipients account on 26 July 2018,  there  were  still 
some funds left in the account on 27 July 2018  up until 13:35. The last debit prior to the time 
Mr L got in touch with Barclays on the 27 July, took the account  balance down to £15.79 in 
credit. Barclays has contested the evidence about  the debits made the from the receiving 
account and asked that the authorisation reports for each transaction be provided to ensure 
how much  money remained in the account at the point it was put on notice  about  the scam.  
We have had confirmation from the receiving  bank that the timings already provided  are the 
times that each transaction  was authorised, and I havent seen any evidence to suggest 
otherwise. In response to the investigators opinion we asked Barclays  if it wanted to provide 
any evidence to suggest otherwise but it hasnt done  so. So, I think in the circumstances its 
fair and reasonable to rely on the information Ive been given which  shows £15.79  could 
have been recovered by Barclays.  
Mr L told us he got in touch between 9am and 10am, and looking at evidence from Barclays  
they appear to note the call as received at 10:32am. Based on this, Im persuaded that if 
Barclays had got in touch with Bank A, in a timely manner its most  likely that they couldve 
recovered £15.79 -  which remained  in the account  for around 3 hours after Barclays note 
receiving the call from Mr L reporting the fraud.  Therefore, Im asking Barclays to reimburse 
LA for the £15.79 that couldve been recovered.
the level of service LA received
LA was also unhappy that Barclays didnt raise  a fraud case  when the fraud was first 
reported. Its good to see that Barclays have acknowledged that the level of service  provided 
hasnt been as high as it shouldve been,  and that they shouldve acted sooner. But having 
considered everything  I think  the £200  theyve  already paid to LA is reasonable in 
recognition of this. I appreciate that the amount of money LA has lost to this scam is over 
£15,000, but its not reasonable to ask Barclays to refund the transfers  because  of poor 
service. Both parties agree that the £200  has already been credited to LAs account, so I 
wont be asking Barclays to do anything  further  with regards to this payment.
Ref: DRN55989915my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  this complaint against Barclays  Bank UK Plc.
To put things right Barclays  Bank  UK Plc should:
Refund the amount of £15.79
Pay interest of 8% simple on the £15.79 from the date the transfer  left LAs account, 
until the date of settlement
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask LA to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2020.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5598991