K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled her travel insurance  
claim after she had an injury abroad.
My references to UKI include its agents. 
background
Mrs H has travel insurance  with UKI, linked to her bank account. While on a cruise she 
unfortunately broke three  bones in her foot. She contacted UKI via the ships  satellite phone. 
She says UKI told her to make a note of its reference number and contact it again  when  she 
got back to the UK.
The ships doctor had told Mrs H shed  need any necessary surgery on her foot within  two 
weeks of the injury. Because of the tight timescale, and NHS delays, she felt she had no 
option but to see an orthopaedic consultant surgeon privately when she returned  to the UK. 
She asked  UKI to pay the UK medical  expenses. She also asked UKI to pay for the loss of 
part of her cruise, which she and her husband  hadnt been able to enjoy due to the injury.  
UKI paid Mrs Hs claim for the medical  expenses  abroad and some other expenses.  But it 
said neither the UK medical expenses nor the loss of enjoyment  element was covered under 
her policy.  Mrs H came to us.
Our adjudicator thought UKI could have been  more helpful when shed contacted it from the 
ship. If it had then she might have considered other  options available to her. So she 
recommended UKI pay £200 towards  Mrs Hs expenses. Mrs H was prepared to accept this, 
somewhat reluctantly, but UKI didnt agree to make  the offer. There was a further exchange 
of comments before  the complaint was referred to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought  about all the comments and evidence,  and Ill focus  on what I consider 
to be the central  points  in this complaint. I think our adjudicator  recommended  a fair 
settlement to resolve this complaint. Ill explain why.
I consider there was an issue about  UKIs communication with Mrs H. She took some  time 
trouble to contact  UKI to inform it shed had an accident abroad.  She wasnt able to connect 
a call via her mobile phone and she had to use the ships satellite phone.  
UKI did earlier suggest that shed not called it from abroad, when in fact she had. Its 
explained that she called an assistance  company  with details on a different system, but that 
information should still have been  available to UKI. 
UKI has said that there was no medical emergency  when Mrs H called it. But shed broken 
bones in her foot, needed mobility aids and it doesnt appear  that UKI offered any guidance 
or assistance to her about medical advice or her journey home.  She was told simply to keep 
receipts and claim on her return to the UK.
Ref: DRN56577542I can see that Mrs Hs enjoyment of the cruise, and her husbands, was affected  by her 
accident, and she wasnt able to disembark during the final week of the cruise.  But I dont 
think I can fairly say the trip was effectively curtailed  or cut short. Unfortunately most travel  
policies dont cover  loss of enjoyment.
The UK medical expenses simply arent covered. Its possible that had Mrs H realised that 
then, given the tight timescale advised by the ships doctor, shed  have sought  medical  
advice before flying home. At this late stage its difficult to say whether or not those 
expenses would have  been covered under her travel insurance  policy,  as theyd need  to be 
medically necessary.  But I think the uncertainty has been unfortunate and might have been 
avoided had UKI offered further  support when Mrs H contacted it. I think she was caused 
some unnecessary distress and inconvenience  on returning to the UK and having  difficulty 
with her claim. Ive noted UKIs objections and Mrs Hs concern that the compensation 
doesnt go far enough. But I think £200 compensation for distress  and inconvenience  is fair 
and reasonable.
Mrs H has explained that the other issues shed raised with our adjudicator about the service 
she received in the administration of her claim and complaint were examples of poor service.  
She doesnt intend to take these  issues further  as a new complaint. And I dont make  any 
findings on those  issues in this decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint in part. I require U K Insurance Limited 
to pay Mrs H £200 compensation  for distress  and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5657754