K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has poorly handled a claim 
he made under his buildings insurance  policy and unfairly  declined  another.
background
In September  2005 Mr R moved into his property.  Since then hes held his buildings and 
contents insurance with RSA. Around  this time Mr R noticed and told RSA of cracking in the 
home. It appointed a surveyor  who found  no issue with the structure  but said the cracks  
were caused  by historical settlement.
In 2008 Mr R noticed more cracks and alerted RSA. It monitored  the property for some  time 
and found the house was experiencing movement and works would need  to be completed.  
But Mr R says he was told at the time he wasnt  covered for this type of peril under his 
insurance policy.
In 2015 the property began to experience drainage problems. Mr R made  a claim under his 
buildings policy and his insurer carried out repair works. Mr R says he found a number of 
issues with the works,  including  a lining that failed,  a crack in the down-pipe  gulley which 
was allowing sewage through the wall into the boiler-room, and an inadequate inspection pit.
In July 2017 Mr Rs home  and garden  was flooded  with sewage following a storm. This 
caused damage to the property, his contents as well as a large part of his garden  wall. Mr R 
says if the drains  had worked effectively the level of damage overall wouldve been reduced.
RSA appointed Company A, which in turn appointed  Company B to review the damage.  
Company B said the house was now subsiding and the ground had been washed away from 
under the concrete floors leaving  them unsupported  and in need  of removal and 
replacement. He also said the walls of the flooded  rooms  would need to be stripped back to 
bare brick, with work to be completed  to meet building regulations.
Mr R says the local waterboard has also reviewed the property and said an underground 
stream that runs beneath the property has continued to undermine  the structure.  Mr R says 
his home  has suffered  from persistent cracking  and subsidence over a number of years. But 
he says the storm and underground stream  were the causes of the subsidence. And he said 
this was supported  by a home  buyers  survey, lenders survey,  and full structural  survey,  all 
completed around the time of purchase  with each surveyor having found  no issues.
Mr R complained about the handling of the claim and said he was never told to leave the 
property despite  a risk to health, and the drying  and decontamination works were completed 
poorly. He also said his family were asked by contractors to help clear  the mess  without any 
personal protective  equipment (PPE).  Mr R also says his possessions were taken away  
and either  discarded  or stored ineffectively. 
Overall Mr R has said his family have been  unable to use one third of his property for several 
years, alongside having  ongoing  anxiety that the propertys condition will worsen.
Ref: DRN52134602RSA responded  to say the subsidence  and related damage was caused by a historic  issue 
with the property, and that it was also under-insured. In June 2018 RSA said it had issued a 
payment of £3,400 for the damaged wall and said it was mutually  agreed that Company C 
would clean and return his contents  and that there had been  no deterioration to them. RSA 
also said if Mr R was instead  looking for a cash settlement  it would need  details to establish 
the value of the items, and said if he provided a reasonable  indemnity value within the cellar, 
its adjusters would offer settlement in line with the policy terms.
Mr R brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked  into what 
happened, considering  everything that took place  since the 2015 claim onwards.
The investigator was satisfied sewage  from the flood had got under the lining installed as 
part of the 2015 repairs, but not that this was as a result of faulty workmanship. She also 
said pipework in place  didnt allow water to drain  from Mr Rs property as well as it should. 
But given a number  of other  properties were affected by the flood, and that the pipework in 
question wasnt installed within the 2015  repairs, she wasnt persuaded the flood damage 
wouldve been caused or worsened by RSAs previous workmanship.
The investigator considered all of the surveys provided for the property, and highlighted that 
the home buyers report had mentioned structural movement.  She also said previous 
monitoring hadnt shown  movement but had shown evidence of movement prior to 2005. So 
she said RSA should reconsider  a claim for subsidence in line with the policy terms.
The investigator said RSA had also mixed damaged and unaffected contents when moving 
them to storage, and so it was difficult for him to provide a list of damaged  items when he 
didnt know what was taken. RSA offered to decontaminate Mr Rs items which he ultimately 
wanted. So the investigator said to establish a fair cost of these items Mr R (or his loss 
assessor) should meet RSAs loss adjuster and visit the storage facility to determine what 
items can be cleaned  and returned, and what items  (if any) need  to be replaced. 
The investigator said it was unacceptable for Mr R and his family to be asked to help with 
recovering items and cleaning up sewage  without  protection. 
Regarding costs and scope  of repairs, the investigator said RSA had previously completed a 
bio-sweep to decontaminate the property, but this hadnt been effective. The investigator 
said theres a dispute of £73,000 between the scope of works  Mr R says is required and 
what RSA says is needed. Given the difference  she said RSA should arrange  several  
contractors to review whats necessary and provide costed schedules of work, which Mr R 
could then select going forward. 
Overall the investigator  recommended RSA pay Mr R £1,500 for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused. 
RSA didnt respond to our assessment  and Mr R disagreed,  so the complaint  has been 
passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
Ref: DRN52134603my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding  this complaint for largely the same  reasons as our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Within this decision Ive considered the events that have taken place from 2015 up until the 
complaint was brought to our service for the reasons our investigator has previously given. 
This claim  has been ongoing  while  the complaint has been with our service. So to be clear,  I 
have mainly focused my decision  on RSAs  handling of Mr Rs claims. 
quality of 2015 repairs
Ive considered the workmanship of the work carried out in 2015. From what  Ive seen, it 
appears sewage did get underneath the lining that has been highlighted. But Ive not been 
given an expert opinion or evidence to support this was down to faulty  installation.  And in 
any case, as our investigator has highlighted,  it seems this wouldve made  no difference  
given the impact the flood had on neighbouring properties. 
So Im not persuaded that potential  faults with the drains either  caused  or worsened the 
impact of the flood  on Mr Rs home.
handling of flood claim
RSA hasnt disputed  Mr R suffered a flood to his property and its accepted the claim.  So I 
dont need to consider this any further. But I have considered how it handled the claim, 
considering its obligations  to do so fairly  and promptly. 
From what  Ive seen, it appears RSA didnt handle the storage of Mr Rs items well. And its 
actions led to contamination across items,  and confusion  over what  items  were damaged. 
Our investigator has suggested  a fair solution  is for Mr R and RSA (or its respective 
representatives) to review  the items together to enable it to establish what can be cleaned 
and replaced or cash settled. 
Im satisfied this is a fair solution to the contents issue and I direct RSA to take steps to 
engage with Mr R on this basis if it hasnt done  so already to resolve this matter.  If it 
becomes apparent any damage was caused by RSAs contractors when storing  the items, I 
would expect it to consider  this fairly  and not under the standard policy  limit of liability.
Mr R and his family  werent offered alternative accommodation when their home was 
flooded. Its not clear  to me why this wasnt offered, and RSA has provided  no response on 
this subject. And from Mr Rs testimony  Im persuaded he and his family were asked to carry 
out work  to support  contractors in a contaminated site and were  asked  to do so without 
correct PPE.  Again, its not clear to me why this happened but, put simply, it shouldnt  have. 
I understand this exposure has led to an ongoing anxiety for Mr R and his family and Im 
sympathetic to their situation.
Ref: DRN52134604RSA will be aware our services long-standing approach that repairs should be lasting and 
effective. In this case RSA carried out a bio-sweep  previously,  but following this, water was 
retained behind  a wall which  led to the smell of sewage within  the home. So it doesnt  seem 
this was a lasting or effective repair.
Further works have  been proposed by RSA,  but theres a significant cost difference  between  
the works  its put forward and an estimate  from Mr R. As a result, RSA should  arrange for 
two or three different  contractors of its choice to attend the property as soon as is practical 
and determine  what works are required under  the policy and provide  a quote. Mr R can then 
choose which party he wishes  to carry  out the work.
 
potential subsidence  claim
Mr R has said he has evidence to show the ground beneath his home has worn  away, and is 
hollow in places.  Id expect RSA to review this if it hasnt done so already and consider 
whether a claim can be made under this policy.
summary 
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im satisfied RSA hasnt met its obligations when handling 
this claim.  And these  mistakes have led to an extended  period of unnecessary disruption for 
Mr R and his family,  as well as ongoing anxiety  and frustration. Taking this all into 
consideration Im directing RSA to award  him £1,500 in compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.
my final decision
Im upholding this complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must do the following:
pay Mr R £1,500  in compensation (it may deduct  any compensation already paid 
from this sum);*
RSA must engage with Mr R or his representative to review items  in storage to 
establish what can be cleaned and replaced  or cash settled; and
RSA must arrange for two or three different  contractors of its choice  to attend the 
property, determine what works are required under the policy and provide  quotes for 
the relevant work.  Mr R can then choose  the party  he wishes to carry out the repairs.
*Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr R accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5213460