K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Arthur Prince Limited mis-sold  him a hire agreement  for a car. He says 
he wasnt given enough information to make  an informed decision.
background
In November 2017, Mr K visited Arthur Prince to order a new car. He says he agreed to have 
the car under a two year hire agreement which required  him to pay a £2,800  advance  rental 
(referred to as initial rental in this decision) followed by monthly  payments of around £231. 
He says Arthur Prince offered to pay £500 towards  the initial rental. He says he was told the 
car would be delivered in March 2018 which coincided with the expiry of his existing hire 
agreement. 
Mr K says made  a number of calls to Arthur Prince for updates regarding the delivery date. 
He then contacted the manufacturer which he says told him Arthur Prince shouldnt  have 
given the delivery  date it did. 
Mr K decided to look for an alternative car which had the delivery date he wanted.  At this 
stage he says he was told that the supplier would make a contribution towards  his initial  
rental payment on the new car. Mr K says he made it clear he was only prepared to pay 
£2,800 towards  the initial payment and £231 monthly payments.
Mr K was presented with an alternate car with a slightly higher monthly  rental which he 
accepted but he didnt  accept paying a higher initial rental. He says he wasnt told the initial  
rental amount would be higher and so wasnt given the information he needed to make an 
informed decision.
Mr K also complains that he didnt receive the service he should have while  dealing  with this 
issue.
Arthur Prince says that there were  production  delays  with the first car that Mr K ordered  and 
because of this it said Mr K could keep  his existing car until the new car arrived  and also 
made some other goodwill gestures. It says Mr K agreed to this but then asked  for an 
alternative car to be sourced. It says it was in regular contact with Mr K through  this process 
and that he was aware of the cost implications. 
Arthur Prince says that Mr K accepted its £500 contribution  towards the initial  rental along 
with the £900 contribution from the manufacturer and that he signed  the agreement  and took 
delivery of the car. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that shed seen no evidence  to 
suggest that Mr K wouldnt be responsible for the difference  in the initial rental amounts and 
that the agreement he signed  in March 2018  clearly set out the payments for the car.
Mr K didnt accept our investigators view and so his complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to consider.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN50004532I can understand why Mr K is not happy  with the service he has received while trying to 
arrange a hire agreement for a new car. This complaint is about Arthur Prince  in its role as a 
finance arranger.  I appreciate Mr Ks comments  about  the service  he received and the 
information about the delivery date of the car, but I can only consider issues relating  to the 
hire agreement and the role Arthur  Prince had in setting this up.
I have looked  through  the information provided by all parties, including  the supplier of the car 
and I do not find that I have enough evidence to uphold this complaint. I say this because  
looking through the system notes provided  I have nothing to say that Mr K was told he 
wouldnt need to pay anything more than £2,800 for the initial rental.
I can see that discussions were  undertaken in regard to making  a contribution  towards 
Mr Ks costs and that the supplier agreed  to pay £900 as this was a similar amount to that 
which it would have  paid had Mr K taken the option of a courtesy  car while awaiting the 
arrival of the car he initially ordered. As he didnt take that option and instead chose an 
alternative car the supplier said that it would contribute  this amount. I have nothing to 
suggest that it had said it would contribute  any more than this.
The dealer  had offered to pay £500  and this appears consistent through the discussions, 
therefore I cannot say that Mr K would have  been  expecting it to provide a larger  
contribution.
Mr K says he didnt sign the agreement  until two weeks  after he had collected the car and 
that when he received  this it was different to what he had agreed.  I have looked at the hire 
agreement and this sets out the initial rental and is clear about what  needs to be paid. While 
I note Mr Ks comments, he did sign this agreement  and by doing so agreed to its terms. 
Mr K says that when  he became aware of the increased initial rental amount he contacted 
the dealership  as was told he could pay it, return the car or default on the payment. He says 
he kept it car as he didnt  want  to be without a car.  
I appreciate Mr K says he made it clear that he didnt want to pay more than £2,800 as an 
initial rental but this was a new agreement for a different car and as its terms were clear  I 
cant say that Mr K wasnt aware  of what the initial  rental  would be. I understand he thought  
that contributions  would be made  towards this but as I have nothing  to show that any 
amounts were agreed (other than the £900 and £500) I cant say that Mr K was told he 
wouldnt pay more than £2,800 initial rental.
Overall while  I can see that Mr K has not received  the service  he should  have  as he had to 
change the initial car he ordered  and then had to deal with his complaint, I do not find, based  
on the evidence  I have seen that I have enough to say Arthur  Prince mis-sold the hire 
agreement to Mr K.
Ref: DRN50004533my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5000453