K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about  the settlement offered by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) under their buildings insurance claim.  
background
There was a water leak in Mr and Mrs Cs kitchen which caused damage. They  made a 
claim to RSA, which was accepted. 
Mr and Mrs C wanted RSA to pay them a cash settlement so that their own contractor could 
carry out the repairs. RSA agreed  to this, however Mr and Mrs C said the settlement wasnt  
high enough  for them  to have the repairs done. They therefore brought  a complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He noted the cash settlement 
had been based on the amount  it would have cost RSAs own contractor to do the repairs. 
He thought that was fair, as RSA were willing to carry out the repairs,  but Mr and Mrs C 
wanted a cash  settlement.  
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept the investigators findings, so the matter  has been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The main  issue for me to decide is whether it was reasonable for RSA to settle  the claim 
based on the amount its contractor says it would  have  charged for the repairs. 
The policy says:
Payment basis

We will pay the cost of work carried out in repairing or replacing the damaged  parts of your 
buildings and agreed fees and other  costs
The amount  we will pay where repairs are carried out will not exceed the lesser of
 The cost of the work had it been  completed  by our nominated contractor, or
 The cost of the work based  upon  the most competitive estimate  or tender from your 
nominated contractors.
Its apparent from the above policy term that RSA can limit the cash settlement to the lesser 
of the cost of the work had it been carried out by its own contractor, or the most competitive 
estimate from Mr and Mrs Cs contractors.  That is what  RSA has done.
Insurers often use a panel of contractors, who offer insurers significant  discounts. Therefore, 
a quote provided  by an insurers  contractor  will usually be less than quotes obtained by 
members of the public  for the same work.  Thats whats happened here. 
As the investigator  has explained, the approach  of this service is that when  an insurer  is 
willing to do repairs but a consumer requests a cash settlement, we usually say its fair for an 
Ref: DRN59084342insurer to limit a cash settlement to the amount it would have cost its own contractor to do 
the repairs. Im satisfied it was appropriate for RSA to do so for Mr and Mrs C. 
Mr and Mrs C have raised concerns  about the accuracy of RSAs contractors repair quote, 
as they dont think the contractor took into account  that they have a bespoke  kitchen. I dont 
think this is particularly relevant, since the majority  of the kitchen can be re-used including all 
the doors and drawer fronts. I see that where  part of the kitchen does need to be replaced, 
RSAs contractor took into account that the kitchen was of high quality. 
Mr and Mrs C say that if the work surfaces are damaged when theyre  removed, they would 
need to pay for the work surfaces to be replaced in the whole kitchen as they come as a set, 
even the parts that arent  damaged. 
RSA had initially said that if unavoidable damage  happened to part of the work surfaces 
during the repairs,  it would make a contribution towards any undamaged sections. However,  
after Mr and Mrs C pointed out the policy covers 100% of the cost of damage  to matching 
sets, RSA said it would cover the full cost of the replacement worktops if damage happened. 
I think thats fair. 
If Mr and Mrs C do decide  to appoint  their own contractor to carry out the repairs,  and there  
is unavoidable  damage caused to the work surfaces, they should notify RSA of this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 June  2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5908434