K820x#14Complaint
Mrs M has complained that Sainsburys Bank Plc is holding  her liable for a loan, which she 
says she says isnt hers.
Background
Sainsburys received  an online  application  for a loan for £15,000 on 2 July 2017. It paid the 
funds directly into Mrs Ms bank account  on 26 July 2017. Mrs M transferred £11,500 to a 
third party in two payments on 28 July and 1 August 2017. She spent the remaining £3,500.
Sainsburys started collecting the repayments by direct debit but, as there  was no money left 
in the account,  the first direct  debit was returned unpaid. Mrs Ms bank  contacted her about  
the direct  debit. She said this was the first she knew about the Sainsburys  loan.
Mrs M raised a fraud complaint with Sainsburys. 
She told it she hadnt applied for the loan and knew nothing about it. She said the third party,  
Mr B, was her ex partners  friend. The three of them had been out together a few times. She 
said her ex partner and Mr B had discussed investing together  in a club.  Mr B encouraged 
them to buy shares  in the club. She said she and her ex partner visited the club and met Mr 
Bs wife. Mr B offered to lend them the money  to buy the shares. They agreed they would 
both move to the clubs location and her ex partner would work  in the club as a manager. It 
was agreed he would repay the loan from his wages.  
She said she believed  it was Mr B who had transferred the £15,000  into her account. She 
said she and her ex partner then paid Mr B £11,500 for shares in the club. She said the rest 
of the money  was used to tie up loose  ends, before they moved to be near the club,  which 
was in a different county.
Mrs M said after she gave him the money,  Mr B went quiet. They  didnt hear from him again. 
She remembered that Mr B had asked her a lot of questions about herself. She later realised 
he wanted the information for the loan application.
Mrs M asked  Sainsburys  to cancel the loan agreement because it wasnt  hers.  
Sainsburys decided  not to cancel  the loan. It didnt  believe this was a fraudulent loan 
application and concluded she knew about it because:
the application was made in Mrs Ms name
the loan application included her address,  date of birth, employers details, income 
and her bank account details
the funds were paid directly into her account
Mrs M didnt raise  a fraud complaint  with her bank when it received the funds, even 
though it was marked Sainsburys
she acknowledged she transferred £11,500 to Mr B.
she benefited from some of the money.
Subsequently, Sainsburys  provided  a copy of the loan agreement, which it had posted to 
her home address. It was returned  with a signature  in her name.
Sainsburys has now passed  the loan to a debt collection  agency.
Ref: DRN50672762As Mrs M didnt agree with Sainsburys decision,  she asked this service to investigate.  
An investigator looked into her complaint, but he didnt recommend upholding it. He said he 
couldnt reasonable conclude that the loan was made fraudulently or without her authority.
Mrs M didnt  accept the investigators opinion. She said the application  has the wrong  
telephone numbers, email, job title and wages.
Shes also unhappy that Sainsburys no longer has identification evidence, which was 
provided when  the application was made, or recordings of calls made at the time by the third 
party. She said the call recordings  would prove  it wasnt her who applied for the loan. 
I understand she now believes shes been the victim of fraud  by her ex partner and Mr B 
acting together.
She has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid I dont have  good news for Mrs M. Having reviewed the evidence,  Im sorry to say 
that Ive reached  the same conclusion as the investigator. I dont think  its unreasonable for 
Sainsburys to conclude  she knew about the loan.
To help me reach my decision, Ive considered:
the details  on the application  
the account the loan monies  were  paid into
how the monies were  spent
Ive also taken into account Mrs Ms version  of events
the application
The application was made online on 2 July 2017. It contains Mrs Ms name,  postal address, 
date of birth, employers  name and address and her bank account  details. For all intents and 
purposes, this looks like an application by Mrs M.
Mrs M has pointed  out that some  of the information  is wrong  but even so, all the other 
information is correct  and match her personal  details.  Its possible someone else typed in the 
information, but whoever did this had enough  information about her to make the application. 
They could only have  got that information  from Mrs M.
At first, Mrs M said Mr B drew this information  out of her by asking her lots of questions. She 
believes he made the application, and this was how he got all her personal details. But I find 
it hard to believe that she casually  gave out her bank details or even her employment  details 
to someone she didnt know that well. 
I dont think this is what happened and besides,  her evidence is that she and her ex partner 
agreed to borrow the money from Mr B and arranged  for the money  to be paid into her 
Ref: DRN50672763account. If this is correct, then she willingly  gave out her bank details  to Mr B. But I have to 
say, it doesnt make  any sense for Mr B to transfer  money into her account, only for her to 
transfer most of it back to him. And its not entirely  clear who they were buying  the shares 
from, as the club already  existed. So, I dont think this was the agreement either.
Ive seen a copy  of the loan agreement.  The signature on the form is similar to her signature 
on our form and her style of writing  but, equally, I cant  confirm its her signature.
Mrs M said shes never seen this agreement, even though it was posted to her home 
address. She told us her ex partner  had a key to her house and he must have intercepted 
her post,  hence why she now thinks he is complicit  in the fraud. 
However, she also said both she and her ex partner were chasing  Mr B for paperwork up 
until October 2017. And I saw from her statements that she borrowed £3,000 in November 
2017and transferred £2,700 to her ex partner. So, she didnt suspect him of fraud in October 
or November  2017, even  though by then she knew about the Sainsburys loan.
Ive seen that Mrs M asked Sainsburys  for information under the data protection law. She 
found out that Sainsburys asked  for identification  evidence before it would approve the loan 
and had received  a copy of her driving licence. Mrs M said she never  provided a copy of her 
driving licence. Sainsburys said it was a certified  copy which meant  an independent person 
had to certify  that the photo was a true likeness of her. Unfortunately,  by the time she raised  
a complaint it no longer had a copy of the licence.
We asked Mrs M for a copy  of her driving licence,  but she told us she had lost it when  her 
handbag was stolen on 12 October 2017.  She provided us with a copy of her replacement 
licence instead  but as Sainsburys  didnt  have a copy, we couldnt make a comparison.
I understand her frustration that Sainsbury no longer  has the certified copy  of the driving 
licence. It means she doesnt  know if it was genuine or not. As for the call recordings, 
Sainsburys said it couldnt locate any call recordings made  in 2017. But Im afraid I still think  
theres sufficient evidence that she knew  about the Sainsburys loan.
The account  the monies were paid into
The loan funds  were  paid directly into Mrs Ms bank account. Her statement shows  that the 
funds came from Sainsburys, not Mr B. However,  Mrs M never questioned why Sainsburys 
was named on the statement.
This account was opened when the loan application was made. This wasnt a coincidence. 
Mrs M has admitted this wasnt her main account. She said she intended  to use it as a 
savings account  for her daughters birthday and Christmas.  Also,  she said her ex partner 
wanted a separate account  for the loan he was getting from Mr B so he could track how 
much he owed whilst he was working  at the club to pay him back. She said her ex partner 
said they should use the one account for both savings and the loan, as this was easier. 
Im puzzled  as to why her ex partner couldnt use his own account.  Mrs M hasnt offered any 
explanation for why they used her account. 
Ref: DRN50672764Ive looked at the account statements for July 2017 to December 2017. I cant see any 
evidence that it was used to save money. The only money that went  into the account came  
from two loans and one was the Sainsburys loan. 
Mrs M said she used  the rest of the loan to tie up loose ends - not for her daughters birthday 
or Christmas. And the remaining monies were  withdrawn from cash  machines  and spent on 
what looks like car accessories or parts and paying  off two credit card accounts Theres  
nothing to suggest the money was spent  tying up loose  ends before their move away.
In summary,  Mrs M admits she and her ex partner borrowed  money to buy shares in a club 
and she willingly transferred £11,500  to Mr B, before  receiving or signing any legally binding  
documents for the sale of the shares.  The evidence shows that:
the loan application was in her name and contained her personal details
the loan agreement was posted  to her address and it was returned signed 
the money was paid into her account marked Sainsburys 
she benefited from some of the monies.
Based on the evidence,  I think its more likely  than not that she knew about the loan 
application. Theres no obvious reason why Mr B would transfer money into her account, not 
her ex partners account, and then ask for most  of it to be transferred back to him. And Im 
afraid I also found some parts of her evidence sketchy and implausible.
For the reasons  Ive given, I think its fair and reasonable  for Sainsburys to conclude  that 
she made or colluded  with the loan application.  I wont be asking it to do anything.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news for Mrs M. It does look as if she were  duped into 
borrowing money for a fraudulent business deal and, unfortunately, she is now left to deal 
with the consequences alone.  So, I understand this outcome will not be welcomed, but I 
hope the reasons for my decision are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 November  2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5067276