K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited  settled a claim on his motor insurance on 
the basis of shared liability.
background
Mr D insured his car with Tesco. Unfortunately  he was involved in an accident and so he 
contacted Tesco.  He also instructed solicitors to deal with his claim against  the other driver.
Tesco discussed the accident with the other drivers  insurer. Both parties blamed each other  
for the accident.  Tesco and the other insurer agreed to settle the claims against each other  
on the basis of 50/50 liability.
Mr D complained. He didnt think he was at fault at all, and wasnt  happy with the settlement 
or the fact that it would be recorded  as a fault claim.  He didnt think  Tesco had properly  
assessed what had happened or considered  his version of events. Our adjudicator thought  
Tesco had made a reasonable decision on liability. But he thought  Tesco could have 
handled the claim better, and recommended it pay Mr D £150 compensation.
Tesco accepted  that. But Mr D didnt. He said hed been told that if the ombudsman service  
upheld his complaint it would  tell Tesco to change the outcome of his claim. He wanted that 
to happen. And he wanted his premium refunded and higher compensation for his trouble  
and upset. He asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ds policy allow Tesco  to deal with claims  both by Mr D 
and against him  and to settle  them  in any way it thinks appropriate. However, in doing so it 
needs to reach a reasonable  decision and treat Mr D fairly.
The circumstances of the accident are disputed.  Mr D was in the right hand lane and the 
third party in the left hand lane. The third party says Mr D drew to a stop as if he was about 
to turn right, then pulled  left into their car. Mr D says the third party  was undertaking him as 
he moved across to the left into their lane.
There werent any witnesses who gave statements, and no CCTV. So it was a case of the 
word of one party against another. 
The damage to the cars is consistent  with them colliding sideways. But the damage  to the 
third partys  car starts around the drivers wing mirror and door  meaning they was ahead of 
Mr D at the time of the collision.
Tesco considered  the evidence. It felt that there was blame on both sides. The other  party 
was at fault for undertaking  Mr D. But the damage showed that they were  past Mr D at the 
time of the collision  so even though they shouldnt have been  there,  he should have seen 
them before he moved  to the left. If he had, the crash wouldnt have happened.
Ref: DRN59530772Its not for me to decide liability  for myself in place of Tesco.  But I can look at whether the 
decision Tesco reached was a reasonable one based on the evidence and the policy terms.
I think it was. Theres  no independent  evidence. Based on what both parties say, theres a 
clear conflict  between  them about who was at fault. If the case  were  to go to court,  theres a 
real risk that a court would say that Mr D contributed to the accident by moving  into the third 
party  even  if they shouldnt have been there,  he ought to have seen them  before 
manoeuvring. On the basis that it could have lost  in full, or in part  any claim against  
Mr D, Tesco  decided to settle  it on the basis of split liability.  That was a reasonable decision 
it was entitled  to take.
As a result, I dont think it would be fair to uphold Mr Ds complaint  about how Tesco settled 
the claim.  But I agree that the claim handling could  have  been better. In particular, there 
were calls around the liability discussions where Tesco  call handlers   who hadnt properly 
read the file first  told Mr D it would find him fully to blame. That wasnt  correct,  and it upset 
Mr D. Although it was corrected in later discussions,  it shouldnt  have happened. I agree that 
£150 is fair compensation for the upset  caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct Tesco 
Underwriting Limited to pay Mr D £150  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5953077