K820x#14complaint
Mr As complaint is about his CFD account  with Gain Capital UK Limited  (trading as City 
Index). He has referred to the following issues:
Positions in various markets that were  closed by margin calls outside market hours. 
[issue 1]
Positions that were  closed in volatile conditions  when  his account was only 
temporarily below the margin call threshold, without being given prior notice or the 
opportunity to regularise the situation. [issue 2]
A specific example  related to a Carillion CFD position, a corporate event that led to 
revision of the threshold and then a margin call closure of the position, all without 
being given prior notice or the opportunity to regularise the situation. [issue 3]
Closure of all open positions following margin calls, when all that was required were 
limited closures necessary to return the account to the margin call threshold.  [issue 4]
The need to conduct a detailed  review of activities in his account in order to identify 
all of the examples  of City Index unfairly  applying  closures  to his positions. [issue  5]
background
City Index disputes  the complaint and, in the main, its position  is as follows:
The agreed terms for the account include provisions (in section 11) for its Margin  
Close Out Level  process. The section  provides  that where a margin level for an 
account reaches  or falls below the margin close out level it constitutes an event  of 
default under section  16 of the terms; in such circumstances  it can close all or any 
open positions without notice at any time;  it is not obliged  to contact the account  
holder before such closure(s); it retains  discretion to alter the margin  close out level 
applicable to the account at any time so, as part of an account  holders  responsibility  
to monitor the account  s/he is responsible for keeping informed about the applicable 
margin close out levels  in the account;  the margin close out process is not 
guaranteed to apply when the margin  close out level is reached or breached or to 
limit an account holders losses.
The Carillion Plc matter constituted a corporate event; section 19 of the terms for the 
account caters for corporate  events; the section provides, amongst other things,  that 
in such events it has discretion to change margin related  settings for open or new 
positions, discretion  to open and/or close positions in the account, discretion to 
suspend or modify the terms  of the account and discretion to take all such action it 
reasonably considers  appropriate to reflect the effect of the corporate event. In the 
matter, after 16 and 17 January 2018 it applied its discretion  as it was entitled  to and 
to the closure  of Mr As positions  following  news about Carillion Plc entering into 
liquidation and no longer  trading.
Mr A has referred to contact from City Index after referral of his complaint, in which he 
considers that City Index  sought to placate  him (in relation to his complaint) with an upgrade  
to a professional  account and an offer to operate no margin  calls in such an account. He 
says this can be interpreted as City Indexs admission of fault in his complaint. City Index 
says this contact was unrelated to the complaint,  that the individual  who contacted Mr A had 
no authority over City Indexs position in the complaint or over the margin  call closures. It 
also clarified that margin call closures  would continue to apply in a professional  account.
Ref: DRN52860572One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and concluded  that it should not be upheld 
 for reasons broadly  similar to those given by City Index. He noted  that the complete review 
of activities in the account  which Mr A requested  is beyond our remit and that he would 
need to provide specific examples of any assertion  that City Index acted outside the terms 
for the account.  Thereafter,  Mr A presented a table of 90 positions which he considers to 
have been unfairly  closed  out and considers to have  caused him losses. He also referred  to 
a separate issue  involving a firm he described as the sister company of City Index  where 
he says unfair treatment had also taken place but has been resolved upon  the firm accepting 
liability. He presented this as support  for his complaint about City Index. 
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the table of 90 positions  in which Mr A says unfair margin  call closures  
were applied. The information he presented appears to be about the details of the positions. 
I have noted this information and will consider it in the context of the terms for the account 
and the provisions within those terms which apply to margin call closures. In this respect,  I 
have also noted  that Mr A raised a query to cast doubt over evidence  of him agreeing to the 
terms for the account. I am satisfied  with the evidence identified by the adjudicator and 
shared with Mr A showing that the terms for the account were indeed  agreed and binding.
Those terms are as City Index described  and, as far as is relevant to this complaint, they are 
as I summarised above. Overall, their effect  is such that Mr As main or only chance of 
succeeding in issues 1, 2 and 4  or in showing that the 90 positions within  his table (which 
is essentially his particularisation of issue 5) were  unfairly closed  is to establish that no 
breach of the margin call thresholds (that applied at each relevant time) actually took place. 
Otherwise, City Index was essentially entitled  to alter the margin call threshold  at its 
discretion, entitled  to apply discretion over the positions that were closed upon breach of the 
threshold and entitled  to apply discretion over when such positions  were closed. 
City Index was under no obligation to give notice to Mr A or to keep him informed in any way 
related to the application of the margin close out process. Mr As role in the process (and/or  
ahead of it) as the holder  of the execution only account was to ensure that he monitored his 
account sufficiently  to keep himself  aware  of the relevant thresholds,  to avoid breach of the 
threshold and/or to try to mitigate the effects of any such breach.
I have not seen evidence that breach of a margin close out threshold was identified by City 
Index incorrectly in any of the issues that Mr A has presented. His claim appears mainly to 
be based on the assertion that, in response  to the breaches that happened,  City Index could 
have (or should  have)  exercised its discretion positively in his favour  (such  as by giving him 
prior notice and/or by limiting the positions that were closed). However,  City Index was not 
obliged to act in a particular way or in favour  of Mr A during the margin  close out process. I 
have summarised, above, its discretions and evidence suggests  it acted within them.
With regards to issue 3, broadly  the same consideration applies.  The news that City Index 
received about  Carillion Plc amounted to a corporate event, as defined in the terms for the 
account, so section 19 of the terms applied. It had comparable discretions under this section 
and there  appears  to be a correlation between the section and the margin close out process  
Ref: DRN52860573in section 11, where the reaction to a corporate  event leads to a margin  close out(s). This 
appears to have been what  happened  to Mr As Carillion CFD position. Mr A has been 
critical of the size of the increase applied to the margin for this position at the time. However,  
the agreed terms gave  City Index  discretion  to alter those margin  settings. 
The matter  of City Index  offering  a professional account appears  to be irrelevant  to this 
complaint and, for reasons  broadly  similar  to those given by City Index,  I do not consider that 
the offer amounts  to an admission of fault by City Index. The same applies to Mr As 
reference to an issue with what he described  as City Indexs sister company. I consider that 
this too is irrelevant to the present complaint.  The firm in question does not appear to be City 
Index, information  about the issue is very limited  and I have not seen anything to suggest  it 
arises from the complaint  about City Index.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr As complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject  my decision 
before 3 June  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5286057