K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, gave him loans 
he couldnt afford to repay. He also complains that Sunny continued to send him marketing 
texts after hed explained that he was in financial difficulty.
background
Mr M took out the following  instalment  loans  with Sunny:
date £ amount borrowed no. of repayments
at outset/ £ highest  
repayment (rounded)date repaid
117 November 2016 100 6/29 15 December 2016
28 January 2017 350 6/116 10 February 2017
310 January 2017 150 6/165(including loan 2)
Mr M says that Sunny acted irresponsibly in lending to him without doing thorough credit and 
affordability checks. He also says that it sent him marketing e-mails. Mr M wants Sunny to 
refund the interest hes paid.
Our adjudicator said that the checks Sunny did before lending to Mr M were  proportionate  
and that the loans appeared to be affordable. So, he didnt think  that Sunny was wrong to 
lend to Mr M. 
The adjudicator also said that Sunny wasnt at fault in sending Mr M a marketing e-mail as 
Mr M had given Sunny permission to contact him about its products. He said that he wasnt 
able to conclude  that Sunny was unreasonable in continuing  to send Mr M marketing e-mails 
after he told it he was in financial difficulty,  as hed only seen one marketing email and he 
couldnt tell when Sunny had sent it. 
Mr M asked  that an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend to Mr M, Sunny had to check each time that he could make the 
repayments in a sustainable way. The checks it did had to be proportionate. Whats 
proportionate depends on things like the size of the loan repayments and the information  
Sunny had about Mr M. Theres no set list of the checks a lender should carry out. 
Before agreeing to each  loan, Sunny asked Mr M about his monthly  income and 
expenditure. It recorded that his monthly income  was £1,140 and his monthly outgoings 
were £275  at the time of loan one, £425  at the time of loan two and £300 at the time of loan 
three. It also carried  out credit and identity checks.  
I think that the checks Sunny carried out before each loan were proportionate. Based on the 
information it gathered,  it appeared that Mr M could afford to repay the loans in a sustainable 
way. I dont think that Sunny needed  to do any more than it did. I dont think that Sunny was 
at fault in offering Mr M the loans.
Ref: DRN54462122Mr M complains that Sunny sent him marketing information after he told it he was in financial 
difficulty. Sunny says that it sent Mr M a marketing e-mail  in late December 2016.  That was 
before Mr M told Sunny that he was in financial difficulty. 
Mr M has provided two screen  shots of marketing  texts,  one of which  is from Sunny. The 
date Sunny sent the marketing text isnt clear but as the offer ends in April 2018, its likely  
that Sunny sent it to Mr M after it knew he was in financial difficulty.  Thats not appropriate 
but I dont think  it alters  the outcome  here.  Thats because Mr M didnt respond to it and I 
dont think that one text caused Mr M distress and inconvenience to the extent that Id direct 
Sunny to pay him compensation. I havent  seen  any other  evidence  to support Mr Ms 
allegation that Sunny sent him multiple  marketing e-mails. 
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr M but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  his complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5446212