K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland  plcs (BoS)  advisor wrongly told him that he needed  to 
take out critical illness cover to access its mortgage  offer.
background
An adjudicator at this service  did not feel there was sufficient evidence to uphold this 
complaint given the documentation made  clear  that the policy  was not compulsory. 
He noted that BoS said it had never made  life insurance a condition of its mortgage offers  
and this was made  clear  in its specific letter to Mr J. Further, he noted that Mr J had received 
a confirmation  of the mortgage offer weeks before he met the advisor  and subsequently 
agreed to take out this policy.
Mr J did not agree and reiterated that the advisor  had told him he needed to take out this 
policy for the mortgage to go ahead. He also said:
His clear recollection of what the advisor had told him in person should carry far 
greater weight than something written  within  the small  print of the documentation
As the advisor  misled him this was clearly a mis-sale irrespective of what  was written 
in any paperwork
He did not receive  any paperwork ahead of the meeting;  the bank had a habit 
sending information  to the wrong  address
The adjudicators  reasoning was unsound and not based on a rational assessment of 
the situation, including the likely  reliability of his evidence    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
Its important to explain that my role, when considering a complaint, is to decide  whether a 
business clearly did something wrong or made a mistake. In this context  I do not think  there 
is sufficient evidence to safely conclude that the advisor told Mr J, wrongly, that this policy  
was a condition  of the mortgage.
I recognise the strength of Mr Js feelings  about  this issue, and his certainty  that the advisor 
definitely misled him. But his recollection alone is not sufficient to safely conclude that this is 
what definitely happened  particularly given the other relevant evidence.
BoS says it has never made life insurance  a condition of its mortgage offers. Given this, I 
think it is unlikely  though not impossible - that one of its advisors would  have said 
something which was clearly untrue. 
As with many  complaints, there is a direct conflict between Mr Js recollections and the 
banks statement about what  would have been said by its advisor.  In these situations its 
usually necessary to see other supporting evidence in order  to uphold a complaint (such as 
a consumers situation clearly making  the recommendation unsuitable, misleading 
paperwork etc.) 
Ref: DRN52128392However in this case the mortgage offer clearly states that no life cover  is required. Further,  
the advisors recommendation letter also says that the proposed policy  is merely  a 
recommendation. While Mr J argues  that this could mean that he was free to decline both 
the mortgage offer and this policy I dont  think this is a reasonable interpretation given hed 
been told the mortgage had been approved weeks earlier.
I cannot reasonably  uphold  this complaint.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5212839