K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund cash  withdrawals that she says that 
she didnt make from her account.
background
Mrs M went  to a branch  of Lloyds on 6 November 2017 to deposit  £2,000  in cash.  Her 
account hadnt been used  for a number of months. She also ordered  a new debit  card for her 
account and PIN number  reminder as she said shed forgotten  it. Mrs M says that she didnt 
receive the card. The disputed cash withdrawals were made  from the account between  11 
and 14 November 2017 and totalled  £1,800.  Mrs M reported the loss on 15 November 2017 
when she says shed  gone to a branch  to withdraw money herself.
Lloyds said that it didnt accept that this was fraud. Mrs M had told it that no one else knew  
that this money  was being deposited or that shed ordered a new card and PIN. There  were 
no further attempts  to use the card after it had been cancelled and the money wasnt taken 
out as quickly  as possible. It thought  that Mrs M had authorised the withdrawals.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. He said that:
-Through her representative  Mrs M had now explained that the deposit  was a 
combination of income as she was paid in cash and money from the sale of a car 
abroad. She had no evidence of the sale but said that the money was brought  in 
sterling to this country.
-She said she lived at the time in a house  with five or six people  and while  her room 
could be locked all post came through a shared letterbox.  She had only had one 
problem with her post in the past when a letter went missing - she thinks  this was 
when there was a resident with a similar name to her.
-The card and PIN were dispatched on separate days  and most  likely would have 
arrived on different days. No one knew these were coming or about the money  in her 
account.
-The withdrawals were  made when the chip on the genuine card was read and the 
correct PIN entered. There were no balance enquiries.
-Mrs M had provided evidence to show she was working on 13 and 14 November 
2017 in the local area.  And the withdrawals were  made some distance  away although 
Mrs M did seem to have some connection  to where  they were  made.  This was based 
on past entries on her bank statement and some coach and rail expenses which 
indicated she had visited regularly.
-He didnt think that a third party  would  likely  have been able to obtain  her card and 
PIN, known that money was in the account without making a balance  enquiry and 
also known to stop trying to use the card after it was cancelled.
Mrs Ms representative said that she didnt agree. He thought that a discriminatory approach  
was being followed  as Mrs M wasnt born in this country. He wasnt  happy with the outcome  
having waited  so long. And he said that Mrs M might  take legal action.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN53709752Id like to assure Mrs M and her representative that we deal with all complaints in an 
unbiased way. And the questions weve already asked  for example about the source  of the 
money or how her accounts were used  are ones we would typically  ask in complaints about 
fraud. Thats so we can build as complete a picture as possible.  Even  so I still wont be able 
to decide exactly  what happened with these  withdrawals and I will make findings about  what 
I think is most likely.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2009 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment service provider bears the risk of sending a payment 
instrument or any security information relating  to it. Ill consider the evidence  about this. And 
a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its not enough for it to be 
authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised Mrs M wouldnt 
generally be responsible for them.
So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at his complaint:
-What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
-Did Mrs M either authorise the payments  on the account, or allow someone else to use 
the card as Lloyds  says?
the card and PIN
Lloyds has provided  clear evidence to show that the card was dispatched on 9 November 
2017 and the PIN on 7 November 2017. The reason for this is so that these dont arrive 
together. So I think that would have been  unlikely  to have happened.  And Mrs M had only 
one letter go missing  before and she reported no loss of any other  post at the time.  There 
were a number of people living with her. But to find someone  else intercepted these  specific 
items Id need to think that someone  was actively scanning her post, could recognise these 
items from the envelopes and could obtain them before  Mrs M got them  without her 
realising. Im afraid I dont  believe  that this is the most likely explanation  of what  happened.
the use of the account
Mrs M hadnt  used the account since December 2016. She decided to pay in a significant 
amount of money  compared to past deposits before she had the ability to use that account 
with her card. And when  she first spoke to Lloyds about what happened she was reluctant to 
explain the source of that money.  When she complained she then said it was from her self 
employed income and that she was paid in cash.  I havent seen a record  of her being asked 
where that money was held and it didnt  seem to have come from a different  account with 
another business that she had been using more regularly in 2017. At some point the 
explanation through her representative  became  that this also involved the sale of a car 
abroad, the conversion of that money to sterling  and then it being brought  to her. She hasnt 
been able to provide any evidence of that sale. 
Mrs M says she hadnt told anyone about that cash. And this was paid into an account that 
she hadnt been using. So I dont see a way in which a fraudster would have anticipated  this 
was in the account and withdraw it.
what most likely  happened?
Im satisfied based on the technical evidence from Lloyds that these  withdrawals were  
authenticated using her genuine card and the PIN. I need now to think about  whether Mrs M 
Ref: DRN53709753consented to them. Mrs M has given some evidence to show  that she couldnt  have made  all 
the withdrawals herself when she was working in a different location. But that doesnt rule 
out the possibility of her allowing someone  else to use the card and account and take out the 
money.
To find instead that these withdrawals were made by an unknown  third party acting without  
her authority  Id need to think all of the following were  most likely:
-The fraud by chance  happened just at the time Mrs M had paid in a significant amount 
of money into an account shed not been using.
-A fraudster was able to obtain Mrs Ms card and PIN without any prior knowledge that 
these were being dispatched.
-That person  made a first withdrawal some  distance from where Mrs M lived having gone 
there without even checking the balance. That person somehow seemed to be confident  
that there were  funds  in the account even though Mrs M hadnt told anyone about this.
-Again  by chance the attempts to make withdrawals stopped after Mrs M had reported  
the card lost. There was still money in the account and this would suggest that 
somehow the person using the card found out it had been reported as missing.
Im afraid that these  arent all findings  Im able to make as most likely based  on the available  
evidence. So I consider that Mrs M consented to these withdrawals and either made  them 
herself or allowed someone else to use her account card to take out this money.  These 
payments were authorised by her.
I appreciate the time that this review has taken. And I know Im going  to disappoint Mrs M 
when I say that I dont  have a basis to require Lloyds to take any further action. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5370975