K820x#14background
Mr T complains that Starling Bank Limited  debited  his account with a series of online and 
contactless card payments totalling over £1,000 which  he said he didnt make or otherwise 
authorise.
complaint
Mr T had a Starling current account  between June  and October  2018, when Starling took the 
decision to close Mr Ts account. During  this time Mr T made several complaints to Starling 
disputing making  payments  on his account.  
In the first complaint in July 2018 he disputed making any payments on his account bar two 
at a newsagent. Starling commenced  an investigation and asked Mr T a number  of 
questions, but he responded to Starling telling them that he realised the transactions  were 
made by his wife and so the complaint didnt need to continue.  
Mr T later disputed  numerous gambling,  retail and other transactions  that took place on his 
account over several complaints to Starling. Starling didnt  uphold  any of Mr Ts complaints. 
Across their responses to Mr T, Starling said they thought  it was most likely Mr T that had 
authorised these payments. This was because:  
The genuine card and PIN, card details including CVC,  or contactless were used for 
the transactions.
Transactions were funded by payments into the account shortly  before.
Account changes such as removing the gambling block function were made from his 
device around  the time of the transactions.
Hed raised numerous fraud claims in a short space of time so they felt that it was 
likely he hadnt taken  the necessary steps  to protect  his account and told him they 
wouldnt progress one of his complaints  and when hed been told that hed replied 
thats not a problem, thanks
Hed accepted  his wife made the payments he disputed in his first complaint, so they 
felt if it was not him that made the payments they were  made by his wife.  
Mr T would have  had notifications alerting him to payments and failed payments, so 
theyd expect him to have got in touch  with them sooner to dispute them  
When some of the disputed transaction complaints were rejected Mr T told them that 
hed realised some payments were his partner, and also said hed take more  care in 
relation to his finances.
Mr T didnt  agree with Starlings decision so asked this service  to consider his complaint.
When Mr T came to our service he disputed  every contactless and online payment on his 
account with Starling, having only taken  out cash.  He didnt mention the transactions carried  
out by Chip and PIN so Ive considered these as disputed transactions  too. The transactions  
that werent cash withdrawals totalled over £1,300. There  were approximately one hundred 
and eighty transactions including  approximately twenty cash withdrawals, the latter  being  the 
only ones Mr T accepts  he made.  
Mr T requested and was sent four cards for his Starling account.  Mr T told us several cards 
were not received due to someone  forcing  his locked  letterbox open, though he hasnt said 
who may have done this. It is also unclear  how, having done so, an unknown third party may 
have accessed  his PIN code. There were undisputed transactions on three  of four cards. 
There were also disputed  and undisputed  transactions  on the same day on some occasions. 
Ref: DRN50018052Our investigator reviewed  Mr Ts complaint  and said they didnt feel Starling had done 
anything wrong. They  felt that on balance  it was most likely that Mr T had carried  out the 
transactions himself,  though he may have forgotten doing so.  
Mr T disagreed as he said he didnt authorise or otherwise consent  to the transactions.  He 
also felt Starling didnt  care about  his personal health conditions.  As Mr T disagreed, the 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, Starling can hold Mr T liable  for the disputed transactions if the evidence  
suggests that its more  likely than not that he made or authorised them  himself.  Im satisfied  
from the banks  technical  evidence that Mr Ts genuine card and PIN or contactless were 
used to make the disputed transactions in person, as well as his genuine card details 
including the CVV being used for online payments. But the regulations relevant to this case  
say that is not, on its own, enough  to enable Starling to hold him liable. So, I need to think 
about whether  the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr T consented to 
these transactions  being made.
From what  Ive seen, I think its reasonable for Starling to conclude  that Mr T authorised the 
transactions. This is because:
Mr T gave numerous accounts across  his complaints to Starling and then to us. 
These accounts contained  contradictions  and inconsistencies, bringing Mr Ts 
recollection of his account activity into question.  
Mr T said he didnt  receive some of the cards and suggested  they were  stolen  from 
his letterbox, but I dont think this is the most  likely explanation here. I say this 
because it appears from what hes said that there are undisputed transactions on 
three of the four cards, and by his own admission he and his wife made transactions 
on one of the cards  none of which would have been possible if an unknown third 
party had stolen  multiple cards from his letter  box. Theyd also have had to break into 
a post box multiple times, without getting  caught and without any knowledge as to 
when the cards  were  due to be delivered.  So, I think it is most  likely  that Mr T did 
receive the cards. 
Ive gone on to consider whether the cards  could have been received but used 
without his authority.  Firstly, Ive thought about whether someone  known to Mr T, 
namely his wife, made transactions without Mr Ts consent. Whilst Mr T doesnt seem 
to be saying this is the case to our service, he told Starling  during the original 
complaint that he realised his wife completed the transactions. With that in mind  I 
consider it is likely that Mr Ts wife may have made  some of the disputed payments, 
but I think it remains reasonable  to hold Mr T liable for these.  
I say this because  once he realised his wife had made the payments  in his first 
complaint with Starling  he didnt continue  to dispute the transactions  or refute giving 
the card and PIN to his wife. So, I think that whilst he may not have  known about  all 
the payments  she made, he likely let her use his card and PIN. As such Mr T failed 
with intent to comply with his obligations  as a payment service  user  namely 
Ref: DRN50018053keeping his card and PIN safe - and Starling are entitled to hold Mr T liable for these 
transactions.  
Ive gone on to consider the suggestion that the cards were received but someone 
unknown to Mr T completed these transactions without his consent. However, I 
consider this improbable. 
This is because if an unknown third party had made these transactions,  they would 
have had to take and replace multiple  cards, multiple times without alerting Mr T to 
what they were doing  which  seems  highly unlikely. Several disputed transactions 
were made by chip and PIN  and its not clear how an unknown  third party would 
have accessed  this.
It also seems  unusual  that an unknown third party would gamble using the card when 
any winnings would be returned  to the card  and indeed some  were. So, either  the 
third party  would  have  to risk taking  the card again or could not benefit from any 
returns on the gambling meaning it is likely  Mr T would be the only one likely  to 
benefit from any winnings. 
Further, money was also sent to the account to fund the transactions,  sometimes just 
before they took place. I cannot  see an explanation for why money would continue to 
be sent to a compromised account  or how an unknown third party would know  
when it was being sent. 
Alerts went to Mr Ts phone when actual or failed transactions took place. And Mr T 
was in contact  with Starling over his telephone  application during the period of the 
disputed transactions.  So, I think it is likely he was aware of the activity on his 
account. It seems strange  that if these  transactions were  completed by an unknown  
third party  that he would have only disputed some of the transactions  at the time, and 
later dispute far more  transactions.  
Changes were  made on Mr Ts account  that allowed  transactions  to take place. For 
example, there were some transactions that were stopped by a gambling  block  
feature that was activated on Mr Ts account.  The gambling block was then taken off 
through the phone application  and the gambling  transactions were completed again.  I 
think it is most likely  that Mr T made these account changes,  and cant see why he 
would have if an unknown  third party was making  the gambling  transactions without 
his knowledge  or consent. 
Also, it does seem unusual that an unknown third party with access  to a card and 
PIN would  utilise the balance  slowly and mainly  on everyday spending such  as 
supermarkets and travel.
my final decision 
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint against Starling Bank Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Katherine Jones
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5001805