K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
Blue Motor  Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory  quality. He wants to reject the vehicle and 
terminate the agreement.
background
Mr C tells us that he acquired the vehicle in June 2018 through a dealer Ill refer to as T. 
He states that it experienced several  faults.  He says that even after repairs  the vehicle isnt 
safe. He further  complains that he wasnt told that the vehicle had previously been in an 
accident or that it had been  remapped  prior to being  supplied to him.
BMF told us that it had supplied two independent inspection reports from a business Ill refer 
to as S. The first report which had been carried out on 10 January 2019  identified some 
issues with the vehicle. This included an oil seepage  in the transmission area.  But no fault 
with the transmission control  module.  It considered the leak to be due to age-related in 
service seepage. It said that a further  inspection on 8 June 2020 identified that the vehicle 
wouldnt move  when  reverse gear was engaged. The report said this wasnt a fault present 
at the previous inspection. And so had occurred after the point of supply.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that BMF  
with Mr Cs consent - had arranged for the vehicle  to be repaired. And that Mr C had 
subsequently confirmed to her that he drove the vehicle home without issues after these had 
been carried out. She accepted that Mr C didnt feel the vehicle was safe but in the absence  
of any information  to show this to be the case she thought BMF  had done  what  was required  
by arranging the repairs.
Mr C didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been  possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that things havent  worked  out with this vehicle as Mr C would have hoped.  
Unfortunately, with used  vehicles  theres  always a greater risk of things going  wrong  than 
with new models.
Mr Cs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. BMF  supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about  the quality of the vehicle.
Mr Cs complaint is that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when  supplied  and that 
repairs failed to rectify the issues. He thinks he should be able to reject the vehicle and end 
the financial agreement.
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every  single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues  here. Our rules allow me to do this.
Ref: DRN51710062This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant  law here includes  the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA);  and the Consumer Protection from Unfair  Trading 
Regulations of 2008 (CPUTR).
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects of price, previous  use and 
durability. CPUTR requires the consumer to be given enough information about  the goods  
that the average consumer would require to make  an informed  decision.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods  dont conform to contract within  six 
months of the date of supply that they didnt do so at that time. This presumption applies 
unless its shown that the goods did conform to contract at that time.
The vehicle here was around four year old and had an odometer  reading of around  36,293  
miles at the time it was supplied to Mr C. So it had experienced  average  use in the time 
before Mr C acquired it.
Ive examined various documents which allow me to set out a timeline of reported faults and 
inspections of the vehicle.
Shortly after supply there were intermittent issues reported with gears temporarily  failing to 
engage. No current  fault codes were  found.
Ive seen a list of fault codes on a report dated  16 June 2018 from a business  Ill call D. 
These appear to be historical and there is substantial  mileage  between  those recordings.
Mr C reported some problems in October 2018.  And he had the vehicle inspected  by a firm 
Ill call W. This identified  accident damage  and what were described  as shoddy repairs.
It also noted issues with the steering and suspension geometry.
Following this the vehicle was returned  to T. And Ive seen a job card from T dated 16 
October 2018 which lists details of the issues reported and the subsequent repairs.  The 
faults reported included:
1.Misalignment of the air conditioning condenser;
2.Extensive use of cable ties to keep parts in place;
3.Large  rag bunched up in a vain effort to keep a fluid pipe away from the lower cross 
member;
4. Vehicles steering  and suspension geometry  still an issue;
5.Incorrect rear camber  evident;
Ref: DRN517100636.Customer still has the spanner light on the dash  that he reported in July initially and 
comes up on the dash check vehicle and cuts out intermittently  along  with check auto 
gear box - No fault codes stored in the ECU back in July when it was initially  reported
The work carried out was reported  to be:
1 and 2. Replaced radiator and front air guide;
3. Inspected fluid pipe and confirmed  it was not touching the lower  cross member - all ok;
4. and 5. Camber  was adjusted by H;
6. Carried out diagnosis and replaced battery sensor  plug - road tested all ok.
Body shop  repairs:
Re-secured O/S/F bumper grill - all ok.
The odometer reading recorded  after repairs and road testing was 40,458 miles.
On 13 December a health check by a company Ill call H identified a leak from the gearbox 
casing.
On 17 December 2018 the vehicle  was seen by a firm Ill call DM  and it reportedly also 
found a slight  oil leak from a casing joint. The odometer reading  is recorded as 40,701 miles.
The vehicle was examined by S in January 2019.  It identified an oil seepage in the 
transmission area.  It also reported  that there  were  no fault codes stored with relation to the 
transmission control  module. But it recommended  a specialist diagnostic  equipment  was 
needed to check  for any transmission  fault. 
It reported the possibility of intermittent interruption in line oil pressure.  It said this was 
probably due to a sticky valve  within the gearbox. And could often be resolved by a 
transmission fluid flush and replacement  of transmission  fluid.  It concluded that the vehicle 
had been of satisfactory quality when supplied to Mr C. And that the oil seepage  was in-
service and age-related and needed  no rectification.  The odometer reading is record  as 
41,607 miles.
In April 2019 the vehicle was examined by a manufacturers approved garage R. It found  
that the vehicle had been remapped on a previous occasion. It re-programmed the vehicle 
and reset it back to factory settings.  And gave it an extended road test. The odometer 
reading is recorded as 42,346 miles.
After this it appears that Mr C didnt  think the vehicle was safe to drive  even  though he 
confirmed to our investigator that hed driven it home without warning lights  and had noticed 
a substantial difference in the vehicles performance.  So it largely remained unused.
In March 2020 an MOT  test was abandoned  due to the vehicle  being  locked in the drive 
position. The odometer reading  is recorded  as 42,393 miles.
Ref: DRN51710064The vehicle was again examined  in June 2020 by S. The odometer reading is recorded  as 
42,400 miles. On this occasion it reported that a warning light illuminated when reverse  gear 
was engaged. And the vehicle wouldnt move. But it did move when a forward  gear was 
engaged. 
S reported that the current symptoms werent  present at its previous inspection which led it 
to conclude they had arisen since then. A further  visit was also arranged  and no current fault 
codes were identified.  S stated that it was unable  to say that the vehicle was unfit for 
purpose or had underlying issues at the point of supply.
Following the later inspection and viewing of historical fault codes, S further concluded that if 
the vehicles ECU had been remapped this had probably occurred after the date of supply.
Overall, Ive seen a number of inspection reports from various sources. And this includes two 
separate reports from S which  indicate that the vehicle was of satisfactory quality when 
supplied. 
The vehicle has travelled over 6,000  miles since supplied  to Mr C. As tellingly, it 
covered over 700 miles between S first inspection in January  2019 and Rs examination  of 
the vehicle in April 2019. This lends support to S view that the vehicle was in good  general 
condition.
Somewhere between  Rs inspection and March 2020 the vehicle became unable  to move in 
reverse gear. But Ive seen nothing that indicates  this was a fault present at the point of 
supply. Indeed its not plausible  that the vehicle could have covered 6,000 miles since  supply 
in such a condition.
Similarly although accident damage  was identified theres insufficient information to show 
when this occurred  or that this compromised  the vehicles performance. In any event it was 
subject of an authorised  repair in October 2018. And an HPI check didnt show  the vehicle 
was subject to any defect categorisation report after any previous accident.
Based on the information with which Ive been supplied  Im unable  to say that the vehicle 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. Nor is there any information to show that work 
carried out in October  2018 by T has failed  or contributed to the current  symptoms.
I understand that Mr C will be disappointed by my decision. But the information supplied 
indicates that the vehicle  was of satisfactory quality when inspected by S in January 2019.
After it had been repaired by T. The current symptoms with reverse  gear were not present 
on that occasion. Nor when R saw the vehicle in April 2019.
So the only reasonable inference is that they occurred since Rs inspection and it re-setting 
the vehicle to factory specifications. As this issue wasnt  present at the point of supply its not 
a fault for which BMF is responsible. Accordingly,  Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2021.
Ref: DRN51710065Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5171006