K820x#14Complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) wont  refund a series  of 
transactions on his current account that he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
Background
Mr M had a current account with Halifax. In late 2013, he moved to a different area of the 
country to study at university. Hed applied for student finance  to support him during his 
studies. In November  2013 he was arrested  and remanded in custody. He was later 
convicted. His sentence lasted until November  2015.
Between those  dates,  further student finance  payments were made into his account  and 
several significant withdrawals were  made  near his family home. Mr M says that these 
werent authorised  by him and that he didnt know he was continuing to receive student 
finance payments.  He only became  aware of this activity on his account when he reapplied  
for a student loan and was told he wasnt eligible because hed already received one. This 
was around two years after hed been released.
He says that he didnt have his card on him at the time of arrest. He was arrested at his 
family home, rather than his student accommodation. Its not clear  where  the card was left. 
He couldnt return  to his shared house he lived in with fellow students and sort out his things. 
He thinks that the card mightve been  acquired by a fraudster  in this way. Hes not sure how 
anyone couldve known  his PIN as he didnt  have it written down and hasnt shared it with 
anyone. 
He complained to Halifax  which refused to refund the payments. It said that a legitimate 
withdrawal was made after Mr Ms sentence was completed using Mr Ms genuine  card. This 
suggested it had been returned to him after two years. Halifax  thought  it would be unusual 
for a fraudster to return a stolen card to its owner. Halifax  also thought that Mr M shouldve 
noticed that his account  balance at the end of his sentence  was significantly less than it was 
at the time of his conviction.  
Mr M was unhappy with Halifaxs decision and so he brought the complaint to this service.  It 
was looked at by an investigator who said it was more likely than not that Mr M had 
authorised someone  else to make use of his account during the time he was in prison, albeit  
he might  not have authorised each specific transaction. The investigator  thought  it was 
significant that deposits had been  made into the account and that this would be unusual 
behaviour for a fraudster. She also thought  that the account was likely being used by 
someone close to Mr M because the way the account was used suggested they were aware 
of student finance payments coming  into the account.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion and said that no-one else had permission  to 
use his account.  Because  he disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint has 
been passed to me to come to a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same overall conclusions as the investigator.
Ref: DRN56753372Its difficult to know  for sure exactly what happened here. Due to the amount of time that has 
passed since these  transactions took place,  theres  only limited information  available. Halifax 
no longer has information  that might shed light on what happened,  and Mr Ms recollections 
are limited.  The basic position is that Halifax  can hold Mr M liable for the disputed payments 
if the evidence  suggests its more likely than not that he made them, authorised them  or if he 
deliberately didnt take reasonable steps to keep  his account safe. Its clear that he couldnt 
have carried out the transactions personally  given the dates of his prison sentence.  But I 
think the evidence  suggests hed authorised someone else to use his account.  
The evidence provided by Halifax shows that the transactions in dispute were  all carried out 
using Mr Ms genuine  card and authenticated using his PIN. Theres  no compelling  
explanation for how a fraudster couldve known Mr Ms PIN  hes said he didnt  write  this 
down anywhere  and didnt share it with anyone. It had also been changed from the original 
PIN that was assigned  to the account. Even if, for example, Mr M had kept the PIN 
notification letter and it had fallen into the wrong  hands, it wouldnt have enabled anyone to 
use his card to withdraw cash from his account.  From what  Mr M has told me, its difficult  to 
see how someone couldve  obtained the PIN without his permission.
On multiple occasions  throughout  Mr Ms sentence, cash was paid into the account  at the 
counter in branches in Mr Ms local area. The amounts  deposited ranged from £20 to £150. 
Unfortunately, there are no records of who made these cash  deposits. It is, however, unlikely 
that a fraudster would make  deposits  into Mr Ms account. In addition, the pattern of account 
use suggests the account was being  used by someone who either knew  that Mr M was in 
receipt of student  loan payments or had access to account statements.  There were periods 
of very little account  activity  but withdrawals would immediately follow each new student  
loan payment. 
Its also significant that a cash  machine withdrawal in December 2015 after Mr Ms prison 
sentence ended (which Mr M says was a genuine  withdrawal) was made  using the same 
card that had been used for all of the disputed withdrawals  this would  mean that the card 
would need to have been returned to him by the person carrying  out the withdrawals. Its not 
clear to me how this couldve happened without Mr M being  aware  of it. The investigator  
asked Mr M how the card made its way back into his possession  after his sentence  ended  
but he couldnt recall.
The limited  information  makes this case a very difficult one to decide but Im satisfied  that 
the available  evidence shows its more likely than not that Mr M authorised someone else to 
make use of his account while he was in prison,  although I acknowledge he might not have 
authorised each specific use of the account. Its therefore reasonable for Halifax  to hold him 
liable for the withdrawals that were made during this period.
Final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2020.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5675337