K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  with a mortgage.
background
Briefly:
In 1993, during a branch  meeting,  Mr and Mrs S took out PPI at the same  time as taking out 
a mortgage. The policy was designed to protect their mortgage  payments in the event Mrs S 
(the policy was in her sole name) couldnt  work because of accident,  sickness  or 
unemployment.
The policy was a regular  premium policy and it cost under £10 a month for a £150  a month 
benefit.
At the time Mrs S says she was employed;  she was entitled to sick pay of at least 6 months 
full pay; she had some savings; and she had a pension scheme through  work. Mrs S also 
told us that shed suffered from two medical  conditions in the past  one going back  to the 
mid 1980s and the other around 1990.
B&Bs records show the mortgage account closed in 2001.
I issued my provisional decision of October 2019.  Here I said that I was likely not to uphold  
Mr and Mrs S complaint for the following summarised reasons:
B&B didnt provide advice and recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs S, so it didnt have to 
ensure it was right or suitable for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs S enough 
clear and timely information  so they could  make that decision for themselves.
The evidence suggests B&B made Mr and Mrs S aware they didnt have to take out 
PPI and that they chose to do so - the mortgage  application records they wanted it 
with a Yes and a tick in the appropriate box. Mr and Mrs S also signed the overall 
application.
I accepted the application wasnt in Mr and Mrs S handwriting as theyve said. But I 
said that given  things happened  during a meeting, the B&B representative likely 
completed the paperwork, which  was neither unusual  nor surprising.
I said that because  things happened a long time ago and the evidence was 
incomplete, I accepted there might have been gaps or failings in some  of the 
information B&B provided to Mr and Mrs S about PPI. But given Mrs S 
circumstances at the time (the policy  was in her sole name) I didnt think Mr and Mrs 
S wouldve been put off taking out PPI had B&B done anything  more  for example 
Mrs S was eligible  for the cover, it was affordable; she was the sole income earner  at 
the time;  and it couldve been useful to both her and Mr S in the event of a claim.
I acknowledged what Mrs S had told us about  her medical history.  But given the 
wording of the policys existing medical condition exclusion,  I didnt think  shed have 
been caught by it and therefore not been put off by it had B&B been clearer  about 
things.
B&B said it had nothing  further to add.
Ref: DRN56912022Mr and Mrs S disagreed with my provisional  decision. In summary they said theyve been  
unfairly treated  by B&B and made  the following points:
they neither  asked  nor ticked for PPI.
the leaflet  B&B sent them when they complained was partly blanked  out, which  
proves it wasnt pertinent to them. They ask does this mean  B&B knew they didnt 
sign for PPI.
the ombudsman  said it was possible the information from B&B wasnt good enough, 
so ask why their claim has been disallowed.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and carefully considered  the points Mr and Mrs S have raised  in response to 
my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my reasoning  or conclusions  as set 
out in my provisional  decision.
Ive listened again to what Mr and Mrs S have said about neither asking for nor ticking  for 
PPI. But as I explained in my provisional  decision, I think the evidence available  from the 
time suggests B&B gave them a choice  about PPI and they agreed to take it out.
With regard to the leaflet Mr and Mrs S have referred to  enclosed by B&B with its final 
response letter  it appears to me that the blanking out or redaction was because   B&B  used 
another customers copy as an example of what it says Mr and Mrs S wouldve received at 
the time of the sale. I think this was likely because B&B didnt have Mr and Mrs S actual 
copy  not because it accepted they didnt agree to PPI.
Mr and Mrs S have  asked why despite  me saying B&B might  not have done  everything it 
should have at the time, their complaint hasnt  succeeded.  This is because I think  Mr and 
Mrs S decision to take out PPI wouldnt have been any different had B&B done  anything 
more. As I set out in my provisional decision,  their circumstances  indicate the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for them; it was affordable; and it wouldve been  useful  to them  if 
something went wrong. So I dont think better information wouldve affected  their decision to 
take out PPI with their mortgage.  
Once again, I acknowledge the fact that Mr and Mrs S are disappointed  with my decision. 
But for the reasons Ive set out here and in my provisional decision, I dont think  theyve lost 
out as a result of having PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  above and in my provisional  decision, Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 December 2019.
Ref: DRN56912023Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5691202