K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains about the advice he received from AWD Home Finance Limited, a mortgage  
broker and appointed representative  of Legal & General Partnership Services  Limited. He 
says he was mis-sold a mortgage, a will and estate planning package,  and a legal 
administration service.
A claims  management company (CMC) brings this complaint on Mr Cs behalf.
background 
I set out the background  to this complaint and my provisional conclusions by way of a 
provisional decision  a copy of which is attached, and forms part of, this final decision. I 
explained why I thought  Legal & General  had made  a fair offer of compensation.
I also invited the CMC and Legal & General to let me have any final submissions they 
wanted me to consider before making  my final decision. 
Despite reminders, the CMC didnt reply. Legal  & General said it had no further comments  to 
add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has said they disagree  with my provisional decision or made any further 
comments for me to consider. So I find no grounds on which  to depart  from the conclusions  I 
set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is that I do not uphold this complaint, in the sense  that I consider Legal & 
General Partnership  Services Limited  has made  a fair offer of compensation.
I leave it to Mr C to decide whether he wishes to accept that offer to pay him £203.60, 
representing the mortgage interest  on the cost of the will package for the term of the 
mortgage, plus £150 for his inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN57892522copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr C complains about the advice he received from AWD  Home Finance Limited, a mortgage broker 
and appointed  representative of Legal & General Partnership Services Limited. He says he was mis-
sold a mortgage, a will and estate planning package, and a legal administration  service.
A claims  management company (CMC) brings  this complaint on Mr Cs behalf.
background
Mr C took advice from the broker in late 2005 and early 2006. He wanted to re-mortgage  in order to 
raise money to pay off an unsecured loan and for home improvements. The broker recommended  he 
move his mortgage  to a new lender and take a five-year fixed rate. 
The broker also recommended Mr C buy a will package. A fee of £158.63  for that was added  to the 
mortgage, along with various legal fees for the re-mortgage amounting to just under  £700.  
In 2016, through the CMC, Mr C complained.  The CMC  said the will package  and legal service 
werent suitable  for him. In terms of the will package,  it said, in summary:
the package and the fees for it werent properly  disclosed to either  Mr C or the lender, and the 
broker didnt do enough  to ensure it was suitable for Mr C;
the will company was a sister company of the broker or there was cross-shareholding. The 
broker didnt tell Mr C or the lender this and it was a clear conflict of interest;
documents from the sale suggest that the broker recommended one will package out of three, 
before the will company had established Mr Cs needs   this couldnt  be right;
the charge  for the will package was excessive, arbitrary, and unreasonable when compared 
with costs for similar packages on the wider  market;
it believes that L&G directed the broker to reduce the cost of the will package  about  eight or 
nine years  ago. This demonstrates  that L&G was complicit in the sale.
In terms of the legal service, the CMC said, in summary:
Mr C could have got free legal services from the lender. The broker knew this but didnt  tell Mr 
C, and it also charged him an additional legal  administration fee;
the broker  coerced  Mr C into using its appointed solicitor in order to ensure it received 
commission, as well as payment of various  fees on completion of the mortgage. This wasnt in 
Mr Cs best interests and wasnt  treating him fairly;
the charge  for the service was excessive  when compared to prices in the wider market  for 
similar services.
In terms of both the will package and the legal service, the CMC  said, again in summary:
they were presented in a misleading  way, because they were unregulated products  and 
included in a regulated sale, and L&G hadnt  authorised the broker to sell them;
adding the fees for them to the mortgage  was inappropriate as it meant Mr C had to pay 
interest on them over the term of the mortgage. Mr C didnt receive an illustration  showing 
what this would cost him over the term;
Ref: DRN57892523both AWD and L&G have benefited from the fees being  added to the mortgage,  because  the 
lender will have  paid them an inflated procuration  fee as a result. They also received 
commission which they didnt tell Mr C about, and L&G failed to exercise proper  control  over 
AWD.
L&G said it had seen nothing to show that the lender offered a free legal service at the time Mr C 
applied for his mortgage, and it hadnt received any commission from the conveyancing  solicitor. It 
also said it thought Mr C did need  to make a will. But it agreed it wasnt right for him to have paid the 
fee for the will package through  his mortgage. It offered to refund the interest Mr C had paid on the 
cost of the will package over the term of the mortgage, which it said came to £53.60, and pay him 
£150 for his inconvenience.
Mr C didnt accept that so, through  the CMC, he got in touch with us. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint,  and said he thought L&G had made a fair offer of compensation.  He found 
nothing to indicate that Mr C could have used a free legal service through  his lender, that the broker 
had received commission  from the conveyancer, or that there was a conflict of interest. He said the 
legal fees were  made clear to Mr C, and he didnt think the recommendation of a will package was 
unreasonable.
The CMC asked for a review. It said Mr C didnt  need or want  a will, and he could have arranged it 
separately. The fees for it and for legal work  involved  in the re-mortgage were excessive.  They were 
inflated in order to benefit the broker  through the payment of secret commission  which means  the 
contractual relationship  between the broker and Mr C is void.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr Cs CMC has said the mortgage the broker recommended was mis-sold  because of the additional 
fees Mr C was charged for the will package and legal work, and because  there were payments  of 
commission involved  which he wasnt told about. I have considered each issue in turn below.
the will package
I agree with the CMC  that L&G is responsible  for the advice AWD, as its appointed representative, 
gave Mr C to take a will package. L&G hasnt argued otherwise, and Im satisfied that the advice was 
given in connection with the regulated  activity  of providing  mortgage advice. 
I dont find I can fairly conclude that the brokers  recommendation that Mr C buy a will package  was 
unsuitable. The client review form it completed with Mr C shows  he was separated and, while he had 
no savings,  there was equity in his home. Getting  a will meant he could  decide who would  inherit that 
asset. So I think  the recommendation  was reasonable.
L&G has said the broker didnt recommend  one particular will package to Mr C; rather, it referred him 
to a third-party will company.  It has said the will company  would have  discussed which package best 
suited his needs, and he could  either  have paid more for additional services  such  as inheritance  
planning, or received  a full refund if he decided  not to go ahead. 
I think  its clear from the letter  the broker sent Mr C following its initial meeting with him in late 2005 
that it referred him to the will company.  That letter summarised Mr Cs demands and needs,  and said 
the will company would contact him directly  to discuss  his will requirements. In the light of that, I 
accept that the broker didnt advise Mr C to take a specific will package. And I think  it follows  that the 
cost of the package couldnt  be confirmed  until later, after Mr C had decided which package he 
wanted to take. The completion statement confirms that the final cost of the package was £158.63.
Ref: DRN57892524The CMC has said the will Mr C got was defective. I havent  seen a copy of the will. In any event, I 
think thats a matter  for Mr C to take up with the will company,  rather  than with L&G. I find nothing to 
indicate that the broker  was party to discussions about the will itself. Besides  that, the third-party  will 
company isnt covered by this service,  and its not for me to say what was a reasonable amount for it 
to charge.  
I have found that the broker and the will company did have  directors in common. Of itself,  though,  that 
doesnt mean  the brokers  advice that Mr C make a will or its referral to this particular will company 
were unsuitable or inappropriate. I dont think they were  and if Mr C neither needed  nor wanted a 
will, he could have chosen not to go ahead. 
I think  that adding the cost of the will package to the mortgage was poor advice. It meant that Mr C 
had to pay interest  on that cost over the whole  mortgage term. L&G has accepted this was wrong,  
and it has offered  to refund  the interest on the cost of the will over the term of the mortgage, plus 
£150. I consider  that a fair way to put things  right.  It makes good Mr Cs loss, and Im satisfied that it 
compensates him for his inconvenience in having had to make slightly  higher mortgage payments  
than he would  otherwise  have made.
the legal service
Mr C paid just under  £700  for the legal work  involved in the re-mortgage. This is less than the 
estimated £750 for legal  fees and other  disbursements  set out in the key facts  illustration which  the 
broker produced for him. 
The legal costs  included a legal and administration fee of just under £300,  which was paid to the 
broker on completion. L&G has said this related to the administrative work associated with the 
mortgage, including  various activities such as some searches, getting redemption figures, and a home 
visit to Mr C for signatures and to discuss  documents. 
The broker charged  separate  fees for various  parts of its service, but I think  it was clear  about  that  
and how it structured  its fees was a matter for it to decide. I find it would  be difficult  to conclude that 
Mr C was misled  about the costs involved. Free legals wasnt  identified as a priority in his 
discussions with the broker, and I find nothing in the mortgage paperwork to indicate that the lender 
offered a free legal service with this particular  mortgage deal. 
So, while the broker recommended Mr C use a particular  conveyancer, it doesnt follow that he lost 
out as a result.  He would always have had to pay any legal  costs arising  from the re-mortgage, 
whichever conveyancer he had used. And he had the option of using his own solicitor if he wanted.  
The legal costs  were  paid from the mortgage proceeds, which is not unusual or unreasonable.
The CMC has argued that the broker  received commission which wasnt disclosed to Mr C. It hasnt 
been able to provide any evidence of that. And, as Ive already said, I find the fees Mr C would  be 
responsible for were  made clear. 
 
The CMC has also said I should take into consideration three decisions this service  has made in the 
past, which  it believes support Mr Cs case. We decide each complaint on its individual merits, but I 
have looked at the decisions  the CMC  has referred to. The only common factor in those  cases 
appears to be that L&G refunded some legal fees. It is clear, though,  that this was because  it 
appeared that the lenders in those cases did offer free legal services. I cant  see that this was 
available to Mr C, so there is no basis for me to reach the same conclusion  here. 
commission and procuration fee
I find nothing to indicate that Mr C was told about any commission that might be paid by or to the 
broker if he took the will package or legal service. Importantly, though, I also find nothing  to show that 
commission was paid for them at all. It follows  that there are no grounds on which I might fairly require 
Ref: DRN57892525L&G to compensate Mr C on the basis that its representative received or paid commission which  he 
didnt know about, and that this created an unfair relationship.
In taking that view,  I have  considered  the court judgments the CMC  has said is relevant   specifically, 
Plevin v Paragon Personal  Finance Limited  and McWilliam v Norton Finance.  I must take account  of 
the law in making my decision.  However,  as I have already explained, I must  also consider each 
complaint on its particular  merits.  Given that theres no evidence of any commission payments, I dont 
think the cases the CMC  has referred to are relevant here. 
Finally, the lender paid the broker a procuration  fee. The CMC has said that this will have been 
inflated by the addition of the costs of the will package and legal service to the mortgage. This fee 
wasnt part of Mr Cs contract with either the broker or the lender. It was part of an arrangement 
between the broker and lender, and it was clear in both the mortgage illustration and offer provided  to 
Mr C. So it wasnt secret or hidden from him. I see no reason to conclude that it caused  the broker to 
recommend an unsuitable  mortgage, and I think  the impact  of the addition of the will package to the 
mortgage is likely to have had a very minimal  impact  on the level of the fee, which was just over £600 
in total. So I dont consider it fair or reasonable  to make any order or award in this respect.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision   subject to any further evidence or arguments I receive  from the parties by 
24 May 2019  is that I do not uphold  this complaint, in the sense that I consider Legal & General 
Partnership Services Limited has made a fair offer of compensation.
I leave it to Mr C to decide whether he wishes  to accept that offer to pay him £203.60, representing  
the mortgage interest on the cost of the will package for the term of the mortgage,  plus £150 for his 
inconvenience.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5789252