K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
In 1992 Mr W took out a loan from Halifax. He also took out PPI which  he paid for each 
month. This policy was designed to protect  Mr Ws monthly loan repayments  in the event he 
couldnt work because of accident or sickness or if he lost his job. 
Our adjudicator recommended  upholding this complaint. She said as Mr W had an existing 
medical condition  when he took out the policy it wouldnt  have met his needs if hed needed 
to claim for this. Our adjudicator said Halifax hadnt properly considered  this or done enough 
to make Mr W aware of this limitation  and if it had done, Mr W wouldnt have taken out the 
cover. 
Halifax hasnt accepted the adjudicators settlement proposals so this complaint  comes to 
me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case. Ive decided  to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Mr W told us that when  he took out this loan with PPI hed had an ongoing condition since  
childhood that he was taking medication  for and he kept in regular contact with his doctor  
about how he was feeling. He told us that hed previously taken a couple of months  off work 
as a result  of his condition. 
Under the policy Mr W wasnt  covered  for any medical condition  that hed seen a doctor  
about in the 12 months  before taking out cover  which affected him in the first 12 months after 
taking out the policy.  So it looks likely to me that Mr W was affected by this policy exclusion.
Halifax says it recommended the policy  to Mr W. So it needed to consider whether it was 
suitable for him as well as giving him enough  clear information about the policy so he could 
make an informed decision about it. 
Halifax hasnt told me how this important exclusion was made clear to Mr W before he 
bought the policy. And I havent seen  anything to show that Halifax asked Mr W about  his 
health to establish if there  was anything which might  affect the policys suitability for him. 
The information about the exclusion is contained  in the policy  document.  But its not clear to 
me when  Mr W mightve got this and been  able to read it. And I dont know  if the way the 
exclusion is worded  wouldve  been  clear enough  for Mr W to realise the impact this would  
have on his situation.  
Ref: DRN54749902I think the existing  medical condition exclusion in the policy wouldve mattered to Mr W. His 
condition was serious and potentially debilitating.  In the past it had led to him having  to take 
time off work. Given the potential impact  of Mr Ws condition on his ability  to work I think  the 
fact that the PPI wouldnt have been  any use to him for this condition  wouldve put him off 
wanting to pay for it. Even though hed still have had the other policy  benefits,  I dont  think  
Mr W wouldve  bought the policy if Halifax had made  him aware that he wouldnt  have been  
able to claim for his existing medical  condition. The policy didnt meet  one of Mr Ws main 
needs and so I dont think it was suitable  for him. 
And I dont  think he wouldve felt the policy  was worthwhile  in his particular circumstances. 
On balance, I think Mr W wouldve declined PPI if hed been properly advised  and made  
aware that, because of his circumstances, it didnt meet all of his needs. 
So I find Mr W has lost out because of what Halifax did wrong. And Halifax  needs to do 
something to put things  right.
putting things right
Mr W should be put back in the position  he wouldve been in now if hed taken out the loan 
without the PPI policy. So Halifax should:
Pay Mr W the amount he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Halifax can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must give 
Mr W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Scotland  plc 
(trading as Halifax) to pay Mr W as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5474990