K821x#15complaint
Mr W complained  about a number of loans he took out through  a company  called  Elevate 
Credit International  Limited, trading at the time as Sunny. Mr W says he was lent to 
irresponsibly and the loans caused him financial problems.
background
We know that Mr W took out 22 loans from Sunny between December 2015 and July 2017.  
Ive enclosed a summary  of his borrowing with Sunny, based on the information it provided  
to us. It can be found in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in March  2020 about this case,  
comprehensively setting  out why I thought the complaint should  be partly upheld  from the 
point of loan number 6, rather than loan 5, as our adjudicator had recommended.  I asked 
both parties to provide any further  submissions  or information to me within one month.  
my findings
Ive now reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
We havent heard back from Mr W. But Sunny replied  to my provisional decision with a 
number of observations. However, having read these carefully, they all just relate to things 
Ive already covered in my provisional decision; no new information  or evidence has been 
submitted or come to light. Sunny merely repeated  the amounts and dates of certain loans it 
granted to Mr W, whilst I had already pointed out that I am minded to uphold because of the 
repeated nature of its irresponsible lending. Sunny hasnt really addressed that issue or the 
effect its continual  lending had on Mr W, other  than to say his borrowing amounts were 
gradually decreasing  in value. The crux of the issue, however,  is that Sunny prolonged his 
indebtedness by granting him expensive credit intended for short-term use, over an 
extended period.  The fact that certain loans reduced  later in the chain doesnt change that.
Theres therefore no reason for me to change the findings  I previously set out. I uphold  this 
complaint in respect of loans 6 - 22, fully in line with my provisional decision.
putting things right
In order to put things  right for Mr W, Sunny should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr W paid on loans 6 - 22;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges on these from 
the date they were  paid (if they were)  to the date of settlement;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loans 19 - 22 and treat any 
payments Mr W made towards  these loans as payments towards the capital;
if reworking Mr Ws loans 19 - 22 accounts as Ive directed results in him effectively 
having made payments above  the original capital borrowed, then Sunny should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated  on the overpayments,  
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date of settlement;  
Ref: DRN50148802If reworking Mr Ws loans 19 - 22 accounts leaves an amount of capital still to be 
paid, then Sunny can use the total refund for the other upheld loans to offset  this. 
And if there is still an outstanding capital balance then I would remind  Sunny that it 
should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable  repayment  plan 
with Mr W for the remaining capital;
the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 -22 should be completely 
removed from Mr Ws credit file;
if any debts have  been sold by Sunny, it is to attempt to buy them  back or otherwise 
ensure the above  directions are fully complied  with.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr W a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I partly uphold this complaint  and I direct  Elevate Credit 
International Limited to pay Mr W the above compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN50148803summary  provisional  decision
Ive considered the relevant  information about this complaint. Based on what  Ive seen so far Im 
thinking about  still partially upholding the complaint, but not quite to the extent our adjudicator 
recommended. Ill look at any more comments I get by 12 April 2020. 
Unless the information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along  the following lines. 
Final decisions will be published on our website.  So that the consumer cant be identified,  Ill call him 
Mr W.
complaint
Mr W complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called Elevate  Credit 
International Limited, trading  at the time as Sunny. Mr W says he was lent to irresponsibly  and the 
loans caused him financial  problems.
To keep things simple  Ill refer mainly  to Sunny throughout this decision.
background
We now know  that Mr W took out 22 loans  from Sunny between December 2015 and July 2017.  Ive 
enclosed a summary  of his borrowing with Sunny,  based  on the information  it provided  to us. It can be 
found in the appendix  at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  into the complaint and said they thought it should  be upheld from the 
point of loan number 5 onwards. Sunny  didnt agree with the adjudicators view although  it did make 
an alternative offer, which  wasnt  accepted by Mr W. Its therefore come to me for an ombudsmans  
decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  Ive 
followed this approach when  thinking about Mr Ws complaint.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Mr W could repay  the 
loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have  taken into account  a range  
of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total repayment amount and the consumers 
income and expenditure.  
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate. However,  certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should have 
fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during which 
a customer has been given  loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN50148804There may even come a point,  as in this case, where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates  that the lending was unsustainable.  So Sunny was required to establish  whether  
Mr W could  sustainably  repay the loans, not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the re-payments  being affordable on this basis  might be an indication  that Mr W could 
sustainably make  them.  But it doesnt automatically follow  that this is the case. This is because the 
relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular, the 
customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments 
as well as without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. So, it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought to have fairly and reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if they are unlikely  to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Our adjudicator said they thought  the complaint  about loan numbers 1 - 4 ought  not to be upheld. But 
they said that by loan number 5, there were signs Mr W was having problems managing money. 
Bearing in mind  what Ive said above about the length of the lending  relationship, I think the checks  
which Sunny  most likely carried for loans 1 - 4 would have been quite basic ones, but they were  
probably proportionate to the lending  thus far. Nor do I think they would have revealed an obvious  
reason not to lend to Mr W. For loan number 5, I think the types of financial checks  ought  to have 
been more comprehensive  because this was Mr Ws fifth loan in relatively quick succession.
But where  I disagree with our adjudicator  is that even if Sunny had done better checks,  I still dont 
think this would have really mattered for loan 5. I think Sunny would have still lent him money, not 
least since hed paid the previous 4 loans off. Loan 5 was for £400,  but hed borrowed that amount  
twice before and the income and expenditure details he himself provided  tended to show he could  
afford it. So Im afraid I dont agree that by loan 5 it could be seen  that Mr W was having difficulty 
managing. 
I therefore  dont uphold his complaint about loans 1  5. 
However, I think from the point of loan 6 onwards,  the situation  was different. By this time I think an 
emerging pattern of repeated lending  was becoming  clear. By then, hed been borrowing  repeatedly 
and regularly  with Sunny for 7 months and this pattern should  have caused Sunny to see that Mr W 
wasnt merely borrowing to deal with short-term  cash-flow problems;  he was borrowing  regularly, to 
address shortfalls in his income and to meet an ongoing need. Mr W was having to consistently take 
out high interest, short-term lending  over a sustained  period and the indebtedness caused  by this type 
of borrowing was harmful, in my view.  Ive taken into account the amount being  borrowed at loans 6 
and 7 both being small, but I see they were also overlapping i.e. taken out whilst  previous borrowing 
was still outstanding. We also know he went on to be lent money  a further 17 times in the next year or 
so. Sunny should have seen this by loan number  6 and should have realised  Mr W was at risk of not 
managing to repay the loans sustainably  and was probably in financial difficulties. 
So Im also upholding this complaint in respect of loans 6 - 22. For these  loans Sunny repeatedly lent 
to Mr W in an unsustainable manner  because:
 
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Mr Ws indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use, over an extended period; and
the length  of time over which Mr W borrowed was likely to have had negative  implications on 
his ability to access  mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these  high-cost loans
Im therefore  intending to partially  uphold  Mr Ws complaint.
Ref: DRN50148805Appendix:
Loan Taken Out Repaid Instalments Amount
1 07/12/2015 25/03/2016 6 £400
2 04/01/2016 25/03/2016 6 £50
3 08/03/2016 25/03/2016 6 £150
4 09/04/2016 22/04/2016 6 £400
5 05/05/2016 09/07/2016 6 £400
6 11/06/2016 09/07/2016 6 £50
7 05/07/2016 09/07/2016 6 £50
8 06/08/2016 30/12/2016 6 £150
9 19/11/2016 30/12/2016 6 £50
10 03/01/2017 16/02/2017 6 £250
11 - 22 11/06/2016  11/07/17 (19 -22 unpaid)
 
11/07/20176 £50 - £250
Ref: DRN5014880