K822xcomplaint
Ms K is unhappy with the way Ageas Insurance Limited  dealt with a claim she made  under 
her car insurance policy.
background 
Ms K made a claim to her insurer, Ageas  in August  2017 after she was involved in an 
accident. She complained to Ageas about  the following:
It provided Ms K with conflicting information about this and other  claims.
It failed to provide  her with a courtesy car.
The approved  repairer caused further damage.
It didnt deal with her personal  injury claim and;
The market value  it paid for her car wasnt enough. 
Ms K retained her car. Ageas deducted  a salvage fee of £200  from the total loss settlement 
of £1,200.
Because Ageas settled the claim as a fault claim against Ms K, this meant it couldnt make 
a claim for any personal injury costs from the third party insurer  on Ms Ks behalf.
Ms K provided a photo of her car to show her concern about its condition  when it was 
returned to her. The photos showed  a yellow dusting  on the car. Ageas couldnt see any 
additional damage. So Ageas paid Ms K £50 for a valet  of her car and for the inconvenience  
caused.
Our investigator didnt  find anything  to suggest Ageas hadnt properly dealt with two earlier  
claims Ms K made under her policy. 
Ageas said it provided Ms K with a courtesy car for eight days, but it should have allowed 
this for 14 days. For not being clear  about  the salvage deduction, and the shorter  availability 
of a courtesy  car, Ageas  paid Ms K compensation of £100.
Ms K told us she used  the £100  to pay for travel  during the six days she was without a 
courtesy car. Our investigator  thought Ageas should pay Ms K an additional £50 
compensation for the lack of courtesy  car for six days.
Ageas accepted the investigators  view. Ms K provided further information as she didnt 
agree with the investigators view. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it in 
part. 
Ref: DRN56602832In January 2018 Ageas said that the total loss settlement it paid Ms K was £200 less 
because she had decided  to retain  her car. Where  a customer  retains their car, it isnt fair to 
also receive a total loss settlement for it as this means Ms K has had the benefit of a full 
settlement for the loss of her car while  keeping  it. So I think  Ageas acted correctly  here.  
But it didnt explain this to Ms K when it settled her claim  in October  2017.  And it accepted 
that it didnt provide Ms K with a courtesy car for 14 days. So it paid Ms K £100 
compensation for this. 
I understand Ms K is upset that her car was taken to a salvage yard. But because  her car 
was declared a total loss, it isnt unusual for an insurer to make  initial  arrangements  for a 
written off car to be recovered to a salvage agent.
In October  2017 Ms K told Ageas she wanted  to keep her car. So Ageas made 
arrangements for Ms Ks car to be returned to her from the salvage agent. In December 
2017 Ms K complained  that her car had been  returned to her in a poor condition. She 
provided photos and explained that her car had yellow dust and mud. Ms K had provided a 
black and white photo.
In December 2017, January 2018 and February  2018 Ageas wrote to Ms K. It asked Ms K to 
provide colour  photos for it to review. 
In April 2018 Ageas wrote  to Ms K to say it had reviewed colour photos of her car. It could 
see a yellow  dusting  on it. So it said it would pay Ms K £50. This was £35 for a valet  and £15 
for the inconvenience  caused. Ageas couldnt identify additional damage from the photos  
Ms K provided. Having looked  at the photos  I think Ageas acted reasonably here.  
Ageas sent a £50 cheque to Ms K on 2 May 2018.
Ageas said that while it understood why Ms K felt she wasnt  at fault for the incident, it 
believed it would be very difficult to defend if the matter  went to court. Ms K was travelling 
behind the third partys  car. A bus pulled out in front of the third party.  To avoid  colliding into 
the rear of the third party, Ms K attempted to drive  around the third party car - but due to 
oncoming traffic Ms K collided into the passenger  side of the third party car. 
Ageas said there should have been  sufficient distance between Ms Ks car and the vehicle in 
front in order  to stop or take evasive action.  The other  driver  didnt accept  liability  and their 
insurer intended to defend  the claim.
We dont decide  liability as this is the role of the courts. But we can look at whether  an 
insurer reached its decision in a reasonable way and in line with the policy.  Ms Ks policy has 
a very common term which Ive seen in most   if not all car insurance policies. Ageas can 
take over the defence and settlement of a claim.  This means it might  make a decision Ms K 
doesnt agree with, but the policy allows  Ageas  to do this. 
I understand Ms K believes she wasnt at fault for the incident. And I understand she 
believes she took evasive  action. But as her actions  didnt prevent a collision,  I cant agree. I 
appreciate that Ms K has suffered injury  as a result of the accident.  And I know that Ms K 
has found the apologies shes received patronising as her personal injury  claim isnt being 
met. But given the circumstances, I think Ageas  was entitled to make a decision  that it was 
better to settle the claim than to defend  it and risk significant costs  when its chances of 
success werent reasonably high.
Ref: DRN56602833In other  words, in its experience it didnt think  it would be successful in defending  the claim.  
So it couldnt  recover Ms Ks uninsured losses from the third party  as it didnt find them  at 
fault for the incident. I think Ageas reached  its decision  reasonably.  
As Ageas accepted liability on a without  prejudice  basis, this doesnt  prevent Ms K from 
considering pursuing  the third party directly for her costs. But Ms K will need to seek  
independent legal advice about  that. 
Ms K has mentioned that shes  aware of being  blacklisted. And shes  raised concerns about 
communication she received from a garage  regarding booking her car in. My decision is 
about the complaint Ms K raised with Ageas in the way it dealt with her claim. 
Ageas paid total compensation  of £150  to Ms K for providing a courtesy car for eight instead  
of 14 days, poorly  explaining it would deduct  a salvage fee, and for the costs  and 
inconvenience caused in having Ms Ks car valeted.
I agree  with the investigators recommendation that Ageas pay Ms K a further £50 in 
recognition of the inconvenience she was caused with travel while  she was without a 
courtesy car. 
As Ageas has accepted this, I think  its done  enough  to resolve  Ms Ks complaint.
If Ms K hasnt  received one or all of the cheques  Ageas sent her  or decided  not to cash 
them, she may need to let Ageas  know so that it can look to cancel any uncashed cheque  
and resend the payment  to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. I 
require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Ms K £50 compensation in addition  to the £150 its 
already paid her. This is for the inconvenience caused to her when Ageas provided a 
courtesy car for eight days instead  of 14 days.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5660283