K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1996 
alongside a credit card. Mr P says Barclays Bank  UK PLC,  trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold 
him the PPI.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think the policy 
was mis-sold.
I completed a provisional decision on 25 July 2019,  which is attached and forms part of this 
decision, setting  out why I didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Neither party responded with 
any evidence or comments for me to consider. So based on my previous findings, and in the 
absence of any new information, I see no reason to change my mind about this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  I dont  think  the 
policy was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman
COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DEICISION 
Complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out in 1996 alongside  a 
credit card. Mr P says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading  as Barclaycard, mis-sold  him the PPI.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN54285242Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain  why.
Barclays needed  to make it clear that the PPI was optional and it shouldve only added  it to Mr Ps 
account with his consent.  And based on what  Ive seen and been told, I think it did. I say this having 
seen a copy  of Mr Ps credit  card application from which  included a section for PPI. In this there is a 
tick to indicate Mr P wanted to take out the policy, but theres nothing in this form which suggests the 
PPI was compulsory. Mr P then signed  the application  form so I think this reflected what  he wanted at 
the time  although I can understand if he cant remember this.
Mr P says he wasnt given any advice  or recommendation  to take out the policy. Barclays doesnt 
know if advice was given, but its treated  this as an advised sale.  However,  it is not necessary  for me 
make a conclusive  determination on this point. This is because I have not found  that the policy  was 
unsuitable for Mr P for the reasons set out below.  So, even if I assume advice was given, it does not 
affect the outcome of this complaint. 
As an advised sale Barclays had to take reasonable steps to ensure  the policy  was right for Mr P  
and based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
Ive seen that Mr P says he was suffering  from a medical  condition at the time of sale.  Having 
reviewed the terms  of the policy it appears Mr P wouldnt have been able to claim on the policy for this 
pre-existing condition.  Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis that he felt as Mr P had a 
medical condition the policy wasnt suitable, so Barclays shouldnt have recommended it.
Ive thought carefully about  what  Mr P has told us about the nature of his condition and how it affected 
him on a daily basis. Mr P told us he was taking regular medication to keep his condition under  
control. So I think its unlikely this would  be the main reason he might have needed to claim  on the 
policy. Especially since he told us he has never had time off work in the past as a result of this 
condition. Therefore I dont think it was wrong  for Barclays to recommend the PPI to him on this basis.
From the evidence  Ive seen  it doesnt look like Mr P was affected by any of the other exclusions  to or 
limits on the PPI cover  and he seems to have  had a need for the cover. I say this having  considered 
that Mr P wasnt entitled to any sick pay from his employer, nor did he have any savings at the time to 
help him cover his repayments . So overall, I dont think Barclays  did anything wrong by 
recommending Mr P to take out the PPI.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  
But it seems  like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it was 
affordable. And for all the reasons I think the PPI was suitable for Mr P, I dont think  better  information  
about it would have put him off taking  out the cover.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  outlined above I dont currently think this policy was mis-sold.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 25 August  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5428524