K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC unfairly applied a default on his credit file. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 1 July 2020. Overall,  I was satisfied 
that Lloyds had not made an error when defaulting  Mr Os bank account in 2016  and 
applying a record of this to his credit  file.   
In short,  Section 87 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) provides that Lloyds was 
required to serve a default notice to Mr O before  it could (amongst other things)  terminate 
the agreement. But it was only required to send this prescribed notice  upon  any breach of 
the regulated  agreement. I was persuaded that by exceeding the planned overdraft limit on 
his account, Mr O did not breach the contract  he held with Lloyds  which  I supported with 
authority from the Supreme Court, amongst other valid case  law. 
I considered that the statutory purpose of the default  notice  is to give a customer  a final 
opportunity to remedy a breach of contract.  Accordingly, because  there was no breach  in 
this case, I was minded to conclude that a default  notice  was not needed.  And, having 
considered what  Lloyds did send, I was persuaded that it gave fair notice  to Mr O, in line with 
the terms of the contract.  Lloyds accepted  my provisional findings  and has nothing further to 
add in response. 
Mr O does not accept my provisional findings.  He submits that the onus  is on Lloyds to 
maintain adequate records of the correspondence it sent to him as a consumer. In particular, 
termination notices  need to be kept for at least three  years.  However, Lloyds has produced a 
sample copy of the letter  it sent  which did not have  any of Mr Os personal details or 
specific account information. And this copy was submitted upon correcting an initial  piece of 
evidence, that subsequently came  to light was inaccurate for Mr Os account. In light of this, 
Mr O asserts that Lloyds  has failed  to comply with certain obligations it has to adhere to and 
has provided unsatisfactory proof  that it sent fair notice to him. 
Mr O believes  that the copy template of the termination notice Lloyds served him on                      
5 September 2016 demonstrates  that Lloyds is unable to provide a true copy  of the exact  
letter sent to him  so he alleges that this should  constitute a failure on Lloyds part. 
Moreover, Mr O claims that I should  exclude  this particular piece of evidence, because  he 
believes that Lloyds  used a technique  that he describes as profiling. Essentially, he claims 
this should not be allowed, not least because it means that Lloyds has somewhat  fabricated  
what was in fact sent back in 2016.  But, also, because he has not given his consent for 
profiling to be used. 
For these reasons, Mr O maintains that Lloyds should; remove  the default it currently  has 
recorded on his credit file; waiver  the outstanding balance  owed  on the account; and award 
him approximately  £30,000  in compensation,  for the distress and financial harm its caused.   
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN54926392Ive taken Mr Os comments  into account that Lloyds has, essentially, failed to meet its 
obligations to adequately  record-keep. As part of this, Mr O has posed some  questions 
about whether  Lloyds  letter dated 5 September 2016 contained information that was specific  
to him and his account. Yet, I understand that Mr O has recently received a copy of the 
same template letter that our service has considered  so, naturally, it would appear that the 
answers to these questions are already  evident to him. 
I recognise that the rationale behind requesting such proof, is that Mr O is not convinced  that 
Lloyds did in fact send the original  letter to him back  in 2016. Consequently, he asserts  that 
Lloyds did not give him any notice of its intention to terminate the agreement  which  would 
indicate that this was due to the account agreement being broken  i.e. akin to a breach of 
contract. 
But, for the avoidance of doubt, I do not deem  it necessary for a specific  copy  of the original  
letter to be produced by Lloyds, in order to reach a fair outcome to the complaint. I say this 
because, I decide this case on the balance of probabilities   rather than beyond  reasonable 
doubt. And, on balance,  the documentary evidence available persuades  me that an original 
letter was indeed sent to Mr O on 5 September 2016, to his correct  address. 
Likewise, on balance, I am not persuaded that this letter  failed to specify that it was for       
Mr Os account.  Rather, Im satisfied it made  it reasonably clear that payment needed  to be 
made to bring  his account back up to date,  by a certain time. And that failure  to pay would 
result in Lloyds reporting  information to credit reference agencies.
Mr O says that I should exclude this letter from my consideration of the case. He alleges that 
Lloyds used the method of profiling, based  on what it knew  about him, to make a connection 
of what it ought  to have sent instead  of what was actually  sent.  So, in other words, he states  
that Lloyds isnt being entirely truthful  in its submission to this service  so he believes I 
should disregard certain information  as a result. 
However, in order for me to safely conclude that such information  is in fact a result of 
profiling or has in any way been fabricated  I would need to be compelled by supporting  
evidence. Yet, Mr O has not substantiated his allegations with persuasive  evidence. It 
follows that I am not satisfied that I should discount  the aforementioned letter.  
In any event, the key consideration in this case was to determine whether Mr O had 
breached his contract with Lloyds by exceeding his planned overdraft. This, in light of 
Section 87 of the CCA,  would  essentially mean that Lloyds was obliged to send a default 
notice as the prescribed mechanism, before it could lawfully  and fairly  apply  a default. But in 
his response,  Mr O has not provided sufficient evidence to convince me that there  was in 
fact a breach.
 
In light of this and all of the circumstances of the complaint, I conclude that Lloyds did not 
make an error in applying  the default when  it did. It follows  that, I do not require it to remove 
it from Mr Os credit  file. Nor, make an award to reflect any consequential  financial loss or 
distress caused to him.    
Ref: DRN54926393my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and before, my final decision is that I do not uphold  the 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2020.
Matthew Belcher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5492639