K820x#14complaint
Miss G and Mr D are unhappy that their home insurance claim for storm damage to their roof 
has been declined  by Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited.
background
In January 2019, after a bout of stormy weather, Miss G and Mr D noted that some  tiles had 
slipped or fallen  from their roof. They made  a claim to Lloyds, who sent out a contractor to 
assess the claim. He concluded that the tiles were not damaged  by storm but due to the 
corrosion of the fixings over a long period of time. Miss G and Mr D insisted that the nails 
were galvanised  and hadnt  corroded.  They also said that the local news reported gale force  
winds of up to 80 mph. Lloyds declined the claim, advising that the wood  facias were in poor 
condition and that some of the brickwork was crumbling. It also advised  that galvanised nails 
do corrode over a prolonged period of time.
Miss G disagreed, insisting that the damage was caused by the storm and that their property 
was in extremely good condition.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator advised Miss G and Mr D when  considering storm damage we ask three  
questions, and it is only if the answer  to each  of these questions is most  likely yes that we 
say a claim for storm damage should  succeed.  The questions  are:
1. Was there a storm on or around  the date the damage is said to have happened?
2. Is the damage  claimed for consistent  with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
was there  a storm?
There is no definition in the policy of what Lloyds considers to be a storm. As a general rule 
we regard storm as being ...strong winds usually accompanied by heavy or persistent  rain. 
There is no absolute rule as to how strong those winds have to be to constitute a storm, but 
generally I would agree with the investigators  view that winds of in excess  of 47mph can 
mean we would regard it as a storm. Whist Miss G refers to local reports of up to 80mph, the 
actual weather records for the area around  the date the damage was reported  indicate wind 
speeds of up to 54mph. So I think its fair to say that a storm did occur around  the date of the 
damage.
was the damage  consistent with storm damage?
The damage consists of tiles having  slipped or fallen (or blown) off the roof. High winds can 
cause this so I think  the damage can be said to be consistent with storm damage.
Ref: DRN51939102was the storm the main  cause of the damage?
It is here that the main dispute arises. Lloyds says that the fixings  had corroded over time 
and that the high winds had merely  highlighted the damage. For the claim to be covered 
there has to have been a single incident  of storm that caused  the damage.  I think  it fair to 
accept that most likely the winds reached  54mph and certainly this could cause slates  to be 
removed. On the other hand Miss G says that there had been  storms in the previous few 
weeks that could  have caused  the damage.
Further Lloyds did have  the matter assessed by an expert claims assessor,  who noted that 
the fixings had corroded. The photos show tiles as having slipped down rather  than having 
been ripped out of their fixings.  He also noted  that the home was in an exposed position  
close to the coast,  and the photos do show  weathering to the brickwork on the exposed  
gable end. Lloyds further explained that galvanised nails do corrode  probably  more so 
given the position and exposure of the home.  
The policy wont cover  claims caused by wear and tear - it sets out that such claims arent 
insured. I think it most likely from reviewing the assessors report  and photos and Miss Gs 
account that the damage was caused  by wear and tear over a period  of time. And its likely 
that the high winds in January 2019  merely  highlighted that damage  rather than caused it.
So overall I think Lloyds  acted reasonably in not accepting the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G and Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 October  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5193910