K820x#14complaint
Mr M feels that Santander UK Plc has treated him unfairly in relation to a transaction  with a 
secondary ticketing platform.
background
Mr M says he made a transaction with his Santander debit card to purchase tickets  through  
the ticketing platform.  He says that as he progressed through the purchasing process, he 
thought the tickets would cost around £40 each. But once he completed the transaction,  he 
realised hed been charged  £385.30.
Mr M contacted Santander promptly to try and stop the transaction. Santander said that it 
was satisfied that hed completed the transaction (as he has said) and that it thought there 
wasnt enough evidence  for it to raise a chargeback to dispute the transaction.
Mr M, unhappy with Santanders  position,  complained here. The investigator  thought  the 
position taken  by Santander  regarding  the chargeback was fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances, so Santander didnt have to do anymore.  Mr M doesnt agree. So this 
complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision only considers the merits of Mr Ms complaint  about  Santander.  
Mr M and Santander do not agree as to what has happened in this complaint particularly 
about the information given by the platform regarding the amount to pay for the tickets. So 
I have to consider  all the evidence available and decide, based on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words what I think is more likely to be the case.
The chargeback process  is administered by the card provider and provides a process for 
financial services companies  to recover funds for its account holders in certain situations. 
I should stress that this process is not a right for consumers to go through.  
This service considers it to be good  practice  for such firms to consider the particular 
circumstances (such as Mr Ms) when considering  whether  or not to go through  the 
chargeback process.  And if it fairly decides  there is no realistic prospect of success  of a 
chargeback then it is entitled  to decide  to not go through the process of a chargeback.
In this case Santander considered what happened  in Mr Ms case. It described to Mr M how 
it would  need  some evidence that the amount charged was different to what Mr M was told 
at the moment when he completed the transaction. But Mr M hasnt been  able to produce 
such evidence. 
So Santander has decided  that in light of this that there isnt a realistic prospect of success.  
So it didnt proceed with the chargeback. So the test here is not whether  the secondary 
ticketing platform has done anything wrong   after all this complaint is about Santander. But 
rather whether Santander  exercised its discretion here fairly and reasonably.
Ref: DRN55174862I have considered the secondary ticketing platform sales process. It is in essence:
The buyer (Mr M in this instance)  selects the event and date they want the tickets  for. 
Then they select how many tickets  and which tickets they wish to get. 
Once the buyer has selected the number of tickets, the position of the tickets  at the event 
and price per ticket the buyer then has to provide person information  to proceed.  At this 
stage the number of tickets selected  and price  are shown. But it includes  a note to say 
that some further costs arent  included. That is tax, booking  fee and delivery fee.
The buyer (Mr M in this case) then has to choose the mode of delivery of the tickets  and 
payment method. The platform  then asks for the payment  details. Once these details are 
input, the next page is the final page where the final price is displayed  at the centre of 
the screen in bold.  The buyer  has to scroll down  beyond this to complete the purchase.
Mr M has always accepted that he completed  the transaction but says he didnt agree to the 
amount he was charged. Based on what he has said and the evidence Im satisfied he 
entered the details of his debit card with a view to purchasing the tickets. I appreciate he 
says he would not have bought the tickets  at that price  he paid. 
However Ive considered  the process Mr M would have gone  through.  On balance  Im 
satisfied that when Mr M was putting  in his payment details the price was shown. 
I appreciate at the start of the process  the full price  isnt shown. But when putting in the 
payment details the final price is shown and it is also shown on the final page when the 
buyer (Mr M here) completes the transaction.  Thus,  on balance, Im satisfied that Mr M did 
consent to the transaction and he did authorise it.
As a consequence of this it follows that Santander  was entitled to charge that transaction  to 
Mr Ms account with it. And I see no persuasive reason for it to refund this transaction as 
I dont think Santander  has done anything wrong in applying the transaction to Mr Ms 
account.
Similarly, when Mr M took the issue to Santander,  I can see it considered the matter and 
specifically the issue of the chargeback process.  It has described how it has considered the 
sales process Mr M went through  with the ticket selling platform.
Our approach is that a card issue such as Santander should  attempt a chargeback where  
there is a realistic prospect of success in doing so. But it does have that discretion not to do 
a chargeback if it feels there isnt a realistic prospect  of success.  
Santander made the point to Mr M that hed need to show  some evidence to show  that the 
price he agreed at the moment  of making the transaction was different to what the ticketing 
platform charged to his Santander  account   in essence  that something had gone  wrong.  
But Mr M didnt provide such evidence.
I appreciate that Mr M has pointed  to media  commentary about  the ticketing platform. And 
Im aware that financial services companies have attempted chargebacks on similar matters 
with mixed results. But the nub of this complaint  about  Santander  is whether Santanders 
use of its discretion when  considering the transaction  and the chargeback rules to not 
attempt a chargeback in Mr Ms case was reasonable  or not. 
Considering what  Santander knew and did in this matter it is my decision that Santander  
acted reasonably in not attempting a chargeback in the circumstances. And I can see that 
Mr M did attend the event  the tickets were purchased for or as he put it, the tickets worked.
Ref: DRN55174863In short,  Ive considered everything that Mr M has said.  I appreciate how Mr M feels  about  
the whole  situation. And I remind Mr M that Santander is only responsible  for how it acts and 
not for other  parties.  All in all I dont think it fair for Santander to do anything  more. As a 
consequence this complaint is unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to let me 
know whether he accepts or rejects my decision before  27 April 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5517486