K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains Marks & Spencer  Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank (M&S) 
hasnt treated her fairly in relation to her previously outstanding debt on her credit  card.  
Shes said M&S has bullied, harassed and discriminated against her by adding  interest  and 
charges to her account during a period she was in a debt management plan. She thinks its 
not made reasonable adjustments for her and her husband  Mr T  and its acted 
inappropriately by not letting her transfer her debt to Mr T. She also thinks one of the 
conditions alongside  the offer M&S made  to accept a partial settlement of the debt was 
unfair. 
The account  is in Mrs Ts name  only. But Mr T is involved in Mrs Ts financial matters and 
ongoing complaint with M&S. And, as part of the complaint relates to M&Ss treatment of 
Mr T, I will refer to him also. 
background
Mrs T holds  a credit card account with M&S. Ive received a lot of correspondence between 
Mr T and M&S, some of which  goes back to 2015  when  Mr T was first given authority to 
communicate with M&S  about the account. Around  this time, M&S informed Mr T whilst  he 
could discuss the account, he couldnt make changes on it. In summary, the correspondence 
relates to the following  points:
Mr and Mrs T dont  think  M&S shouldve been adding  interest  and charges to the 
outstanding debt whilst Mrs T was in a debt management plan. Theyve said this had a 
significant effect on their wellbeing and has deprived them  of their rights. 
Mr T thought M&S should transfer Mrs Ts debt to his name  as he and Mrs T are joined 
in marriage. 
Mr T felt M&S wasnt doing enough  to adjust to and recognise the protected 
characteristics hed told it he had. 
Throughout the correspondence, M&S maintained it didnt think  it had done anything  wrong  
because it thought:
Itd applied the interest and charges fairly  because a third party  Ill call it S  had 
confirmed Mrs Ts account no longer formed part of a debt management plan; Mrs T 
hadnt kept up with the repayments in line with the terms and conditions of the account;  
and it didnt have  enough evidence to say she had affordability issues.  
It only charged Mrs T one late payment fee of £12 in October 2015  and it refunded this 
charge in November  2015.
It accepted that Mr T was making the repayments to the account but it said the debt 
couldnt be transferred  to his name.  And it said if Mrs T had health issues  it would  take 
them into account when communicating with her  but she needed to evidence  them.
Mrs T initially complained to our service  because Mr T had made an offer to settle the 
account in part by paying £3,832.18  which was accepted by M&S on the basis that the 
payment was made within 30 days. But it wouldnt accept Mr T paying the settlement amount 
by instalments over a number of months. Mr T continued to make payments during this 
period and reduced the outstanding balance. 
Ref: DRN50180112Following our involvement, M&S said it would accept 50% of the outstanding balance as a 
final settlement amount   which, by this point,  was around £1,473.  There were various 
conditions of the offer that Mrs T agreed  to and Mr T transferred the funds within  one day to 
M&S. But Mr and Mrs T werent happy  with the condition that M&S said Mrs T would receive 
arrears letters, a notice  of default and a final demand letter  even though they wouldve 
already settled the account. Mr and Mrs T thought that made the offer unreasonable  
because they thought  theyd done enough.  And they didnt think  they should  have  to 
experience the stress of receiving the letters. The letters werent sent in the end  because 
M&S recorded the account as being part settled rather than defaulted. And the investigator 
explained to Mr and Mrs T she thought M&S  had acted reasonably. 
Mrs T didnt  agree with our investigators  assessment,  so I issued a provisional decision on 
this case in March  2019. In summary  I didnt think the complaint should be upheld  because:
interest and charges
M&S  had quickly refunded the late payment fee highlighted by Mr T which was charged 
in October 2015. So I didnt  think it needed to do anything more  in relation to that charge. 
From  what M&S had said, Mrs T was keeping up with and exceeding the minimum 
repayments on her account  and she wasnt in arrears or missing  payments at the time 
M&S was applying interest.  And S hadnt given  anything to suggest  Mrs T had 
affordability issues. 
Whilst Mr T said he was making  payments to the account, Mrs T was the account  holder 
who M&S had agreed to lend to. So she was responsible  for keeping to the terms. I 
wasnt satisfied Mr or Mrs T had engaged with M&S to give information about  Mrs Ts 
financial situation. So I didnt  think  it had acted unfairly by adding  interest  to the account.
was the offer fair?
M&S  had said it had told Mrs T in error that it would  need to send her arrears  letters  and 
a default notice as part of the offer to part settle  her account. But it didnt do this in the 
end because her account hadnt been  arrears.  Whilst I could appreciate  what  Mrs T had 
said about the letters causing  her stress,  M&S didnt send them  and it had explained this 
to her within a week of originally saying  it would. 
transfer of debt to Mr T
M&S  had agreed to give Mrs T the account  on the basis  it was lending to her and after 
looking at her circumstances.  I understood Mr T had been making the payments to the 
account but I didnt think  that made  him liable for the debt or meant the agreement  
should automatically pass to him. 
I could understand  Mr T would  be very concerned  if he thought M&S was acting contrary  
to the Equality Act 2010 and discriminating against him. But I thought  M&S had made 
practical adjustments for him as someone with authority to discuss  Mrs Ts account. 
Ref: DRN50180113I didnt agree that M&S should have made adjustments to the way it managed  Mrs Ts 
account due to Mr Ts protected characteristics  for example by not charging interest on 
her account and transferring the account  to him. Mr T had authority to discuss  the 
account but I didnt think  he was a customer of M&S. So I didnt think it was under any 
obligation to change how the account worked for him. 
I thought it was up to Mrs T who she arranges  to have authority to discuss  her account 
but she remained the customer of M&S. And I didnt  think  it had treated her unfairly. 
I thought M&S had tried to remove any barriers  Mrs T might face in using its service  after 
she indicated she might also need  reasonable adjustments. But Mrs T didnt respond to 
its request for more information or indicate  that it needed to be aware  of anything.  
Overall I didnt think M&S had an obligation to do more than it had in this case. So I 
didnt think M&S  had treated Mrs T unfairly  or acted unreasonably.
I asked both parties to make any further  comments before I reached a final decision. M&S  
didnt make any further comments. Mr and Mrs T said in summary:
They didnt agree with my provisional decision  and thought it breached  a duty of care 
to vulnerable customers.
They questioned  our training in dealing with vulnerable customers.
They thought  I hadnt accepted a vulnerable customers testimony.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  Mr and Mrs Ts most  
recent comments, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. And I still dont  think the complaint should  be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Ive thought very carefully about everything  Mr and Mrs T have said throughout the 
complaint. I appreciate theyre concerned that I havent taken into account  what theyve said 
or their circumstances. But when making  a decision, I need to look at all the circumstances  
of a case impartially. So whilst I understand theyve said theyve been going through  a 
difficult time  and Mr T has protected characteristics   I need to think  about this alongside 
what Id expect M&S to do and what its already  done. And as I explained  in my provisional 
decision, I dont  think M&S is under an obligation to change the terms and conditions of the 
account or who the account holder is because of Mr Ts protected  characteristics  as hes 
not its customer. 
From everything Ive seen, I think M&S has made practical adjustments for Mr T as someone  
who has authority to deal with Mrs Ts account.  And I think its tried to get more information  
from Mrs T about  her needs  as its customer and about her financial circumstances so it can 
support her in the way wed expect. But I cant see that Mr or Mrs T has engaged with it 
about this. So I dont think it needs to do any more in this case. 
Whilst I understand its very disappointing  to Mrs T, I can assure  her Ive taken all of hers 
and Mr Ts comments  very seriously.  But overall, having looked  at the responses Ive 
received, I havent  changed my conclusions set out in my provisional decision. So for the 
reasons explained above and in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint.  
Ref: DRN50180114my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5018011