K820x#14complaint
Miss S has complained  about  Zurich Insurance  Plcs  handling and proposed settlement of a 
buildings insurance  claim she made  after her flat suffered damage in an escape  of water.
background
Miss S owned a flat which she rented out. The flat was covered by a buildings  insurance  
policy taken out by a company representing the owners of the flats in the block.
It became apparent  that there was a leak somewhere  in the block  of flats which  was 
affecting Miss Ss flat. By 2014, the damage from this leak had become significant. Miss Ss 
tenant moved out of the property as a result.
In 2016, Miss S asked the block  of flats management company to investigate the leak. She 
says she also asked  the management company to make  a claim under the policy  but Zurich 
says no claim  was received.
In 2017, the leak was found and fixed.
In November 2017, Miss S says she contacted Zurich directly  through  an online form but 
Zurich says it has no record  of this.
In June 2018, Miss S contacted Zurich to make  a claim  and this time was successful. Zurich  
arranged for its loss adjuster to visit the property. Based on the loss adjusters advice, Zurich 
made an offer of £1,978  to settle the claim to repair damage caused by the escape of water.
Miss S was unhappy  at Zurichs offer. She thought it should be paying  more towards the cost 
of repairs which were  needed. She also thought  it should be paying for replacement of her 
carpet and loss of rent.
Zurich issued a final response letter in April 2019.  It explained  that it was liable only for the 
cost of damage caused by the escape  of water. It said that other  damage  to the property, 
such as mould and moth damage, was caused by Miss Ss failure to take mitigating action 
after she became  aware  of the escape of water. It said that carpets were covered by 
contents insurance, not buildings  insurance. It said that it hadnt seen evidence  to support 
that Miss S had suffered  a loss of rent due to the escape of water.  It maintained that it had 
no record of Miss S trying to contact it before June 2018 but it nonetheless offered a goodwill  
payment of £350  as compensation.
Miss S was unhappy  at Zurichs response. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied  
that Zurich had acted fairly.
Miss S didnt accept  the investigators  findings. She considered that all the damage to the 
property stemmed from the leak of water. She said it wasnt  her fault that the leak had taken 
so long to be traced  and fixed. She provided  quotations to show that the cost of putting right 
all this damage would far exceed Zurichs proposed  settlement. She provided further 
evidence to support  her claim for loss of rent.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN57237162my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy provides cover for damage caused by an escape of water.  However, it is 
incumbent on the insured person to take reasonable action to prevent damage occurring.
By Miss Ss own admission, she was aware  of a leak affecting her flat sometime before 
2014. By 2014,  the damage  caused by this leak had, in her own words,  become significant. 
However, it was not until sometime in 2016  that Miss S apparently asked the management 
company to investigate  the leak. This means that Miss S knowingly allowed the leak to 
continue causing  damage to her flat for at least two years, and probably longer, before she 
tried to stop it.
Miss S might  argue  that it wasnt her fault she didnt notify the management  company 
sooner. She has referred to difficulties  with her tenant who didnt return her key for a long 
time. However, this is an issue  between  her and her tenant; it isnt the fault of Zurich.
Zurich has said it will pay for repairs to damage caused by the leak which  would have been 
necessary even if Miss S had taken  appropriate  mitigating action.  I consider  this is a 
reasonable approach. It has explained what repairs this would include and has offered a 
settlement of £1,978 to cover their cost. Im satisfied this is fair.
Miss S has pointed out that the repair estimates  she has obtained are far in excess  of this 
amount. That is because the estimates  include work which  is not covered under Zurichs 
settlement because it is damage  which occurred only because Miss S failed to take 
appropriate mitigating action. For example, the damage to the bathroom floor and kitchen 
units was unlikely to have occurred had Miss S acted promptly  in addressing  the leak and 
then making her claim.  The same goes for the moth infestation, though I dont  consider  that 
this can be reasonably be classed as damage caused by an escape of water in any case 
and the policy has a specific exclusion for accidental  damage caused  by vermin or insects.
Miss S has queried why Zurich wont pay to replace her carpets. However, as Zurich and the 
investigator have explained, the carpets  arent covered under the buildings  insurance  policy. 
Miss S will therefore have to approach her contents  insurer if she wants to claim for damage 
to these.
With regard to Miss Ss claim for loss of rent, I would normally  expect this to be supported by 
evidence such as a current tenancy  agreement and bank  statements showing that regular 
rental income had suddenly stopped.  Miss S hasnt  provided these and it isnt clear to me as 
to exactly what period she is actually claiming  for. As I understand it, the last tenant to live in 
Miss Ss property was a family friend who stayed there under an informal  arrangement  and 
apparently made some  contribution  towards Miss Ss mortgage by paying the mortgage 
provider directly. Miss S seems to say that the tenant moved out sometime  in 2014  but didnt 
return the keys to her until 2016. Whatever the situation was, I havent seen satisfactory 
evidence to show that the escape of water  caused Miss S to suffer a loss of rent. I therefore 
consider it was fair for Zurich to decline this element of Miss Ss claim.
Ref: DRN57237163Miss S has also complained that Zurichs loss adjuster insisted that she keep the windows of 
the flat open; she considers that this was a security  risk. In my opinion,  the loss adjuster was 
advising Miss S on what he thought she should do to prevent the propertys further  
deterioration. It was up to Miss S as to whether  to follow that advice. I dont consider that 
Miss S has shown the loss adjuster did anything wrong.
Miss S says that she tried to contact  Zurich in 2017 but received no response. Zurich has no 
record of contact from Miss S until June  2018  but it agreed to pay £350  compensation 
nonetheless. Im satisfied  this was fair. Even if Miss S had successfully contacted Zurich in 
2017, this would still have been  at least three  years  after she became aware  that the leak 
was causing damage to her flat so I dont  consider  it would have made a difference  to the 
outcome of this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5723716