K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained National Westminster Bank Plc is pursuing him for three or more  
personal loans  and an overdraft on his account  which he never  authorised.
background
In late 2018 Mr M contacted NatWest to complain. He noticed  three  personal  loans  being  
paid from his account with them. Hed not taken out these loans nor had he authorised  the 
overdraft to stand  at £3,500 which itd done  since November 2017.
NatWest believed all the evidence showed  Mr M had taken out these loans himself. There 
was no evidence to show his account had been compromised in other ways.
Mr M brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. This had been  an account hed used 
when he was a student but hed not used  this fully since around 2010. During the time our 
investigator considered  his case, Mr M told us about  a number of other transactions he was 
concerned about  on the account.  He, however,  confirmed all the payments made  to his 
brother-in-law (who Ill call K) had been  authorised.  He also confirmed hed been using the 
debit card for cash machine withdrawals and thats  how he kept aware of what  was roughly 
in the account on a regular basis.
Our investigator got hold of detailed information from NatWest. This included:
telephone numbers recorded  on the account;
confirmation statements were  sent monthly to Mr Ms home address;
registrations of Mr Ms account  for mobile banking;
IP addresses for log-ins  on the account;
Details of applications  for five personal  loans taken out in March,  April and December 
2017; and February and August 2018; 
Changes to the overdraft on the account in September 2006, December 2007 and 
November 2017; and
Statements for the account from January 2017 to June 2019.
He believed the evidence showed it was most  likely Mr M had made the loan applications  
and had increased the overdraft on this account. These  loans permitted numerous  transfers  
to K which Mr M didnt dispute  in general  (but he questioned  some  of the details). Although  
Mr M had said hed never set up online banking, the evidence showed otherwise.
Mr M disagreed with this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly similar  
reasons. Ill explain  why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
Ref: DRN50467602When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Im not going  to cover all the points raised by Mr M. No discourtesy is intended by me doing 
this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think  are the key matters  here and which impact the 
decision Im making. This simply  reflects  the informal nature of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. Ive also reviewed  the views that our investigator provided on 6 and 
20 November 2020. The first of these included  a detailed rundown  of various transactions.
Mr M has been adamant that hes not taken out personal  loans on this account,  nor does he 
use online  banking. Hes also told us hes not received any statements for this account for 
many years. He has confirmed he was regularly using his debit card (and thats  backed  up 
by his bank statements) and generally  checked the balance on his account or got hold of a 
mini statement when taking cash out of a cash machine.  
I can see monthly credits being  made into the account. I believe  these  are salary payments. 
Mr M has said these  were  his bonus  payments from his employer. Child  benefit payments  
are also credited on a weekly  basis.
The facts  show five personal loans being taken out with NatWest.  The first two loans  taken  
out in March and April 2017  were being repaid on a monthly  basis and I believe came to 
an end after 12 months fully repaid.
I can see from Mr Ms statements that after taking  out further loans, payments were made to 
K. So for example, the first of the further  three loans was taken out in December 2017. 
£5,000 credited his account  on 13 December. Two payments of £2,500 were then made  to K 
on 14 December. 
Despite Mr M initially  wondering about all the payments made  to K (which amount to more 
than £25,000  over almost  three years), he has subsequently confirmed  he doesnt dispute  
these.
I have to point  out it would have  on occasion  been  impossible  for Mr M to have  made these 
payments without the loans being taken out and crediting  his account. So Id have to wonder 
how Mr M thought he was making these payments.
I accept Mr M has told us he doesnt  use online (or electronic) banking. However the 
evidence provided  by NatWest tells us another story.
NatWest has confirmed  online banking  was set up more than seven years previous. And 
theyve also shown what codes and information would have been sent to Mr M to allow  him 
to use this service. Practically all the payments to K were made using online banking. I know 
Mr M believed there were monthly  standing orders to K of £1,300. Its true that for some  
months in 2018  payments are generally made around the latter  days of the month or first 
days of the following month to K. Sometimes   like 27 February  2018   there were two 
payments for £600 and £700.   
No formal standing  order was set up. But I dont think Mr Ms confusion around this aspect  is 
really relevant to the complaint. Lots of people dont appreciate any difference between 
standing order payments, regular payments or online (or even electronic) banking payments. 
Ref: DRN50467603This isnt helped in this case as the narrative  on Mr Ms statement seems  to imply payments 
were made by telephone. But this wasnt the case.
The key aspect for me is that payments of various amounts  and sometimes the same  
were made to K throughout the period of this dispute. They were made using online banking 
which NatWests evidence shows Mr M most likely set up. Mr M doesnt dispute  these 
payments.
On occasion if Mr M had to send  money to K, there would have been insufficient funds in his 
account. I believe thats why he took out the loans. I dont see how these loans could have  
been taken out by anybody else when theres nothing to show  a third party  had access  to 
Mr Ms account. It would  not make  sense for a third party to take out loans in Mr Ms name if 
there was no way of accessing the money.
The increase  of Mr Ms overdraft to £3,500  in November  2017 coincided I believe with 
mobile banking  being set up. I can see details for this were set up on Mr Ms mobile phone 
number.
Mr M did dispute two payments made  to a debt recovery company  in March 2017.  These  
were made using his card details. I suspect these were payments for an outstanding  loan or 
other financial agreement  which  more than likely wasnt  in the name  of the company who 
Mr M paid.  This would explain why he was confused  at the name of the company on his 
statement narrative. Overall though I think its more than likely Mr M authorised these 
payments.
Having reviewed all the issues, I believe Mr M did apply for the loans and increase to his 
overdraft. He will now have to come  to arrangements with NatWest  to repay what is owed.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ms complaint with 
National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5046760