K820x#14complaint
Ms R has complained about the service Admiral  Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited provided when 
her son sought assistance under her Breakdown  Recovery policy.  
background
Ms Rs son called for assistance  in May 2018.  Admiral instructed a recovery  agent to attend.  
The agent  reported that there was an overspill of oil and the oil cap was sitting on top of the 
engine. He also reported that the timing chain was worn and required replacing. The report  
sheet shows that the agent carried out a temporary  repair and advised Ms Rs son to ensure 
a permanent repair was carried out at the earliest opportunity.  
Mr Rs son unfortunately broke  down  shortly after and called for assistance again. A second  
recovery agent attended. Their job sheet reported that the timing  chain had jumped and not 
to run the engine. The second  agent recovered Ms Rs sons car to a garage.
Ms R complained to Admiral. She said the garage  told her the damage caused by the timing  
chain was irreversible. She believed the advice given by the first recovery agent caused  
further damage and led to the write off of the car. Ms R wanted Admiral  to pay a total loss 
value for the car. 
Admiral said its agent had acted correctly. So it didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint. 
Our investigator thought Admiral had acted  reasonably. The agent  - having  identified the oil 
spillage - reasonably focused  on this at the roadside to repair. And the agent  reported that 
the timing chain was worn  and recommended a permanent repair  be carried  out at the 
earliest opportunity.  
Ms R didnt agree. She believes the agents  advice - that it was safe to continue  driving - 
was wrong which  caused  further  damage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R has referred to comments the second recovery  agent  made  to her son about the first 
recovery agent. I cant make a finding based  on what  may or may not have been said  nor 
can I attach any weight  to whether  their comments were valid or not.
Ms R has referred to the following term in her policy:
You are covered for up to one hour of the recovery operators time at the roadside to
repair your vehicle. The recovery operator will assess initially  whether the vehicle can 
be safely repaired within this time; if it cannot,  the vehicle will be recovered.  If at any 
stage it becomes apparent the vehicle  will not be repaired within the hour entitlement,  
the recovery operator may provide  you with the option of paying for additional labour 
costs to complete  the repair. You must immediately pay for any additional labour 
charges beyond the hour entitlement or alternatively inform the rescue controller of 
where you would like your vehicle to be recovered." 
Ref: DRN53768482Ms R says because the first agent  assumed the car was safe to drive, her son wasnt  given  
the choice to have the car taken  to a garage. She therefore believes the agents assumption 
led to further damage and meant  they had to scrap  the family  car which  they used and 
needed daily. 
In relation to the term Ms R has mentioned, I think the agent carried  out reasonable repairs  
to the car at the roadside  within the hour and was able to drive away. So I can understand 
why the option of recovering the car to a garage  wasnt offered. Admiral  noted that the car 
had travelled over 86,000 miles. It is a requirement  under the policy  to ensure that the car is 
regularly maintained and in a roadworthy  condition. Advice suggests a timing  chain for the 
make and model of Ms Rs car should  be replaced  at around 74,500 miles. Ms Rs policy  
also says:
Emergency Repairs - Any emergency  repairs  undertaken at the roadside by 
recovery operators cannot be guaranteed and in some cases, will not be attempted.  
Due to the nature of roadside  assistance  it is not always possible for recovery 
operators to accurately diagnose the fault with the vehicle or state whether the 
vehicle is in a roadworthy condition or otherwise safe to drive. Recovery operators 
are not instructed to conduct vehicle  health inspections.
The second  report  shows that Ms Rs son had travelled six miles between the first and 
second call out. I understand how strongly  Ms R feels about her complaint. But I think the 
agent performed  a difficult task under the circumstances. He identified an engine 
management light which Ms Rs son said had been on for some time. There  was a visible oil 
spillage in the engine which the agent cleared up. He did notice a rattle from the timing  chain 
and advised a permanent repair would be needed  at the earliest  opportunity. The agent said 
he followed  Ms Rs sons car for a short while. 
There isnt enough  for me to safely conclude that the first agents advice led to irreversible  
damage to Ms Rs car. There appeared to be more than one issue  which  could have caused 
a breakdown. The agent was able to return the car to the road. I think  its unfortunate that 
Ms Rs son broke down again six miles later. But I dont think  the first agent can be held 
responsible under the policy for the subsequent failure of the car.
I realise Ms R will be disappointed with my decision.  But for the reasons Ive explained, I 
dont think Admiral needs to do any more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5376848