K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mrs H has complained The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc accepted a third party  
mandate for her account, which  she didnt sign. This led to numerous cash machine  
withdrawals being  made  without Mrs Hs authorisation.
The estate  is being represented by Mrs Hs son, Mr H, who is an executor.
background
After his mother died in July 2017, Mr H struggled to get information from RBS about his 
mothers accounts. When he did he was concerned  a third party mandate  in favour of his 
sister, Mrs B  had been set up. He didnt understand how as his mother couldnt write by 
that stage. He also had difficulty getting statements from RBS.
Once hed got statements,  he noted a large  withdrawal in October  2009. He could see regular 
cash machine withdrawals were also made from January 2010 to April 2017. He believed Mrs B 
had made  these and was worried  this had all been done without Mrs Hs consent.
RBS believed theyd  approved the third party mandate in line with their processes at the 
time. This had been set up on Mrs H and her husbands  joint accounts on 11 December 
2009. Therefore  they believed Mrs B was an authorised signatory to the account and free to 
have a debit card and make withdrawals. Shed also have been able to set up payments  and 
change the address for statements and account  correspondence. Mrs B had done this as 
statements were sent to her home address.
Mr H, on behalf of the estate, didnt agree  with this. They brought  a complaint  to the 
ombudsman service in 2018.
At various times our investigators  reviewed the evidence.  They  were  also able to get a copy  
of the third party mandate, signed  by both Mrs H and her husband (who Ill call Mr H1). A 
copy of this was shared  with Mr H. They noted  the medical evidence provided  by Mr H 
showing his mothers health and why he believed she was incapable of signing  her name. 
Mr H1 had died in 2013.
Overall they believed RBS had followed their procedures  and, as far as they were aware, it 
was most likely Mrs H had signed  the third party mandate herself.  This meant that all 
subsequent transactions had been authorised in line with the mandate.  Therefore there was 
no basis for this service to ask RBS to do anything further.
Mr H remains  unconvinced his mother could have signed the mandate. He believes another 
family member may well have  forged her signature. He has asked an ombudsman to 
consider the estates complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 19 February  2021. Although  I didnt come  to a different 
conclusion, I expanded on the reasoning so felt it fair the estate had a further opportunity to 
review my thoughts.
Mr H responded on the estates behalf. The points he made include:
He hasnt seen the full 20 pages  he thinks are part of the third-party mandate and would 
specifically like access to copies of signatures of the witnesses  to the mandate;
Ref: DRN55164342Its not unreasonable  to conclude Mrs Hs condition deteriorated over time;
He didnt believe  his father  had ever held a joint account with Mrs H nor that hed have 
been able to authorise the bankers draft in 2009;
He couldnt understand why RBS didnt  review what was happening with the accounts  
after his fathers death; and
As his mother was incapable of making  decisions, surely the third party mandate  fell to 
the wayside.
Mr H also provided evidence from a graphologist about his mothers  signature.
RBS didnt respond.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. Ive 
referred to the points  Mr H has raised  on the estates behalf.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
Clearly in this complaint,  I have had to make  decisions on balance  as a lot of detailed 
information is missing. Its not unusual in cases like this that banks havent retained all the 
records that could  have helped in determining the facts. However there is no requirement on 
banks to retain all account records so I cant  fault RBS on this aspect.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant law here. These  came  into 
effect in November 2009. These primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply but nothing  
thats had an impact on the decision  Im making  here. So when  we look at whether a bank 
has acted fairly in rejecting someones  fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is 
whether the customer  made the transactions  themselves or allowed  them  to be made. If they 
did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund  them.
In terms of allowing  transactions to be made,  I believe a third party  mandate  would  provide  this.  
Ref: DRN55164343In this complaint  there was a third party mandate in favour of Mrs B. The copy  I have seen 
was signed by both Mr H1 and Mrs H. Their signatures were witnessed  by two different third 
parties. This all happened in October  2009  although  the mandate  doesnt appear to have 
been lodged  by Mrs B until December 2009  in an RBS branch. There is nothing  to indicate 
that Mr H1 or Mrs H were present at this time but neither can I see there  being  any 
requirement for this. 
Mr H doesnt believe hes received a full copy of this mandate.  Firstly I dont  believe  there  are 
20 pages to the mandate. Rather theres  eight pages in total. We received the mandate  in a 
package of other documents from RBS which number 20 pages in total. Some of these pages  
are internal  RBS documents which  I believe  we didnt share with Mr H. We also didnt share 
pages with signatures  of the third-party  witnesses as these comprise  other individuals  data. 
However I can assure him there  were  two third-party witnesses to his parents signatures.
Im not going  to cover all the points raised by both parties. No discourtesy is intended by me 
doing this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key matters  here and which impact 
the decision Im making. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts.
Ive considered the following issues about  the third party mandate in coming to my decision:
Mrs H and Mr H1 had shared at least  one RBS savings or current  accounts since 2005.  
Mr H has questioned  this arrangement  as he finds it difficult  to believe his mother would 
have opened a joint account.  She was private about her finances. Even though RBS 
hasnt provided  me with evidence (apart from their statement) to show  this, I see no 
reason to question this was the case.  Particularly  as Mrs H and Mr H1s signatures  are 
both on the third party mandate and this allowed  RBS to add Mrs B to three  accounts.
Unfortunately because this happened more than 15 years ago, Ive not been able to 
locate any further  evidence to show what accounts  were  in Mrs H and Mr H1s joint 
names. It is possible  it was only one of the three  accounts held with RBS.
Mr H has told us of a trip to the bank Mr H1 did in mid-2009. He thinks  this was before 
either Mr H1 or Mrs H moved  into care homes.  It sounds as if Mr H1 was concerned  
about the future  management of their accounts. Mr H has suggested  his father  was told 
a power of attorney would need to be set up if they wished to give authority to someone  
else to us their account. But its also possible he was told another option was to set up a 
third party mandate which  would give someone almost full authority to conduct business 
on their accounts without needing  to get a formal power  of attorney. 
In any case Mrs B completed a third party mandate  on forms provided by RBS. I can 
see Mrs Hs signature  was witnessed  by a third party. Obviously its possible that this 
was all forged but I dont think thats the most  likely explanation. 
Ive seen the medical  information  Mr H has provided but this doesnt show one way or 
the other  whether Mrs H could physically sign.
Ref: DRN55164344Mr H has also given us examples of Mrs Hs signature as he doesnt believe the 
signature on the mandate is hers. Were not signature experts  so Im loath to make a 
finding that definitively states  the signature is hers or not. However I think  its most likely  
that it is. I say this because its not only Mrs Hs signature which  must  have been forged 
if the estates position  is true. Mr H1s signature must also have been forged and two 
witnesses  who both signed the mandate  must have been involved in the fraud. I find 
this unlikely,  although I appreciate not impossible.
Mr Hs further evidence  included an analysis of his mothers signature  from the third party  
mandate. The graphologist points out a difference to Mrs Hs passport signature  but 
overall her conclusion is the evidence is inconclusive. This hasnt made me change my 
mind that the signature on the mandate  is most  likely  to have been  Mrs Hs signature.
Ive also considered whether Mrs H was mentally  able to sign a third party mandate  in 
2009. Mrs H was diagnosed with cognitive  impairment in 2006. In 2013 she was 
declared as mentally incapable to make medical decisions about her diabetes  under the 
relevant legislation. Nothing  was provided at the time about Mrs Hs ability  to makes  
financial decisions.
Mrs Hs condition wouldnt have necessarily developed in a linear fashion. Ive no 
evidence what  Mrs Hs state in 2009  was. Im aware she may have  spent some  time in 
hospital before moving into a care home later that year or in 2010. I say 2010 as I can see 
its only in December  2010 a regular standing order  is set up on the account  to pay for 
care. But Ive seen  nothing  she couldnt decide  to allow Mrs B access to her accounts.
Having considered the issues around the third party mandate, I believe its most likely Mrs H 
signed this. Ive seen nothing to suggest this should  have sparked  any action by RBS.  The 
lodging of the third party  mandate happened a few months after Mr H1 had been into branch 
to talk about future account management  so Id expect staff at his branch to just note the 
action he and Mrs H had now taken.
I know Mr H wonders why RBS took no action after his fathers death. Ive seen nothing  that 
suggests this would have been  required. They changed any joint accounts  to be sole 
accounts in Mr Hs name. As Mrs H had signed the third party mandate  in 2009,  theres  no 
reason why this wouldnt  have  remained valid.
As I believe the third party mandate was valid, I have no choice  but to say the transactions  
carried out by Mrs B were  in line with the mandate  and therefore authorised.
Mr H has raised  his concern that as his mothers condition deteriorated  and I dont deny 
this would have  been the case   then any third party mandate  would have fallen  away  as 
she lacked capacity to give her continued  authority for this. At no stage  did anyone provide 
evidence to RBS about Mrs Hs condition for the years before she died.
Nor am I aware of why Mrs H and Mrs H1 decided  a third party mandate  allowing  Mrs B to 
access their accounts was the best way forward. Unlike  where a Power  of Attorney may 
exist, there  would have  been no requirement on Mrs B to spend money from the account 
only for the benefit  of the account holders. There is also no indication that when Mrs H was 
incapable of making decisions, shed have wanted to take away  any authority previously 
given to Mrs B.
Ref: DRN55164345Mr H has raised  the issue of a payment made in October 2009. This was a bankers draft for 
over £26,000. Mr H subsequently told us a family  member confirmed his father was present 
when this bankers  draft was taken  out at the branch. I believe this clearly  provides the 
authorisation required for this transaction. This pre-dated  the third party  mandate  being 
lodged so Im sure RBS will have carried out the appropriate ID checks on Mr H1 to 
authorise this transaction.
Mr H has now stated he doesnt  believe his father  had any authority to withdraw this 
bankers draft. Im afraid there is no evidence to support this. I find it difficult  to believe RBS 
would have allowed  someone whose account it wasnt  as thats what Mr H believes  take 
out a bankers draft of more than £26,000.
I appreciate the estates  concerns over what happened when Mrs B used Mrs Hs account. 
But having  considered the limited evidence and on balance, I dont believe it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to ask RBS to do anything  further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold the estate of Mrs Hs complaint 
against The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5516434