K821x#15complaint
Mr H and Miss F are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva)  hasnt paid for all items 
that were stolen when  they claimed  on their travel insurance policy.
background
Mr H holds a travel insurance policy as a benefit of his bank account. The policy is 
underwritten by Aviva.
While travelling abroad, Mr H and Miss Fs backpack and its contents were stolen. They 
reported it immediately  to the local police.  Miss F says she informed the police the backpack  
contained an iPad, camera, as well as clothes, cosmetics and money. Miss F says she later 
realised her watch was missing as well. She says the police asked for serial numbers of the 
stolen items  at the time of reporting the incident, but she didnt have them. Mr H and Miss F 
are unhappy  that Aviva  has only paid out part of the claim. They  complain that Aviva hasnt 
paid for the camera, iPad or watch. And that its made deductions from the settlement, and 
hasnt covered all the money lost. Mr H and Miss F thinks this is unfair and wants  the 
missing items covered.
Aviva says the camera, iPad and watch were not on the original police report and were 
added later once  the consumers  were  made  aware that the claim wasnt going to be paid in 
full. It says its paid for the rest of the items listed in the claim form, and has now paid for the 
stolen money up to the limit of the policy. Aviva said it made deductions for wear and tear on 
the amounts paid out for clothing and consumables. 
Our investigator said a condition of the policy is that Mr H and Miss F must report  the theft 
and get a written  report and was satisfied theyd fulfilled those requirements. Our investigator 
also said the police confirmed that Miss F wanted to register other stolen items, but because 
she didnt have identifying  features,  i.e. serial numbers, these were  not recorded  on the 
report. She didnt think that Miss F could control how and what the police recorded  and so 
felt Aviva should settle the claim for the outstanding items.
Our Investigator  also looked at the deductions  made by Aviva  for wear and tear on some of 
the items.  There was a 10% deduction  applied to items under the claim for general wear and 
tear; our investigator considered this to be a reasonable amount to be deducted. But Aviva 
also deducted 50% for items which it considered to be consumables; makeup and perfume. 
Our investigator said on the evidence she had seen Miss F had purchased these items, 
around 20 days or less before the items  were  stolen. She didnt think it was fair for Aviva to 
deduct 50% given  the short period of time Miss F had the items, and therefore 
recommended that if Miss F can provide receipts  for these items, that the full amount be paid 
for them.
Mr H and Miss F agreed  with our investigators  view but feel Aviva has treated them  badly.
Aviva doesnt agree  that it should  settle  the claim for the camera, iPad and watch; it says 
when they spoke to the police officer that recorded the incident, he told Aviva that these 
items were not reported at the time of the theft.  With regard to the deductions  made on the 
consumables it agreed if receipts could be provided it would pay for those items in full.
Ref: DRN55863162Aviva has pointed our investigator to previous  decisions made by other ombudsmen in cases  
involving similar facts.  But, as Aviva will be aware,  we arent bound by our previous 
decisions and we consider each case on its own individual facts,  taking into account what  we 
think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has paid up to the maximum  amount on the policy for the stolen money. Its also 
covered the clothing costs  Mr H and Miss F have agreed to the wear and tear deduction. 
So I wont  be considering  this as part of Mr H and Miss Fs complaint as those items are no 
longer in dispute. And Aviva has agreed  to pay the full cost of the consumables as long as 
receipts are provided  and I think thats a fair resolution. So the outstanding issue for me to 
consider is the refusal to settle  the claim for the camera, iPad and watch.
camera and iPad
Ive looked at the police report provided  and note its very brief. It doesnt contain any details 
of the items lost, it just says theft of backpack  and contents  and that the bag didnt contain 
any identifiable documents or property. 
Ive listened to the calls Aviva  had with the police. The police officers spoken to say the 
report isnt thorough and they explain that may be because it was taken at the front desk  
where its not uncommon for reports not to go into as much detail. I can tell from the call with 
the officer who reported the incident that he is reading from the file and not recalling the 
incident from his own recollection. He says that the backpack and contents were reported  as 
stolen and hes able to tell Aviva the circumstances of the theft as it was reported.  He says 
the bag contained clothing  and Miss Fs passport.  He adds that if money was mentioned he 
wouldnt have recorded this as its not identifiable  if recovered. He says there were  no 
identifiable documents or property in the backpack.  The insurer doesnt ask him directly 
about any of the missing  items.
I think the calls and the written report show that the reports were  not detailed.  Im also not 
sure why a passport is mentioned as stolen but then not recorded  as an identifiable  
document as Id expect it to be. This was not questioned by Aviva. But from what Ive seen 
the passport wasnt actually stolen - so again  this makes me question  the accuracy  of the 
report. Ive also kept in mind that an officer isnt recording the incident for the purpose of an 
insurance claim and this is demonstrated as the money that was stolen was also not 
included in the report as it wasnt traceable. 
Miss F says that she was asked if she had the serial numbers and that she told the officer 
she didnt have them. I agree with our investigator that not everyone  would  have this 
information to hand. 
Mr H and Miss F left the station with a crime number but were  not given  a copy  of the report 
so they wouldnt  have been  aware what was or wasnt recorded within  it. Bearing  in mind the 
condition in the policy is for the policyholder to report  the theft to the police within  24 hours or 
as soon as reasonably possible  and get a written  report. It doesnt  state  what must be 
Ref: DRN55863163contained within the report so I dont think Mr H and Miss F couldve done  anything more  at 
that time.
 
Ive also considered the email sent to Miss F from the police. It informed her that the insurer 
had contacted it and theyd advised  Aviva that because none of the items in the bag had 
identifying features, none have been added into the report 
I cant know with certainty  what was said at the time the theft was reported but I can see the 
reports are not detailed and Im not persuaded by the calls with the police that the items 
wouldve been listed if the serial number werent  available. The police said its common  
practice to ask for serial numbers. So Ive considered  why Mr H and Miss F say they were 
asked for serial numbers  if they were not trying to report  items that would contain this 
information. So I think its more likely  the camera and iPad were not listed  as Miss F was 
unable to provide  the serial numbers for these items at the time. I am therefore persuaded 
that Mr H and Miss F did have these  items  stolen  and did their best to report the incident  to 
the police  as required of them under the policy. I cant hold them  responsible for the lack of 
detail in the police reports and so I direct Aviva to settle the claim for the camera  and iPad in 
line with its policy.
watch
With regards to the watch, Ive considered the initial call made by Mr H and Miss F to Aviva.  
The call was made the same day as the theft and after theyd reported it to the police. 
Mr H and Miss F explain the circumstances of the theft and say there was quite a bit in the 
bag. They say they haven't gone  back to the hotel yet, but they know  there were some 
valuables, iPad, camera,  money,  clothes,  and other  items - cosmetics/make up in the bag.
On returning to the UK, Mr H and Miss F completed  a detailed claim form, providing receipts 
where possible. Aviva then called Mr H and during the call he was asked why the watch  
wasnt reported at the time of the theft. He explained again that they didnt know if the watch 
was at the hotel  as they hadnt  gone back and checked other  bags. I understand Aviva  feels 
the testimony is inconsistent as Mr H had already  said there were valuables  in the bag yet 
they hadnt reported the watch.  But in the initial call to Aviva  to report the theft, Mr H said 
there were valuables and went on to list the iPad, camera, money  etc. so I think its 
reasonable that he wouldve considered all these items as valuables.  So I dont think  it was 
unreasonable that the watch wasnt reported  separately  to the insurer  until the claim form 
was completed as Mr H and Miss F thought this would be covered when  theyd reported  that 
valuables were in the bag. For this reason I think in the circumstances of this claim its 
reasonable for Aviva to settle the claim for the watch in line with its policy.
Ref: DRN55863164my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I uphold  this complaint against Aviva  Insurance  Limited. I 
direct it to settle the claim for the camera, iPad and watch  in line with its policy. And it should 
also pay the full amount  for the consumables; perfume  and make-up  upon  receipt  of proof  of 
purchase.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Miss F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2019.
Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5586316