K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
August 2005.  Ms P says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax)  mis-sold her the 
PPI.
background
Ms P bought the policy  in August 2005  at the same time as taking  out a credit card.  The sale 
took place online.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms P disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why below.
Ms P says she wasnt  given an option of having  the credit card without the PPI. She says 
that had she been given  the option,  she wouldve declined it. So, Ive thought about what 
shes said alongside the additional  information  Ive seen from Halifax.
Halifax has provided us with a copy of Ms Ps credit agreement. This sets out a summary of 
the information Ms P provided to Halifax during the online application process.  The first page 
of this document shows that Ms P had requested Repayments Cover. The second page  
shows that Ms P was asked to confirm  whether  or not she wanted the PPI. I can see theres 
a tick in the box next to the statement I wish to purchase Credit Card Repayments  Cover  
and I can see Ms P signed separately  for the PPI. Overall, I think its more  likely than not   
Ms P would  have understood the PPI was optional. And I dont think  she would have 
selected the PPI if she didnt  want to take it out.
Halifax didnt recommend the PPI to Ms P so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Ms P got the information she needed  to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms P about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Ms P chose to take out the PPI, so it 
looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at 
the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover, such  as pre-existing medical conditions - so it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Ref: DRN51856902Ms P has told us she wouldve received at least six months sick pay from her employer if she 
was too unwell to work.  She says this shows that she didnt need the PPI as her existing 
work benefits were  very good. Having thought  about what  Ms P has said about her sick pay, 
I dont think this means she wouldnt have found the policy  useful. I say this because the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay Ms P wouldve received from her employer and 
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months. The PPI also wouldve  paid a benefit if Ms P was ever 
made redundant. So overall, I think Ms P couldve found the policy useful if she ever fell on 
hard times and I dont  think that any better information would have put her off from taking  out 
the policy.
Ms P has mentioned that she had been  made redundant and was also unable to work 
following an accident.  Due to the limited information provided about  these  two unfortunate 
events, Im unable to determine  whether  these  incidents occurred during the time Ms P held 
her PPI policy.  If they did occur during the years the PPI was in place and Ms P thinks  she 
might have a valid claim for either of these  events, she may wish to approach her PPI 
insurer to ask if she can make a backdated claim.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax  doesnt  need 
to refund everything  Ms P paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered to give Ms P back  some 
of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Ms P.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5185690