K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains that because of poor customer service  by plumbers instructed by British  
Gas Insurance  Limited (BGI) under  her home  emergency insurance policy, an initial  leak 
from her cold water  supply tank wasnt properly  dealt with resulting  a greater ingress of 
water shortly  afterwards.
background
Mrs G owned a property  which  she rented  to a tenant. She had a home emergency 
insurance policy with BGI which included plumbing  services.
In July 2018, water started dripping  from a ceiling so the tenant called on BGI under  the 
policy. BGI arranged for a plumbing company to attend. The plumber told the tenant  there  
was a split in the header tank above  the ceiling. He said the tank would be emptied and the 
water switched off. So until the tank was replaced  the tenant  wouldnt be able to live in the 
property. 
At that stage Mrs G says the visible damage  was relatively slight  small damp patches on 
bedroom and lounge ceilings, and damp on the carpets and some furniture. Dehumidifiers 
were put in to dry the property out. Two days later, the tenant  returned to the property to 
collect some  belongings. They found there had now been a major leak which had caused 
much more damage.
Mrs G claimed  under  her separate household  insurance policy. The insurer arranged  for the 
ceilings to be taken  down and replaced,  and for the rooms to be redecorated. Mrs G 
complained to the plumbers. On a second  visit by the plumbers, it transpired that on the first 
visit the plumber  found there was a split half way up the side of the header  tank.  So he 
reduced the water level on the tank to below this split and shut off the water supply. However  
there was a further split in the bottom  of the header  tank which continued to leak and caused  
the further damage.
Although she had property insurance, Mrs G had to pay the £250 excess  on her policy. And 
she had to replace  carpets at a cost of £410  which werent covered  by the property 
insurance. She complained to the plumbers that she was £660 out of pocket.  Initially the 
plumbers said they would  reimburse this amount. But BGI then became involved and said 
that under  her policy neither the plumbers nor BGI were responsible.
BGI said damage to the property had already been caused when the plumbers arrived on 
their first visit. BGI and its plumbers hadnt  caused  the damage  to the tank.  So it didnt 
accept it was liable for the cost of the repairs. It thought the damage  was such that Mrs G 
would always have  had to claim under her household insurance.
BGI paid Mrs G compensation  of £60 in total  £30 because of the inconvenience of a 
further visit by the plumbers  being required,  and a further £30 because  the plumbers 
originally said they would  reimburse Mrs G.
Mrs G didnt accept this offer, which she thought was totally  inadequate.  She said that if the 
header tank had been drained  properly and the water switched off at the time of the first visit, 
she wouldnt  have had to make a claim on her household insurance.  So she wouldnt have 
had to pay out the £250 excess, and the carpets  would have been  dried  out by 
dehumidifiers.
Ref: DRN52083362Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. She said that 
water was already  leaking through the ceiling at the time of the plumbers first visit. So she 
thought there was already  a significant  leak, and significant damage that Mrs G or her 
household insurers  would  have had to repair.  She didnt think the additional damage caused 
by the further  leaking  was significant  in this context.
However she thought  BGI could have handled  the claim better, and the plumbers had initially 
said they would reimburse her and had then gone back on this. So she recommended that 
BGI pay Mrs G a total of £150, inclusive of the £60 it had already paid her, for the distress  
and inconvenience  it had caused  her.
BGI responded to say, in summary, that it wasnt responsible for the initial leak, which 
caused Mrs G distress  and inconvenience.  It didnt think the further  leaking added  
significantly to the damage already caused,  and to Mrs Gs distress and inconvenience. It 
thought the £60 it had already  paid her was fair compensation in the circumstances.
Mrs G reiterated that the damage to the property and carpet was minimal after the first leak. 
As BGI was responsible  for the second  leak because its plumber failed to pick up the further 
split in the tank on the first visit, she still thought BGI should reimburse her household 
insurance excess and the cost of replacing  the carpet.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With water  damage it often takes some time for the water to flow all the way through and for 
the full damage  to become apparent. I understand that Mrs G believes that if no further water 
had come through after the first visit she wouldnt have needed to make  a claim on her 
household insurance, and her carpet  wouldnt have  needed to be replaced. But Im not 
convinced that this would necessarily have  been  the case.
Given that on the first visit the water was apparently  switched off, and the level of water in 
the tank was reduced below the split in the side, its not clear  how much  water was left in the 
tank to flow through the split in the bottom of the tank, and how much further damage this 
would have caused. 
All in all, Im not persuaded that it would be reasonable  for me to require BGI to reimburse  
Mrs G her household policy excess and the cost of replacing her carpet.
I do think the first plumber should  have checked there were no other splits in the tank,  and 
should have drained it fully. He didnt, and Mrs G found that the leak hadnt been stopped 
and was continuing. I think this added to the distress and inconvenience she suffered.  I think  
fair compensation for this, for the extra visit that was required,  and for the plumbers saying 
they would  reimburse  her and then going  back on this, is that BGI should pay Mrs G £150  in 
total, inclusive  of the £60 it has already paid her.
Ref: DRN52083363my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part, and order British Gas Insurance  Limited to 
pay Mrs G compensation of £150  in total, inclusive  of the £60 it has already paid her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5208336