K821x#15complaint
Mr Os complaint is about advice he received in 2009 from Insight Financial Associates 
Limited (Insight) to transfer  personal  pensions to a Rowanmoor SIPP.  The SIPP  was then 
used to invest in an Unregulated  Collective Investment Scheme  (UCIS) to fund the 
development of a resort in Cape Verde  with The Resort Group.
Mr O says Insights  advice  was negligent and has caused him a financial loss.
background
In 2009, Mr O was made aware by a third party about an opportunity  to invest  in the
Cape Verde  development.
Mr O was then introduced to an adviser at Insight. The adviser then completed a document  
setting out Mr O's circumstances in August.  It said that Mr O had been  introduced  to Insight 
'regarding the potential  to use retirement funds to facilitate' the property purchase. Insight 
then contacted Mr O's existing pension providers around September 2009.
On 1 December 2009 Mr O completed a number  of forms which included:
a pension funded reservation  form which reserved a property for Mr O.
a payment plan option details form which set out that Mr O had agreed  to pay a 
reservation fee of £1,482. This fee would be returned once  the deposit for the 
property was received.  The form also said that Mr O had agreed to pay 45% of the 
property purchase price as a deposit  and the remainder would be paid on completion 
of the property.
an application form for a SIPP with Rowanmoor. This form was also signed by Insight  
and set out that a fee of £495  should  be paid to it for the transfer to the SIPP and
then £250 a year after this.
forms to Mr O's existing schemes instructing them  to transfer  his pension benefits  to 
the SIPP with Rowanmoor.
Insight issued a letter on 14 December 2009 setting out its advice. It recorded  that
Mr O:
was aged  54.
had a personal pension with Scottish Life with a value of around  £36,495  and a 
transfer value  of £33,831.
had a retirement annuity contract with Barclays with a value  of around £35,419 and a 
transfer value  of £35,067.
held benefits  in the British Gas defined benefit  scheme but no further details were 
recorded.
had a medium to high attitude to risk.
Ref: DRN56663302wanted to take tax free cash from the SIPP to support his disabled son.
The suitability letter said that Mr O had already decided to invest in the Cape Verde  
development and that Insight's role was limited to advising  on a suitable  provider to 
accommodate the investment  plans.
Insight also highlighted  that investing in off plan property carried the risk of the developer 
becoming insolvent. And that investing in commercial  property  like Cape  Verde would 
increase the risk level of Mr O's investment due to the illiquid nature of the investment and 
lack of diversification of his assets.
Nonetheless, Insight's  advice  was that Mr O transfer his personal pensions  to a SIPP with 
Rowanmoor to fund the Cape Verde investment.
Mr O followed  Insight's  advice. In January 2010, he started a SIPP  with Rowanmoor. In the 
event, a total of around  £75K was transferred to the SIPP.  Mr O was then paid 25% of the 
amount transferred as a tax free lump sum. The deposits for the Cape Verde investments, 
approximately £45k,  were  then paid in February  2010.
Insight rejected Mr Os complaint. It also said that this service could not consider it as it had 
been made outside the time limits in our rules.
Our adjudicator disagreed. He concluded that there was not sufficient persuasive evidence  
to show  Mr O was aware of cause to complain more than three  years  from when he 
complained to Insight.  He also concluded  that the complaint should be upheld on its merits.
Insight reiterated  that this complaint should be time barred. In summary, it said that reviews 
were carried  out with Mr O since 2009.  It said that 'during the discussions and reviews held 
with us, his ATR, objectives and the performance  of his plan would have been discussed.'  
So it said Mr O 'would  have had sufficient opportunity to raise  his concerns regarding the 
Rowanmoor Self Invested Pension Plan'.
It also said the SIPP statements showed that, since the Cape  Verde investment was made, 
payments (either interest or rental income from the investment)  had been  received into the 
SIPP. It also said it understood  Mr O has consolidated his Cape Verde investment in
2015 but wasn't able to give me any other details.
Insight also referred to correspondence between it and Rowanmoor in 2015  in respect of a 
request by Mr O to withdraw a sum from his SIPP. Rowanmoor  wrote to Mr O on 13 April 
2015. However, the email chain which Insight forwarded shows  that the email  of the 13th 
had in fact been sent to Mr O's old email address. Rowanmoor then resent the email  to Mr 
O's new address  on 30 April.
Lastly, Insight highlighted that Mr O approached it in 2017 about  transferring his benefits in 
the British Gas defined benefit  scheme.  Insight said that after discussions with Mr O, it 
understood he used another firm to carry out the transfer. It questioned  if this transfer was in 
his best interests  given  Mr O's statements that he had no previous investment experience, a 
low attitude to risk and a low capacity  for loss.
Our adjudicator also asked Rowanmoor for information. It provided statements that were  
sent to Mr O. These show that the value  of Mr O's SIPP in February  2010  following the 
Ref: DRN56663303investment into Cape Verde was around £55K. By December 2014  (the last value before 
April 2015), the value  of Mr O's SIPP was shown to be around  £52K.
The documents from Rowanmoor also showed that in January 2015, Mr O signed  
documents amending his original contract with the Resort Group. This said that under the 
terms of the original contract, Mr O's SIPP had paid £46,868.56  as a deposit  for a property 
and the remainder was due to be paid upon  completion of that property. In 2015,  it was 
agreed that Mr O would  no longer have to pay any more money. Instead, the amounts he'd 
already paid would be used towards acquiring 33% of a company  that would own a unit in 
the development.
The adjudicator was not persuaded  to change his view either in respect of our jurisdiction to 
consider this complaint and that the complaint should be upheld on its merits.
Insight responded  and reiterated that it did not believe this complaint had been  made  within 
the time limits in our rules.
I therefore issued  a Jurisdiction decision which concluded that the merits of this complaint 
can be considered  by this service. Our adjudicator asked Insight to provide any further 
evidence it wished to submit for me to consider  when determining the merits of this 
complaint.
Insight responded  and said that:
there is reference on Page 3 to the fact find that in January 2015 Mr O signed 
documents  amending  his original  contract , presumably  this related  to the fact 
that insufficient  funds were held within  the SIPP  to purchase  the original property  he 
signed up for in 2009?
When The Resort Group contacted investors for payment of the remaining balance,  if 
there were insufficient funds within the SIPP, they gave  the investor the opportunity  
to sell the original  property and reinvest  in a smaller  property  or a part ownership  of a 
property.
At this point in time (January 2015) Mr O would have needed to complete a new 
range of documentation, including  a full range of legal documents  to sell and 
purchase the old and new property respectfully .
Given the need for a full range of documents, including legal ones and the need to 
change the investment from one property to part ownership of another property, this 
would have given  him cause to question what was happening and to ask questions.  
The Resort Group  would have told him what was happening, the reasons for the 
change from full ownership of one property  to part ownership of another, and this 
should have made him aware that he needed to contact us and indeed  this should 
have made him aware that he had cause for complaint.
Mr O certainly  did not contact us as the time the property investment was 
consolidated.
We have received a number of decisions on cases  where  'consolidation'  of the 
properties has taken  place where  you have  not upheld the decision for this reason, 
we would trust that a consistent approach will be taken.
Ref: DRN56663304my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached  the same  conclusions as our adjudicator  and for the same  
reasons. My reasoning here then is commensurately  similar to that set out in the 
adjudicators assessment.
In respect of Insights points above  in response to our adjudicator,  I make  the following 
comments.
I agree  that insufficient funds were held in Mr Os SIPP at the time of the investment. In my 
view, this exacerbated the risk of the investment. For reasons  explained below, I am 
persuaded Insight  failed  to give Mr O suitable  advice. Had it done so, I would  have expected 
it to have highlighted the risk of not having sufficient funds to complete the investment.
The further four points  are relevant to jurisdiction. They refer to events significantly later than 
the initial transfer and investment. The crux of my decision here though  is concerned with 
the initial transfer and investment in 2009  rather than events in January 2015.  I have  already  
explained in my Jurisdiction decision my reasoning  in respect  of these points.
Finally, in terms of consistency,  I cannot  comment on other  decisions reached  by this 
service. But I would point  out that each case is considered on its individual  merits and 
circumstances. That is what I have done in this case.
should Insight have  advised on the Cape  Verde  investment?
Insight knew this was the intended investment following Mr Os proposed  transfer to a 
SIPP.
Insight has said that it was only offering advice to Mr O on the suitability of a SIPP. But 
Insight had a greater responsibility  than this.
The Financial Services Authority (now  Financial  Conduct Authority) issued  an alert in 
January 2013. It described situations such as this where a third party is involved in the 
sale, and where  advice is provided  for a consumer about  a SIPP but not the intended 
investment.  Typically, the consumer  will be seeking to invest heavily in an unregulated 
and highly  illiquid fund.  Though the alert post-dates Mr O's arrangements,  the regulator  
was clear that a model  whereby a financial adviser  does not consider the unregulated  
investment as part of the advice to invest in a SIPP was incorrect  under existing 
regulations.
The SIPP  was a vehicle for the investment in commercial property and Insight knew  this. 
In my opinion,  separating advice about a SIPP from the intended investment for which it 
was to be used was not consistent  with Insights regulatory obligations to Mr O. The SIPP 
was being considered  because of the property investment. So advice about  the SIPP 
ought to have addressed the underlying  investment. Consequently, Insight was required to 
assess if the Cape  Verde investment was suitable for Mr O when  advising on the transfer  to 
the SIPP.
Ref: DRN56663305I note Insight set out some information about  the Cape Verde  investment in its advice 
letter, including  that it was illiquid  and Mr O could lose all his money.  But, it was Insight's  
responsibility to assess the risks according to Mr O's circumstances and advise 
accordingly. Simply providing  Mr O with information was not consistent with what was 
required by the regulator. 
was the Cape Verde investment  suitable?
I have concluded  Insight should have advised Mr O on the suitability of the Cape Verde  
investment. The question  then is whether the investment was suitable for Mr O's 
circumstances.
I note that the value of Mr O's British  Gas scheme benefits  were  not recorded at the time 
of the transactions. Similarly, I have  not seen details of his total earnings (although  I note 
that he was a basic  rate tax payer) .
From the evidence  I have  seen, I think a reasonable assumption is that the £75K in his 
personal pensions  would  have represented  a significant proportion of Mr O's retirement 
savings.
Insight said in its advice  letter  that Cape Verde  was a high risk investment. In particular, it 
exposed Mr O to significant  risks, including liquidity and exchange  rate risk.
Mr O was also age 54 and so had a relatively limited time before retirement  to make up any 
losses that he might suffer.
Given Mr Os circumstances, Mr O was not in a position to expose a likely significant part of 
his retirement savings to the risks that the Cape Verde investment exposed  him to. So, 
Insight should  have advised  him against investing in Cape Verde. 
what would Mr O have  likely done if given suitable advice?
I think that, on balance,  if Insight  had advised Mr O against  the Cape Verde investment, 
he would  have followed this advice. This is because  I think  it's reasonable to say that in 
most instances a client follows  the advice of their professional adviser.  And in this case,  I 
have  not seen  evidence  to persuade  me that Mr O was an experienced  investor.
I note Mr O was also dealing with a person not regulated to give pension  advice. Insight 
was the firm involved with this transaction and was regulated  to give such advice. I am 
persuaded  that suitable advice should  have been not to proceed with the Cape Verde  
investment.
I also note that Mr O had already signed the property  reservation forms and agreed to 
pay a reservation fee. I'm not sure if Mr O actually  paid the reservation fee, but if he did I 
note not proceeding with the Cape Verde investment  might have led him to lose the 
reservation fee. But despite  this, I think that if Insight  had advised  Mr O against the Cape 
Verde investment,  its more likely  than not that he would have followed its advice.
However, I note that Mr O wanted  to access his tax free cash  to support his disabled 
son. And it seems he had no need for an income from his pension  at that point. So I think  
in these particular  circumstances that it would've been reasonable for Mr O to transfer  to 
a SIPP so he could  access  a lump  sum and keep the remainder invested. But to be 
Ref: DRN56663306clear, Insight should've  advised Mr O against the Cape Verde investment and I think Mr 
O would've followed this advice.
I cannot say for certain what investments Mr O would have invested in if he'd been given 
suitable advice by Insight. But I accept from the submissions of his representatives about 
his attitude to risk that he would have wanted  small  risk to his capital. 
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr O in the position  he would  be in now but for Insights actions. I 
consider it reasonable  to assume that he would have transferred to the Rowanmoor SIPP 
and taken  the tax free lump sum when he did. However I think he would not have 
subsequently invested in Cape Verde  if suitably  advised by Insight.
I think Mr O would have  invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  what he 
would  have  done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mr O's circumstances and objectives  when he invested.
what must  Insight Financial Associates Limited do?
To compensate Mr O fairly it must :
Compare the performance of Mr O's investment with that of the benchmark  shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater than the actual value, there  is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value  is greater than the fair value, no 
compensatio n is payable.
It must also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, it should pay into Mr O's pension plan,  to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation  and any interest. This payment should  allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  It should  not pay the compensation into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowances.  
If unable  to pay the compensation into Mr O's pension plan, it should pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced  to notionally allow  for 
any income tax that would otherwise have been  paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated using Mr O's actual or expected  marginal  
rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age.
For example, if Mr O is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement  age, 
the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However,  if Mr O would have  
been able to take a tax free lump sum,  the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the 
compensation.
In addition,  it must  pay Mr O £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Provide the details  of the calculation to Mr O in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest  paid. If Insight considers that it is required by 
HM Revenue  & Customs to deduct  income tax from that interest, it should  tell Mr O how 
Ref: DRN56663307much it has taken  off. It should also give Mr O a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
("start date" )to
("end date" )additional 
interest
Cape
Verdestill existsfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income  Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average  
rate from
fixed  rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
my 
decision8% simple  
annually from decision date to 
settlement (if not paid 
within 28 
days) of  
acceptance
notification
The monies to be allowed  for as part of the Cape Verde investment in the benchmark  
notional calculation are to include all monies  from the SIPP that were applied in making  the 
Cape Verde investment.  This includes not only the sum actually invested but also any 
monies paid for fees, charges or commissions which were ancillary to the Cape Verde 
investment.
actual  value
This means the actual  amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date,  the investment is illiquid  (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual 
value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation.  Insight  Financial 
Associates Limited  should take ownership of the illiquid investment  by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should  be deducted 
from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above. 
If Insight is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose of calculation. It may require that Mr O provides an undertaking to pay 
it any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. Insight  will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.  
fair value
This is what the investment would  have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a 
return using  the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value  when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Insight  
Financial Associates Limited  should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds 
with 12 to 17 months maturity as published by the Bank  of England.  The rate for each 
Ref: DRN56663308month is shown as at the end of the previous month and apply those  rates to the 
investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added  to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should  be deducted 
from the fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, I will accept  if Insight  totals  all those payments and deduct that 
figure at the end instead of deducting  periodically.
If Mr O had paid a deposit  for the Cape  Verde  investment  prior to Insight  having  proffered  
any advice,  and if such  a deposit  was only then refundable  if the investment  in Cape  
Verde  was actually  made,  then a notional  deduction  may also be made  for a sum 
equivalent  to that deposit  on the basis  that this sum would  have  been  forfeited  had 
suitable  advice  been  given  as the investment  in Cape  Verde  would  not then have  gone  
ahead.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mr O wanted capital  growth  with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, 
the FTSE WMA  Stock  Market  Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government  bonds. It's 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher 
return. 
I consider that Mr O's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr O into that position.  It does not mean  that Mr 
O would  have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  
kind of index tracker  investment.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise  
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr O could  have  obtained  from investments 
suited to his objective  and risk attitude.
my final decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate.
 If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend the business  to 
pay the balance.
determination and award: 
Ref: DRN56663309I uphold the complaint.
 I consider that fair compensation should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that 
Insight Financial Associates Limited  must pay Mr O the amount produced  by that calculation  
 up to a maximum of £150,000 (including  distress  and/or inconvenience but excluding 
costs) plus any interest set out above.
If Insight Financial Associates Limited  does not pay the recommended  amount, then any 
investment currently illiquid  should  be retained  by Mr O. This is until any future benefit that 
he may receive from the investment  together with the compensation paid by Insight 
Financial Associates Limited  (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as 
set out above.  
Insight Financial Associates Limited  may request  an undertaking from Mr O that either  he 
repays to Insight Financial  Associates Limited  any amount Mr O may receive from the 
investment thereafter  or if possible, transfers  the investment at that point.
Mr O should be aware  that any such amount would be paid into his pension  plan so he may 
have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
Insight Financial Associates Limited  should provide details of its calculation  to Mr O in a 
clear, simple  format.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Insight Financial  Associates Limited  pay Mr O the balance  plus 
any interest on the balance as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  It does not bind Insight 
Financial Associates Limited.  It is unlikely that Mr O can accept my decision and go to court  
to ask for the balance. Mr O may want to consider  getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept  this decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr O either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2020.                               .
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5666330