K820x#14complaint
Ms T complains that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) failed to repair a leak in her 
property and provided her with poor service.
background
Ms T holds a home emergency policy with RSA.  She contacted  the insurer  requesting  an 
emergency plumber  on 2 December 2018 after suffering an escape  of water in her kitchen.
Ms T was unhappy because she was told by RSA that a plumber would be with her as soon 
as possible, but they did not attend  her property until around  16 hours after she reported the 
leak. She was also unhappy because the plumber only turned  the tap off under the sink and 
did not identify  of fix the problem. As a result, Ms T says she had to pay £50 for a freelance 
plumber to come out and fix the leak. She also complained that the delay in the plumber 
attending has caused damage to her kitchen floor.
RSA explained  that the policy  only provides  cover  to resolve the emergency and does not 
entitle Ms T to trace  and access or the overall  repair of the leak.  And in terms of the delay, 
RSA said that Ms T had contacted them  at a very busy  time during bad weather, which  was 
why they couldnt arrange for a plumber to attend  straight away.  However, they offered £25 
compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. Ms T did not accept 
this offer and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt think RSA were responsible for 
repairing the leak or for the damage  caused to her kitchen under  the terms of the policy. And 
he considered  that the £25 compensation offered for the delay was fair in the circumstances. 
Ms T disagreed, so the matter has been  passed  to me to determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Ms T submits that RSAs plumber should have done  more  than just turn the water  off, and 
should have identified and fixed the cause of the leak. But the policy states that in the event 
of an emergency  occurring in the homewe  will arrange for a tradesman to attend  the home 
and carry out the work necessary to resolve  the emergency. In this instance,  turning off the 
water stopped the leak and prevented it from getting any worse,  so Im satisfied they fulfilled  
their obligations  under the policy.
However, in terms of repair, the policy does state that if a permanent repair is necessary, 
the tradesman will carry it out provided it can be effected during the visit and at a similar 
expense. The engineers report advised  that he couldnt get to the pipe as cabinets were  in 
the way, and that it would  take around  four hours  to carry out a repair. Given that this is in 
excess of the amount  of time it took to resolve the emergency, and considering that four 
hours additional work would likely  come  at a greater  expense,  I dont think  RSA have acted 
unreasonably by declining to carry out the repair. But Ms T may want  to consult her buildings 
insurance to see if this is something  that could be covered by her policy.
Ref: DRN54534142In terms of the delay,  Ms T does not consider the £25 offered to be commensurate to the 
distress and inconvenience caused. She says that, amongst other  things, it caused damage  
to her kitchen floor,  which she wants RSA to repair. But I havent  seen any persuasive 
evidence that would  suggest  the floor was damages as a result of the delay, and would not 
have been damaged by the escape of water in any event,  irrespective  of how soon the 
plumber attended  Ms Ts property. And the policy does not cover damage either. So I do not 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to hold RSA liable  for the damage  caused by the leak. 
However, as outlined previously, Ms T may be able to make a claim under her buildings  
insurance for any damage caused  by an escape  of water.  
In terms of the amount of compensation offered, the power to make such an award is 
provided for in DISP  Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook , which sets out 
that I can award fair compensation for distress  or inconvenience experienced by a customer. 
But such  an award  must be a proportionate  reflection of the impact that a businesss actions 
(or inactions) have had. 
Ive considered the length of the delay, and its clear  that Ms T has been left frustrated by 
this. I can see, for example, that she had to call a number of times to get an update on when 
the contractor was likely to turn up. But I have  to consider whether, in the circumstances, the 
compensation awarded so far is proportionate to the distress and inconvenience  suffered. 
And in order to award further compensation to Ms T, I would have to be satisfied that the 
wrongful actions of RSA and their agents have had a greater impact  than just moderate 
inconvenience or upset, which I cant say it has in these  circumstances.
I appreciate the experience wouldve been  frustrating, but when there  are adverse weather 
conditions there can often be a higher demand  for tradesman in the area to attend  to 
emergencies. And the policy does also state  that in periods  of adverse weather attendance 
times may be extended. So although 16 hours was a long time to wait, it was largely out of 
RSAs immediate control, so I consider the £25 offered already to be fair compensation in 
the circumstances.
my final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc have made an offer to pay £25. I conclude  that such  an 
offer is fair compensation in all the circumstances. My decision is that RSA should pay Ms T 
(if they have  not done so already) within 28 days  of receiving her acceptance of this 
decision.
Ms T should note that if she accepts my decision, it will be legally binding  on all parties and 
she probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, she rejects the decision, although her legal rights will remain 
intact, itll be purely a matter between Ms T and RSA as to whether the £25 offer still remains  
open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding  on the offeror after rejection of 
it has been communicated.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN54534143
Ref: DRN5453414