K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr F took out in 2017 on the advice and 
recommendation of a broker representing Countrywide Principal Services  Limited.  Mr F is 
unhappy that Countrywide asked  the lender to arrange for a basic  valuation  to be carried out 
on the property  he was buying;  he says hed instructed Countrywide to request a more  
detailed Homebuyers Report. Mr F says he has had to spend  many  thousands of pounds 
rectifying serious defects  that he wasnt aware of when he bought  the property, but would  
have been if the correct  inspection had been carried out.
background
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach the right outcome.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ill make some general  observations  
before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. Were impartial, and we 
dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our 
investigations and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone  else.
Its up to us to decide what  evidence we need  to decide a complaint,  where  we should get it 
from, and what weight  we should attach to it once we have it. Where  the available evidence 
is missing, incomplete or contradictory, Im required to decide  what is most likely to have 
happened on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same  test that the courts use in 
civil cases.
Mr Fs testimony  is that from the outset he wanted something more  detailed than a valuation,  
and that was understood and agreed in his discussions with the broker. I find that testimony  
to be persuasive, and so I am satisfied those discussions  took place as Mr F has described  
them. The fact remains however that when  Countrywide submitted the application to the 
lender, a basic valuation was requested, and paid for. 
The application was submitted online rather than on paper, so it doesnt have Mr Fs 
signature verifying that hes happy  with everything. If it had been a signed application, it 
would be relatively  straightforward to find that Mr F had authorised Countrywide to arrange  a 
valuation. As things stand, I cant be certain that he was aware  of, and had agreed to, a 
valuation being  carried out. 
It seems  to me there are two possible  explanations for the application going into the lender 
with a request  for a valuation.  Either Countrywide  made a mistake and requested  the wrong 
type of inspection, or Mr F had, by the time of making the application, decided he would be 
Ref: DRN53060362content with just a valuation.  Thats where the balance of probabilities test I mentioned 
earlier comes  into play.
Mr F is the party bringing the complaint,  so the onus in him to make his case. To find in 
Mr Fs favour,  I have to persuaded  that his version of events  is more  likely than 
Countrywides, not just as likely.  On the evidence I have seen, I dont find either  version to 
be more persuasive  than the other.  Each is only as likely as the other, and thats not enough 
for me to uphold  the complaint. Theres something  else.
Mr F has confirmed that he received the valuation report before he exchanged  contracts  
committing himself  to buying the property. The investigator considered  this relevant saying 
Mr F would have been aware it was merely a valuation  rather than the more detailed 
inspection. Mr F has challenged  us to prove that he could have known that the document  
hed received was only a valuation. Its a fair question, not least because Mr F was a 
first-time  buyer, so inexperienced in such matters. Nonetheless, its something Im happy to 
address. 
A valuation  doesnt  offer the applicant any kind of warranty  as to the condition of the property 
theyre proposing  to buy. The sole purpose of a valuation is to allow  a lender to decide if a 
property is acceptable  security for the money  its being asked to lend. More to the point, this 
limitation on the scope  and remit  of a valuation is made very clear on the report  itself. Thats 
been standard practice ever since  a landmark court case  the best part of four decades ago*. 
Ive seen Mr Fs valuation; in a section  on the front page headed Guidance Notes, it 
contains the relevant narrative setting out the reports scope and purpose. Heres what it 
says:
You have chosen  a valuation report which is a limited inspection  of the properly 
highlighting only those  items which we consider will materially affect value.  It is 
prepared on instructions from [lender] in accordance with the RICS Residential  
Mortgage Valuation  Specification.
Valuers cannot  see through solids or see things  that are hidden  by wall and floor 
coverings. They will not move furniture or obstructions inside or outside, lift carpets, 
crawl under floors, climb ladders outside or go on roofs or fully enter roof spaces. 
Valuers will look at the outside of the properly from the garden  and adjacent  public 
areas. 
Services including the central heating system have not been tested.
You still have the option to request a more  detailed report and we would  be 
pleased to help you with this.
The valuer has assumed  the property information supplied is correct  although  your 
conveyancer should  verify this.
If you have questions about lending please  contact the mortgage  administration
department who are dealing with your mortgage.
If you wish to discuss any technical  aspects  of this report please  contact the
valuer. 
Ref: DRN53060363Do not forget to read the Advice  for Applicants  section  - it is important.
(The emphasis in bold type is mine.)
I dont know and wont speculate on how much of the above Mr F read and assimilated. But I 
find on the balance  of probabilities that Mr F either knew  or at the very least should have 
known that the document he relied on when he exchanged contracts on his house purchase, 
was only a valuation  for mortgage purposes  and not the more detailed  Homebuyers  Report  
he says hed been expecting to receive.  Id add, largely  for completeness, that the valuer  
sent the valuation report direct  to Mr F; Countrywide wasnt provided  with a copy.
Taking all of the above into account, the evidence doesnt persuade me one way or the other 
on the question  of whether or not Countrywide  made a mistake  with the instruction. But I am 
persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, that Mr F knew (or should  have  known) when he 
committed to buying  his property, that he was doing  so in reliance on a valuation.
*Yianni v Edwin Evans and Sons [1981]
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 August 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5306036