K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Capital One (Europe) plc lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr A took out a credit card with Capital One in 2006, with a limit of £500. It then increased 
his credit limit twice, in October 2016 to £1,500, and October 2017 to £2,500. He feels  that it 
was irresponsible  to lend to him in the first place, then to increase his credit limit twice,  when 
he wasnt in a position to maintain repayments.
It has already been agreed that Mr A has brought part of his complaint to us too late for us to 
look at it. So, I will be limiting my findings to the aspects of the complaint which are in time. 
These are the two increases  to his credit limit. Mr A thought that the increases were 
irresponsible. He wants Capital One to refund all the interest and charges and remove  any 
default markers from his credit records.
Mr A explained hed reached  his maximum credit limit within months  of receiving the card in 
2006. This continued for the next nine years  until 2015, during which  time he only repaid the 
minimum amount, and missed multiple payments. He said he missed  at least  20 
repayments, some consecutively. But despite this, Capital One increased his credit  limit 
twice. He feels that given his previous repayment  history, it should have spoken  to him 
directly, rather  than him being able to opt out of the increases.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened, but she didnt think  the complaint 
should be upheld.  She said that Capital One had assessed Mr As creditworthiness  prior to 
increasing the credit limit, by looking at his account  repayment history and his external credit  
history. She said the repayment history  showed  Mr A had made the minimum payments  and 
had no recent instances of over limit transactions or late payments. Further, she said Mr As 
credit file had no adverse  information recorded  against it. The investigators view was that 
Capital One was reasonable in offering Mr A the credit limit increases and had considered 
Mr As ability  to repay.
Mr A disagreed. He said he had been in debit  for several years before  Capital  One increased 
his credit limit. He explained  he had only paid the minimum amount and previously missed 
repayments, on a regular basis. He also had several other credit cards and loans at the time 
and was only making minimum repayments  to these. He pointed  out that the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  has introduced news rules  to help people with persistent debt, and 
these rules should have been  applied to his account.
His complaints now been passed to me.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Mr A has referred to new FCA rules  designed to help individuals  in long- term debt. These  
rules came into force in March 2018,  but firms were given six months to become fully 
compliant. However,  these rules are not retrospective and do not apply to the period  of time 
when the credit card increases took effect. That said, I must still consider whether Capital 
Ref: DRN58946032One carried out proportionate checks regarding affordability, whether it was reasonable to 
increase the limit on two occasions, and whether  it has treated Mr A fairly.
First, Ive looked at affordability. So, (i) did Capital  One carry out proportionate checks, and 
(ii) if so, did they give cause for concern? If it didnt carry out proportionate checks, should 
there have  been  cause  for concern if it had?
Capital One explained it looked  at Mr As repayment history and external credit  history. So, 
Ive looked at what these show.
Ive been provided  with a copy of Mr As credit  file. I have also looked  at his repayment  
history to Capital One. Although I accept that Mr A has said historically, he had missed  
repayments, the yearly  periods leading up to both increases show that he was making his 
repayments as he should, and these  were at least the minimum. He also had other 
borrowing, and Im satisfied that around  four of these accounts  would have  appeared on his 
credit file at the time of both increases.  But again, he was making the required  repayments.
Accordingly, I dont  think there was anything too concerning  here. That said, Ive thought  
about whether  Capital  One should  have made  any further checks. Although  the guidance 
doesnt specify exactly what checks should  be done,  they do need to be proportionate. In 
this case, given Mr As tendency to only make  minimum repayments, I think Capital One 
should reasonably have  looked further into his financial  situation. This is particularly so given 
that the first increase  was to three  times the original limit, and the second to five times the 
original limit.
So, Ive thought about what  more  information could have been asked for. I think  an income 
and expenditure  form could  have  been completed, or a request made to look at Mr As bank 
statements. Given that Mr As credit card was granted back in 2006,  I dont think Capital One 
would have had much current information about income and expenditure when the increases 
were granted  albeit I accept that minimum repayments were being made.
For this reason, I asked  Mr A for his bank statements.
In the period leading up to the first increase in October 2016, the statements I have looked at 
show that Mr As account was in credit with a substantial  balance of between  £7,000  and 
£12,000. But looking further into the account  I can see that Mr As expenditure is very much  
higher than his income - and in June 2016  there are payday loans  of over £3,500. In 
September 2016 Mr A received £3,362.08  into his account but he paid £7,720.65 out.
Ive also looked  at the statements Ive been provided with leading up to the second increase 
in October 2017.  The ones  I have are for July 2017 and September  2017. On the face of it, 
these dont cause  immediate concern. In July 2017,  Mr As account  was £2,451.21 in credit.  
In September  2017, it was £3,750.73 in credit. However, looking further at the account 
activity, I can see that Mr As expenditure is very significantly higher than his income, despite 
his account being in credit. In July 2017, Mr A received £6,684.82 into his account. But he 
paid £11,233.87 out. Similarly, in September 2017, Mr A received £7,955.77 into his 
account, but paid £12,700.21 out. I think its significant that other  than (what  I believe are) 
his wages of around  £1,500 a month,  almost all of the money coming into the account is 
from what appears to be gambling. This isnt a source  of income that can be regularly 
predicted as, by its nature, gambling  is unpredictable. The only income that can reasonably 
be depended upon is Mr As salary.  And all of the money going out is either gambling or loan 
repayments. On many  days there are multiple apparent gambling transactions, totalling  up to 
Ref: DRN58946033around £1,000  each.  Further,  I can see that a new direct debit for another  loan was set up 
on 29 August 2017, with a repayment  of £477.74.  Therefore, I think the account activity 
shows a significant  amount  of discretionary spending, that wasnt supported  by Mr As 
regular, salaried income.
I consider that if Capital  One had looked  at the bank statements, which  I think  would have  
been proportionate as I explained, it would not have offered the two credit  increases. This is 
because the account activity would  suggest that Mr A was likely entering an unsustainable 
cycle of debt, which  further borrowing would exacerbate.  This means  I agree it was 
irresponsible of Capital  One to offer the increases. I accept that Mr A could  have turned 
down the offer of the increases. But that doesnt detract from my consideration that it was 
irresponsible that they were  offered  at all.
Accordingly, I am proposing that Capital  One refund all interest  and charges relating to the 
two credit limit increases of October  2016 and October 2017  - together with 8% simple 
interest a year,  in respect of each repayment Mr A has made,  which has been  allocated to 
interest and charges - from the date of each repayment to the date of the settlement. It may 
do this directly to the credit card account, to help reduce the outstanding balance.  This is 
because I am currently satisfied the increases  shouldnt have been granted. However, its 
reasonable of Capital  One to require the principal sums to be repaid, given that Mr A has 
had the benefit of them. It also follows that any negative information  on Mr As credit file, that 
wouldnt have appeared had it not been for the increases, should be removed.  However, its 
reasonable to continue  to show the total sum outstanding,  as this does remain  outstanding 
and would be a true reflection of the account.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr A says that he is satisfied with the decision.  He wanted to know if he would have to pay 
interest on all further payments or just the principle?
Capital One has disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary it said that it carried  out 
proportionate checks in view of the information  it had. It says that there  was no indication  of 
financial difficulty looking at the payment  history. It has also said that Mr A queried  the 
validity of the transactions. It also says that the credit limit increases were optional, and Mr A 
did not have to accept them.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in the light of Capital Ones response to it.
Capital One have said that the checks they carried out were proportionate  because the 
credit increases were  small, and Mr A was making  his minimum payments. I have said that 
Mr A typically made his minimum payments but not always.  And that should have alerted 
Capital One of the need to get more information.  
Capital One has said that the credit advanced  was low and the monthly repayments 
relatively low. I disagree, Mr A had the card for ten years when the first credit increase was 
given and as I have said the first increase was to three times the original  limit, and the 
second to five times the original limit. I dont consider this to be a low credit  limit for Mr A 
especially in relation to Mr As income  which had basically remained the same for those 10 
years or in relation to the original credit limit. I think the increases were  significant enough 
Ref: DRN58946034that the payment record would have been a cause of concern and I still think Capital One 
should have looked at it further. Had they done so, as I have said they would have realised 
that Mr As regular income is small compared  to the amounts going through the account, 
mainly for gambling transactions which by their nature are not a secure form of income.
Capital One have raised that Mr A has queried  some transactions  made through his card to 
some gambling websites, he said that these transactions were not made  by him. After 
investigation Capital  One said that these transactions were made by Mr A. It has suggested  
that this is contradictory.  I dont see anything contradictory in Mr A querying the transactions  
as well as saying that the increases were  irresponsible because  he was in financial difficulty.
Capital One have also pointed out that the increases  were voluntary, and Mr A could have 
declined them. Although I agree they were  voluntary, the nature of being in financial difficulty  
is that it would be unlikely that a person in that position would decline credit offered. So, 
although I think what Capital One are saying  is a counsel of perfection it isnt realistic.  
Mr A has questioned if he would have to pay interest  on all further payments or just the 
principle. To clarify the position, I am satisfied that Mr A should pay the principle sum given 
that he has had the benefit  of that money.  He shouldnt be charged interest on the credit 
increase amounts that were  given to him in October  2016 and 2017 as he shouldnt have 
been given these increases
For all these reasons and the reasons  outlined  in my provisional  findings I am not persuaded 
to change my mind.
Ref: DRN58946035my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I uphold the complaint  in part against Capital One (Europe) 
plc.
I direct  Capital  One (Europe) plc to refund all interest and charges relating  to the two credit 
limit increases of October 2016 and October 2017. It should add 8% simple interest a year,  
in respect of each repayment which has been allocated to interest  and charges, from the 
date of each repayment to the date of the settlement*. It may do this directly to the credit  
card account.
I am also directing  it to remove  any adverse information  from Mr As credit  file that directly 
relates to the two credit limit increases of October  2016 and October  2017.
*If Capital  One (Europe)  plc considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs (HMRC) 
to withhold income  tax from those parts of the award  constituting  the 8% interest, it should 
tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should  also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Mr A should  refer back to Capital One (Europe) plc if hes unsure of the approach it has 
taken, and both parties  should contact HMRC if they want to know more  about the tax 
treatment of this portion  of the award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5894603