K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited wrongly settled  a claim against his 
motor insurance policy  and did so without telling  him.
 
background
Admiral told Mr J in April 2017  that another driver had said Mr Js car was involved in an 
accident in October  2016. The other  driver claimed  Mr Js car had collided with the rear of 
his taxi. Mr J said he knew nothing about  it and queried why the accident had only been  
reported six months later. Admiral asked whether  anyone else could have been driving. Mr J 
said no-one had told him theyd had an accident and there  was no damage  to his car.
Mr J heard nothing more until he contacted Admiral in 2019 about another  matter. Its advisor 
said it couldnt assist  him due to the claim recorded  against him. Mr J then found that 
Admiral had paid around  £10,000 on the other drivers claim. Admiral  accepted  that the 
claims handler could have been  more proactive and that its communication with Mr J was 
lacking. It offered him £100 compensation for that. It said it had no option but to settle  the 
claim as there was no evidence that it was fraudulent.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Js claim.  He noted that the other driver had provided 
Mr Js name,  address and insurance  details and had threatened to take legal action. He 
thought it was reasonable for Admiral to settle  the claim in those circumstances.  He thought  
the compensation it had offered Mr J for poor service was acceptable. 
Mr J said his complaint was about Admiral having settled the claim against  him with no 
evidence other than the other drivers word. He said if legal action had continued, Admiral  
would have had to carry out a thorough investigation,  but that would have been costly - 
hence its decision to settle the claim.  
Mr J asked for a review of his complaint by an ombudsman,  so it was passed  to me.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Admiral  should have done  more,  but I think its unlikely that had it done  so it would 
have made  a difference. One example of that is that it didnt ask the other driver to describe 
the driver  of Mr Js car. Admiral says it always asks for a description, and if so, it made  an 
error in this case.  But Mr J isnt able to say where  he was on the day of the accident,  or 
where the car was, and it seems  other  people drove it. So had the other driver been asked, 
and wasnt able to describe Mr J, it wouldnt have been meant  his car wasnt there.
Mr J cant understand how the other driver was able to get hold of his personal details. But 
as he did, I think it was reasonable for Admiral to say that was a strong factor  in placing 
Mr Js car  plus a driver who could supply Mr Js details - at the scene.  
Had it been possible to check  Mr Js car and determine that there was no damage, that may 
have assisted Admiral  in defending the claim. It offered to send an independent engineer to 
examine the car, but unfortunately  Mr J had sold it in 2016. Im not sure what  else Admiral  
could have done to investigate the claim.
Ref: DRN58144672The other drivers solicitors issued  proceedings, and according to the claims file, a date was 
set for a hearing  in 2018. I dont  think it was unreasonable for Admiral  to decide there was 
no reasonable prospect of success in defending the claim. It may well also have taken into 
account the cost of those proceedings. But I think its reasonable to make a commercial 
decision to settle  on the best possible terms in circumstances like these.
Mr J says his premiums  have risen as a result of the fault claim recorded against him. That 
may well be the case, but it seems he also has a cancellation on his record  from 2016.  I 
think thats likely to have  made a difference to his premiums, too. 
Although there was less evidence about  the claim than is usual in this case, there  was 
enough to take proceedings in court.  I think the way Admiral dealt with it was reasonable, 
including its offer of compensation.  So although  I understand  why Mr J is unhappy,  and I 
sympathise with the position hes found himself in, I cant uphold  his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5814467