K821x#15complaint
Miss K says CashEuroNet  UK LLC, trading as PoundstoPocket, lent to her irresponsibly.
background
PoundstoPocket approved three  loans  for Miss K. Ive summarised some of the information  it 
provided about the loans  below. The repayments were due twice monthly.
Loan  no. Amount Date approved Scheduled end Actual end Payments due
1 £250 02/07/2015 17/06/2016 17/06/2016 25 x £18.46
2 £200 08/07/2016 07/07/2017 07/07/201725 x £14.45
1 x £13.92
3 £200 03/11/2017 02/11/2018 not repaid25 x £14.45
1 x £13.99
An adjudicator considered  the complaint and recommended it be upheld in respect of the 
third loan. PoundstoPocket  disagreed  with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to 
me to decide. Since the adjudication, theres been  no ongoing dispute about loans 1 and 2. 
So my decision is only about loan 3. I may refer to loans 1 and 2  but only to provide 
context about  the lending  history.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Miss Ks case.
Our adjudicator, having looked  at everything, found  that PoundstoPocket didnt carry out 
proportionate checks for Miss Ks third loan. And, had it done so, the lender would likely 
have understood  that these loans were  not sustainably affordable  for her because of the 
level of her existing financial commitments. These  findings were set out in some  detail in a 
view letter to the lender.
PoundstoPocket didnt comment on our adjudicators  findings  about the proportionality  of its 
checks or the affordability of the loans,  nor did it provide any new information for me to 
consider. It responded to our adjudication saying:
In response  to [the Financial Ombudsman  Service] FOS assessment which recommends 
CashEuroNet UK uphold loans which were funded after March 2015,  we regret to inform you 
that we cannot  agree  to FOS recommendations. Please note that in CashEuroNet  UKs 
initial response to FOS we provided  detailed information indicating  why the loans were 
responsibly lent to [Miss  K1]. Thank you for giving us the opportunity  to provide more 
information regarding  this case. I have  now attached  the entire  lending  process  including all 
the checks that we perform prior to lending, the screenshots of customer  applications  as well 
as the sample  acknowledgement  from the contract  that customers have to check when their 
repayment amount  is greater than their estimated disposable income. We kindly ask that you 
move this case for ombudsman queue  for a final decision.
1 In fact, PoundstoPocket  used the wrong name in its email
Ref: DRN54245832PoundstoPocket first mentioned this argument  in its business submissions to us and again in 
response to our adjudicators view. In response  to its initial  submission to us, our adjudicator 
said:
I note what  youve said about the loans [Miss K] borrowed  from 2015 onward. However our 
job is to look not only into the rules  and regulations set by the regulator at the time of 
borrowing but also the law, good  industry  practice and all the available  evidence  and 
arguments to help us decide whether we think what the business  has done is right or not.
I fully agree with this point. This Service  has responded  to PoundstoPocket  on this generic 
argument directly and through earlier final decisions.  So I am not going to expand  on this 
point any further  here,  though I have considered it alongside everything else in making my 
decision. 
I would remind PoundstoPocket at this point of the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA)  
guidance in how complaints are to be dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis)  by 
businesses. In particular  DISP 1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses procedures  for 
complaint handling should 
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
My decision  will focus on the specifics of Miss Ks complaint and what  both parties have  said 
about this.
The FCA was the regulator at the time Miss K borrowed the loans in question. Bearing in 
mind the rules and guidance set out in its Principles for Business (PRIN) and its 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), I would expect a lenders affordability assessment to 
vary with circumstance. (I am not quoting the specific regulations  here because, as before, 
I would expect PoundstoPocket  to be conversant with these through  previous ombudsman  
decisions, particularly  recent decisions, which set these out in detail.) 
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance by carrying out more  detailed checks:
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income;  or
-the longer  the lending relationship.
Ref: DRN54245833With this in mind, Ive considered the information PoundstoPocket obtained  before approving 
loan 3.
Ive seen that Miss K declared that her net monthly  income was £875 (as she did throughout 
the history of lending). The sources of her income  and the name of her employer were  both 
listed as benefits  and her job as na  which I take to mean  not applicable. So it seems 
reasonably clear that Miss K told PoundstoPocket she was not working and was dependent  
on benefits as her only source  of income.
She also declared total monthly living expenses of £325  comprised of monthly housing 
costs of £100, utility  bills of £75, transport  costs of £50, £75 for food, £25 for miscellaneous 
other expenses  and zero for other credit commitments. 
Pounds2Pocket also carried out credit  checks  although it hasnt provided the results of 
these. It has instead  provided what it calls an estimated disposable income figure,  or EDI.  
This figure typically represents  more than a simple  deduction of declared expenditure from 
declared income  it usually takes into account  information from external sources such  as 
credit reference agencies. Pounds2Pocket hasnt shared  with this service  how exactly  it 
arrived at the EDI figure in Miss Ks case.  But a simple deduction of her declared  
expenditure from her income would leave £550. The EDI figure Pounds2Pocket  provided is 
£461.50. So Pounds2Pocket has made an additional adjustment of £88.50.
As Pounds2Pocket hasnt shared any credit reference agency data for Miss K with this 
service, or otherwise explained  why it made this particular adjustment  for Miss K, its not 
possible for me to say whether  or not what it did to arrive at the EDI figure was 
proportionate.
But in any event, I think Pounds2Pocket  ought  to have gone further than simply asking 
Miss K about her income and expenditure. By the time she took out her third loan, Miss K 
had been borrowing from Pounds2Pocket  without any substantial  break  for about  two years. 
And shed  experienced repayment problems with both of her previous loans. Pounds2Pocket 
also knew she was on a relatively low, fixed income and not in work. With this in mind, I think  
it wouldve  been proportionate for Pounds2Pocket, in addition to what  it actually did, to ask 
her for some  proof of income  and expenditure (e.g. bank statements) to help properly verify 
her financial  situation.
Our adjudicator set out in detail what Pounds2Pocket would likely have seen, had it carried 
out proportionate checks. Ive independently  reviewed  these  figures and am in agreement 
with them.  Miss Ks average monthly income  was in the region of £740,  with her regular 
expenditure for living costs (rent, council tax, utilities etc.) around  £495. And she paid regular 
creditors around £200 a month, including payments towards three credit cards, catalogue 
shopping accounts and debt collection/management plans. She also had a doorstep loan to 
pay, paid weekly  at around £100 a week. 
So I think proportionate checks  would likely  have  shown  Pounds2Pocket that Miss Ks 
existing commitments  were close to or above her regular income. And even  if I were  to say 
Pounds2Pocket couldve accepted Miss Ks income was closer  to £875 as she declared 
(making an allowance for the timing  of fortnightly and weekly  benefits payments), I still dont 
think the third loan wouldve appeared to be sustainably affordable,  as this would leave little 
to no allowance  for even a small variation  in her monthly living costs.
Ref: DRN54245834For the reasons  given  above, I dont think Pounds2Pocket carried out proportionate checks 
before lending to Miss K. And had it carried out proportionate checks, I think it wouldve seen 
that loan 3 wasnt affordable for her. Im therefore upholding Miss Ks complaint about loan 
3.
what Pounds2Pocket needs to do to put things right
I understand there is still an outstanding  balance  on loan 3. But Pounds2Pocket  has 
provided information showing Miss K has already paid more than the £200 principal. So the 
loan should be treated  as if it were settled and Pounds2Pocket must:
refund  any payments  Miss K made  above  the principal amount of £200
add to the above interest at 8% simple per year, from when the payments  were made 
until the date of settlement
remove any adverse information  about  loan 3 from Miss Ks credit history
HM Revenue & Customs requires  Pounds2Pocket  to take off tax from this interest. Pounds2Pocket 
must give Miss K a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  CashEuroNet  UK LLC must put things right by taking the steps set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5424583