K821x#15complaint
Mr B says PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 4 short term loans Mr Lender provided to Mr B between October 
2014 and April 2015. Details of the 4 loans are as follows:
Loan Date  started Date repaid Instalments Amount Highest repayment
1 13/10/2014 17/10/2014 1 80 86.00
2 18/10/2014 16/01/2015 1 115 149.50
3 23/01/2015 17/04/2015 1 100 120.80
4 17/04/2015 18/12/2015 3 400 235.73
Mr B deferred repayment of loan 2 twice and twice more for loan 3.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Bs complaint in part and thought loan 4 shouldnt have been 
given. Mr Lender didnt  agree.  So the complaint was passed  to me, an ombudsman, to make 
a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  
to meet a higher  repayment from a particular level of income);  
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing  may signal that the borrowing  had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN54503082I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because The Office of Fair Trading  and then latterly the FCAs the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  defines  sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator that there was nothing to indicate  Mr Lender needed to do more  
when it approved loans 1- 3. This was early on in the lending  relationship  between  the two 
parties. The repayments for the 3 loans  also would have seemed affordable based on what 
Mr B had told Mr Lender. So I dont  think at this stage Mr Lender  was wrong to give these 
loans to Mr B. 
However as our adjudicator explained, by loan four the pattern of Mr Bs borrowing showed 
that he was showing  signs that he was struggling to repay. I say this because:  
Mr B deferred repayment  of loan 2 on two occasions  and repaid this loan almost 
two months after his scheduled  repayment  date. He then went  on to do the 
same thing  again for loan 3, repaying  this loan in April 2015 when he was 
scheduled to repay  in February 2015.
Loan four was for £400. This amount  was around four times  as much as the 
previous loans Mr B took out with Mr Lender.  The amount  he was asking to borrow  
had increased  over 6 months between loan 1 and when Mr B asked for loan 4.
When he requested loan 4 Mr B asked for this loan to be over a longer time 
than his previous loans, taking it out over 3 months  rather than 1 increasing the 
time that he would be making repayments  to Mr Lender.
Mr B was borrowing again shortly  after he repaid a loan. He asked for loan 4, on 
the same day that he had repaid  loan 3. This shows me that at this point, he 
was most  likely  unable  to repay his previous loan without  taking out a new one 
and was borrowing again to fill a gap in his finances.  
I think when I consider all of these points together, it shows that there was a significant risk 
that Mr B would be unable  to meet  his repayments for loan four because he was showing 
signs that he was struggling to repay  in a sustainable way. So I think  Mr Lender was wrong  
to approve loan four. 
It follows that I dont think Mr Lender  should  have given  loan 4. So at this point, Mr Lender 
should put things right. 
Ref: DRN54503083putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund all interest  and charges Mr B paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative  information about  loan 4 from Mr Bs credit  file
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest.  Mr Lender must  give 
Mr B a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Bs complaint. PDL Finance Limited  
(trading as Mr Lender) should pay Mr B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020. 
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5450308