K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy with how Aviva Insurance Limited has handled a claim against him by a 
third party under his motor insurance policy.
Mr P is represented by his father Mr G.
background
Mr P called Aviva to ask it to deal with a third partys claim against  him. He said he was 
going to pay for the repairs himself, but the cost had turned out to be too high. He explained 
hed reversed his car into the third partys car, which was stationary behind  him. He said his 
car had sustained minimal  damage and the third partys car sustained  damage to the 
bumper.
Aviva contacted the third party to offer its services to have his car repaired. It was happy  the 
damage was consistent with the circumstances Mr P had reported. And it arranged  for one 
of its approved repairers to repair the car and a hire car for the third party while his car was 
in for repair.
Soon after this Mr G called on behalf  of Mr P and said his son didnt necessarily  hit the other  
car. And he didnt think Aviva should  pay for the repairs,  as he didnt think his son had 
caused the damage. During one of the calls Mr P came on the phone and again said hed hit 
the third partys car. But  in any event - Aviva arranged for one of its engineers to inspect 
Mr Ps car. He found evidence that he felt suggested  Mr P had hit the third partys car. Aviva 
went ahead  and paid for the third partys car to be repaired and covered the cost of the hire 
car. And it told Mr G it wasnt upholding Mr Ps complaint about  the way it had handled  the 
claim. 
Mr G wasnt happy with Avivas response  and complained to us. Our investigator looked at 
the complaint  and decided that Aviva  had acted reasonably.
Mr G disagrees  with our investigator. Hes said Aviva didnt properly look at all the evidence 
it had available  before  making a decision the third partys claim. Hes suggested the third 
partys car hit Mr Ps car, as opposed to Mr P reversing into it. And hes mentioned  the fact 
that we should listen to all his calls to Aviva  about the claim. And hes asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
I appreciate Mr G feels very strongly  that Aviva  shouldnt have settled the third partys claim. 
But, under the terms of Mr Ps policy, it does have the right to settle claims against him if it 
thinks this is the right thing to do. It should only do this after a proper investigation and if its 
reasonable in the circumstances. And I think Avivas decision was reasonable.
Ive listened to two phone conversations  between Mr P, Mr G and Aviva. In the first one, 
when he first asked Aviva  to get involved, Mr P clearly said he reversed into the third partys  
car and admitted he was responsible for the damage. In the second phone  call, Mr G was 
Ref: DRN58842592adamant that Mr P had not reversed into the third partys car. But Mr P then came on the 
phone and once  again admitted he did reverse into the third partys car. Mr G then provided 
photographs of Mr Ps car, which he felt supported his argument. But I dont think  they do. I 
understand Mr Gs argument, but in my opinion  they support what  Avivas engineer  has said 
and suggest Mr P did reverse into the third partys car. This is because  the wheel on Mr Ps 
car has what looks like plastic from the third partys bumper wedged in it. And there are 
some marks  on Mr Ps car, which I think also suggest Mr P hit it, as opposed to the third 
party hitting Mr Ps car. And I think this and what Mr P said all shows Avivas  decision to 
settle the third partys  claim was reasonable.
Mr G has also said in response to the investigators assessment that he spoke to other  
people at Aviva and we should also listen to these calls. But Ive seen the notes of all the 
calls he made. And, having  seen  these and listened  to the two calls Ive mentioned above, I 
dont think I need  to listen to any more. Im satisfied from what  Ive seen and heard that 
Avivas decision to settle the third partys claim was reasonable. 
In summary,  Aviva  has the right under Mr Ps policy to settle claims against him as it thinks  
appropriate. And provided its decision  was reasonable theres no reason for me to interfere 
when its done  this. And  as Ive already explained, I think  its decision on the claim Mr P 
asked it to deal with was reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5884259