K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that an adviser,  an appointed  representative of Quilter  Mortgage Planning 
Limited, failed to transfer his ISA from one platform provider to another  on a like for like 
basis  as instructed.   
background
In April 2013, Mr S received a letter from his ISA provider notifying him that it planned to 
increase ISA management fees by 2%. 
Mr S says that although he was happy with the performance of his investment, he wasnt  
keen on paying  the additional fees, so in March 2013 his wife, Mrs S, contacted  the adviser 
to find out how he should proceed. 
Although several  emails  followed  chasing the adviser for an answer, in September  2013 
Mr S accepted the advisers recommendation to transfer to a third party provider.  The 
process took around five months.  
But following  the successful transfer of his ISA, Mr S says the direct debit payments werent 
set up. He only found this out in December 2018, and hes unhappy because he feels like 
hes been deprived of the additional tax benefits  as well as the potential  for higher growth on 
his new ISA. 
The business hasnt  upheld the complaint. In summary,  it says:
Theres no evidence that Mr S was advised to transfer the ISA. 
Theres no evidence either in the form of a suitability report  or evidence of a new 
signed service agreement by Mr S to allow for ongoing advice.
The adviser hasnt  received  any fees for the transfer. 
It accepts  that it provided Mr S with administrative support by requesting the ISA 
transfer pack.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
She was satisfied that the adviser did provide  Mr S with advice in relation to the ISA 
transfer. She doesnt agree that the adviser acted in an unofficial capacity. 
On 16 September  2013, the adviser responded to Mrs S in the following terms:
oAt present I am switching a lot of my clients to (the third party  ISA platform  
provider) as it is a very easy  platform to use for you to see the value of your 
investments etc. I would  recommend  that we switch your ISA on to this and 
then look at what fund(s) best suite your current attitude to risk, OK?...
This suggested that Mr S was advised. The transfer request form was also 
completed by Mr S to show  that the representative was his adviser. 
The fact the business cant find (or hasnt produced) the relevant regulatory 
paperwork doesnt mean Mr S wasnt advised.  It wouldnt be fair or reasonable  to 
expect him to know about the regulatory requirements.
Mr S said that although the transferred ISA had increased in value by approximately  
£5,500 by November 2018, he didnt benefit from additional growth  because  the 
direct debit  payment  wasnt set up to pay the additional £250 a month  as hed 
intended. 
Ref: DRN53637702Mr S calculates that he couldve invested  another £13,750 by direct  debit.  But whilst 
this is possible,  it doesnt mean the complaint should be upheld.  
The application pack sent to Mr S suggests that he completed the application himself 
and then forwarded it on to the adviser  for onward  transmission.
The pack  is likely to have included instructions for a regular payment instruction 
when it was sent to Mr S (certainly there  was no suggestion that it was missing) but 
for whatever  reason  it wasnt filled out and returned.  For this the business  cant be 
held responsible.
The business also says that Mr S wouldve  received  half yearly statements from the 
third party  platform provider. Mr Ss bank account wouldve also shown him that 
direct debit  payments  werent being  taken  out. But no action was taken on his part.
The fact that Mr S had a direct debit payment made to his old ISA doesnt  
automatically mean that he intended to pay the same into the new one. 
In the circumstances it would be wrong for her to conclude that it was the business 
fault. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view.  In summary, he said:
The adviser was the one who completed the application  form as evidenced from his 
handwriting, and placed the x indicating where  he should sign. 
If the adviser had indicated where  he should sign for the continuation of the direct 
debit payments he wouldve done so. Theres no other logical reason why he 
wouldnt have signed. It was the advisers job to deal with the paperwork. 
Whilst he agrees that the ISA statements shouldve alerted him to the fact that no 
additional payments were being  made into the ISA, he shouldnt  have to check  on the 
work of a financial adviser and thereby check to see the adviser  did what  he was 
meant to do. 
That said he sincerely wishes he had checked  to see that the money was being 
debited then hed never be in this position.  But why was the onus on him to check, 
surely the checking  for him should be optional.  At the least it should be a joint 
responsibility. 
The adviser has never disputed the fact that it shouldve been set up. He was 
surprised that it wasnt  set up. He didnt say that he wasnt asked to set it up. The 
adviser said:
o"However it just appears  that a regular payment was not set up which would 
account for why nothing has been debited".
The adviser wouldve  known about  the direct debit because  he help set up the first 
one  because  Mr S wanted  to put his daughters  through  university  it doesnt  make 
sense that hed stop paying now. 
Because the adviser said What I do not understand is why they (the third party  ISA 
platform provider) did not query things at this point  as the application implies the wish 
to have an ISA and pay into it either lump sums or a regular payment" it shows  that 
he was aware Mr S wanted  to make regular payments.
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt  persuaded to change her 
mind. Mr S feels  that no matter  what  he says,  theres always  another  reason why the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. He feels it isnt fair that the whole blame should be placed on 
him, just because he didnt check through the documents.  He feels the business should  be 
at least part responsible. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
Ref: DRN53637703my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to say that the business didnt just 
do what it was instructed to. In other  words  it hasnt acted unreasonably. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ss strength of feeling about  this matter. 
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider  the evidence presented by Mr S and the business,  and reach what I think 
is an independent,  fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. 
I note Mr S wanted to change his ISA platform provider because he was unhappy about 
paying increased fees - he was happy with how the investment was performing  not 
because he was advised  to change platform providers.  
I also note Mr S contacted  the adviser  with the help of his wife, before he got a 
recommendation several months later.  
So in this instance Im unable  to say that he was advised to change from his platform 
provider to another provider  Im satisfied  that decision was his. 
The adviser recommended a platform  provider  that he thought would  be suitable for Mr S 
and helped with the application process. In this instance, whether or not that amounted  to 
advice, I dont think the adviser  was under an obligation  to do anymore, given his initial  
instructions to find an alternative  platform.   
I note Mr S is happy with how the third party platform provider is performing, and he doesnt  
have to pay as much in management fees,   so it looks like he got a like for like transfer and 
therefore fulfilled  his instructions. The situation  wouldve  been  different if Mr S was 
recommended a new platform and the value of his investment  went down but thats not the 
case here. 
Ref: DRN53637704Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Mr S wanted to transfer and specifically continue to 
contribute £250 to the new ISA. Whilst this was probably his intention, Im unable  to say this 
was communicated  to the adviser  at the time.  
The fact that Mr S already had a direct  debit mandate set up against  his ISA doesnt  
automatically mean he intended the same again,  and I dont think the adviser  was wrong  not 
to assume this from his instructions just to find another  platform.  
In my opinion the whole point of sending the documentation for checking is to make sure the 
application was in the terms  that Mr S was happy  with. Despite what  he now says,  the 
signing of a document isnt and never has been just a rubber stamping exercise.  
I appreciate it can be for a many consumers, but signing an application  form  regardless of 
who filled it out  means  the applicant is satisfied with it. Thats why its always 
recommended that consumers check  the documents before they put their name against it.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to ask the business to pay Mr S any 
compensation as I dont  think  its responsible  for the regular direct debit not being set up.
Even if the business  shouldve done  more to clarify  the situation with Mr S  which  on 
balance I dont think it shouldve  the investment statements  ought  reasonably  to have 
alerted Mr S early on that monthly contribution  wasnt being  made.  
I also dont think £250 was an insubstantial amount of money, such that Mr S wouldnt have 
noticed it building up in his bank account, from his bank statements.
I appreciate Mr S says the adviser was just as surprised as him to discover that the direct  
debit wasnt set up, but I dont think that means the adviser takes  responsibility for it. 
But if the business chooses to pay Mr S some compensation, thats a matter for the 
business. Im unable to say that its obliged to. 
I appreciate Mr S says theres no reason why he wouldnt have signed in the correct  place if 
he was asked to by the adviser,  but  the adviser wasnt wrong  not to point this out in this 
case. 
The situation  mightve been different if Mr S had said he wanted to transfer to another 
platform provider, and specifically asked the adviser  to find one and set up a direct  debit 
payment, which  the adviser failed to do. Unfortunately for Mr S thats  not the situation here. 
In conclusion, Im not satisfied that the adviser  was specifically instructed to set up the direct 
debit instructions. Although I appreciate that was more  likely (than  not) Mr Ss intention at 
the time,  it wasnt communicated over to the adviser. Im unable to say it was wrong of the 
adviser not to have  assumed this to be the case.  
I appreciate Mr S will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same  conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate  his 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business  to do anything.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what  
he wants.
Ref: DRN53637705my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5363770