K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a legal expenses  
insurance policy as it contained a significant  exclusion which  they felt was unfair.  They want  
the claim dealt with under the policy.
background
Mr and Mrs S had a legal expenses insurance additional policy  with an insurer, taken out 
with their home insurance policy through Nationwide in 2008  (and then renewed).  They  
wanted to take legal action against  a builder, who Mr and Mrs S felt had been incompetent in 
dealing with the building of a porch  on their property many years  later.  They contacted the 
insurer, who said that the claim was excluded from the policy  as the porch was a new 
structure and the total amount of the building  works  exceeded £5,000.  Mr and Mrs S were 
having a significant amount of work done, apart from the new porch,  but all work  was under 
one contract with the builder.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Nationwide,  saying that the policy was mis-sold and it was 
unreasonable for the £5,000 limit not to have been increased over time when the premiums  
had increased. Nationwide referred  Mr and Mrs S to the insurer.
Mr and Mrs S complained to us. The investigators  view was that the complaint  shouldnt be 
upheld. He said that the policy terms and conditions, including  the exclusion, were clear  and 
fair. The investigator didnt think that the exclusion was so significant or unusual that it had to 
be highlighted and pointed  out the limitations of legal expenses  insurance added on to 
another policy at a relatively low additional  price.  He commented that the legal expenses 
insurance premiums didnt increase over time (unlike the related home  insurance  policy) and 
that the policy had been renewed and in place for about eight years.  The investigator said 
Mr and Mrs S had plenty of time to review the policy and cancel or fail to renew if it no longer 
met their needs.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed, but didnt give reasons why.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can only deal with the complaint against 
Nationwide and its actions  in this decision, not that of the insurer  which is a separate  matter. 
This means  I cant  direct that the insurer accepts the claim or that the amount of cover  
should be increased in line with the premium as these  are issues in relation to the actual 
policy; I can only look at the mis-selling issue. 
Mr and Mrs S say that Nationwide mis-sold them the policy when it was taken out because 
the exclusion wasnt brought to their attention in 2008. I disagree. First, theres  no evidence 
that Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs S any advice about the policy; it appears  to be a non-
advised sale from the evidence available to me. That means it was Mr and Mrs S choice to 
take the policy out, as opposed to following  a specific financial recommendation from 
Nationwide. .
Ref: DRN59014642But even though it was Mr and Mrs S choice  to take out the policy, it couldve potentially 
been mis-sold if Nationwide didnt provide  appropriate information about the policy. The 
limitation complained  about is not a significant or unusual  limitation.  A significant  limitation  is 
one that tends to affect the decision of a customer to buy the policy.  Such  significant  or 
unusual limitations  have to be specifically highlighted at the time of sale;  the policy  does 
clearly set out the limit. I dont think Nationwide has done anything wrong in not highlighting 
the limit as it wasnt unusual and I dont think its likely that Mr and Mrs S wouldve acted 
differently if the limit had been highlighted. Theres no evidence that this particular problem 
was in their minds in 2008; it wasnt until several years later that they instructed the builders. 
And theres  no evidence  that Nationwide wouldve known this issue would become important 
to Mr and Mrs S in the future.
After 2008, Mr and Mrs S renewed the policy The limitation of which they complain didnt 
change. They had an opportunity to review the policy each year, and chose to continue,  
even when they were  unhappy about the related home insurance  premiums being charged.  
It was for Mr and Mrs S to decide  if there had been  any changes in their circumstances that 
meant the policy was no longer suitable for their needs.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision 
before 13 January 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5901464