K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) gave him 
loans that he couldnt afford to repay. He asks that the outstanding  balance is written off. He 
also asks that Satsuma removes a default  recorded in his credit file.
background
Mr R took out three loans  with Satsuma between May and September  2017. He says his 
credit file showed his bad debts and multiple  loans.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. She said Satsuma 
shouldnt have offered loans  2 and 3, which were each  taken out before the previous loan 
was repaid and for larger amounts. The adjudicator  said proportionate checks would have 
shown Mr R had difficulty managing his money,  borrowed  from other  short term lenders and 
spent a significant proportion of his income  on gambling. She said Satsuma should  have 
realised it was unlikely  Mr R could  repay  loans 2 and 3 sustainably.
I didnt agree with all of the adjudicators recommendations, so I sent a provisional decision 
to the parties  to explain why. In it, I set out my provisional findings  which  were  substantially 
the same  as the findings below. In summary, I said that Satsuma shouldnt have offered 
loan 3. But when  it offered  loans  1 and 2 it had no reason to think  they werent affordable. 
Satsuma didnt respond to my provisional  decision.  Mr R said he didnt agree. He said 
Satsuma shouldnt have  offered loan 2 when loan 1 was still outstanding, as he had no 
acceptable repayment history. And Satsuma  should  have known from the increased amount 
borrowed and his credit  score that further  lending was irresponsible.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice  on our website. 
Mr R took out the following loans with Satsuma:
Loan No Date of Loan Amount of Loan No. and highest 
monthly repaymentDate repaid
1 14.05.2017 £100 3 x £49 02.09.2017
2 02.08.2017 £500 12 x £83 Outstanding
3 05.09.2017 £1,000 12 x £166 Outstanding
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Rs income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  suggest  that Satsuma should have done more  to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for a customer. Such factors include the customers  income  
Ref: DRN52230662particularly a lower  income   the amount of the loan repayments and the time over which  the 
loan is to be repaid,  and the number and frequency  of loans and the time over which the 
customer has been given  loans. Repeated borrowing can signal that the borrowing has 
become, or is becoming, unsustainable. There may even come  a point where the lending  
history and pattern  of lending itself demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I would also note here that Satsuma was required to establish  whether Mr R could 
sustainably repay  the loans   not just whether  the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.
Loan 1:
Mr R told Satsuma his monthly income was £2,500.  Satsuma increased his stated monthly 
expenditure to take account  of the results of its credit check and internal models. Given the 
amount of the repayments and that this was Mr Rs first loan from Satsuma, I think  these 
checks were proportionate. Based on the information it had, I dont think Satsuma had any 
reason to think Mr R would have difficulty meeting the repayments.
Loan 2:
When he applied for loan 2 Mr R said his monthly income was £2,500. Satsuma increased 
his stated expenditure (of £1,450) to about  £2,100 to reflect information from its credit  check 
and internal models. Based on the information  Satsuma had, I dont think  it had any reason 
to think the repayments  plus the remaining instalment for loan 1  wouldnt be affordable. I 
cant see anything in the results of Satsumas credit check that should have suggested the 
repayments werent sustainable. While Mr R says he had bad debts and multiple loans, 
theres no evidence  that Satsuma knew  about this.
Ive considered what Mr R said about loan 2 in response to my provisional decision. But Im 
not persuaded to change my findings.  While loan 1 hadnt been  repaid  two of the three 
instalments had been paid and one instalment was due the next month.  Based on the 
information Satsuma  had the repayments for loan 1 and 2 appeared affordable.  I dont think  
its reasonable to say a pattern of increased  borrowing could have emerged by this point.  
And Mr R hasnt provided evidence that Satsuma was aware he had problems with other 
debts.
Loan 3:
The information Satsuma  had about Mr Rs income and outgoings when Mr R applied  for 
loan 3 was similar to the information it used  for loan 2. This suggested the loan repayments 
were affordable. But I think there were factors here that should have alerted Satsuma to a 
possible problem and the need for more checks.
Mr R applied for loan 3 just a month  after taking out loan 2  which  had 11 months  of 
repayments remaining. This was the second loan hed taken out while the previous loan was 
outstanding. The amounts  he borrowed from Satsuma increased, from £100,  to £500 and 
then to £1,000.  And this was his third loan in less than four months. I think  all of this should 
have prompted  Satsuma to make  further  checks. 
Had Satsuma made  further checks,  I think it would have known that Mr R couldnt repay 
loan 3 sustainably.  Mr R provided his bank statements for August to November 2017.  These  
show loan repayments  totalling about £680  to five other short  term lenders  in early 
Ref: DRN52230663September 2017. Some of these were instalment loans. Mr R made payments of about £400 
to other  short term lenders in early October 2017.  Mr R also made payments to a debt 
recovery business in early August and September 2017. 
Im not saying here that Satsuma  had to review Mr Rs bank statements  there are various 
ways in which it can carry out checks.  But I think Mr Rs pattern of borrowing suggested he 
might be having problems managing his money.  I dont  think  it was reasonable for Satsuma  
to offer loan 3 without checking  Mr R could repay it sustainably. I havent seen evidence  that 
Satsuma made proportionate checks   which should  have included  asking for more 
information about his short term loan commitments. I think, if Satsuma  had carried  out 
proportionate checks, it would have  known that further borrowing wasnt  sustainable.
Mr R told Satsuma about his financial difficulties in October 2017 and a payment plan was 
agreed.
So Im upholding  Mr Rs complaint about  loan 3. Satsuma should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr R paid on loan 3;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  applied to loan 3, apply the refund  to reduce 
any capital outstanding on loan 3, or capital and interest outstanding on loan 2, and pay 
any balance to Mr R;
Remove any negative  information about loan 3 from Mr Rs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
If Satsuma intends  to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding capital balance,  it must do 
so after deducting  the tax.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Provident Personal Credit  Limited to take 
the steps and pay the compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5223066