K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt take his mental  health  into account when he 
was borrowing money. He complains that he got into financial difficulties and had to enter 
into an IVA as a result.
background
Mr H took out a loan from HSBC in 2012.
In 2016 Mr H contacted an organisation to help him with his debts.  That organisation 
contacted HSBC and Mr H subsequently  entered into an IVA.
In 2018 Mr H complained  to HSBC that hed told it several times  that he had mental  health  
issues and that it never  did anything about this. He complained  that this was what  caused  
him to enter into his IVA. He said he wanted his debt halved.
HSBC investigated  Mr Hs complaint but didnt uphold it. HSBC said Mr H hadnt  let it know 
that he had mental  health issues. HSBC also said that it had carried  out the proper checks 
when he applied to borrow  money.  Mr H complained to us.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Hs complaint. She didnt think HSBC  had acted  
unfairly as she thought  HSBC had carried out affordability checks  before  approving  and 
lending to Mr H. She also didnt think Mr H had told HSBC about  his mental health issues 
until he complained  in 2018.  Mr H wasnt happy  with this, saying that hed told HSBC  several 
times over the phone about his mental health  issues. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr H first took out a loan from HSBC in 2007. It looks like he had an overdraft 
and a credit  card too  in other words, other HSBC borrowing.  I say that because the loan 
that he took out in 2012 was to consolidate his debt.  Ive seen the affordability checks  HSBC 
did in 2012 and those show that Mr H was in full time employment and, more  importantly, 
that the loan was affordable.
On the evidence Ive seen, it looks like Mr H didnt tell HSBC  until 2018 that he had mental  
health issues. Thats despite the fact that he obviously started to get into financial difficulties 
in 2015 at the latest, and despite him contacting an organisation to help him with his debts in 
2016. Before that, hed applied unsuccessfully for further lending  HSBC  turned him down 
on the basis that further lending was unaffordable  and had also contacted HSBC about 
getting interest refunded because it had sent out statements  that didnt include all the 
information they should have done.
Mr Hs finances have  obviously been difficult for a number of years, and hes told us he has 
mental health issues so things  cant  have  been  easy for him. But since HSBC  didnt know 
about his mental  health issues until recently,  and given the checks  it had done,  I cant  say 
that HSBC has acted unfairly or that its because of HSBC that Mr H is in an IVA. I know  that 
this will be disappointing for Mr H to hear.  
Ref: DRN57868542my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5786854