K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains about a faulty television he bought with credit  provided by Shop Direct  
Finance Company Limited.
background 
Mr C had a catalogue  shopping account  with Shop Direct. In May 2014 he bought  a 
television for £599. Towards the end of 2018  it broke down. He complained to Shop Direct 
and asked for it to be replaced or repaired  at no cost to him, or alternatively to pay him £300.
Shop Direct said it would only be liable for a fault which  was present or developing when the 
TV was sold. It also said that the TV was only guaranteed  for one year.  Shop Direct 
suggested that Mr C could get an independent report  to identify the cause of the problem, 
and it offered to pay £45 towards the cost of the report and uphold his complaint if the report 
proved that there had indeed been a manufacturing fault. But Mr C did not agree to do that, 
because he said that the TV should last for six years. So he argued  that he should not need 
to get a report. He brought this complaint to our Service.  (He has also complained about 
various allegations of poor customer service: these matters are being dealt with separately.)
Shop Direct accepted that there  had been  a delay  in its initial handling  of this complaint, and 
it offered to pay Mr C £50 for that. But it did not agree that it was liable to the faulty TV.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. She thought there was no evidence that the 
TV had been faulty when  Mr C bought it. She had spoken to the manufacturer, who had told 
her that its TVs are only guaranteed  for one year, and that their lifespan will depend on how 
often a TV is used, and on other factors. So she would not infer that Mr Cs TV had been 
faulty all along  just because it had failed  after four and a half years.  She recommended  that 
Mr C get an independent report.
Mr C did not accept that opinion. He said that the adjudicator had based her opinion  on a 
Wikipedia article. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have not considered Wikipedia.
Shop Direct is only liable for the fault if the fault was present when it sold the TV to Mr C in 
2014. If a fault becomes apparent later than six months after the sale, then the onus is on 
the buyer to prove that the fault was present all along.
I can see from our case file that our adjudicator phoned the manufacturer,  and that the 
manufacturer told her that its TVs are guaranteed  for one year.  How long they last after that 
depends on how often  they are used  and what they are used for (e.g. whether in domestic or 
commercial premises). I note that in another phone call, Mr C told our adjudicator that the 
manufacturer had told him that its TVs are expected to last for five to six years. Four and a 
half years  is not so very far short of that estimate.  So taking all of these  matters  into account,  
I do not think there is enough evidence for me to conclude that the TV broke down because 
there was something  wrong with it all along.
Ref: DRN53660152Mr C has also complained  that when he asked Shop Direct  to send him a copy of his 
account terms and conditions on an audio CD (because of his dyslexia), Shop Direct 
refused. I will deal with that issue in my decision about Mr Cs other complaint, not here. But 
I have read the terms and conditions, and there is nothing  in them which  changes my mind  
about this complaint.
Finally, I think  £50 is fair compensation for Shop Directs delay in dealing  with this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. I leave  it to Mr C to decide whether he 
wishes to accept the £50 which Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited has offered him (in 
addition to the £50 it has paid him in his other  complaint).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5366015