K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains NRAM plc didnt do enough to notify him when his mortgage  fell into arrears 
during and after 2012. He thinks  NRAM shouldve sent him collection letters threatening 
repossession of his property and it didnt follow any collection procedures.
background
Mr M took out a mortgage for around £68,000  with NRAM around June 2006. It was set up 
over 30 years on a capital repayment basis. 
NRAMs given us a copy of Mr Ms arrears history. And this shows  arrears  on his account 
going back to 2010. Mr M has only complained about NRAMs actions from 2012 onwards. 
So Ive looked  at that only. 
NRAMs said around July 2011, it agreed  to change Mr Ms mortgage to interest only 
temporarily to help him get through financial difficulties he was experiencing and to prevent  
further arrears building up. This arrangement was meant to be in place for 12 months but 
NRAM agreed to extend it every  year until 2014  on the request of Mr M. 
The arrears  history shows Mr M missed or underpaid some of his agreed mortgage 
payments during and after 2012. NRAMs also given us copies of letters  and its internal 
records to show the contact it had with Mr M during  this time. 
Mr M says whilst NRAM sent him statements, he wasnt sent the correct  collection letters  
outlining that his home could be repossessed or specifically addressing the arrears. He 
thinks he shouldve been sent these letters within 14 days  of the arrears being applied  to his 
account. Mr M says if hed been sent the correct letters,  he wouldve been more  aware of 
how much  debt hed built up on his mortgage and he wouldve acted differently. 
NRAMs said it thinks Mr M was aware  his account was in arrears. And its outlined 
occasions when  Mr M got in touch to discuss his mortgage and update his contact details in 
2013 and 2014 to support  this. Its given us copies of letters  from between  March 2012 and 
June 2014 which were sent around every three months outlining his arrears  balance and 
asking him to get in touch  or just asking him to get in touch urgently about his mortgage. 
NRAMs said its satisfied it met its obligations  to contact  Mr M about his arrears.
Unhappy with NRAMs response,  Mr M contacted  our service. Our investigator didnt uphold  
his complaint as she thought NRAM did enough  to highlight the arrears to Mr M. As Mr M 
didnt agree with our investigators opinion, the case has been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld for broadly the same reasons  as the investigator, I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr M. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN57558182Ive looked carefully  over everything weve been  given,  including  everything Mr Ms told us. 
And Ive considered the relevant laws and regulations, including the Mortgages  Conduct of 
Business rules (MCOB). While  I have  taken relevant regulation  and legislation into account 
when reaching  my decision, I am not constrained by this. I am able to depart from regulation 
or legislation  to determine a complaint upon what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of a complaint. 
Ive looked at the mortgage statements and the contact  history between Mr M and NRAM. I 
can see from Mr Ms arrears history, he made irregular payments towards his mortgage  
during and after 2012 so that arrears  continued to build up on it. This continued until around 
2015 when he started  making regular larger payments to bring his arrears down.
NRAM has given us copies of letters it sent to Mr M. Ive also looked in detail at its contact 
notes that show  the contact it tried to make with Mr M during this period. And I can see 
NRAM attempted to get in touch with him by phone on a number of occasions  throughout 
2012, 2013 and 2014. The notes show these calls were made to discuss  Mr Ms financial 
situation (as hed missed  payments) and the arrangement itd agreed about  the interest only 
mortgage. But the notes also show NRAM wasnt able to get in touch with Mr M and often 
left voicemails for him to return  the calls. 
Mr M says hes unhappy as he doesnt  think  NRAM did enough to highlight  his arrears  to 
him. And I havent  seen enough in this case to make me think NRAM sent Mr M a letter 
every time he missed  payments to notify  him that he was in arrears. But NRAM has said its 
usual process is to try to contact customers by phone and in writing once their arrears reach 
a certain level  rather than writing  every time they miss a payment. 
NRAM sent Mr M a letter highlighting his arrears every two to three months  over the period. 
Some of these letters show the arrears balance, the types of charges that could be applied  
and included  a mini statement  showing  the opening  and closing arrears balances  for the 
year. Other letters show the total arrears balance, how to pay it and urged Mr M to get in 
touch to get help.  They  also said what would happen next if he does nothing.  There are also 
two letters  which were  sent in October  2013 and February 2014  asking Mr M to get in touch  
with NRAM urgently. Im also aware  of the calls, further attempted calls and voicemail 
messages left by NRAM on a regular basis.
Whilst I dont think  NRAM highlighted to Mr M every time he missed a payment, I dont think  
it would  be fair in this case to expect it to refund the interest applied to the arrears  on this 
basis. I say this because,  based on the contact NRAM did have with Mr M and considering 
that Mr M had been in financial  difficulties for some  time  and had a debt arrangement  
scheme in place - I think its more  likely  than not Mr M was aware of the payments hed 
missed and the outstanding arrears. And I think its more likely NRAM followed its own 
collection procedures.  
From what  Ive seen, I think NRAM took steps  to explore how it could  support Mr M when he 
was going through difficulties  including signposting  him to other organisations and debt 
schemes that might be able to help him. Had NRAM written to Mr M more  regularly or every 
time he missed a payment, I dont think its likely it wouldve made any difference to the 
actions he took  or how long it wouldve taken him to pay back the arrears.  
Ref: DRN57558183I appreciate Mr Ms said he was in a great  deal of debt at the time. And hes said generally, 
he prioritised paying the debtors who got in contact with him the most. But I think  NRAM did 
enough in this case to alert Mr M to his outstanding arrears  and its told me it applied  only 
one charge of £40 to his account between 2012 and November 2014. I think Mr M wouldve 
understood this was an important debt secured against Mr Ms home.  So taking everything 
together  including the contact NRAM made and the support it gave Mr M  I think  its more  
likely he wouldve understood  the importance  of treating this debt as a priority.  And I cant 
say NRAMs done  anything wrong in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2018.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5755818