K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) never received a 
£400 payment  she made from another bank account to her Tesco  Bank credit card account.
To settle matters shed  like the £400  refunded to her account.
background
I set out the background  to Mrs Ms complaint in my provisional decision. In that decision  
I also explained why I wasnt intending to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Below, Ill again 
summarise the background to Mrs Ms complaint and my provisional findings, so that all 
relevant information  is in this one decision.
Mrs M transferred £400 from an account  she held with another  financial business that Ill 
refer to as P, to her Tesco  Clubcard Credit  Card account. The payment left her account with 
P but it didnt  show as received on her credit card account.
Mrs M realised that she used wrong  payment  details  to make the £400 payment  she used 
the Giro payment details contained  on the bottom  of her credit card statement rather  than 
using the account details  for faster payments.
Mrs M made  numerous phone calls to Tesco Bank  and to P but theyve both been 
unable to locate the payment.
When Mrs M complained to Tesco  Bank it said it never received the £400 payment and that 
the incorrect account details Mrs M had used couldnt be used to receive faster payments. It 
suggested she should ask P for a faster  payment reference number so it could try and trace  
her payment. But it agreed that it should have raised  a complaint for her when she first 
contacted Tesco Bank so it credited  her account with £35 to reflect the poor service.
Mrs M later obtained a reference number from P but Tesco Bank said it couldnt use this to 
trace the payment  because  the reference number  provided wasnt  a faster  payment ID but 
an internal reference  used  by P.
Mrs M remained unhappy with Tesco Banks response so she referred her complaint to 
our service.
When our adjudicator looked  into Mrs Ms complaint  she thought it should be upheld. 
She noted that Mrs Ms account statement with P showed shed made a successful faster 
payment for the amount of £400  on 29 October  2018.
Tesco Banks customer notes show that when it discussed the missing  payment with 
her, she was told the payment would  have bounced  back to her account  with P. Mrs M 
confirmed this hadnt happened.
Our investigator also spoke to P to see if it could  help but it said was no longer 
possible to recall the payment because this could only be done in the first 24 hours 
and Mrs M had contacted  them after this time. She also noted  that P had searched  its 
holding accounts  to see if the payment could be located, but without  success.
Ref: DRN55825842Tesco Bank explained that the Giro account  details Mrs M used to send her payment 
couldnt be used  to accept  faster  payments. Our adjudicator thought  that as the payment 
hadnt bounced back to her account  with P, the payment  would remain  with Tesco Bank 
in a suspense  account.
Although Mrs M had made the payment to the incorrect account, our adjudicator thought 
Tesco Bank should have done  more to help. Our adjudicator  recommended that Tesco 
Bank should credit Mrs Ms credit card with £400 or return  the payment  back  to P.
Tesco Bank doesnt agree with the adjudicators  view and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. It says it provided proof  that the bank account details used by Mrs M cant  accept 
Faster Payments.  It also says its attempted to trace the payment using the details 
provided by Mrs M including date, time and amount. It thinks it acted reasonably. It also 
confirmed that its operational financial team are willing  to search  for the payment again  if 
Mrs M or P can provide a valid faster payment reference.
Tesco Bank doesnt think the payment could  have been credited to another  customers credit 
account details  account details because  Mrs M would have needed to use the correct  details 
for sending the faster payment and she would also have needed to include details of that 
customers credit card number too.
It thinks the £35 compensation already provided for poor service is fair and reasonable.
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M accepts that she used the incorrect account  details when she sent her payment from 
her account  with P to her Tesco Bank  credit  card account.
I realise Mrs M has contacted both P and Tesco Bank about  the problem but in this decision 
I can only look at whether  or not Tesco  Bank  treated her fairly  and I cant look at how shes  
been treated by P.
Im sympathetic to the position Mrs M now finds herself in and its unfortunate that she sent her 
payment to Tesco Bank using the wrong payment details but I cant fairly  say that this was due 
to any error  on Tesco Banks  part. This much I think Mrs M accepts but I also think  it took 
reasonable steps to try to locate the missing  funds. Ill explain  why Ive come  to this decision.
Ive looked at Mrs Ms credit card statements and in my opinion they clearly  explain how 
different types  of payment can be made  to her credit card account. The statement sets out 
the account details to which faster payments should  be made. Tesco  Bank has explained 
to us - and provided  evidence - that faster  payments cannot be sent to the sort code to 
which Mrs M sent her payment. So I think its more likely than not that the payment was 
never received by Tesco Bank.
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Ms credit account make it clear  that payments made will 
only take effect when they are received by Tesco Bank. As Mrs M accepts that she made 
the payment using  incorrect account  details Im unable  to say this was due to an error  on 
Tesco Banks part.
Ref: DRN55825843Tesco Bank has explained that in such circumstances the funds would normally  be returned  
to Mrs Ms account with P or to a suspense account. I realise that Mrs M has also asked P 
to check its accounts  but it hasnt  been able to find the missing  payment either.
I think Tesco Bank has undertaken  reasonable checks to try to locate the missing payment. It 
recommended that she should  ask P for a faster payment reference to allow it to perform a 
trace. Mrs M sent details of the reference she was given  by P but unfortunately Tesco Bank  
hasnt been able to use this to perform a trace because it told us that the reference number 
provided by P wasnt a faster payment reference.
I realise that Mrs M has asked P again if it can provide a faster payment reference but 
Im not aware that this has been  provided by P or by Mrs M. In the absence of a valid 
faster payment  reference  Tesco Bank isnt able to perform a trace.
Tesco Bank has also confirmed that its Operational Finance Team  has attempted to 
trace the payment  based  on details provided  by Mrs M of the amount, date and time sent 
but again without success.
Based on the information Ive seen Im satisfied that Tesco  Bank has undertaken reasonable 
checks to try to locate  Mrs Ms missing  payment and I think the £35 compensation paid to her 
is fair and reasonable compensation for its failure to log her complaint when she first 
contacted Tesco Bank.  It follows that Im not minded to uphold this complaint.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision. Mrs M responded  to say she doesnt entirely agree with the decision. She says that 
shes always maintained  that she used the incorrect giro details for the transfer but she 
made her payment to a bank account owned  by Tesco Bank. And P also claims the payment 
was sent to Tesco Bank so she doesnt think that £400 has simply gone missing.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the further submissions made by Mrs M but as Mrs M hasnt provided any 
new evidence for my consideration I see no reason to depart from the conclusions  I set out 
in my provisional decision.  It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that for the reasons given above  I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5582584