K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2002. Mrs K says Barclays  Bank  UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
The policy was sold in a meeting at a branch of Barclays at the same time as the credit  card 
was taken out.
Our adjudicator did not consider the policy had been  mis-sold.
Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators findings.  She has questioned whether the advice  to 
take out the policy was suitable  bearing  in mind that if she had changed employer and 
received improved sick pay, she does not consider she would have needed the policy. Mrs K 
has stated that it was for Barclays to make clear  to her how her employee sick pay 
entitlement would  have  affected her need for PPI, and that if she moved  employer she might 
not need the policy.
After she took out the policy, Mrs K says that she did move to a new employer where her 
sick pay was good. She considers this would  have enabled her to meet  her card 
repayments, along with financial support from her husband. Mrs K has also highlighted that 
she changed jobs a few times when she had the policy  but never had to claim on it. She 
states that if the details of the policy had been made clear, she would not have taken it out.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 My view is that Barclays made  it clear  that Mrs K didnt have to take out the PPI and 
she chose to take it out. I appreciate  that Mrs K has said it was not made clear  to her 
that the policy was optional.  Clearly  I cannot  know for certain what was discussed at the 
time that Mrs K took the policy out. However, I note that the credit  card application form 
that she signed included a section  about  PPI. The applicant could mark in a box if they 
wanted to take PPI out. On the form signed by Mrs K, the box requesting PPI was 
selected. On balance, I consider it more likely than not that Mrs K requested  that the PPI 
policy be taken out, knowing  that this was an optional product. 
 Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs K so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. I 
have carefully thought  about  Mrs Ks comments that not long after taking out PPI, she 
changed employers  and received an improved sick pay entitlement.  However, the 
Barclays adviser needed to consider Mrs Ks needs  at the time that she was taking out 
the credit  card.
Overall, it seems  to me that Mrs K did have a need for PPI cover. I should point out that 
if Mrs K had made  a successful claim under the policy, the benefit she would have 
Ref: DRN53932092received would have been in addition to any other payments she might have been  
entitled to from her employer. It also seems  that Mrs K wasnt  affected by any of the 
main exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover.  
 As Mrs K has highlighted, its possible the information Barclays gave her about  the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would  have  been  useful for her if she was 
unable to work due to unemployment or disability, based on her circumstances when she 
took the policy out. It also looks like it was affordable. Overall my view is that better 
information about the PPI would not have  put Mrs K off taking out the cover. 
I appreciate that Mrs K is likely  to be disappointed with my findings. However, my conclusion  
is that this policy was not mis-sold to Mrs K.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5393209