K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about poor service from HSBC UK Bank plc in connection with an 
overseas money  transfer.
background
Mrs S transferred some  money from the joint account she holds with Mr S to an overseas 
bank account.  The receiving bank made enquiries  about the transfer with HSBC  before 
releasing the money. HSBC sent the information but the receiving bank said it didnt  reach it. 
The transfer was reversed, but Mrs S hasnt received the money.
HSBC accepted that some of the information  it had given Mrs S when she tried to find out 
what had happened  wasnt as clear as it couldve been. It paid £100  in recognition of this. 
But HSBC  didnt consider it had done anything wrong in connection  with the transfer.
Our investigator thought the compensation  paid by HSBC was fair and reasonable. He didnt 
think the bank  needed to do anything  else. 
The investigator was satisfied that the receiving bank had carried out checks  on the 
payment, and that HSBC had replied to the enquiries that were made. He didnt consider the 
payment was cancelled because  of any fault on HSBCs part. The investigator was also 
satisfied that HSBC had done what it could to chase up the return  of the money  from the 
receiving bank.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree with the investigators  conclusions, so the complaint has been 
passed to me. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the investigator, Im satisfied that the money  was held by the overseas receiving bank 
while it carried out checks with HSBC. Im also satisfied that HSBC promptly  provided the 
information that the receiving bank had asked for.
When Mrs S tried to find out what  was going  on, HSBC  told her it had provided the 
information and that the money  would  be released by the receiving bank.
But the receiving  bank asked for the information again, and cancelled  the transfer before 
HSBC had chance to reply.
From what  Ive seen, Im not persuaded that HSBC  was responsible  for the receiving banks 
decision to cancel the transfer. And I dont consider HSBC is responsible  for the receiving 
banks delay in returning the money to Mr and Mrs Ss joint account. So it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to ask HSBC to reimburse  Mrs S for the costs  shes incurred in having  the 
money returned.
Im also satisfied that HSBC has done what it can to find out when the money will be 
returned to Mr and Mrs S.
Ref: DRN58747932I appreciate that it was difficult for Mrs S to find out what  was going on with the transfer,  and 
that she had to make a number of calls to the bank. So I can understand why she might  
consider the compensation HSBC  has paid isnt enough. But when I take account of awards  
by this service in complaints of a similar  nature, I think  £100 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5874793