K821x#15complaint
Mr Ps complaint arises  from the handling of several central heating insurance policies with 
British Gas Insurance Limited.
background
Mr P has five policies with British Gas covering  five different properties. He has held these 
policies for several  years. An annuals service  of the boiler  is included  as part of the cover 
provided under each  policy.  However,  Mr P has complained as the annual  services were  not 
apparently carried  out every year for every policy. 
British Gas says it would normally send out reminders for customers  to call and book the 
annual service but for some unknown reason, reminders were  not sent out every year for 
every one of Mr Ps properties,  so some services  were missed.  
British Gas says that Mr P could have also contacted it to arrange the services but has 
agreed to refund the part of the premium which covered the cost of the annual  service for 
each relevant policy year, since 2009 (which  is when its policies became a regulated 
financial product). 
Initially British Gas put this at £375 but after the complaint was referred to us and after it 
carried out some further investigation, it confirms that there were 12 missed services in total, 
since 2009, across the five properties.  It says the part of the premium  for these services 
would be £649.  British Gas also offered £50 compensation to Mr P for the trouble caused.  
 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He thought the refund offered was 
reasonable as there was no evidence of any further missed services.  He also recommended  
that British Gas pay a total of £200  compensation. 
Neither party accepts  the investigators assessment, so the matter  has been referred to me. 
British Gas says its previous offer is fair and reasonable and does not agree that any 
additional compensation is warranted. Mr P says that he should  be paid considerably more 
compensation. He also says British Gas has continuously lied to him, as it told him it didnt 
have the information going back to 2009.  Mr P also says he thinks there were many more  
missed services. Mr P also asked that we punish  British  Gas for failing to respond  to the 
complaint and delays.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gass normal practice is to send  up to three  reminders to customers  to book the 
annual service for the boiler covered under each policy. It failed to do so for some  of Mr Ps 
properties in some of the years he held cover. As it said, Mr P could also have contacted it 
but as he was receiving  reminders for some  properties, I can understand why he may have 
been relying on the reminders before contacting British Gas. 
Ref: DRN52196632In any case, I am satisfied  its offer to refund the relevant  part of each premium  is 
reasonable. It has provided  evidence that 12 services were missed and this would mean  a 
refund of £649.  
Mr P says he thinks there are more, including pre 2009. As the investigator explained, we 
can only consider  what  happened since 2009  when these  policies became regulated. 
Theres no evidence that any further  services were  missed since  2009 and so I am satisfied 
that the amount offered by British Gas is reasonable.  
Mr P has asked  for more  compensation  and has said the amount recommend  by the 
investigator is an insult. I agree with the investigator  that some  additional compensation  is 
warranted. British  Gas didnt identify all the missed services until after the complaint was 
with us and if it had investigated  properly  when Mr P first raised  his concerns, it would have 
saved some considerable distress and inconvenience. However,  there were no issues with 
the boilers and no evidence  that there was any detriment caused  by the missed the services. 
The investigator explained that we cannot punish British  Gas in the way Mr P would like. We 
can only award compensation  that is commensurate  with the trouble caused to a consumer. 
I consider that the £200 recommended  is reasonable in all the circumstances. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British gas Insurance Limited and require it to pay Mr P: 
a refund of premium  of £649; and 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of his 
policies. 

Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5219663