K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2006 with a 
credit card. Miss M says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Miss M, so Ill 
explain why below.
Miss M applied for her credit card and PPI policy during a meeting  with BoS. She says she 
was told that taking the PPI would help her chances of getting  her credit card. I cant  know  
what was said at the time, and Miss M hasnt said much about this either,  so I have  to base 
my decision  on the information  I do have.
BoS doesnt have a copy of Miss Ms credit  card application, but this isnt unusual for a sale 
that took place  over 13 years ago, and businesses  arent required to keep records 
indefinitely. But it has provided  a sample of the kind of application Miss M wouldve had to 
complete at the time  and Ive seen nothing to suggest Miss M completed a different kind of 
application. On this, I can see that PPI is presented as an optional product   and Miss M 
wouldve had to sign to select  the policy. Nowhere on the application does it suggest that 
taking the PPI would improve the chances  of the credit card being approved.
So taking everything in to account,  I think its likely  she wouldve known that Miss M didnt 
have to take it out  and that she chose to do so. 
BoS recommended the PPI to Miss M so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and Miss M seems 
to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Miss M about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But as I think its likely she chose  to take it out - it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for her if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. 
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Miss M about  that. Because BoS didnt tell Miss M, that was 
unfair. 
Ref: DRN50969082To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss M has said, but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Miss M any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2019.  
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5096908