K822xcomplaint
Mr G has complained about the lump sum payment  he has received from his pension held 
with Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited.  
background 
In early January  2018 Mr G enquired  about  his pension options.  He was sent a retirement 
pack and on 19 January Mr G confirmed with Aviva  that he wanted to take a lump sum 
payment. At this point in time the transfer  value of his pension  fund was around £32,000 
(before tax).
There were then a number of weeks where  delays occurred for various  reasons. Aviva  sent 
the wrong information to Mr G which delayed the process by a fortnight, wrong valuations 
were also sent during  the process and there were periods of time where  Mr G had to chase 
Aviva for the required forms  and ultimately for the payment.
The payment was eventually made to Mr G on 26 February 2018.
On 28 February 2018 Mr G spoke to Aviva to complain about  the value of the lump  sum that 
had been paid to him. He said it had reduced  significantly and it wasnt the amount he had 
signed for in January. He also raised  issues over the delays incurred during the process.
In response to his complaint Aviva  accepted  Mr G had experienced delays in the lead up to 
the settlement  of the pension plan.  It said the amount he received on 26 February 2018 was 
wrong because  of the delays incurred and in fact the payment should  have been made on 13 
February 2018 when  Mr G would have received a higher amount than he actually did.
So Aviva paid Mr G the financial loss caused by the delays, plus loss of interest.
Mr G wasnt happy with this resolution.  He said when he enquired  about  encashing  the plan 
he was told that whatever  he signed for on the final declaration would  be the figure  he would 
receive and as he signed for around £32,000 this was what he was expecting.
The complaint was looked at by one of our investigators who was of the view it should be 
upheld. She felt that even though Avivas service standards for this type of transaction  was 
ten days the TRIG improving pension transfers consultation paper from 2016  suggested  
that a forty-eight hour standard for completing  each step of the transfer would be more  
appropriate and while ten days may have been appropriate in 2006 this wasnt the case  in 
2018.
So based  on this she felt the actual  date the money  should have been paid was 30 January 
2018. She therefore asked Aviva to calculate what the fund value would have been on 30 
January 2018  compared to that on the date the delayed payment was actually made, 26 
February 2018, and if the value on the 30 January  2018 was higher Mr G should be paid the 
difference plus interest.
Aviva didnt agree and remained of the view that the completion date of the transfer would 
have been 13 February 2018 so it felt its offer was correct and in line with its service 
standards.
Ref: DRN52047582The investigator wasnt persuaded  to change her opinion. Aviva then agreed with her initial  
suggestion in the assessment with a view to settling the complaint. Mr G initially  agreed but 
when he saw the re-calculated figure he became unhappy again and reiterated his feelings 
that he should get what he signed  for which  was around £32,000.
The investigator explained that while Mr G did sign the final declaration  when the fund value 
was showing as around £32,000 as this figure was still subject to fluctuations in the market, 
which was also clearly  explained on the form he signed, he wasnt  actually guaranteed that 
exact amount.
Mr G remained  unhappy so as no agreement could be reached the complaint  has been 
passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
conclusion as the investigator.
There is no dispute that delays occurred. So the issue to consider in this regard is whether 
the delay was for thirteen  days as Aviva has stated or for twenty eight days as the 
investigator stated.
Having looked  at everything and taken account of best practice and relevant  guidelines  I do 
think that a forty-eight hour standard for completing each step of the process  as mentioned  
in the Trig paper is more appropriate  than the ten days Aviva  currently works to. I appreciate  
this is service standard but this was established  in 2006 and given the advances in faster 
communication over the last twelve years  and changes in faster payment services I really  do 
think that a quicker  timeframe is more appropriate.
I am therefore satisfied  that in light of the recommendations of the consultation paper the 
transaction should have been completed and paid on 30 January 2018.
So it follows  that to redress  the loss Mr G suffered due to the delays Aviva  must calculate 
the value of the fund as at 30 January 2018 when the transfer should have been made and 
compare it to the value of the fund on the date Aviva felt was the correct date taking account 
of the delays, 13 February 2018.  Any difference between the two amounts should be paid to 
Mr G, with interest, in recognition of the financial  loss caused by the delays.
However, Aviva has already paid this to Mr G after accepting the assessment from the 
investigator so there is nothing further  it needs  to do.
I know Mr G is unhappy  with this method of redress and think the amount he was quoted  
when he signed  the final declaration is the amount he should have been paid. However 
I have looked  at this form and I can see that it says it is important to remember  that these 
values are only a guide  and your actual fund value when you retire may be different, fund 
values can go down  as well as up and are not guaranteed . So I am satisfied that this was 
adequate warning to Mr G that the figures quoted  may not stay the same between  the date 
of the valuations and the date the transfer  was made.
Also I think  its reasonable to expect an invested pension fund would fluctuate until the point  
at which  the fund can be crystallised  which  logically  wouldnt be the point at which the form 
Ref: DRN52047583was signed but would  be the point at which Aviva  had processed everything it had to 
facilitate the transaction.
In summary  therefore I am satisfied the transfer  should have completed  on 30 January 2018 
rather than 26 or 13 February  2018.  I am also satisfied that Aviva has correctly calculated  
the loss incurred to Mr G because of the delays in line with the transfer being that of 30 
January 2018.  It therefore doesnt need to do anything further. Also while I can understand 
Mr Gs frustration regarding the overall  lump  sum due to him, I think  the form he initially 
signed confirming  the transfer  did give a warning that the figures could fluctuate so I think  it 
was clear that he may not get the full figure  he was quoted when he confirmed his option.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  As Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has 
already made the payment to Mr G in line with how I have set it out in this final decision it 
doesnt need to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5204758