K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) wont refund a number of disputed  
transactions that debited his current account.  
background
Mr M says that 35 fraudulent transactions totalling  £7,608 were made from his HSBC  current 
account between  17 December 2016  and 24 January 2017. The transactions  were made 
using Mr Ms online  and mobile banking facilities. All the transactions  were  bill payments 
made to the same  beneficiary - who Mr M says he doesnt know.
On 5 April 2017,  Mr M noticed there were a number of transactions  on his account that he 
didnt recognise.  And he reported them as fraudulent transactions  to HSBC. 
Mr M said he doesnt recognise the transactions and he didnt  make  or otherwise authorise 
them himself. He also doesnt know how anyone could have got access  to both his online 
and mobile banking. 
Mr M is concerned because the transactions have taken him into his overdraft  before the 
transactions debited  his account, he had always been in credit. And now HSBC is chasing 
him to repay the debt.  Mr M said the funds taken were made  up of his student loan and 
money given him to by his father to pay for his time at university.  He uses  this money  to pay 
for his rent and everyday living expenses. 
HSBC said it wont refund the transactions made  from Mr Ms account. It said the 
transactions are spread  out over several  weeks. And it doesnt feel this fits the pattern of a 
fraudster - who wouldve  wanted to drain  the account of funds as quickly as possible to get 
the maximum benefit.   
HSBC said some of the transactions had been completed on the same  computer that Mr M 
had used to make genuine  transactions.  It also said the IP address used to make the 
disputed transactions  was the same as one Mr M had used to make undisputed  
transactions in the past. 
Finally, it said the transactions had been made  using Mr Ms genuine security details for 
both his online and mobile banking accounts  and Mr M hadnt been able to provide a 
convincing explanation as to how a fraudster wouldve been party to this information. It also 
said several the transactions had been  validated by Mr Ms personal secure key device  
provided to him by HSBC. Mr M was in possession of this device and it had been  used  for 
genuine transactions during the period some of the disputed transactions were  taking  place. 
HSBC said it couldnt  see how a fraudster couldve got access to Mr Ms computer (and 
online banking), his mobile phone (and mobile banking app) and his secure key device and 
been able to replace all of them, on multiple  occasions, without him noticing. 
  
Mr M didnt  agree with what  HSBC  said and so he brought the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint  and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, she felt unable to conclude that the transactions had been made fraudulently and 
she was persuaded  they were most likely  made and authorised  by Mr M. 
Ref: DRN54546802Mr M asked  for the investigators assessment to be reviewed by an ombudsman,  so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same  overall  conclusions as our investigator  previously set 
out - and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
HSBC hasnt been able to provide me with any technical evidence  that shows me exactly 
what security  information was entered to allow these  transactions  to take place. However, 
based on what I know about HSBCs online  banking processes, Im satisfied  Mr Ms online 
security information, as well as a PIN for his secure  key device wouldve been needed to 
allow a payment to leave  Mr Ms account. And his mobile banking security details wouldve 
been needed to authenticate any transactions made from his mobile  banking  app. Payments  
could not have left Mr Ms account  without this information being entered. And so Im 
satisfied Mr Ms genuine  security details were  used to make the transactions. But the 
regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own,  enough to enable HSBC  to hold 
Mr M liable. So I also need to think about whether  the evidence suggests  that its more likely 
than not that Mr M consented to the transactions being made.
From what  Ive seen, I think its reasonable for HSBC  to conclude that Mr M authorised  the 
transactions himself.  Ill explain why.
All the disputed transactions were  either  made using Mr Ms online banking or mobile  
banking facilities. And I think its important that I set out the process  that anyone wanting  to 
make a payment  via these platforms would need  to go through in order  to successfully 
authorise a payment leaving  Mr Ms account.
The first transaction  in dispute was made using Mr Ms online banking security  details on 
Mr Ms computer.  Im satisfied that this is the case as HSBCs technical evidence  shows me 
that the device  used  to log into Mr Ms online banking  on this date is the same as the one 
Mr M used  to make undisputed transactions previously. So, in order  to set up a new 
beneficiary and complete  this transaction, someone wouldve had to:
1.Gain access to Mr Ms computer
2.Guess both his username  and password for his computer
3.Log on to Mr Ms online banking using his personalised security details and generate 
a passcode using  a separate secure key device with its own personalised PIN
4.Generate a further passcode on his secure  key device to allow a new beneficiary to 
be set up on Mr Ms account (to do this, they would need Mr Ms secure key device 
PIN and the account number of the intended beneficiary)
5.Enter this passcode into Mr Ms online banking 
So, the fraudster  wouldve  needed all of Mr Ms personalised security information  and have 
been able to access to both his personal computer and secure  key device. But Mr M has told 
us: 
He has a security  password on his computer  that no-one  apart  from him or his family 
know  none of his family  were with him at the time the transactions were  made  as 
he was away studying at university.
Ref: DRN54546803His secure key device  was always in his bag that he took with him to university.  This 
was always on his person and no-one else had access to it. 
He did not have  his secure key device PIN written  down  anywhere   it was committed 
to memory and he had not shared it with anyone.
He did not have  his online banking username written down and he had not shared it 
with anyone.  
His secure key device  PIN is not easy to guess, it is a random selection of numbers, 
not associated with his birthday or that of any of his relatives.  So nobody would be 
able to guess it.  
And so, based on Mr Ms own testimony,  it wouldve have been  impossible for a fraudster to 
gain access to both of the devices they would need  in order to authorise this transaction. 
And there is no plausible  explanation as to how a fraudster wouldve known his security  
details. Only Mr Ms knew all of his security details. And so Im persuaded that its more likely 
than not that Mr M authorised the transaction himself.
The remaining  transactions were carried out via Mr Ms mobile banking  app on his mobile 
phone. Im satisfied  the transactions were made from Mr Ms mobile phone,  as again, the 
device ID used to make the transactions matches  the device Mr M has used in the past to 
make undisputed transactions. 
Mr M told has told us his mobile phone is always on his person or in his vicinity.  And so its 
unlikely that someone  wouldve been able to take and replace it on more than occasion 
without him noticing.  And even if someone had been  able to gain access to Mr Ms mobile,  
Mr M has said his phone is protected with facial recognition security.  And so it would have 
been impossible  to unlock Mr Ms phone  without him being  physically present.  
Im also not persuaded that the transactions are indicative of someone unknown to Mr M 
using the account. Had a fraudster been privy to all of Mr Ms online banking  details, they 
would have virtually  unlimited access to Mr Ms accounts and the funds in them. And 
although the disputed transactions amount to a significant sum,  the transactions  take place  
over a number of weeks and are for relatively  small amounts individually.  And the majority  
of the transactions leave Mr M with remaining  funds  in his account.
Generally a fraudster  who has access to an account will take as much as they can in the 
shortest possible timeframe to avoid the victim noticing and blocking the account. But this 
isnt the case  here. The disputed  transactions  also completely stop in January  2017. 
Again, there is no convincing explanation  as to why a fraudster who has unlimited access  
to Mr Ms account would simply stop when there  were still funds  available to them.  The  
last transaction  is for £400  and it leaves Mr M with £983.82 in his account.
Furthermore, the disputed  transactions take place between 17 December 2016 and 
24 January 2017  but Mr M didnt report them as fraudulent until 5 April 2017. During the 
period between 17 December 2016 and 5 April 2017, Mr M logged  into his online banking, 
presumably to check his account  balance, a total of 260 times. And so I think  he wouldve 
been aware of the transactions prior to April 2017  and if they had not been made by him, 
he wouldve complained about them sooner. 
Mr M has been consistent in telling us that the funds available  in his accounts were made 
up of his student loan and money from his father to tide him over whilst  he was away 
studying at university.  He relied on this money for his everyday living  expenses. And 
Ref: DRN54546804having looked over the activity on Mr Ms account I can see he was using the account 
regularly between the disputed transactions taking place. I can also see that some of the 
disputed transactions  took place after money  had been transferred into Mr Ms current 
account from his savings account. 
So, I think that had over £7,000 gone missing over a number of weeks,  Mr M wouldve 
noticed this relatively  quickly as the balances on both his savings and current  account  
would have been significantly lower than expected  especially after 24 January  2017 
when all the transactions had left the account.  And I think he wouldve contacted  HSBC  
sooner than he did had anything appeared untoward.  
Ive considered what Mr M has said about being  busy studying at the time and only using 
the fast balance facility on his mobile  banking app. But I still think he wouldve noticed  had 
his account balances dropped by over £7,000. I also cant  ignore, that there  are three 
separate transfers from Mr Ms current account  to his savings account between  
December 2016  and March 2017.  Mr M has said he cant remember making  these 
transfers but Im persuaded  they were most likely made by him as there would be no 
benefit to a fraudster  in transferring money into Mr Ms savings account. Im satisfied that 
Mr M would have had to fully login to his accounts to make these transfers  transfers cant  
be made using the fast balance facility. And I think that had Mr M been  viewing  his 
accounts in order  to ascertain what he had available to transfer to his savings; he wouldve 
seen the now disputed transactions on his account. And had anything been not as he 
expected, he wouldve  reported this to HSBC at the time.
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mr M authorised the disputed 
transactions. It follows that HSBC is entitled  to hold him liable for them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December  2019.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5454680