K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as Midland, mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1999, Mrs H took out a mortgage  with HSBC in a branch meeting. At the same time, she 
was sold a PPI policy  to protect the monthly  repayments on her mortgage if she couldnt 
work because of an accident,  sickness  or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding 
it for reasons that Ill now explain.
Mrs H says she declined to take PPI cover  on her mortgage and that it was added without 
her knowledge.  But I have to bear in mind that this sale took place a very long time ago and 
memories do tend to fade over such time periods. And HSBC has provided a copy  of the 
application form and direct debit mandate for the PPI policy,  both of which Mrs H signed at 
the time.  I can see that the PPI application  form contained alternative  Yes and No boxes 
for Mrs H to tick, depending on whether or not she wanted to take the PPI. And the Yes  
box has been ticked on her application  and some  personal details - such as her telephone 
contact numbers - have also been  added.  
So from the information Ive seen, I think that Mrs H actively decided  to take the PPI knowing 
she had a choice.  But I can understand why she cant recall this now,  such a long time after 
this sale.
HSBC says it cant be sure whether or not this was an advised  PPI sale.  But as the PPI 
appears to have been sold to her in a meeting  and in connection with a mortgage, I think its 
more likely than not that it did recommend the policy  to Mrs H. This means it needed  to 
ensure that it was suitable for her. 
I dont know what steps it took to ensure  that the policy was suitable. But, from what  I know  
about her circumstances at the time,  I cant  see any reason  why it wouldnt have been. I say 
this because:
Mrs H appears  to have been  eligible for the policy and not affected  by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Mrs H says she didnt need  the policy because she was entitled to sick pay and 
redundancy compensation from her employer.  She also says she had some savings she 
could have used  to make  her mortgage repayments. But this policy would have  paid out 
in addition to these other  means  and, potentially,  for longer than these would have 
Ref: DRN56469642lasted. And a mortgage is a big financial commitment  where ones  home is potentially  
at risk if the monthly repayments cant be met. So I still think she would have  valued  the 
extra protection the policy gave  her.
Ive no reason for thinking that the policy was unaffordable for Mrs H. And as the 
premiums were  paid monthly,  she could  have cancelled the policy  if it no longer met her 
needs.
HSBC also needed  to ensure that it gave  Mrs H enough information for her to decide  
whether the policy  was right for her. I think its possible  that the information Mrs H received 
could have been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the 
policy was unsuitable  for her, I dont think better information would have changed  her mind 
about taking it. I still think  she would have thought the policy gave her useful benefits at an 
affordable cost.
So I dont  think that Mrs H has lost out by anything  that HSBC  may have done wrong when it 
sold her this PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against HSBC  UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5646964