K822xcomplaint
Mr and Miss A feel that Moneybarn No 1 Limited  has treated them unfairly  in relation to a 
conditional sale agreement for a car that didnt go ahead.
Background
In January 2020 I issued a provisional decision  saying that I was minded to uphold the 
complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions  before  I reached my 
final decision. Mr and Miss A have  responded to say they disagree with my position. 
Moneybarn has accepted my provisional  decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr and Miss A have repeated their arguments  regarding losing out due to Moneybarns 
mistake and think they should  receive  substantially more than what  I provisionally decided. 
However they have  not addressed my arguments why I think this would be unfair. Theyve 
not provided the documentary evidence Ive requested  regarding  refused lending and their 
credit file. Theyve said their credit file only covers a year. However  credit  files cover six 
years of credit behaviour. 
Theyve also named  a company they say refused them  credit  at the time. However I did ask 
for evidence  of the rejected credit  application which hasnt been  provided. Moneybarn were  
only prepared to lend to both Mr A and Miss A together  (and not separately). Considering the 
reasoning for not lending to Miss A it would  seem likely that other firms would take a similar 
position for similar reasons. So all in all Im not persuaded by Mr A and Miss As arguments 
and I dont think anything  theyve said means I should change any aspect of my provisional 
decision.
As neither party has made any persuasive comments on my provisional decision to change  
my stance and having considered the matter afresh, I see no persuasive reason  to change 
my position.  Consequently,  I direct Moneybarn to pay a further £450 on top of the £250 
already paid as this is a fair solution  to this matter.
my final decision
For the above reasons and those described in my provisional decision attached  I uphold  this 
complaint about  Moneybarn  No 1 Limited. I direct it to pay Mr and Miss A the further  amount 
£450 in addition to what had previously  been paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Miss A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 April 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN57716382Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr and Miss A feel that Moneybarn No 1 Limited has treated them  unfairly in relation to a conditional 
sale agreement for a car that didnt go ahead.
background
Mr and Miss A had two cars, a family  car and a sports car. They approached Moneybarn to agree 
some finance  in order to get a new family  car. Moneybarn  said they could have a joint agreement and 
told them how much  they were prepared  to lend. 
Mr and Miss A then sold their family  car and used the proceeds to pay off the remaining  finance on 
that car in anticipation of getting a new family car through credit with Moneybarn.  They paid £200 as a 
non-refundable deposit  on a new family car.
Moneybarn then realised  that Miss A didnt have a valid driving licence. As such she couldnt be part 
of the agreement  to borrow the money. Mr A didnt  meet the affordability requirements  for the amount 
theyd wished to borrow alone so Moneybarn  didnt complete the finance. This left Mr A without a 
family car as the sports  car isnt suitable  for his familys usage. So, Mr A and Miss A complained to 
Moneybarn.
Moneybarn acknowledged that it had told them wrong information and that it shouldnt  have let the 
agreement get as far as it had. It paid Mr A and Miss A £250 which comprised of the £200 deposit  Mr 
A lost and £50 for distress  and inconvenience. But Mr A and Miss A say they are without a family  car 
due to Moneybarns mistake and so they want significantly more compensation.  So they brought  their 
complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt that Moneybarn had done  things  wrong and that what  it had paid so far wasnt 
enough. So she said Moneybarn should pay a further £200 to Mr A and Miss A to better  reflect  the 
matter. But Mr A and Mrs A feel this is still a long way short of the redress theyd be looking for. 
Consequently this complaint  comes to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered  the matter I broadly agree with the investigators findings regarding what 
Moneybarn did. But I dont think Mr A and Miss As arguments about how they should be 
compensated have been properly addressed. So, in the interests of fairness to both parties  I am 
issuing this provisional  decision to allow both parties to fully understand my position  so that they have 
a fair opportunity to understand and respond to points which I think are crucial to this complaint.
Moneybarn has accepted it made  mistakes  and upheld Mr A and Miss As complaint. It accepted that 
it didnt tell them that Miss A had to have a full driving  licence to get the finance.  And as Mr A already 
had a live finance agreement for the sports car he couldnt have  another. So thats why the lending 
didnt go ahead. So I dont propose  to go over these matters again.
Mr A has shown that he was no longer  the registered keeper of the family car by the time of the 22 
August 2018.  And I can see from the conditional sale agreement that Mr A and Miss A signed it that 
day also. I can also see from Moneybarns  internal records that from 
23 July 2018 Mr A and Miss A were  looking  to borrow further and settle early the finance agreement  
that they already had. Thus,  Im satisfied that Mr A and Miss A acted  based on what  Moneybarn had 
told them.
Ref: DRN57716383Mr A has explained that what happened caused them considerable inconvenience. He has pointed  to 
having to commute to work rather than drive and the inconvenience to his children  for their daily travel 
to school. Hes noted the lack of functionality of the sports car and the need for a new family car. Mr A 
thinks hes lost £4,000 due to Moneybarn  because if it hadnt made a mistake, hed have paid off the 
finance on the family  car and that car would still have had resale  value. But Im not persuaded by this.
Clearly Mr A sold the car in order to get a new one and all of this started  because  of his wish to do so. 
So, I dont think it would be fair to make Moneybarn responsible for this because I think hed have 
found a different  finance  provider in order to take out a new car. And ultimately, he used that money 
from the sale to pay off the finance on that car-so  he no longer has an interest-bearing debt so has 
benefited from getting  rid of that.
But I do think  Moneybarn should pay more  to Mr A and Miss A than has been previously  been 
discussed. Clearly finding themselves without a family car through no significant fault of their own 
would have been substantially inconvenient  and would  have led to significant changes  in their daily 
lives including for the children. 
Contrary to this though is Mr A and Miss As responsibility  to mitigate such losses. Clearly, they 
needed a family car and could have got a car through a variety  of means including getting  finance 
from other providers. Mr A points to his credit file, but clearly Miss As finances were sufficiently 
positive for Moneybarn  to lend to her (save for the issue regarding her driving licence).  So, I think  
other lenders might have  been willing  to lend to her or them both but possibly  on different terms. 
So, I think Mr A and Miss A could have got credit and thus a new family car relatively quickly. And I 
am not persuaded Mr A and Miss A quickly tried to mitigate their loss by attempting to get finance 
elsewhere straightaway. I also must bear in mind that although some costs would have  increased (like 
Mr As commuting costs), his car costs  (petrol and insurance etc) would have stopped during this 
time. Assessing the quantum of this distress and inconvenience is difficult  other than to say I think it 
would have been substantial in the early period of being without a car but as time went  on the onus 
was more and more on Mr A and Miss A to mitigate their loss by making new arrangements for their 
situation.
Moneybarn has already paid £250 to Mr A and Miss A comprising of £200 to cover the financial loss 
of the new family car deposit  and £50 to cover the distress and inconvenience. I currently think 
Moneybarn should pay a further  £450  to Mr A and Miss A to reflect  the distress and inconvenience 
suffered as a consequence of Moneybarns  failings in this matter.
In short, Ive considered everything  that Mr and Miss A have said.  I appreciate how Mr A and Miss A 
feel about the whole situation. However,  all in all I currently  think that a further £450 on top of the 
£250 already paid is a fair solution to this matter.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am currently minded to uphold the complaint against  Moneybarn No 
1 Limited and for it to pay redress as set out above.
I now invite  both parties to give me their final thoughts on the matter within  the timeline described  
above.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5771638