K822xcomplaint
Mrs H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not give her the correct  amount of cash  when 
she withdrew £25,000 from her account  and refused to allow  her to check the amount in a 
private room.
background 
Mrs H made  a prearranged  HSBC branch visit to withdraw £25,000 in cash in October 2018. 
She says she asked HSBC staff if the money  could be counted in a private room but that 
request was refused. In January 2019 Mrs H counted  the money which  she had kept at 
home and discovered  that £800 was missing.
Mrs H says she was not given appropriate  service  by HSBC and would like her £800 
refunded as well as compensation for what took place.
HSBC says the money was weighed twice and its accounts  balanced which it says suggests 
the correct amount was given to Mrs H. It questions why Mrs H waited as long as she did to 
tell it about the deficit  but accepts it could have offered  a better  service  within  its branch. 
HSBC has offered Mrs H £250 compensation.
Mrs H brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt think it possible to fairly 
conclude HSBC had made a mistake. The adjudicator  thought the bag containing the money 
was sealed and had been weighed and checked.  He also thought that if the money was less 
than £25,000  then he would have expected to have  seen  a surplus on HSBCs internal; 
records. The adjudicator  didnt think it possible to be certain what  had happened to the 
money when Mrs H left the branch.
The adjudicator accepted  HSBC ought  to have  allowed the money to be counted in private 
but thought its offer of £250 compensation appropriate for that part of the complaint.
Mrs H doesnt accept  that view and says she would like her money refunded  and that she 
asked on more than one occasion for her money to be counted. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for largely  the same reasons. I realise  Mrs H will be 
disappointed by my decision. 
I dont think there is any real dispute that when Mrs H attended the HSBC branch she ought 
to have been allowed to have the money  counted in front of her in private. I dont  think  that 
request was unreasonable taking into account  the size of the withdrawal. So I agree with the 
adjudicator that HSBC  could have handled  that differently and that HSBC should pay 
compensation. Im satisfied that HSBCs offer of £250 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
The main  part of Mrs Hs complaint is the money she says is missing. I have come to the 
overall view that its impossible to safely conclude that HSBC  made a mistake. I say that as 
Im satisfied that HSBC  weighed, sealed  and checked the bag containing the money.  I also 
Ref: DRN54173282would have expected a surplus of cash if HSBC had not given the full amount. And having 
looked at HSBCs records I can see that there wasnt an equivalent surplus.
I also cant be sure what  happened to the money  from when Mrs H withdrew it in 
October 2018 before counting it in January 2019. I appreciate that Mrs H says the money 
was kept in her home and I also appreciate the difficult  circumstances Mrs H was dealing 
with at that time. But I think  that was a relatively significant period of time. 
Overall I am unable to safely conclude  that HSBC made a mistake  and gave  Mrs H less 
money than it should have. So for that reason  I cant  fairly order that HSBC  refund the £800.  
I will of course  leave  it to Mrs H to decide  if she wishes to accept HSBCs offer of 
compensation as I appreciate how strongly she feels about what took place.
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc has made a fair and reasonable offer of £250 
compensation. Mrs Hs acceptance  of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5417328