K822xcomplaint
Ms L complains that Aviva Life Services UK Limited cancelled her life policy when she 
missed a payment  when  she immediately rectified this as soon  as she was made  aware she 
hadnt paid. She also complains that when she asked for a new policy she was told she 
couldnt get cover.
background 
In July 2013 Ms L took out a 10 year term assurance life policy providing cover  of £135,729 
for a premium of £40 each month.  The policy terms require payment by direct debit (DD) but 
the DD was cancelled in 2014 and Ms L paid by standing order from then. The policy  was 
cancelled by Aviva  in 2018 following a missed payment.
Aviva didnt uphold  the complaint. It explained that payment by standing  order would usually 
only be acceptable as a short term solution.  And that the benefits of a DD are that it can 
recollect a missed payment and let customers  know. It said it cant do this with a standing  
order.
Aviva said the payments  Ms L made in 2018 covered her until the beginning of July 2018 
and as there wasnt a further payment it cancelled the policy.  It acknowledged  the payment 
of £80 made by Ms L in October 2018 but explained  that the policy  had already lapsed  and 
was outside of the reinstatement period when this payment was received.
Aviva explained  that the new policy Ms L had been declined because  of medical disclosures 
that werent relevant or didnt apply at the time of Ms Ls original application in 2013.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt uphold  it. She said Ms L had 
taken out the policy  through an independent  adviser, not Aviva and that it had no record of 
being informed  she wanted contact by phone or email. She didnt think Aviva  had done  
anything wrong  in cancelling the policy given the missed premium  payments. She noted  
Aviva had said Ms L had only paid until July 2018  when she had paid until August 2018 and 
thought the £50 it had offered  for this was reasonable. 
Ms L didnt  agree with the adjudicator. She made  the following points:
She has spoken several times  directly  with Aviva asking it to always communicate by 
email or phone.
She has checked her bank statements  for 2018 and paid a total of £400  which  covers  
10 months payments  and she paid up to August 2018.
She was asked to pay by DD but explained this was difficult  due to the irregularity of 
the payments  she received.
She paid some  months  early when she had more  disposable  income. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that what has happened is upsetting for Ms L as she currently doesnt  have life 
cover which she took out to provide  her son with a lump sum if she was to die. But what I 
Ref: DRN56045952have to decide is whether Aviva has done  anything wrong, and having considered all the 
evidence I dont think that it has.
There is no dispute that Ms L missed a premium  payment for her policy.  I note that she has 
not been able to pay her premium consistently  throughout  the time she has had the policy, 
as evidenced  by various letters sent to her between 2014 and 2018. This is because  she 
doesnt receive money consistently and is why she has paid by standing  order rather  than by 
DD as the policy terms require.
Based on the evidence  she has provided she paid a total of £320 from January 2018 until 
June 2018. This is consistent with Avivas records, but from what  I have seen the first 
payment made on 8 January  2018 was for the previous  months premium.
So I am satisfied that she didnt  pay the premium that was due at the beginning of August 
2018. It is the policyholders  responsibility to make sure premium payments are made  on the 
due date. The terms do allow for thirty days grace  for payment to be made, but make  clear 
that:
If any premium  is not paid on the due date or within thirty days  grace  allowed, the Plan will 
be cancelled
Given Ms L missed the August 2018 premium payment and didnt make  any further payment 
until 22 October 2018 I dont think Aviva  did anything  wrong  in cancelling  the policy  in 
September 2018 in accordance with the term above.
I acknowledge the payment  she made  on 22 October 2018, which  Aviva  refunded  to her. But 
this was made too late, as the policy had already been cancelled. I would also point out that 
this would not have brought Ms L up to date with her payments anyway as this wouldnt have 
covered the premium actually due in October.
It is the policyholders  responsibility to make sure premium payments are made and the 
terms and conditions dont require Aviva to contact  a policyholder about a missed  premium. 
But it does  do so as a matter of good practice  as I wouldve expected. It wrote to Ms L on 20 
August 2018,  at the address it had for her, warning that it would stop her policy  on 10 
September 2018 if she did nothing.  She didnt get the letter because she had moved 
address without notifying Aviva, although  I note a copy of the letter was also sent to her 
adviser. 
Ms L has said she asked to be contacted by telephone or email, but Aviva has no record  of 
this and it isnt how it normally  contacted  her. I have  seen  various  letters sent to her each 
year from 2014 to 2018 in relation to missed premium payments. So Ms L was aware that it 
normally contacted  her by letter, not by telephone or email, regardless of any request she 
may have  made for such contact. I dont  think Aviva has done anything wrong by writing  to 
Ms L at the address  it had for her. It is unfortunate she didnt get the letter  because  she had 
moved, but that isnt Avivas responsibility.
Ms L applied  for a new policy  but Aviva declined  this. It has explained  this is because of 
medical disclosures that were made  that werent relevant or didnt apply at the time of her 
original application.  It isnt obliged to provide her with a new policy and I have no reason to 
think Ms L has been treated unfairly because Aviva has declined  her application for the 
reasons it has explained.  Ms L isnt limited to using Aviva for her life cover and can go to 
other providers.
Ref: DRN56045953I note Aviva has offered  £50 for having said in its FRL that Ms L had paid up until the 
beginning of July 2018 when she had actually paid up until the beginning of August 2018. If 
Ms L wants to accept that offer she will need to contact Aviva.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5604595