K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Virgin Money Plc didnt apply a large payment she made, towards her 
minimum monthly payment on her credit card. She also complains that a late payment 
marker was recorded  on her credit file.
background
Miss S says she made payments of about  £2,800 in December 2018 towards her credit  card 
balance but was then told she had missed  a payment. She says she was charged a late 
payment fee and a late payment marker was recorded on her credit  file. Miss S says Virgin 
has made a mistake and has acted  unfairly and would like compensation as well as her 
credit file amended.  She also says Virgins customer care was poor when she called it about 
the problem.
Virgin says its not made  a mistake and accepts Miss S made the payment in December 
2018. But it says the payment was made before the next statement had been issued. And in 
line with the account terms and conditions  the payment was taken off the outstanding  
balance but didnt count towards  the next minimum payment that was due. Virgin says 
Miss S didnt make the next payment  and so it correctly charged  her a late payment fee and 
provided correct information to the Credit Reference  Agencies (CRAs).
Miss S brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt think  Virgin  had made a 
mistake. The adjudicator  thought Miss S had made  the payment before the statement had 
been issued and so that payment  didnt count as the minimum payment on the next 
statement. The adjudicator also thought  that information was contained on the account 
statements about this issue and so didnt think Virgin  made a mistake  by charging a late 
payment fee or reporting the position  to the CRAs.  The adjudicator thought  Virgins member 
of staff lacked empathy  when Miss S called it but had correctly explained the position.
Miss S doesnt accept  that view and says shes been penalised for trying to do the right 
thing. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
view that Virgin hasnt  made a mistake  or acted unfairly.  I realise Miss S will be disappointed  
by my decision.
I appreciate that Miss S thought that by making  the large payment in December 2018 
towards her credit card balance that would  count towards the next statements minimum 
payment. But Im satisfied  that the account terms and conditions which I think Miss S would 
have agreed to when the account  was opened,  and the credit card statements both make 
clear that a payment made before  a statement is issued  does  not count towards that 
statements minimum payment. I find thats  what happened here, that Miss S made  the 
payments before the statement had been issued which were correctly deducted from the 
account balance  but didnt  count  towards the next statements  minimum payment. So I dont 
think in those circumstances  that Virgin made a mistake by charging a late payment fee 
when Miss S didnt  make a minimum payment the following  month.
I appreciate that Miss S may have been  unaware of that condition but that doesnt mean 
Virgin acted unfairly  or made a mistake. I also think that Virgin  is under a duty to accurately 
Ref: DRN53153832report the account position to the CRAs and so I dont think  it made a mistake by reporting  
the late payment.
Ive listened to the call between the parties  and Im satisfied Virgins  advisor correctly 
explained the position to Miss S. I dont think that Miss S agreed with the advisor  and I make  
clear that I dont think there was a lack of empathy shown  by Virgins advisor. I appreciate 
thats not the main part of Miss Ss complaint in any event.
Overall as I dont think Virgin has made  a mistake here I cant  fairly order it to remove the 
adverse information  recorded on Miss Ss credit file or fairly order it to pay any 
compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5315383