K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that esure Insurance Limited  has held her responsible for an accident  after 
she made a claim on her car insurance policy.
background
Mrs A was involved  in an accident  with another  car. So she contacted esure to claim on her 
car insurance policy. She said that the other  driver moved into her lane on a roundabout and 
caused damage to the wing and tyre of her car. When  she called esure she found the other 
driver had already  logged a claim. She also discovered both parties were insured  with esure.
esure assessed the claim and initially said that it would look to settle the claim on a 50/50  
split liability basis. But it said that it had tried to discuss  the circumstances of the claim with 
her on a number of occasions,  but she didnt respond.  So it said it couldnt  defend  the claim 
any further and settled the other drivers claim in full on a without prejudice basis. 
Mrs A raised a complaint with esure. She didnt agree she was at fault in the accident and it 
was the third party that hit her and drove off. She also complained  that her car hadnt  been 
repaired.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. She said Mrs A had failed to 
contact esure to give it the information  asked for. She also that esure had tried to assist Mrs 
A in getting  her car fixed but she said she was getting the repair for free elsewhere  so the 
claim was closed. 
Mrs A remained unhappy  so the complaints been passed to me to issue  a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
liability
When looking at this complaint, my role is to consider whether esure handled the claim in a 
fair and reasonable way. This service isnt able to say whos  at fault for causing an accident, 
as that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether  esure  has carried out 
a fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and come to a reasonable decision.
Both Mrs A and the other driver have held each other responsible for the accident. Mrs A 
has said the third party  turned  into her car. The other driver said Mrs A turned  into him. 
esure has said there werent any independent  witnesses to the accident  or CCTV footage.  
So its said that it largely needed  to base its outcome on the damage to both cars and what  
they think most likely  happened
esure first contacted  Mrs A by text message in December 2017 asking for photos  of the 
damage to her car. They  followed  this up with a call in December 2017. Following this text 
and call Mrs A was contacted a number of times by the claims handler to ask for more 
information on the circumstances of the accident. Mrs A did contact esure, albeit at a later 
date but from the information Ive seen from esure, she didnt supply the information she had 
been asked for. 
Ref: DRN51125962I can see that there were  a number of further calls and messages made by esure to Mrs A, 
but at the point the claim was settled,  she still hadnt  provided  the information  required.
esure have  said that as they didnt have  this information, they could no longer defend  the 
claim - and I dont find this unreasonable. esure have  a duty to get the claim resolved  in a 
reasonable amount of time, and this claim had clearly been going  on for some  time. They  
had also attempted  a number of times to get the information they needed - unsuccessfully. 
Im satisfied that esure gave Mrs A enough  opportunity to provide what they required and it 
was fair and reasonable that they eventually settled  the claim without it, based on what they 
had already and what  the third party had supplied. 
I understand Mrs A is unhappy she now has a fault claim recorded and the impact it will have 
on her No Claims Discount. But based on the circumstances of the accident, esure have 
confirmed the most  favourable outcome Mrs A was likely to get was 50/50,  which  would still 
leave her with a fault claim. 
repairs
Mrs A says there were  delays in her car being  repaired. The garage working on behalf of 
esure have  confirmed that they started  to contact Mrs A in December 2017 to arrange 
collection, but got no response.  They  then contacted  her again in January 2018 and 
collection was arranged.  When  they tried to collect the car, Mrs A wasnt  at the home  
address. Collection was then rebooked for February 2018, this was again unsuccessful. A 
third booking was made for March 2018  but like the two previous bookings, the garage was 
unsuccessful in collecting the car. The contact  notes and the communication  sent to Mrs A 
by esure  supports this. 
esure have  sent information that shows by May Mrs A had made contact and said she was 
getting the car repaired for free by the manufacturer. 
Based on the information Ive seen from both parties, Im satisfied that reasonable attempts 
were made to collect Mrs As car and I dont  find esure have done anything wrong in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
As esure have settled  the claim on a without prejudice basis  Mrs A can still take legal 
action or defend herself in court.
Ref: DRN51125963my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Tom Wagstaff
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5112596