K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint is about the service provided by British Gas Insurance  Limited  in 
relation to a central heating insurance policy.
 
The parties will see that Ive changed  the respondent from British  Gas Services Limited
to British Gas Insurance Limited.  This is because we have no jurisdiction  over British
Gas Services Limited  for a complaint about  the handling of the insurance policy; its only
an insurance intermediary, not an insurer.
This is an important legal technicality but it does not affect the outcome of the case and
as British Gas Services  Limited  responded to the complaint on behalf of British Gas
Insurance Limited, theres  no need  for it to review the matter  again or issue a further final
response.
background
Mr and Mrs L made a claim on 25 September 2017,  as their boiler was not working properly.  
I understand the heating would come on whenever the hot water was on, which they say 
meant the house  was either  freezing or extremely hot. 
 
British Gas sent out an engineer who changed  the motor. Mr and Mrs L say the repair was 
not effective and they called British Gas out again on 18 October 2017. An engineer 
attended the next day and changed  a three-port valve  but Mr and Mrs L says this didnt 
resolve the problem  either. 
Mr and Mrs L say the heating issue was finally fixed when they were having an electric 
shower fitted and the electrician saw that the wiring  done by British Gas when changing the 
motor was not correct.  He rectified this for them, which took only ten minutes,  and the boiler 
has worked properly  since then. They say he didnt charge them  but they paid him £100 as a 
thank you. 
Following this, Mr and Mrs L raised  complaints about a number of issues, summarised briefly 
below:
The annual boiler service included with the policy was not carried  out properly in 
2016, as the engineer refused to remove the boiler cover and was only in the 
property for a maximum of 20 minutes. He was a contractor and the job was rushed.  
He told Mr and Mrs L he wasnt allowed to remove the boiler cover,  as it would ruin 
the gaskets. 
At the next service visit in 2017,  another engineer took the boiler cover off and had to 
change a gasket  seal as it had deteriorated. This caused  concern as the boiler may 
have been leaking  dangerous gases into the property since the 2016  service.
British Gas said there was no risk to them, as the boiler  is room  sealed and there is 
therefore no chance of poisonous gases escaping into their home. If this is the case, 
why were they given  a gas detector  free of charge by way of compensation. If it is not 
necessary, theyd rather have the cash value instead (i.e. £29.99).
They incurred additional  heating  bills during the period waiting for their boiler to be 
repaired in 2017. They  have provided  a copy of their bill for July 2017 to 2018,  which  
shows an increase  in usage of around  4,000  kWh (costing around  £150).
British Gas sent the next policy renewal documents to an old email  address, provided 
to British Gas utility company years before, which  meant  they couldnt cancel the 
Ref: DRN54050382policy within  the usual  14 day cooling  off period. British  Gas didnt check  the email 
address was still valid. They didnt want to renew with British  Gas after their 
experience over this matter.
They were unhappy that they could get the same policy  online for a cheaper 
premium. They had the policy for around  23 years and were  paying around £25 per 
month, when it was available to new customers on line for around £13 per month.
Mr and Mrs L have asked  British Gas to pay for the loss of holiday days  they had to
book off work; reimburse their additional  heating  costs and the £100 they paid their 
contractor. They would  also like the premium back for the 2018 policy,  as they couldnt  
cancel the policy and the entire premiums back for the 2017  policy  (save for an amount for 
the annual service i.e. £251.85) as they feel they have not received  an adequate service.  
They put this at a total of around  £1,140,  not including compensation for the stress  and 
inconvenience of the situation.
British Gas accepts that the 2016  boiler service was not carried out correctly and agreed to 
refund the cost of this (i.e. £79.30). It also provided a carbon monoxide detector free of 
charge. However,  British  Gas says that although  the seals should have been checked at the 
2016 service, the boiler was room sealed, which means that any harmful  gases would be 
expelled through the flue and wouldnt leak into the room. 
With regard to the repairs, British Gas says it carried out a service  of the boiler  on 26 
September 2017. As it didnt  hear from Mr and Mrs L between then and 19 October  2017,  
the boiler must have been working  properly during that time. Its engineer would not have 
interfered with the wiring.  He replaced  a fan seal and gasket. The engineer went  back out on 
19 October 2017 and carried out work  on a three  port valve.  British  Gas says theres  no 
evidence this wasnt correctly done.
With regard to the renewal of the policy, British Gas says all renewal documents  used to be 
sent by post but before  this renewal, it wrote to all customers  telling them that it would no 
longer send policy documents by post, unless they objected. 
British Gas says Mr and Mrs L didnt contact it to object  and so the next renewal was sent by 
email to the address it had recorded  for Mr and Mrs L. British  Gas says that British  Gas 
Services and British  Gas Energy are part of the same company and the online account 
facility it provides covers  both the gas supply and insurance. So the email  address Mr and 
Mrs L registered for the gas account previously, was correctly  used to send their renewal 
documents in 2018. It however, provided  a pro rata refund from the date Mr and Mrs L  
confirmed they wanted to cancel the policy, i.e. 10 June 2018. I understand the refund was 
£8.28 and the premium  paid before cancellation was around  £25).
British Gas later offered  a total of £146.56  to compensate for a delay in dealing  with the  
complaint, the service  visit in 2016 and a refund of the premium  for the renewed  policy.  
 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She didnt think British Gas had acted 
unreasonably in sending the renewal documents by email, as it had given Mr and Mrs L 
notice of this. She therefore didnt recommend that it refund any further premiums. 
With regard to the repair, the investigator  didnt think the repair  had been carried out properly  
but also British  Gas had not been given the chance to rectify it. She therefore didnt think 
Ref: DRN54050383that British Gas needed to reimburse  any extra heating costs but she recommended  that 
British Gas pay £200 compensation, in addition to the £146.53 already offered.
British Gas doesnt accept the investigators assessment. So Mr and Mrs L were not 
inconvenienced by this issue for long and any increased gas usage is not its responsibility. It 
was not called out again for this issue after October  2017. It carried  out proper and timely 
repairs and so the compensation recommended it not justified. However,  British  Gas also 
says that if Mr and Mrs L can provide an invoice for the work done that they say rectified 
their boiler it will give it consideration.  
Mr and Mrs L also dont agree with the investigators  assessment. They say the £200 she 
recommended is nowhere near enough  to compensate them for the additional expenses 
they incurred and the loss of two days holiday. They say the motor replacement  involved the 
wiring  how could  an electric powerhead be replaced without touching any wiring?  If 
replacing this had fixed the boiler,  they would not have had to call British  Gas out again, 
would not have cancelled the policy held for 20 years and brought  this complaint. They  have 
provided pictures of the wiring, which they say speaks for itself as it shows  extra wiring 
loops that didnt need to be there;  and wiring put in the wrong way round. 
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the matter, it has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the investigator that 
additional compensation of £200  should  be paid but for different reasons. I will explain why.
renewal
British Gas apparently  wrote once to all customers to say they were going  to automatically 
change them over to a paperless  system  for all important policy  documents  unless they 
contacted British Gas to object. Having not heard  from Mr and Mrs L in response to this, it 
proceeded to send  all their renewal documents to an old email  address provided to British  
Gas for their gas bills. 
I am not satisfied this is reasonable. I do not consider  that one attempted  contact  is sufficient 
if requiring  the customer to positively opt out of an existing arrangement   particularly when 
it is about important  contractual  documentation, such  as the renewal  of an insurance  policy.
In addition, British  Gas says the British Gas Services (which is an insurance administrator 
and British Gas the utility  company are one and the same and so it was reasonable to use 
an email address provided in relation to a previous gas supply contract for insurance 
matters. This is not correct, the two are separate legal entities, so while  linked, they are not 
the same  and I can quite  understand  why Mr and Mrs L would not have expected  this email 
to have been used for their insurance cover. (I expect there is something in the small print 
when they provided  their contact details to British  Gas utilities  to say they could be used by 
other British  Gas companies  but this does  not mean it is fair to do so in this situation  and to 
only attempt  one communication to change a renewal arrangement.)
I accept Mr and Mrs Ls assertion that they would not have  chosen  to renew this policy, had 
they had the chance. Therefore, British Gas should  reimburse any premiums taken for the 
year July 2018 to 2019. I am pleased  to note that British  Gas did subsequently  agree to this. 
Ref: DRN54050384annual services 
British Gas agreed that the engineer should  have  done more  during the 2016 service and it 
offered to refund £79.30  for this (which is how much it charges for a standalone  service, 
whereas the cost of the service as part of their premium  is £65).  I think  this is reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs L also say that they may have been put at risk as the gasket and seals needed 
replacing in the 2017 service, as they had perished. They are concerned that this means  
they may have been at risk and these should  have  been checked  in the 2016 annual  
service. 
British Gas says that the type of boiler  means that if the perished seals had allowed gases to 
escape they would still not have leaked into the room but would have gone out of the flue, so 
this would not have been immediately dangerous. Mr and Mrs L have  questioned  this as 
British Gas also provided them with a carbon monoxide detector.
While the boiler is room sealed,  other  seals around  the boiler can deteriorate,  so a detector 
is of use. But there  is no evidence  that they were at immediate risk from the seal that had to 
be replaced during  the service in 2017.  While I understand this would have caused some 
concern, as there has been no detriment to Mr and Mrs L, I do not consider that any further  
award is warranted over and above  the reimbursement of the value of the annual  service. 
I also dont think I can reasonably ask British Gas to give Mr and Mrs L the value of the 
detector instead.
pricing 
Mr and Mrs L are also unhappy with that they are paying more for the policy,  after being with
British Gas for 23 years, than if they were to take a new policy  out now.  I understand that 
Mr and Mrs L were  paying around  £25 per month  for their policy,  and claims were subject to 
a £50 excess. The policy is advertised  online to new customers at £13.20 per month, with no 
excess. 
British Gas says it offers  new customers introductory rates.  The cost of the policy for existing 
customers is then adjusted based on various  factors, including  the age and make of their 
boiler.  
It is not unusual  for insurers to provide  discounts  to attract  new customers and there is 
nothing inherently  wrong  in doing so. 
Mr and Mrs L were  notified of the premium before the policy renewed each year (except for 
the renewal in 2018, which was sent by email)  and had a choice  about  whether to accept it 
or not. 
repairs 2017
British Gas attended on 26 September 2017 and replaced the powerhead/motor, the boiler 
was also serviced and a gasket  replaced. Mr and Mrs L say that the engineer told them at 
that visit that the three port valve was seized,  and this was the cause  of the problems  with 
the heating and hot water, but he wasnt qualified to replace that and so he changed the 
motor instead.  
Ref: DRN54050385Mr and Mrs L say this failed to resolve the problem which  recurred immediately but they 
didnt contact British  Gas again until 18 October  2017. British Gas went  out again the next 
day and replaced  the three port valve.
British Gas says this means it must  have  resolved  the problem for that time. I am unable  to 
be sure either way but in any case,  because  Mr and Mrs L didnt contact British Gas it didnt 
have the chance to repair it sooner. British  Gas went out again promptly  and carried  out 
another repair, which Mr and Mrs L say also didnt work. 
Mr and Mrs L say that the first contractor, rewired the motor  incorrectly, which is why both 
repairs failed to resolve the problem. They have sent photos  of the wiring, which they say 
speaks for itself.
I am not an electrician, and as far as Im aware neither are any of my ombudsmen 
colleagues. We hold various qualifications and have varied experience  relevant to our remit, 
which is to determine  the fair and reasonable outcome on individual complaints about 
financial products; in this case  the provision of insurance. It is not within our remit to make  
our own diagnosis of any damage.  Where there is a dispute we can look at the evidence 
provided by each party about  such matters.  In this case, British Gas says it would not have 
touched the wiring and its qualified gas engineers carried out repairs  they deemed were 
appropriate and necessary. 
Mr and Mrs L say this is illogical and the wiring was wrong. I can see from the photos 
provided that two coloured wires have been  switched  over between entering  and exiting a 
connection box. But I cant tell whether any wiring loops are present which shouldnt be. And 
there is nothing conclusive to show that this would have been wiring  carried  out by British  
Gas. Mr and Mrs L had a contractor inspect this wiring  and rectify  it but he has not provided 
any evidence about it and there  is no invoice  or bill from him to say what he did. Its also not 
clear exactly  when  Mr and Mrs Ls electrician  fixed the problem. In one document it says 1 
November 2017  but in other correspondence  theyve said a couple of weeks before they 
raised the complaint with British Gas in mid-2018.  
Overall, there is simply not enough  evidence to support  that British Gas did anything  wrong  
in the way it carried out the repairs. And even if there were,  Mr and Mrs L didnt contact 
British Gas again and so it had no chance to rectify this. It had attended  promptly  to each 
call out, so while I appreciate they say they had lost faith and couldnt wait in again for a 
British Gas engineer,  I am unable to conclude  that British Gas is responsible for the time 
taken to resolve the problem with the heating,  including the cost of any heating.   
I do however accept, on the balance of probabilities, that they did need to get a further repair  
done, which would have been covered under the policy. 
compensation
As stated, there is no convincing independent  evidence that the repairs  done by British  Gas 
were not reasonable at the time.  I do not therefore consider that Mr and Mrs L should be 
compensated for having to accommodate  those repair visits (even  if there were some  
documentary evidence  of any related  financial loss, which there  isnt).  
Mr and Mrs L say this didnt resolve the problem but did not go back  to British Gas about 
this. I can understand  that they might  have been frustrated enough  not to have  told British 
Ref: DRN54050386Gas that this repair was not successful but given they didnt tell British Gas and there is 
nothing in writing  from their electrician, it is difficult for me to conclude that the actions taken  
by British Gas were incorrect or unreasonable. I do not therefore consider that it is 
responsible for all that followed, including any additional gas usage, as it was not given the 
chance to come back and resolve the issue. 
I do not however  have  any reason  to doubt  that the issue  was not permanently fixed at either 
the first or second attendance. If Mr and Mrs L had called British  Gas out again, it would 
have covered any subsequent repair. While  Mr and Mrs L were not apparently  charged  by 
their contractor for this (although they paid him as a thank you) I consider that some 
compensation is appropriate to reflect this. 
Overall, I agree  that the sum of £200   in addition to the £146.53 already offered - is 
appropriate to compensate for having to have a further repair  carried  out; the 2016 annual  
service not being  carried  out properly and the worry this caused; not dealing with the 
renewal properly and the premium  refund.  It is not clear if the £146.53  has already been paid 
yet or not. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited and require it to: 
pay a total of £346.53 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of this claim and the policy. (This includes the £146.53 already offered.) If 
any part of this has already been  paid, British Gas only needs to pay the remainder.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 July 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5405038