K820x#14complaint
Mrs D wants a full refund from American  Express Services Europe Limited (Amex)  for a 
holiday that she paid for using  her Amex charge card because  she believes that it was 
mis-sold and not as described.
background
Mrs D paid almost  £12,000 for a family  holiday in a five star hotel using  her Amex charge 
card. She says the holiday  was mis-sold by a company that I will refer to as T. She says 
that the hotel wasnt  as described by T in its brochure and fell way short  of its stated five star 
rating. She says that she first complained to representatives of T when she was at the hotel  
along with the hotel  management and asked to be moved. She was unhappy with their 
responses and decided to return to the UK three  days after arriving. 
She tried to raise her complaint directly with T when she returned but says she didnt get a 
satisfactory response. So she complained  to Amex in January 2018 and asked for a refund 
from them under  Section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (s.75). Amex said that this 
didnt apply here because of the nature of the card and account  Mrs D had with it. Instead, 
Amex explained  to Mrs D that they could raise a chargeback  but it couldnt dispute the 
quality of service provided. They could only dispute the amount if the service was defective  
or not as described. They gave her a refund of the disputed amount whilst they investigated 
her complaint 
 
A few weeks  later Amex  reapplied the payment to her account. They sent her copies of the 
correspondence with T and said that the chargeback wasnt  successful. Mrs D wasnt  happy 
with this and brought  her complaint to our service.
In its response to our investigator Amex explained  that in dealing with Mrs Ds complaint it 
used a chargeback  process, as s.75 didnt apply. Mrs D had a charge card and not a credit 
card. Chargeback is an agreement between Amex and the merchants who use their service. 
It has clear rules which differ  from those of s.75. Under the chargeback  process Amex 
cannot investigate  quality of service issues. The customer has to do it themselves directly  
with the merchant. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. He acknowledged that Mrs D had had a very 
upsetting experience both during her short stay on holiday and subsequently in trying  to get 
a refund. But he found that Amex had followed  the rules of the chargeback process  correctly  
and so couldnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Mrs D was unhappy with this decision and so the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D initially  requested  a refund under  s.75, as in certain  circumstances a creditor  can be 
held liable  for a transaction where  theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by 
the supplier of goods and services. But s.75 only applies to certain  types of lending,  
including credit cards. I realise Mrs D may have  thought she had a credit card  but she 
didnt - she had a charge card. 
Ref: DRN59526012The terms and conditions  of the charge card are printed on every  statement, so I think Mrs D 
would have had access to them. They explain that her account is not a credit card, but I think  
she got confused about this. I say this because she refers  to other members of the holiday 
party successfully applying for a refund from their credit card providers.
In these circumstances, the relevant way Amex  could  have  investigated Mrs Ds dispute was 
through the chargeback process. So what I need to consider is whether Amex  considered  
this chargeback fairly and as it should  have. I think it did. Amex has shown that it considered 
what Mrs D told it about the dispute she raised  including all she said about the resort and 
the service T had provided. Amex gave  a refund while it investigated the claim under the 
chargeback process.
It then raised a chargeback in line with the relevant rules. As a part of this process,  T was 
then allowed to provide its own representations. T did so and Amex then considered  that 
what it had provided  supported that the service was as described. Having seen what  Amex  
was provided with, I can understand why it reached this decision and I think it did so fairly. 
Mrs D purchased a stay at a five star hotel and thats what she received. There  do seem to 
have been some issues with the service she received, but not of an extent that I think  its fair 
to say that she didnt  get the service  she purchased.  And, as Amex explained, the way this 
chargeback was being considered under the rules didnt allow  it to consider the quality of a 
service  only if it was as described. Thats in line with the relevant rules here.
So while Mrs D made her side of the situation  clear, the response from T was also detailed 
and supported that the service was as described   even  if it may not have necessarily been 
what Mrs D expected. But the quality of the service wasnt being considered as a part of the 
chargeback here  only whether the service was as described. And, for the reasons Ive 
explained, Im satisfied that Amex acted fairly when it decided that it was.
I appreciate that the disappointment Mrs D felt when the hotel was not what she expected  
must have  caused  her great distress. It was a special  holiday and she had paid a lot of 
money. So I can understand  why shed have perhaps felt that the chargeback process  
wasnt how she expected  her dispute to be dealt with. But that doesnt mean that Amex 
didnt deal with this correctly and fairly, even though it didnt decide  the dispute  in her favour. 
So I cant tell Amex  to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Constantia Pennie
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5952601