K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1999 
alongside a mortgage. Mr and Mrs M say National  Westminster Bank PLC (NatWest) mis-
sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M say they dont remember the PPI being sold in 1999 and they only recall 
taking out a mortgage with NatWest in 1994.  But NatWest  has sent us screen shots of its 
internal system showing the mortgage  and PPI being taken out in 1999. It has also sent me 
a copy of the mortgage offer which is also dated 1999. So Im satisfied that this mortgage 
and PPI were both taken  out in 1999.  
Ive also seen that in the mortgage offer there is a section which reads You have selected a 
monthly benefit of £200 under Mortgage Repayment Protector Insurance. The monthly 
premium will be £10.16.  Mr M also signed  a direct debit mandate titled  Mortgage 
Repayment Protector Insurance. Unfortunately  due to the length of time thats  passed  since 
the sale neither  party  have a copy of the mortgage application form or a separate  PPI 
application form. But from the evidence Ive seen  I think Mr and Mrs M wouldve known 
about the PPI and wouldve also known  the policy was optional   as the mortgage  offer 
indicates this is something they chose to take out
So overall based on the evidence Ive seen I think the PPI was taken out at the same time as 
the mortgage in 1999 and that NatWest  made  it clear that Mr and Mrs M didnt have to take 
out the PPI and they chose to take it out in Mr Ms name only  although  I can understand 
why they cant  remember  this.
Mr and Mrs M couldnt remember if they were advised or recommended  to take out the PPI. 
NatWest says it didnt recommend the PPI and this is in line with its standard  procedure for 
PPI sales at the time. Our adjudicator considered this to have been an advised sale,  but 
having looked at the evidence and considering what we know  about how NatWest sold PPI 
around the time, I think  this is more likely to have been a non-advised sale. However, in any 
event this finding doesnt make a difference to the outcome of the case as Ive not seen any 
reason why the PPI was not suitable for Mr M. So Ive considered this sale as an advised 
sale, as it makes no difference to the outcome. 
As an advised sale NatWest had to take reasonable steps to ensure the PPI was right for Mr 
and Mrs M   and based on what Ive seen of Mr Ms circumstances (as the insured party) at 
the time,  I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. Mr M also told us he didnt  have any sick pay entitlement from his 
employers. He has said that he had some savings  at the time, and Ive thought about this, 
but I also think having the PPI in place wouldve provided additional  security  for Mr and 
Mrs M. The policy cost £10.16 per month and wouldve  provided  £200 monthly benefit for up 
Ref: DRN53694222to 12 months in the event Mr M was too sick to work or made redundant. And this wouldve 
paid out in addition to their savings, so these funds couldve been used for other  expenses. 
So I think they had a need for the cover.  
It is possible some of the other information  NatWest gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But it seems  like it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover.
my final decision
For all the reasons outlined above,  I dont think the policy  was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 September 2019. 
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5369422