K822xcomplaint
Mr T feels that National Westminster Bank  Plc has treated him unfairly  in relation to his 
credit card regarding work done  on new roofing and associated work on his house.
background
In May 2017, Mr T entered  into a contract with a roofing company regarding  his porch roof 
and conservatory  roof and associated works. There was additional work carried out which 
included installing windows, ceiling spotlights  and assorted work to make all the work up to 
the agreed standard. The total cost for the work was over £23,000 which  Mr T paid for using 
his credit card.
Since then there have  been a number  of issues which Mr T wasnt  happy with and the 
roofing company have attended and done some work  including  work it says it has done for 
free. But Mr T remains unhappy.
Mr T complained to NatWest, but it feels it has treated him fairly. It didnt raise a chargeback  
as it didnt think it would have a realistic prospect of success and it felt it was out of time. 
And as there hasnt  been an independent inspection (which NatWest offered to pay for) 
NatWest feels it cant  make  a fair assessment of whether there  has been a breach of 
contract or material misrepresentation here by the roofing company. 
So it didnt think it could  uphold  a Section 75 claim in these  circumstances. NatWest  is still 
willing to consider the matter on receipt  of an independent report into the reported issues 
(which its still happy to pay for).
Our investigator said that NatWests decision not to consider the majority of issues  without 
an independent report was fair. She did feel that due to differences in some of the materials 
used that there was a breach and the difference  in cost of these materials  should be 
refunded to Mr T. 
NatWest didnt agree there was a breach but offered the calculated  amount as gesture of 
goodwill to bring  the matter to a close. Mr T doesnt agree. So, this complaint comes  to me 
to decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This services aim is to provide fast, free and impartial resolutions  to disputes between  
complainants and firms. With this in mind  I note that Mr T has made  numerous,  lengthy and 
detailed arguments  to all parties throughout. I have  considered all of these carefully.  But in 
the interests of clarity, fairness  and finality I shall only address the arguments of all the 
parties that I consider key to the fair and reasonable conclusion of this dispute at this 
service.
There is no dispute that Mr T authorised NatWest to pay for the works on his house.  Having  
decided NatWest properly  paid the roofing company there are two possible avenues for this 
complaint to follow, namely  a Section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 or via 
Ref: DRN52111412the credit  card chargeback process  which is under  the chargeback scheme  rules  
administered by the card scheme provider (not NatWest).
Section 75
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr T has a claim for material  misrepresentation or 
breach of contract against a supplier  of goods  or services, he can also bring that claim 
against the credit provider  (NatWest  here) provided certain conditions are met. NatWest 
says that there isnt persuasive evidence that any breach or misrepresentation has taken 
place.
To gain protection under Section 75 there  are certain conditions that have to be met before 
even considering whether there  has been a breach of contract or material misrepresentation. 
I think it likely this transaction falls within the financial limits required by the Act. There also 
needs to be the required  three-party contractual relationship-debtor, creditor  and supplier; 
often referred to as the DCS relationship.  I think this is made  out here also. So now I can 
consider whether there  has been  a breach of contract or a material misrepresentation in this 
case.
Misrepresentation
Mr T says the roofing company misrepresented  what it was going to do. And it is clear  there  
was a change  in plan and that there was paperwork prepared  to show this change in plan. 
Mr T argues that what he got wasnt what he originally agreed  to and accordingly this must  
be a misrepresentation  and his complaint should  be successful. But there was new 
documentation provided and Mr T says he wasnt prepared to lose his deposit over a stylistic 
change and thats why he went ahead with the matter. Mr Ts comments on 
misrepresentation arent persuasive to me. The key point here is that the misrepresentation 
must be material, that is, Id need  to be persuaded that Mr T wouldnt have gone  ahead with 
the works  if hed known  about the change in plan. But Mr Ts very own comments  make 
clear he did know about the plan change. Accordingly he wasnt materially misrepresented  
into something hed otherwise  not have done.  On balance Im satisfied he did know and 
proceeded because he chose to in the circumstances.
Breach
The Investigator in this case  decided there  was breach because a different type of 
waterproofing material was used to that which was originally agreed.  NatWest pointed  to the 
terms and conditions and noted that those allowed for changes  in materials.  The roof 
company has said it changed from one to another slightly cheaper material  due to having 
problems sourcing the more expensive material. NatWest whilst  disputing the breach has 
offered the price  difference  in the materials as a gesture of goodwill. Mr T has refused this 
offer and sought  a decision on this matter (and more broadly). 
Im not persuaded there was a breach here. The terms agreed  clearly allow  for changes in 
materials. And based on the comments about  the materials  used here Im not persuaded 
there is any significant difference in quality.  Nevertheless NatWest  offered the difference  in 
cost as a gesture of goodwill. So Im satisfied that NatWest has treated  Mr T fairly here.
The crux of these issues
Ref: DRN52111413More broadly considering all the work done,  Mr T has pointed  to numerous issues over an 
extended period  of time. The roofing company have attended on various occasions and 
carried out work. It has made clear that it believes  it has provided a good level of service 
using good quality materials in the original work  on Mr Ts house and since when it has 
attended. It has made clear it is happy to continue to do so as that is part of the service it 
provides. The roof company also point  to work it has done and materials supplied  all without 
charge. This includes providing tiles, work on a door stay, removal  of rotten plastic felt and 
fixing a leak which wasnt related to the work  it had done.
Similarly NatWest  has been offering Mr T the cost of an independent  report  since July 2018, 
but Mr T has repeatedly  chosen not to source  such a report. It is also clear  that the 
Investigator has made clear to Mr T that an independent report  should be done and has 
supported NatWest in its assertion on this. 
Mr T has repeatedly chosen not to follow this course  of action. I think it likely that had Mr T 
chosen to follow NatWests suggestion  of an independent report  in July 2018 this dispute 
would have been finished some months  if not years ago. Mr T feels  that an independent 
report is unreasonable. Considering Mr Ts position  and that of the roofing company are 
significantly different I think not only is an independent report  reasonable I think  it clearly and 
manifestly fair in these  circumstances. I say this because it will allow  a fair and independent 
assessment of all the issues Mr T has raised  about all of the work. Which  NatWest can then 
consider and deal with Mr Ts claim accordingly. (Hence Ive not detailed all of these issues 
that Mr T has raised about  the work carried out in this decision.)
NatWests offer to pay for such a report is clearly  fair and sensible in the circumstances 
considering the roof company clearly feel theyve  provided and excellent service to Mr T 
overall. So overall I think NatWest have  treated  Mr T fairly considering S75 and its repeated  
request for an independent report.
Chargeback
The chargeback process  is administered by the scheme provider (not NatWest) and 
provides a process for banks to recover funds for its account holders  in certain situations. 
Broadly speaking banks  should decide fairly  whether to make  a chargeback or not. But wed 
generally consider  it good practice  for a chargeback to be attempted where  there was a 
reasonable prospect of success. 
NatWest has pointed  to the chargeback processes and rules and noted what  it considers are 
two pertinent arguments, firstly that when considering the last date of the transaction  that 
took place here and when  Mr T brought the matter to it, the matter  was already outside the 
time limits in the scheme. It has also noted that it should chargeback only where it has a 
reasonable prospect of success. NatWest have repeatedly pointed to not being able to get 
an independent report, so it doesnt  feel it has done anything wrong with regard to 
chargeback and that Mr T hasnt lost out due to no chargeback being raised. Having 
considered what  happened  here and the scheme  rules Im satisfied  on balance that NatWest  
hasnt treated Mr T unfairly with regard to chargeback.
The Warranties
There are two warranties at play here. The first only comes into effect in the event of the 
roofing company no longer trading and not being  able to fulfil its obligation to ensure the 
quality of its work for ten years. As the roofing company is trading and has continued to 
Ref: DRN52111414make clear  it is willing to make good any faults  I see no unfairness  on the part of NatWest 
regarding this warranty. And the second is that provided by the roofing company directly  with 
regard to ensuring the quality of its work which Ive just explained. I note that it has attended 
the property on various  occasions and repeat what Ive earlier said on the roofing companys 
desire to ensure the quality of the work is ongoing. In fact I also note that whilst dealing with 
our Investigator it was suggested that it attended  again-to which  Mr T disagreed.  
So I dont  think,  considering everything in the round, that NatWest has treated Mr T unfairly 
with regard to these policies either.
Summary
Mr T has for an extended  period of time chosen  to not have an independent  report  carried 
out. But for NatWest  to fairly consider the matter it has requested and offered to pay for it. Mr 
T has asked why one is needed. The answer  is simple, the roofing company feels it has 
done a good job originally  and since. Mr T disagrees. So the fair way to resolve  the matter is 
for an independent report  and that is what NatWest has been saying since 2018. And it has 
offered to pay for the difference  in materials even though it feels  (correctly) that it hasnt 
done anything  wrong in that particular regard.
In short,  Ive considered everything that Mr T has said. I appreciate how Mr T feels  about  the 
whole situation.  However, I dont think  what NatWest has done with regard to the Section 75 
or the chargeback has meant that Mr T has been  treated unfairly  by it.  Accordingly I feel the 
suggested settlement  of £38.68 offered by NatWest  is a fair and reasonable settlement in 
this matter. As there  is no breach here I see no reason for interest to be applied to the offer 
made by NatWest originally. If Mr T doesnt accept this decision then NatWest  doesnt have 
to pay this amount  to Mr T. 
This final decision brings to an end the consideration of this dispute by this service. 
Doubtlessly Mr T will be disappointed. And he is at liberty to reject  this decision if he wishes 
to. And he may continue  his dispute with NatWest through other avenues if he so wishes. 
But as Ive said this decision brings to a conclusion this services  and my involvement  in this 
matter.
Ref: DRN52111415my final decision
For the above reasons National Westminster Bank Plc should  pay the suggested settlement 
of £38.68 to Mr T on notification by this service that Mr T has accepted this decision.  If he 
doesnt accept  this decision it doesnt need to pay.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 February  2021.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5211141