K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains about the quality of a car he acquired which  was financed by a hire purchase 
agreement with FirstRand Bank Limited.
background
Mr T entered into a hire purchase agreement on 3 February 2018  for a car that was first 
registered in September 2008. It had a mileage of 73,994 miles at the point of sale.
Mr T experienced problems with the car soon  after he took delivery of it. The back  left hand 
door would not open. There was a smell of fuel in the car and the fuel gauge was not 
working. The throttle was sticking  and there  was a problem with the revving of the car. The 
wiper motor was not working properly and the car was misfiring.  
Mr T took the car in for repair  but he says the problems were  not fixed. Mr T contacted  
FirstRand in May 2018. The car had further work  done but Mr T says this did not solve the 
issues. Mr T contacted  FirstRand in September 2018. He provided  it with a report from a 
local garage which said the car had a fault with the rear door lock and a misfire in cylinder 
one. FirstRand asked Mr T for a quote  for the repairs. Mr J provided one on 30 November 
2018 in the sum of £137.40. FirstRand paid Mr T this sum so the repairs  could be carried  
out. 
Mr T contacted FirstRand in December 2018.  He said the fuel sender unit had to be tested  
by an auto electrician  to check if this was causing  the fault with the misfiring. 
In January  2019,  Mr T told FirstRand the emissions  on the car were too high and he could 
not use it. Mr T wanted to reject  the car. An independent engineer  inspected the car. The 
report said the current faults with the car were not present at the time of sale. If they were, 
Mr T would not have been able to drive the car for the distance he had. FirstRand will not 
allow Mr T to reject  the car. He brought a complaint to us to consider. 
The investigator recommended that the complaint is upheld. She noted that FirstRand  state  
the independent report states  that there were no issues  at the point of sale.  
However the report does not confirm  that the faults were  not developing at the point of 
sale. Mr T first contacted  FirstRand in May 2018 explaining he was experiencing issues 
with the car, three  months  after he entered into the agreement.  As Mr T reported issues 
within six months it is likely that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality. The investigator 
considered the issues with the vehicle were  developing at the point of sale. They  fall 
outside expected wear and tear and would  not be expected so soon after purchase. The 
vehicle should  be in durable  condition  and last a reasonable  period of time. 
The investigator recommended that Mr T should  be able to reject  the vehicle. To put things 
right FirstRand should:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay
collect the car at no further cost to Mr T
refund  the deposit and pay 8% simple interest  from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement
Ref: DRN56700822pay £200 for loss of use of the car because of the faults
pay a further amount for any trouble and upset thats been  caused due to the 
faulty goods  for example the inconvenience of multiple return visits to the 
garage for repairs  and diagnostics
remove any adverse information  from Mr Ts credit file.
FirstRand is not happy  to accept  the investigators recommendation. It says that the 
independent inspection says the car was not in that condition at the start of the agreement.  It 
could not have completed the mileage it had if that were the case. 
Mr T points  out he did not pay a deposit when he acquired the car. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (The  Act) the car must  be of satisfactory  quality, fit 
for purpose and as described.  When deciding whether a used car is of satisfactory  quality 
account needs to be taken of its age and mileage. Here the car was around 10 years old and 
had a mileage of just under  74,000 so that would mean that it would be expected  that over 
time issues with parts  becoming worn  and needing repair  or replacement would arise.
Although wear and tear issues  with the car wouldve been  expected  over time Ive seen that 
problems with this car came to light within a short period of Mr T acquiring it. And Ive also 
seen that the issues with the car and the number  of repairs  were  agreed by the dealer and 
FirstRand. So I think that means its not disputed the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale.
However, if faults with a car come to light 30 days after the car comes  into a consumers 
possession then the retailer  has an opportunity to fix the fault. And FirstRand says that 
looking at the independent engineers report the car was fixed and any new faults have 
arisen from use and so Mr T isnt now entitled to reject it.
The inspection report says: 
On the balance of probability, the vehicle was not in this condition at finance 
inception.
The report  noted  that the car had a severe misfire and should not be driven. Previous 
repairs had not solved the problem. The report adds We  also  consider  that  the  vehicle  
could  not  have  been  in  this  condition   at  finance inception,  as  the  vehicle  could  
not  have  been   driven  the  distance  that  it  has  in  this condition.
I have  read the independent inspection report on the car. There  is an inaccuracy in it. The 
report says Mr T bought  the car when it had a mileage of 73,000.  The MOT  report which was 
carried out the day before Mr T acquired the car says the mileage was 73,994.  
Ive seen from a photograph that the current mileage  on the car is 75,234. That means  Mr T 
has been able to drive the car for 1,240  miles since he acquired it in early  February  2018.  
Ref: DRN56700823Mr T had problems with the car as soon  as he took possession of it. It had repairs carried out 
a number of times but problems  with the car remained. The independent expert considers 
the current problems  with car were not present at the point of sale.
However its unclear  to me what information  this engineer had received in respect of the 
earlier repairs. He doesnt address what impact  these earlier  repairs mightve had on the 
running of the car or whether there was any link to the current problems with the car. Ive 
noted that the complaints Mr T made about the car have been consistent since  he acquired 
it. The car doesnt appear to have exhibited completely new symptoms  or problems. 
I think that looking  at the number of problems and attempted  repairs  this car has been  
subjected to since  Mr T acquired it that notwithstanding its age and mileage most people 
would consider  it wasnt of satisfactory quality. I think the past repairs were unsuccessful 
as the issues  remain.  
Mr T has not driven the car for a significant distance   1,240 miles in a year.  
Mr T has repeatedly raised faults  as soon  as he acquired the car. So I think its likely this car 
still has issues with faults it had at the point of sale and isnt of satisfactory  quality.
I think it would be fair and reasonable for Mr T to now reject the car. FirstRand should  end 
the agreement with nothing further  for Mr T to pay under it. It should  collect  the car at no cost 
to him if it is in Mr Ts possession. FirstRand should pay Mr T £400 for the distress and 
inconvenience he has experienced. Mr T has had to return  the car for repairs on a number of 
occasions. Mr T has not been able to use the car for a number of months. He has had to 
enter into a second finance agreement for another car as he cannot drive the one he 
acquired under the agreement  with FirstRand. This has caused him financial problems. 
FirstRand should remove any adverse information from his credit file. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. 
FirstRand Bank Limited should:
Cancel the hire purchase agreement with no further sums due from Mr T.
Pay Mr T £400 for distress and inconvenience
Collect the car at no cost to Mr T if it is in his possession
Remove any adverse  information from Mr Ts credit file. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Rosemary Lloyd
Ref: DRN56700824ombudsman
Ref: DRN5670082