K820x#14complaint
Mr M is complaining that he thinks a car Advantage Finance  Ltd (Advantage) supplied him 
under a hire purchase agreement was of unsatisfactory quality.  
background
Mr M entered into a hire purchase  agreement  through Advantage in May 2018 to acquire a 
car. He says during the test drive he told the supplying  dealership  (the dealership) that there 
were some noises and the gear stick was shaking.  He says the dealership said it would fix 
those issues. However  he said that the gear stick was still shaking when he picked the car 
up. The dealership advised him to bring  the car back and it would fix the issues, which  it did.
Mr M said that a few days later he was driving on the motorway  when the car started to 
shudder and lost acceleration and eventually stopped working at a red light. The car was 
then recovered  back to the dealership. The dealership inspected the car and advised that 
the issue was in respect to the fuel injection system and a misfiring cylinder, which  it said it 
would repair. Mr M says that he asked the dealership to provide a courtesy  car as he said he 
needed a car for work. But he says that the dealership wouldnt provide one. So Mr M hired 
a car himself  at his expense.
Mr M says that around a week later the dealership  advised him to come and collect the car, 
so he handed  the hire car back.  But when he went to collect  his car, the dealership advised 
him that it wouldnt be ready for around  another week.  Mr M said that he missed a days  
work as a result of this and had to borrow money  the next day for a taxi.
Mr M later collected his car, but he says that around three days afterwards he heard a noise 
in the engine and found that the alternator  belt had come off and was ripped. He advised this 
to the dealership who asked him to bring  the car back in and it would fix it. 
Around six days after he received it back,  Mr M says that the car stalled while coming  off the 
motorway. The car was recovered to the dealership again and the issue was found  to be 
down to the gearbox. Mr M says that he asked the dealership again to provide a courtesy 
car, but he says that it initially said it wouldnt provide one. However,  he later received a 
courtesy car, but he was unhappy  with its quality as he says it had bald tyres and had a fuel 
leak.
After Mr M got the car back, he took it to another  garage to have a free health check carried  
out and he says the garage raised a number of concerns and advised it would cost around  
£814 to fix them.
Mr M complained to Advantage about  the issues and said he wanted it to fix them. He also 
says that the dealership refused to fix the issues under the cars warranty.  Advantage then 
arranged for an independent engineer to inspect  the car. The engineer agreed that there  
were faults  with the car. But he thought that they were down to wear and tear and were in 
line with the cars age and mileage. 
Mr M also thinks the car was misrepresented to him. He says the sales advert advertised 
that the car was in excellent  condition and came with a full service  history. But he says that 
the subsequent faults have shown that it wasnt in excellent condition.
Ref: DRN50424042Following this, Advantage advised  Mr M that it didnt think it was required to fix the issues  
that were still outstanding  with the car. Mr M disagreed and asked this service to investigate  
the complaint.  Since then, Mr M says that hes paid around £690 to have some repairs done 
on the car.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2019 partially upholding this complaint. And I 
said the following:
Mr M acquired the car under a hire purchase  agreement. Legislation  in this case  the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015  implies a term into the hire purchase agreement that the car 
must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance provider,  Advantage is 
responsible for the quality of the car its provided under the agreement.  Theres  no dispute  
that there  were faults with the car, but the issue is whether Advantage was required to fix 
them. In thinking  about this I need to consider whether they present at the time of sale,  and 
whether the faults made the car of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.
In deciding whether  this car was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the cash price, its mileage  and age. In this case,  Mr M paid around 
£4,000 for the car. The car was around seven and a half years old and had travelled around  
86,000 miles at the point of supply. 
The issue  here is whether  those  problems were likely to have been  present or developing at 
the time of sale or whether they were  down to natural  and inevitable  wear and tear in a used 
car. Ive also considered  whether a reasonable person would expect there to be problems  
such as Mr M has experienced in a car of this price, age and mileage   in short is the car 
sufficiently durable. 
initial faults that were  repaired  by the dealership
Its clear that there were a number of faults  with the car that materialised  in the first two 
weeks of Mr M acquiring it. However,  the CRA sets out that faults Mr M was aware  of before 
he agreed to acquire  the car dont make it of unsatisfactory quality. Mr M was aware that 
there were issues with the car before he agreed  to acquire it. I dont dispute that the 
dealership said it would  fix the issues and appeared to not fully do so  in particular the 
gearstick. But Im satisfied that these issues were fixed shortly after he received it at no cost 
to Mr M. So Im not persuaded he lost out as a result of this.
However, I note that in the two weeks after he received  the car, it developed  an issue  with 
the fuel injection system, there was a mis-firing cylinder, and a fault with the gearbox.  Ive 
not seen anything to suggest  that these were  linked to the original  faults Mr M identified 
before he acquired  the car. I think these were significant issues and appear to have caused 
some worrying situations  for Mr M as hes told us that the car lost power  while driving  on or 
leaving the motorway. While the car did have a high mileage, I dont think a reasonable 
person would expect  to experience these  types  of issues within the first two weeks of 
acquiring it.
The dealership has repaired  these issues at no cost to Mr M. So Advantage isnt required to 
do anything further  to fix those issues. But I think Mr M has lost out as a result  of these 
issues. Hes shown that he had to hire a car while the dealership was fixing the fuel injection 
system and cylinder.  And its clear that he wouldnt have incurred this cost had the car not 
had these issues. So I think  Advantage should  refund this cost plus 8% simple  interest  per 
year from the date he paid it until he gets it back.
Ref: DRN50424043I also think that Mr M has suffered some  distress and inconvenience  as a result  of this. In 
addition to the inconvenience of being  without the car on three  occasions,  I think  the 
circumstances of when  Mr M broke  down  would have been distressing for him. Im also 
conscious that he had to be recovered  on two separate occasions. Taking all this into 
account, I think Advantage  should pay him £150 in compensation.
subsequent faults on the car
Mr M has provided a report which highlighted a number of issues with the car. In particular it 
said the following:
The rear brake  pads were nearing the manufacturers minimum specification;
The lower suspension wishbone arms needed replacing;
The front tyres needed replacing  as they were  nearly at the minimum legal  tread 
allowance;
Reversing  sensor wasnt working;
The ancillary drive belt was excessively damaged.
Mr M has complained that the dealership wouldnt repair these faults under the cars 
warranty. But I cant comment on that in this decision as Im only looking at Advantages 
actions in this decision.
Advantage arranged for an independent engineer  to inspect  the car who agreed with these 
faults. But he said the vehicle  would  have been considered  to have been fit for purpose at 
the time of its purchase and of a satisfactory standard.   Although there is an underlying 
issue/s with the vehicle these are the result of the vehicles natural wear and tear through  
general usage, only developing into an issue that requires rectification after purchase.
I can understand why Mr M is unhappy to learn about the number of faults that his car had 
so soon after receiving  it. But Im also conscious that hed driven around 5,000  miles in the 
car by the time the garage inspected it. Also, it has to be noted that this wasnt a new car 
and had travelled  a high number of miles by the time hed acquired it. 
I need to think  about  whether the issues the garage  highlighted  were outside of what one 
would reasonably expect to see on the car, taking into account its age and mileage. I think 
the issues are down to just general  wear and tear from the high number of miles that car had 
travelled, which  was confirmed by the findings  of the independent inspection.
I also think its important to note that the car passed an MOT  on the day that Mr M first 
acquired it. I note Mr M thinks that this MOT wasnt  a fair reflection of the car, given the 
garages comments. But, as I said, the car had travelled an additional 5,000 miles since  the 
MOT inspection. Ultimately, I havent  seen enough  to support Mr Ms concerns. I think  on 
balance the MOT was likely to be a fair reflection  of the cars condition  at the point  of sale. 
Taking everything into account,  I cant say that Advantage  is required to refund the costs  that 
Mr M incurred in fixing the additional faults  with the car. 
misrepresentation
Ref: DRN50424044Mr M has highlighted that the sales advert for the car said the car was in excellent condition  
and came with a fully documented  service  history. But he doesnt  think the advert  was a fair 
reflection of the condition of the car.
Legislation also sets out that Advantage can be held responsible for statements the 
dealership made about the car that wasnt  true. Given the number  of issues the car had in 
the two weeks  after he acquired it, I dont think the car was in an excellent  condition. But 
Mr M has also said that he highlighted a number of issues with the car before he acquired it. 
So I think he would have  reasonably been aware that the car wasnt of excellent  condition. I 
also havent seen  anything to suggest  that Mr M wasnt given a fully documented service 
history with the car.
But even if this wasnt the case, I need to think about whether Mr M would have  acquired  the 
car if Advantage hadnt given him false information.  I think  he would have done. Despite the 
number of issues hes had with the car, hes said that he wants to keep the car because  he 
likes the model and colour. And I think it was the car itself that was the driving force  behind  
his decision to buy the car rather than what the advert says. So I dont think Advantage 
needs to compensate Mr M for anything  that the dealership may have said to him.
And I said that I thought Mr M had lost out as a result of the faults that arose  in the first two 
weeks hed had the car. I thought Advantage needed to compensate him for that. And I 
thought it should do the following:
1.Refund the amount that Mr M paid to hire the car while  his car was being repaired.  It 
should also pay 8% simple interest  per year on this from the date he paid it until he gets 
it back. If Advantage thinks that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to deduct  
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also 
give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if 
appropriate; and
2.Pay £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
him.
Advantage responded to say Mr M is in arrears by £1,958.76 so it said it would deduct the 
£150 in compensation from this. It also said that it didnt  have  any record  of Mr M discussing 
a hire car at any point.  So it queried  what dates hed had the hire car and wanted a copy of 
the hire invoice. Finally  it highlighted  that Mr M had continued to use the car throughout the 
complaint process,  so it didnt think it should have  to pay for hire charges, given it thought 
the evidence showed that hed continued to drive the car it had provided.
Mr M raised  a number of additional points that he wanted me to take into account:
1.While  he has continued to use the car, hed only done so because he spent £690 on 
carrying out repairs to the car to make it roadworthy. He says that hed travelled around  
28,000 miles in the car because it is now in good  working  order. But he says this is only 
because hes had to pay around £1,400 to repair a car that he maintains that he 
shouldnt have  ever been responsible for;
2.Mr M doesnt  dispute that he told the original case handler that he liked the model  and 
colour of the car. But he said that this was only a small part of the reason he kept the 
car. He explained that he felt trapped into keeping the car due to his financial 
circumstances, as a result of having  to spend money on a hire car, fuel for a courtesy car 
which he considered  was faulty and had to spend a lot of money having to get repairs  
done on it himself. He said he would have had to spend  more money reinsuring a new 
Ref: DRN50424045car, wait another month for it to be ready  and finance to be arranged.  So he felt he had 
no option but to keep  it;
3.He doesnt  think its fair that £150  is fair compensation for all the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused him. And he wants  Advantage to compensate him 
for damage to his mental health as a result  of the initial  issues  hes had with the car and 
the length of time this matter has taken.  He also says that they risked  him harm in failing 
to recognise that there were issues with the car. And he think compensation in the region 
of £800-£1,000  is fairer;
4.Mr M doesnt  think Advantage should  be entitled to offset  the £150 in compensation 
against the amount that he owes.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the one I reached  in my provisional decision.
Ive taken Mr Ms comments into account and, while I acknowledge that he doesnt agree 
with the conclusions Ive reached, he hasnt given  me anything new to think  about in respect 
to the breach of contract and misrepresentation. And Im satisfied  that my provisional 
decision fairly explains why I dont think Advantage is required to refund the £690 he paid to 
fix the faults highlighted in the free health  check. As I said,  I think  the faults were down to 
just general wear and tear from the high number of miles  that car had travelled, which was 
confirmed by the findings of the independent inspection. And Mr M hasnt  given me anything 
to conclude otherwise.
I note Mr M has said that he was only able to drive 5,000 miles in the car from the time he 
first acquired the car and the health check because of the repairs  he had carried out on the 
car. And I dont dispute that. But my reference  to him driving an additional 5,000 between  
acquiring the car and having  the health  check done is that I think  the cars condition  is likely 
to have changed since the MOT.  And, while I note Mr Ms comments  about why he could do 
so, the reality is that the car had travelled this distance since  hed acquired it and when the 
MOT was carried out. So I still think the MOT was likely to be a fair reflection of the cars 
condition at the point of sale.
I acknowledge that Mr M doesnt  think £150 is fair compensation  for whats  happened. But, 
as I said, I think  Advantage  is only liable for the issues that arose in the first few weeks  he 
had the car. While I acknowledge that Mr M would have found this matter  frustrating, I 
havent seen enough to show that he suffered a significant amount of distress  and 
inconvenience to make me think that £150  is an unreasonable  amount of compensation. So I 
still think its fair compensation.
I acknowledge that Mr M thinks its unfair  that Advantage intends to offset  the compensation 
against the amount he owes in arrears. But I dont  think this is unfair. Mr M owes Advantage 
more than it owes him. So I dont think its unreasonable that it offsets the amount it owes 
him in compensation against Mr Ms arrears in the specific circumstances of this complaint.
I note Advantage  has queried the hire charges Mr M incurred as it says that hed never 
raised this with it before. But I can see a file note following a telephone conversation with 
Mr M in June  2018 where the call handler wrote  dealer states that had a misfire on the 
cylinder and injector  was leaking. Had to get a hire car while car with dealer as needs for 
work and cost customer £200. So Im satisfied that Advantage was aware  of the hire car 
Ref: DRN50424046charges. But, irrespective of this, hes provided us with copies of the hire invoices and Im 
satisfied that he did incur these charges.
Finally Advantage  has said that the mileage  Mr M has travelled in the car shows that hes 
continually used it. So it doesnt think it should have to pay for the hire charges. But the hire 
charges were incurred  at the time the car was initially being  repaired for faults that made the 
car of unsatisfactory quality. So he was without  a car during that time, so I still think  its fair 
that Advantage refunds  these charges.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I partially  uphold  this complaint. 
And I require  Advantage Finance Ltd to:
1.Refund the amount that Mr M paid to hire the car while  his car was being repaired.  It 
should also pay 8% simple interest  per year on this from the date he paid it until he gets 
it back. If Advantage thinks that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to deduct  
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also 
give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if 
appropriate; and
2.Pay £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
him.
Advantage has said that Mr M stopped  paying towards the finance  agreement in July 2018. 
But hes since told us hes paid off his arrears. But, if applicable, I think  Advantage can offset 
the amount that it owes Mr M against any arrears  on the account that there might be. 
Otherwise it should pay this to him directly.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020..
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5042404