K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream gave him loans that he 
couldnt afford to repay.
Mr C wants Lending Stream to refund the charges and interest  that he paid together  with 
interest on the refund.
background
Mr C took out three instalment loans with Lending Stream between  July 2012  and June 
2013.
The adjudicator thought  that Lending  Streams  checks went far enough for loans one and 
two. Based on the information Lending Stream  had, it appeared as though  Mr C could afford  
the two loans.
The adjudicator thought  that for loan three  Lending Stream shouldve been asking Mr C 
about his short term lending commitments as well as his living costs and regular credit 
commitments. The adjudicator thought  that if Lending Stream  had done  this, it wouldve 
discovered that Mr C couldnt afford the repayments  on loan three.
The adjudicator recommended that Lending  Stream refund any interest and charges paid on 
loan three.  The adjudicator also asked  Lending Stream to remove any negative information  
about loan three from Mr Cs credit file.
Lending Stream agreed to put things right for loan three but it explained that Mr C hadnt 
paid anything toward the loan so it wouldnt be refunding any money.  Lending Stream  
recommended that Mr C make contact  so that it could set up a repayment  plan. Lending  
Stream said that it would then reflect the payment arrangement on Mr Cs credit file. 
Lending Stream said that it would also remove the decree  (which  is the Scottish equivalent 
of a County Court Judgment) from Mr Cs credit  file.
Lending Stream said that it sold the debt to a third party  who had then sold it on to another  
third party. Lending  Stream couldnt  be sure whether Mr C had made any payments to the 
third party who currently had the debt but Lending Stream  confirmed  that neither it nor the 
original third party had received  any payments  from Mr C.
The adjudicator thought  that Lending  Streams  offer was fair and recommended that Mr C 
accept it.
Mr C said that he would  only accept  a repayment  schedule once Lending  Stream  had 
removed the negative information  from his credit file and done  something about the decree.
Mr C has asked that I make a final decision although Lending Stream  hasnt yet replied to 
the conditions  that Mr C set out to us above.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN58368402Lending Stream was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make  checks to see whether 
Mr C could afford to pay each loan back before it lent to him. There wasnt a set list of 
checks it had to carry out. But the checks had to be proportionate to things  such  as the 
amount borrowed,  the length  of the agreement and any borrowing history.
I agree  with the adjudicators recommendation as it relates to loans one and two so I dont  
intend saying  more about these two loans.
I agree  that Lending Stream shouldve been carrying out better checks  when Mr C applied 
for loan three. If Lending Stream had done this, it seems likely that it wouldve discovered 
that Mr C didnt have  enough disposable  income  to be able to afford  the loan repayments.
Lending Stream has already offered to put things right for loan three. It seems to me that the 
outstanding issue  is that Mr C wants Lending  Stream to action the amendments to his credit 
file and remove the decree before he sets up a repayment plan. So this is what I will focus 
on now.
I appreciate Mr Cs frustration with the time that it has taken to resolve his complaint. Hes 
concerned that Lending  Stream hasnt done anything regarding  the adjudicators 
recommendation. But as Mr C wanted us to place conditions on his acceptance  and then 
asked for a final decision, I cant reasonably  say that Lending Stream shouldve amended his 
credit file yet.
If Mr C accepts my final decision, I would expect Lending Stream  to put things right as set 
out below. I dont make my decision conditional  on Mr C setting up a repayment  plan as I 
can only require Lending Stream  to take steps  not Mr C.
Mr C has had the benefit of the money lent to him so I dont think  that its reasonable to 
make Lending  Stream  write off the outstanding principal balance. If Mr C accepts my final 
decision and then doesnt agree a repayment plan for the outstanding principal balance, it 
will be up to Lending Stream to take whatever action it decides to recover  the money. 
Although Lending Stream says that Mr C hasnt made any payments towards loan three, Ive 
included a direction about refunding interest  and charges  just in case it turns  out that Mr C 
has made any payments  to the third party  who currently owns  the debt.
Lending Stream should take whatever steps are necessary to remove the decree from       
Mr Cs credit file including the removal of the entry from the relevant register or registers  of 
judgments.
putting things right
Lending Stream should:
Refund any interest and charges that Mr C has paid on loan three;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
Write off any unpaid interest and charges loan three;
Ref: DRN58368403If it chooses,  apply, the refund  to any outstanding  principal balance  on loan three before 
paying any remaining  balance  (if there  is any) to Mr C**; 
Remove any negative information  about  loan three from Mr Cs credit file; and 
Remove the decree from Mr Cs credit file 
If Lending Stream has sold the remaining debt to a third party debt purchaser it should buy it 
back before  doing  what  Ive said above.  If this isnt possible,  Lending  Stream should (in 
addition to the above if necessary):
Arrange to repay any portion of the sum due to the third party  that is made up of interest  
and charges  including any added  by the third party;
Refund any interest and charges that Mr C has already paid to the third party, plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement*;
Instruct  the third party to remove any negative information it may have recorded about 
loan three from Mr Cs credit file; and 
Remove the decree from Mr Cs credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending  Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If 
Lending Stream intends to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding balance, it must do so 
after deducting the tax.
**If after taking the above steps there is still a principal balance  due, I remind Lending 
Stream of its obligation to treat any repayment  offer that Mr C might  make,  sympathetically 
and reasonably.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To put things right,  Gain  Credit LLC 
trading as Lending Stream should take the steps  outlined in the above bullet points. 
Ref: DRN58368404Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5836840