K820x#14complaint
Miss C is complaining that Close Brothers  Limited wouldnt change  the repayment  date for 
her point of sale loan she took out to finance  her car insurance policy. 
background
Miss C contacted Close Brother  on 8 August 2018 asked to change  her monthly repayment 
date from the 17th to the 26th of each month.  But the call handler said she could only move it 
seven days. She said that Miss C would need  to contact her insurer if she wanted to move it 
back further than that. Miss C didnt think that was fair because  she said her insurer had 
referred her to Close Brothers.  And she didnt  think Close Brothers  were  being reasonable.
Close Brothers responded to her and said that it wasnt  able to move a payment  more than 
seven working days. Miss C wasnt happy with Close Brothers response as it had also said 
that shed said she needed to move  the payment date because she wouldnt be able to 
make the scheduled  payment date. And she disputed that shed said that. She said she 
enquired hypothetically what would happen  if she didnt make the payment on the due date. 
But she disputed that she said she wouldnt  be able to make it.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2019 not upholding this complaint. And I said 
the following:
Miss C is unhappy that Close  Brothers  wouldnt change the repayment date. It said that it 
cant move  it more  than seven days.  And Im satisfied that this was the case. I appreciate 
that this was frustrating  for Miss C. She said on the telephone call that this was unfair  as she 
got paid on the 25th of each month.  But I cant say that it acted unreasonably in not moving 
the repayment date to the 26th.
Miss C is also unhappy  with what Close Brothers said in the final response  letter.  I agree 
that she didnt  say she wouldnt be able to meet the repayment date if it wasnt moved.  But 
she also set out that she didnt  get paid until the 25th and queried what  would happen  if she 
didnt make the payment. So I dont think it was an unfair inference from what  she said that 
Close Brothers said that she wanted  to move the repayment date because she wouldnt be 
able to make  the payment if it wasnt moved.
I do agree  that Close Brothers gave incorrect information in respect  to the maximum amount 
of time it could move the repayment date as it said it could  only move it seven working days  
rather than seven calendar days.  But I think this was just an administrative error and I dont 
think Miss C has lost out as a result of this. So I dont think  it needs to pay any compensation 
for whats happened.
Close Brothers accepted  my provisional decision. Miss C didnt accept it, but she said that 
she didnt have anything  to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN50306982I acknowledge that Miss C is unhappy  with the outcome  I reached.  But, as neither party  has 
given me anything else to think about, I see no reason to reach  a different conclusion to the 
one I reached in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5030698