K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund  some  payments he made from a credit  
card account  he has with them.
background 
In February 2017,  Mr S says he received an email from a photography  studio, who Ill call 
P, inviting him to take part in a photo  shoot. Mr S says he used his HSBC  credit card to pay 
P an advanced payment of £55. He also says he was told by P, that the advance  payment 
would be refunded, if he attended  their photography studio for a day.
Mr S took part in the photo shoot in early March 2017 and says he used his HSBC credit 
card to pay P, a further £300,  for the photographs that were taken. Mr S says he completed 
the whole  day at the studio and didnt raise any complaint at this point.
A couple of days after the photo shoot,  Mr S says he wrote  to P, to say he was unhappy and 
wanted a refund. He says he didnt fully understand what he had agreed to, as he speaks  a 
different language to the employees of P. Mr S also says that the photo  shoot was not up to 
the standard he was expecting.
A few months later, Mr S says he hadnt  heard  from P, so he spoke to a member  of staff at a 
branch of HSBC,  about the two payments hed made. Mr S says HSBC didnt reply  and that 
over the next four months, he noticed that P had taken four further payments of £414.50 
from his account. This happened in April, May, June and July 2017. He says he raised  this 
and his original  concerns  again, with HSBC  in July 2017.
HSBC wrote to Mr S in November 2017  and asked  him for more details about his contract 
with P, so they could investigate. By the start of 2018, HSBC had completed a chargeback  
and three  of the four payments of £414.50,  were refunded  to Mr Ss credit card account. But, 
Mr S says P still had the £355 he paid at the photo shoot and one payment of £414.50. Mr S 
then complained to HSBC  to try and get the rest of the money back.
In their final response, HSBC didnt mention the outstanding payment of £414.50. They told 
Mr S that he hadnt sent them a copy of the contract  he had with P. So, theyd been unable 
to look into a breach  of contract under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (s75). 
Mr S didnt accept this and brought his complaint  to us.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ss case, but wasnt able to get a copy of the 
agreement Mr S had with P. Without  an agreement or a brochure from P, the investigator 
said they couldnt find that there had been  a breach of contract. So, the investigator 
concluded that HSBC had treated Mr S fairly,  when  they considered his section 75 claim. 
But, the investigator also found  that Mr S raised  his concerns about the payments of 
£414.50, within 120 days of the first of those transactions.  And because P didnt  defend the 
other three chargeback enquiries, they said it was likely P would have done the same with 
the remaining  payment.  So, they asked HSBC to rework Mr Ss account as if a chargeback  
for the payment £414.50 in April 2017,  was successful.
HSBC agreed with the investigators conclusions, but Mr S didnt. He said P didnt give him 
what hed paid for and in addition to the April 2017  refund, he wanted  his initial  payment  of 
£355 refunded.
Ref: DRN56314572The investigator didnt  change their conclusions and said there wasnt anything  to show  that 
Mr S had spoken to HSBC about the initial payment,  so HSBC couldnt have started a 
chargeback earlier.  Mr S didnt accept  this and his case has been  passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Quite some  time has passed since the investigator  reached their findings. I acknowledge this 
means Mr S has been waiting to hear the outcome of his case  and I understand how this 
may have  been  frustrating  for him. So, Im thankful for Mr Ss patience  whilst weve  
investigated his complaint.
the s75 claim
In certain circumstances, s75 allows Mr S to make an equal claim against  HSBC, for a 
breach of contract or a misrepresentation  by P. Im satisfied that those circumstances  are 
met here. Ive thought  about whether HSBC treated Mr S fairly,  when they declined  his s75 
claim and complaint.
Mr S has told us that he didnt fully understand the arrangement he had made with P, due to 
a language barrier. In any case,  he says he didnt think the photo shoot was of a satisfactory 
quality. Hes also explained  that P simply  took the photographs of him, using  the clothes he 
was wearing at the time.
HSBC asked Mr S for a copy of the contract or agreement  he had with P. Weve  also asked 
Mr S for a copy  of the agreement with P, or a brochure P may have been given to him. And 
weve asked Mr S to send us copies  of any correspondence between him and P. Mr S hasnt 
been able to provide us with any documents relating to his agreement  with P, or the service 
they told him he would  get. So, Ive considered what Mr S has told us about what happened, 
to decide if HSBC have treated him fairly.  
Mr S says he was contacted by P and agreed  to attend a photo  shoot,  for a day at their 
studio. He says he paid a £55 deposit  using his credit card, on the understanding  it would be 
refunded, when the day was over. 
This service has seen a number of cases where businesses similar to P, have  made similar 
offers to customers.  And having looked at the correspondence from all parties, I accept that 
there may have been a language barrier between Mr S and P. But, Im mindful  that Mr S 
says he was aware hed booked  to visit P for a photoshoot.  Ive also considered that Mr S 
says he had an expectation of what he would get, ahead of the photoshoot. So, I think Mr S 
was satisfied with the arrangements hed made with P, before the day he was due to spend 
at their studio.
Ive considered an email  Mr S received from P, before he paid them the deposit. In the 
email, P told Mr S they work  with make-up artists and hair stylists. They also said he would  
be working with a creative team and a modelling  coach.
Ref: DRN56314573I can see Mr S was given a very brief outline of the plans for the day at Ps studio. Mr S was 
told hed have an assessment to see if P could work further with him. Ps email  doesnt go 
into detail about  level of service Mr S could expect, in regards to access  to different clothes, 
the amount of photographs to be taken or what Ps creative team  will do for him. 
While it is of course possible  Mr S was promised things in other  correspondence  with P, I 
havent seen anything to persuade me that was more likely to be the case. Having thought  
carefully about everything Mr S has said and provided, on balance I dont think  theres been 
a breach of contract by P. I say this because  there  doesnt appear to have been an 
agreement where  Mr S can point to part of the photoshoot  or a service which he didnt 
receive from P.
Ps email to Mr S, says the deposit of £55 will be refunded, as long as he attends  the training 
and assessment day. Neither the email, nor any other correspondence with P, provide a 
breakdown of the £300 transaction Mr S made  during his appointment with them.  
Mr S has sent us an Attendance Deposit Receipt  from P, dated 24 February  2017.  Mr Ss 
photoshoot was on 3 March 2017. So, I think the Attendance Deposit Receipt was sent to 
Mr S before his appointment, possibly to be used on the day, depending on how the deposit 
was to be refunded.
I dont think its clear  if Mr S received a refund of the £55 deposit he paid before the 
appointment. The refund may have  been used within  the subsequent payment to P. In other 
words, P may have discounted  the further work they did for Mr S, to take account  of the 
deposit. In all the circumstances, on balance, Im not persuaded theres been a breach of 
contract by P regarding  the deposit.
I acknowledge where Mr S says the service provided by P, fell below his expectations. But, 
having considered all the evidence, I dont think there was a breach of contract with the 
agreement between Mr S and P. So, I dont think HSBC treated Mr S unfairly when  they 
declined his s75 claim and complaint.  
chargeback
Where there are specific  conditions,  consumers  can ask their card issuer to reverse 
payments made on their card, by raising  a chargeback. Individual  card schemes have their 
own rules that the card issuer, in this case HSBC, have to apply. The chargeback process 
doesnt give consumers  legal rights and it isnt guaranteed  to result in a refund. It depends 
on what the merchant,  in this complaint P, says in response to the request the card issuer 
submits and what the rules of the card scheme say.
The card scheme has limited circumstances where a chargeback can be raised, including  
the type of dispute (sometimes referred to as the reason or dispute code) and the length  of 
time a customer has to make one. The relevant  chargeback  reason that would have applied 
in this case was Transaction Not Recognized. The rules say that a chargeback should be 
attempted within 120 days of the transaction processing date.
Mr S says he first spoke to HSBC about  his transactions with P in June 2017, around three 
months after the photoshoot. Mr S has named the individual  he spoke to at a branch of 
HSBC and told us about a subsequent telephone conversation, he says he had with HSBCs 
credit card department. 
Ref: DRN56314574HSBC have provided us with a copy of their contact  records with Mr S. I can see HSBC  sent 
Mr S two separate letters,  about  another account he has with them  in June 2017.  I can also 
see that Mr S first raised his concerns about  the payments to P, on 1 July 2017. I accept 
Mr S may well have visited a branch of HSBC  in June 2017. But, on balance,  I dont think  it 
was until July 2017, where Mr S made  HSBC aware of his concerns about P, and the 
payments that had debited his credit card account.
Ive explained  that for a chargeback to be successful under the card scheme associated with 
Mr Ss credit  card, the chargeback must be made  within 120 days of the transaction. The 
payments to P of £55 and £300, happened  on 23 February and 2 March  2017 respectively. 
I think this means Mr S needed to have contacted HSBC by 30 June 2017, to have made  a 
chargeback claim in time. Ive concluded  that I think Mr S made his concerns about  P known 
to HSBC after that date. So, I dont think HSBC  have treated Mr S unfairly when they didnt 
consider a chargeback claim for the first two transactions  to P.
Aside from the first two transactions, P took payments of £414.50, in April, May, June and 
July 2017, from Mr Ss credit card account.  When HSBC looked  further into Mr Ss 
complaint, they raised a chargeback for three  of these  payments, which  were  successful.  
HSBC say the reason for this success, was because P didnt respond or defend the 
chargeback claim, within the set timescale. This now leaves one transaction of £414.50 
outstanding from April 2017.
Ive said that I think Mr S spoke to HSBC about a chargeback at the start of July 2017. This 
is within 120 days of the payment P took from Mr Ss credit card in April 2017. Therefore, I 
think HSBC should  have also attempted a chargeback for the April payment. P didnt defend 
or respond  to the chargeback enquiry for the other  three payments  of £414.50. On balance, I 
think its likely P would have taken the same  approach for the payment they took from Mr Ss 
credit card in April 2017. So, I think its fair that Mr S should receive a refund for the 
remaining payment  taken by P.
In all the circumstances, I think HSBC treated Mr S fairly and reasonably, when  they decided  
to decline his s75 claim. I also think the recommendations by our investigator seem like a fair 
way to resolve the complaint. I acknowledge Mr Ss previous disappointment with the 
investigators conclusions.  But, I think HSBCs  offer to rework Mr Ss account as if a 
chargeback was successful for the £414.50  payment in April 2017, and apply interest to any 
credit balance, is fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that the offer made by HSBC UK Bank Plc is fair. So, HSBC should:
1.rework Mr Ss credit card account as if a chargeback for the transaction of £414.50 
on 3 April 2017 was successful; and
2.pay interest at an annual rate of 8% simple on any credit balance  thats created as a 
result of part one of this settlement, from the date the chargeback would have been 
successful, to the date of settlement.
HSBC must pay these amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr S 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
Ref: DRN56314575settlement amount from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
If HSBC deducts tax from any interest they pay to Mr S, they should  provide him with a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one. This is so he can reclaim the tax from the tax 
authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2021.
Sam Wedderburn 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5631457