K820x#14complaint
Mr Fs complaint is that Tilney Financial Planning Limited (trading as Bestinvest) gave him 
unsuitable advice  to invest in a Business Premises  Renovation  Allowances (BPRA) 
investment partnership. He has also complained that if the risks to the tax relief  had been  
made clear to him he would not have invested.
background
An adjudicator looked at the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld.  In summary, he 
said:
He was satisfied  that Bestinvest was allowed to promote the BPRA  fund to Mr F.   
Mr F was a financial services professional with many years experience, an 
experienced investor in higher risk, complex  tax efficient investments. 
He was a high net worth individual, had the surplus income and capacity to invest  the 
sums in the fund.
He had been specifically looking for a tax efficient investment product and was 
prepared to take a high risk with his capital  in return for possible tax benefits.
The adjudicator  was satisfied that the unregulated collective investment scheme 
(UCIS) was a suitable investment for Mr F. 
The Investment Memorandum set out the tax relief benefits the scheme offered but 
also made clear the high risk nature of the investment.  It also made  clear  that the tax 
reliefs were  not guaranteed.
Mr F was prepared  to accept the higher  investment  risks and had previous 
experience of investing in higher risk complex investment products such  as VCTs 
and EISs with which  he was familiar. 
Mr F didnt  agree with the adjudicator.  He made a significant number of points the main 
ones are summarised below:  
It was known HMRC for anything  DOTAS  (disclosure of tax avoidance schemes)  
disclosed to be put into inquiry by HMRC.   
These investments  were tax controversial.  At the time of his investment HMRC had 
put into inquiry a significant number of other BPRA schemes. Bestinvest knew this to 
be the case and should have warned him of this fact. 
He had explicitly told Bestinvest that he had no appetite for anything controversial.
These investments  were very different to the VCT investments  he had previously 
made.
He maintains the investment was unsuitable  for him.  He doesnt think investing more  
that 5% of his assets in UCIS was suitable  advice.   In addition Bestinvest had not 
correctly recorded  his assets. 
Bestinvest told him there was very little risk.  Whilst he had experience  of VCTs he 
had no experience of BPRA schemes.   
While  he worked in financial service,  he disagreed that he was an experienced 
investor with knowledge of specialist tax products.   He had no appetite for tax risks.  
Bestinvest had nothing  further to add. 
Ref: DRN50449102my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has made  lengthy and detailed  submissions which I have  read in their entirety.  I will 
not go through each and every point  he has made.   Instead I will concentrate on what  I 
consider to be the key issues in this complaint.
I will first consider whether the BPRA investment was suitable  for Mr F.  As set out in COBS 
9.2 there are three key factors  in determining whether an investment is suitable.  These are:
Does the investment  match the level of risk that investor is prepared to take?
Do they have the knowledge and understanding to understand the level of risk they 
are taking?
Is the investment  consistent with their financial circumstances i.e. do they have the 
capacity to withstand the scale  of the financial loss they are exposed  to?
Having considered Mr Fs objectives, financial  circumstances,  knowledge and experience  I 
am satisfied  that the investment was suitable.
It was made  very clear to Mr F that the proposed investment was high risk.  For example the 
suitability report of 22 March 2012 says the following:
"Investing in the Fund may expose  you to a significant risk of losing all of your net cash 
investment."
The level of risk associated with such products may be higher than that which you have 
previously declared as consistent  with your overall risk attitude but you have indicated  that 
you are comfortable to accept the higher-risk nature of this investment, given your overall 
financial position and the allocation of the majority of your portfolio in more conventional and 
diversified assets.
Mr F has lengthy  experience of the financial services industry and has performed a 
controlled function.  He  has a degree and a higher  degree in financial based subjects.  The 
basic principal behind  tax advantaged  investments  is to offer an investor an incentive  to take 
a level of risk they otherwise might  not be prepared to take.  The higher the incentive  on 
offer, the higher  the risk of the investment.  If things went according  to plan it was anticipated 
that Mr F would be able to essentially reduce his year one tax bill to zero.  This was a 
significantly higher  level of tax relief  than other  tax advantaged investments such as VCTs.  
Given his professional experience I think this basic concept would have been clear to Mr F.
I am satisfied that it was made clear  to Mr F that this was a high risk investment and that this 
was a level of risk that he was prepared to take.
I accept that Mr F might not be an expert  in tax advantaged investments but that is not the 
test.  The correct test is whether Mr F has sufficient knowledge and understanding to 
appreciate the risks and features of the investment.   He doesnt need to be an expert  in a 
particular area  just to appreciate in broad  terms the key features and risks of the proposed  
investment.  I am satisfied that someone with Mr Fs professional  experience and education 
has the required knowledge and experience to understand the level of risk they are taking.  
Ref: DRN50449103At the time of the investment Mr F was earning  a very substantial salary.  The fact find 
records he had £900,000 a year disposable  income  and had accumulated savings of £1.8m.  
Mr F has said he considers he was over exposed  to this type of investment.  On the advice 
of the firm he invested in three similar tax advantaged schemes.  The  investments  involved a 
cash investment combined with a non-recourse loan- i.e. a loan that if things went wrong  
Mr F would not be liable to repay. In terms of the money at risk I consider that only the cash 
investment needs  to be considered.  On  this basis Mr Fs exposure  to these tax based  
investments amounted to around  £400,000.     
In February 2011  a supplementary fact find for UCIS investments was completed.  Where an 
investors exposure exceeded  5% advisers were  required to note the reasons.  The 5% level 
is not defined  but would  normally  be based on a percentage of investible assets.  On that 
basis the UCIS investments made by Mr F exceeded 5%. I dont think  this automatically 
means that the advice was unsuitable.  
The justification recorded by the adviser was:
Owner of private equity  products and investor in VCTs  which have similar characteristics.   
Professional in financial services by occupation 
I consider this justification to be reasonable.  Mr F was not a typical retail investor but a high 
net worth  and sophisticated  investor.   He could  be expected to appreciate the risks 
associated with this type of product.   In addition the UCIS investment being complained 
about only represented 11% of his annual disposable income.  Because of this I do not 
consider Mr Fs exposure to UCIS  to have been excessive.  
For the reasons  set out above I am satisfied  that the BPRA  scheme was  in  principle a 
suitable investment  for Mr F.
The second  strand of Mr Fs complaint concerns the tax relief and particularly how HMRC 
viewed schemes of this type and hence the risk of achieving  the hoped  for tax relief.  
Mr F has highlighted a number of issues which he describes as facts Tilney should have 
known and brought to his attention.  These  are:
As the scheme required a DOTAS declaration  it was a certainty  that there would be 
an HMRC investigation into the scheme.
In Mr Fs words  this meant the scheme  was tax controversial.  He  says he made  it 
clear to Tilney that he didnt want any involvement in such schemes.
Large  numbers of BPRA schemes  were already under investigation by HMRC when 
the scheme was recommended  to him.  This was well known and should  have been 
known to Bestinvest.
His involvement in other  tax advantaged investments had been via non-controversial 
schemes such as VCTs.
Mr F has said it was made clear to Tilney at the time of the advice that he didnt want  to 
invest in anything which he considered to be tax controversial.  However, there is no 
documentary evidence  from the time of the advice  that confirms  this was the case.  If this 
Ref: DRN50449104was a key requirement  of Mr F I would have expected this to have been recorded  in the 
suitability report.   
The DOTAS rules require a scheme operator  to provide HMRC with details of the scheme.  
The purpose of these rules is to allow  HMRC to have advance  warning of tax avoidance 
schemes and to consider whether the tax advantages are legitimate.  If not HMRC can then 
take prompt action  to amend the law to close any loopholes that might  be taken advantage 
of.  Investors  in the scheme were  told of the DOTAS disclosure and were provided with the 
DOTAS disclosure number.  Tax avoidance, as opposed to tax evasion is not illegal.
I dont think the above  means that the scheme  should be viewed as an aggressive tax 
avoidance scheme.  It only means  that the scheme had certain  features  that HMRC wanted 
warning of.
It would have been apparent from the information  memorandum and the receipt of a DOTAS 
number that this type of tax advantaged investment would potentially be subject to greater 
scrutiny that other tax advantaged products such as VCTs   which  dont require a DOTAS 
notification.  I do not consider this to be unexpected  or unusual given the significantly higher 
tax benefits associated with BPRA schemes  compared to for example  VCTs.  The  
significantly higher  tax relief in my view makes it far more likely that the BPRA  scheme would 
be subject to scrutiny from HMRC. 
The information memorandum contains a number of clear warnings about tax relief and in 
particular the risks attached.  These  include the following:
Taxation - the level of Initial Allowances  will need  to be agreed with HMRC, based upon the 
qualifying expenditure incurred on the project,  whilst  this may be adjusted  as part of the 
agreement process, the preliminary review by external  advisers concludes  that the 
expected levels are not excessive; HCL has been in discussions  with HMRC about the 
construction of this DC and a similar  subsequent  project in Belfast (although there  has been 
no discussion on the level of available allowances).
Tax refund claw-back, this is the major financial  risk to investors, but for the reasons noted 
above (staged  construction, strong tenants  in place before refinancing, security and cash 
collateral arrangements)  this has been  significantly mitigated
Disclosure of Tax Avoidance Schemes (DOTAS)
Under the Tax Avoidance  Schemes (Prescribed Description of Arrangements) Regulations 
2006 (SI 2006/1543), which came into force on 1 August  2006,  structured products which  
contain one or more  specified 'hallmarks' are required to be disclosed to HMRC  as required 
by the legislation, an outline  description  of the Offer  has been  disclosed to HMRC and its 
disclosure number will be notified  to Ordinary Members  following their admission to the 
Partnership.
Rates of tax, tax benefits and allowances as described in this Memorandum are based on 
the interpretation of the current legislation and HMRC practice, as advised  to the Partnership 
These may change in the future and cannot be guaranteed In addition,  BPRA  IS a relatively 
new area the procedure for dealing with claims is still developing and HMRCs own practice 
and interpretation  of the legislation may differ from that set out in this Memorandum.
Ref: DRN50449105The availability  of the Initial Allowances  is dependent upon HMRC being satisfied that all the 
necessary conditions as set out in CAA 2001 have been met On the basis of the 
professional advice received, it is believed that these  conditions as currently stated will have  
been met but this is ultimately  a question of fact.
The suitability report of 22 March  2012  said the following about tax relief:
The level of the Initial Allowances (and therefore Investors' entitlement  to Property Loss  
relief) is dependent  on the amount of Qualifying  Expenditure, not the level of investment in  
the Partnership or the amount of the Contract Price. The level of Qualifying Expenditure will 
need to be agreed  with HMRC and may be lower than is anticipated in this Memorandum
In my view this underlines  the warnings in the prospectus  that the expected tax relief was not 
guaranteed.  Instead the scheme would be subject to HMRC scrutiny and in the event of 
adverse findings  there was a risk that the expected tax relief would not be received or could 
be less than anticipated.
In a written statement on 18 July 2013, the Exchequer Secretary, announced that HMRC  
would be conducting  a technical review  of the Business  Premises  Renovation  Allowances  
legislation:
"The Business Premises Renovation  Allowances (BPRA) scheme provides 100 per cent 
capital allowances  for the capital costs of converting or renovating empty  business  property 
in certain disadvantaged  areas of the UK, where  the property has lain empty for at least  a 
year, in order to bring the premises back into business use.
The Government remains committed to the objectives of BPRA, which is to foster the 
regeneration of deprived areas, by helping to increase private  investment, enterprise  and 
employment in deprived communities.
HMRC has, however, brought to the Government's attention a recent  increase in DOTAS 
(Disclosure of Tax Avoidance Schemes)  disclosures,  involving  BPRA, which appear to 
contain features  aimed at exploiting the relief in ways that Parliament had not intended
The Government has, therefore, authorised HMRC  to conduct a technical review  of the 
BPRA legislation, with a view to making its policy purpose even clearer,  so that the scheme 
may be made simpler and more certain  in its application, at the same time reducing  the risks 
of exploitation.
HMRC will shortly be publishing this technical review, along  with an associated  Spotlight 
article to alert people to the fact that almost all of the disclosed BPRA schemes appear  to be 
seriously flawed and that HMRC will investigate anyone using them.
The technical review  will invite comments on new legislative proposals, with a view to 
introducing new legislation  in 2014."
This and subsequent announcements  from HMRC post-date by a reasonable period of time 
the date on which Mr F made  his investment.  Whilst the description of these  schemes as 
being tax controversial  might have been reasonable in 2013 I dont it is a reasonable 
description of these schemes in 2012  when Mr F was advised to make the investment.  I 
have not been able to find any evidence that HMRC  had concerns about BPRA schemes at 
Ref: DRN50449106the time Mr F was advised to make  the investments.  Mr F has also not provided any 
evidence to back up his assertion of HMRCs adverse view of BPRA  schemes in 2012.  
My conclusions about this complaint are as follows:
The BPRA scheme  was a suitable investment for Mr F: 
He was prepared to take the high level of risk associated with it
He had the knowledge and experience to appreciate the level of risk that he was 
taking
The risk of the investments was not inappropriate in light of his financial 
circumstances
It was made  clear to Mr F at the time of the investment that: 
BPRA schemes were a relatively  new area of investment  and HMRCs approach  to 
tax relief claims was evolving and might differ from the interpretation  set out in the 
memorandum.
It was not guaranteed that the expected tax relief  would materialise.
The scheme operator had submitted a DOTAS declaration to HMRC and as such  the 
scheme would  be subject to some  HMRC scrutiny.
At the time the investment was made it was not known that BPRA  schemes were an area of 
particular focus  for HMRC.
For these reasons my decision is that this complaint should not be upheld.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5044910