K821x#15complaint
Mr M is represented  by a claims management  company in bringing his complaint that 
Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited  mis-sold  him two whole-of-life policies.
It says that there was no evidence Mr M had a requirement for the life cover  provided by the 
permanent protection  programme;  and there  was nothing to show  his attitude  to risk had 
been established or that he would be able to maintain the capital programme investment for 
a minimum for five years.
background
In 1990, Mr M took out two whole-of-life policies on the recommendation of a predecessor 
business of Sanlam.
He first invested £2,000 in the capital programme, a single contribution whole-of-life plan 
which invested in units. Mr Ms was in the managed fund.
A few months later, Mr M started a permanent  protection programme, a regular contribution 
whole-of-life plan, also invested  in the managed fund. Mr Ms premium was £20 a month  for
an initial amount  of cover of £47,250.
He paid these  premiums until mid 1991,  and the policy lapsed at the end of that year.
Mr M surrendered his capital programme  in early 1992 and received £1,836.
In 2018, Mr Ms representative complained on his behalf that the plans had been mis-sold to 
him.
Sanlam initially said that Mr Ms complaint had been  made outside of the time limits.  This
was because it had written to Mr M in 1995,  when it was carrying  out a review  of sales  of life 
policies. It invited Mr M to participate in a review of the advice hed received but he didnt 
respond. Sanlam  felt this shouldve given Mr M awareness that he had cause to complain,  
but he didnt do so within three  years.
our investigators opinion
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint and thought it was one that we could 
consider, as she didnt  think  the letters from 1995 were enough to make  Mr M aware there 
was a potential  problem with the advice he received. But she didnt think the 
recommendations were  unsuitable for his circumstances.  She said Mr M had been given 
product literature that explained them, and the cost of the life cover  within  the regular 
premium was low in comparison  to the amount that went towards  the investment element.
She said the capital  programme  was an effective way for Mr M to have access  to tax-free  
cash in the future.
Sanlam accepted that the letters from 1995 inviting  Mr M to have his plans reviewed 
wouldnt be sufficient to have made  him aware  he may have cause for complaint.
Ref: DRN57574662But Mr Ms representatives didnt  accept the investigators findings that the plans were 
suitable for Mr M. It said he had no obvious  need for life cover  and there  was no justification 
why the capital programme was a suitable investment for him. It asked for the complaint to 
be reviewed.
my provisional decision
I issued my provision decision on this complaint in March 2019.  I thought  the complaint 
should be upheld.  
I considered about  Mr Ms particular  circumstances when these plans were recommended to 
him. He was aged  24, lived at home with his parents,  and was single with no one that was 
financially dependent upon him.
And I said it seemed  reasonable  to think that these  circumstances  would be likely to change 
in his future and he would want  to look at ways to save  towards  this. The records from the 
time showed hed saved  £3,500 in a building society account, but also that he was paying 
£150 a month to a credit  card debt. However,  he was advised to put £2,000  of his savings 
into a single premium  whole-of-life  plan in a managed  fund. I could see that he had a ten 
year savings plan that had been taken out in 1986  but he didnt  seem  to have any previous  
investment experience which  could show his attitude  to risk for his savings.
The capital programme  was described as a medium to long term investment,  but it did allow  
for access to the money by cashing in part of the investment. However, I said Mr M 
surrendered it at a loss less than two years  after it started.
Mr M was also recommended to start a separate whole-of-life  plan for £20 a month.  He paid 
this for less than a year before it lapsed. He received advice to start another  similar plan 
around the time this first one lapsed,  however this didnt go ahead. By that time, Mr M had 
no deposit based savings and was paying  £212  a month towards his credit card and 
personal loan.
I didnt think the advice Mr M received was suitable for his circumstances. Although  I could 
see why he may have wanted  to save for the future, I didnt consider the capital programme 
gave him sufficient flexibility in access to his money, and placed a high level of his savings  
into a unit-linked  investment. Considering  his income and outgoings at the time, he didnt 
seem to have much  capacity to have made  up any losses  on his money.
And I said that his circumstances didnt suggest  hat he had any specific  need for life cover. 
Although the benefits could have been  used towards funeral costs,  or to help Mr Ms 
parents, but I didnt  think that meant that having  this level of whole-of-life cover with 
premiums needing  to be maintained throughout his life was right for him.
Ref: DRN57574663So I said Sanlam Life & Pensions UK should  pay Mr M redress for the capital programme of 
D + E, where:
A = the premium he paid to the date the policy  was surrendered;
B = a return on this at Bank of England  base  rate, plus 1%, compounded yearly, from 
the date it was paid to the date the policy was surrendered; 
C = the surrender value Mr M received;
D = A + B - C, representing the investment loss at the date of surrender and
E = interest at 15% simple until 31 March 1993  then 8% per year simple  on D from 
the date of surrender to the date redress is paid. 
And for the permanent protection programme I said Sanlam should refund all premiums  paid 
from start of the policy until the last premium was paid, together with interest as above.
the responses
Mr Ms representatives didnt have any further  comments to make.
Sanlam agreed  to uphold Mr Ms complaint. But it disagreed that it should  pay a return of 
Bank of England  base rate plus 1%. It said Mr M paid a single premium  into the capital 
programme and there was no compelling  evidence as to what deposit-based environment  
would have been used. It said Mr M appeared to have held no short term savings so the 
money shouldve  remained on deposit. It said it was appropriate to offer redress on an 
interest loss on the basis of a return of Bank of England base rate compounded yearly. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sanlam has accepted that Mr Ms complaint  should  be upheld  but doesnt  fully agree with 
the remedy I suggested for the investment into the capital programme. And Ive considered 
what it has said about why it thinks Mr Ms interest loss should be based upon  a return in line 
with the Bank of England  base rate.
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr M as close  to the position  
he would  probably  now be in if he hadnt been given what I consider  to be unsuitable advice. 
The documentation  from the time shows that Mr Ms savings were  held in a building society 
account. I cant say precisely what Mr M wouldve done differently, and I accept that he may 
still have wanted  some access to these  savings. But I think its reasonable to consider that 
he was looking for a potentially better return than he was achieving in his building society  
account for him to accept  the advisors  recommendation. 
Because I dont think Sanlams recommendation was right for Mr Ms circumstances, I think 
its appropriate for Mr Ms loss calculation  should  be based on a return  of Bank of England 
base rate plus 1% compound per year,  as I set out in my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN57574664my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I require Sanlam Life & Pensions UK
Limited to pay Mr M redress for the capital programme of D + E, where:
A = the premium he paid to the date the policy  was surrendered;
B = a return on this at Bank of England  base  rate, plus 1%, compounded yearly, from
the date it was paid to the date the policy was surrendered;
C = the surrender value Mr M received;
D = A + B - C, representing the investment loss at the date of surrender and
E = interest at 15% simple until 31 March 1993  then 8% per year simple  on D from
the date of surrender to the date redress is paid.
And for the permanent protection programme:
Sanlam should  refund all premiums  paid from start of the policy  until the last premium was
paid.
As the premiums were paid before 1 April 1993,  simple interest  of 15% per year should be
added to each  premium when each payment was made up to and including  31 March 1993.
Then simple interest of 8% per year should  be added until settlement.
If Sanlam decides  that tax is payable on the interest,  it should send a tax deduction
certificate to Mr M. He may then reclaim any tax overpaid from Her Majestys  Revenue and
Customs, if his tax status allows him to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5757466