K820x#14complaint
Mr E says Gain  Credit LLC (trading as Lending  Stream) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three six-month  instalment  loans Lending Stream  provided to Mr E 
between on August 2017 and October 2018. This is a history of Mr Es borrowing from 
Lending Stream.
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 19/08/2017 13/01/2018 150
2 09/08/2018 18/09/2018 300
3 17/10/2018 20/11/2018 630
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Es complaint. Mr E disagreed  saying he couldnt repay his 
second loan so Lending Stream was clearly wrong  to give the third  they couldnt  have 
done proper checks  on his credit history. He said at the time of his second  loan he had 
several other  loans  outstanding. A second adjudicator reviewed Mr Es complaint, and made 
the same  recommendation. Mr E didnt  accept this so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mr E could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN58882062There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Mr E could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint.
There was a significant break in Mr Es borrowing from Lending Stream. There was a gap of 
over six months between loans 1 and 2. I think it would have been reasonable with for 
Lending Stream to view that gap as an indication that Mr Es finances  had stabilised  after 
whatever the circumstances  that had caused  him to take out loan 1. So I will look at Mr Es 
borrowing in two separate lending chains.
I agree  with the adjudicators that there was nothing to indicate  Lending  Stream  needed to do 
more when it approved  loan 1. It carried out proportionate checks  and there was nothing in 
the information it gathered that I think should have led it to make a different lending decision.  
The information suggested that Mr E would be able to make the repayments he was 
committing to. So I dont  think Lending  Stream was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr E.    
Similarly in the second chain,  I think  Lending  Stream carried  out proportionate  checks and 
there was nothing in the information it gathered that I think should have led it to make a 
different lending decision. I accept that Mr Es circumstances may not have been fully 
reflected either in the information he provided, or the other information Lending Stream  
obtained via the credit checks. And Mr Es financial position as he now describes it might  
well have been apparent if further  information  such as bank statements had been 
obtained. But Lending Stream could only make its decision  based  on the information it had 
available at the time. And loans 2 and 3 were early  in the second phase of the lending  
relationship, so I dont  think  it had reached  the stage where there  was a significant  risk of the 
loans being unsustainable for Mr E. In these  circumstances, I dont  think Lending Stream  
needed to take further  steps  to complete  a fuller financial review.
Overall, I think that Lending  Stream carried out proportionate checks and again I havent 
seen anything in the information  it gathered  that I think should  have led it to reach  a different 
lending decision.
Mr E argues  checking  his credit file should  have shown the loans were unaffordable.  Ive 
looked carefully at the credit search results Lending Stream has provided  us. What I would
say at this point, is the information Lending Stream saw wont  have been exactly  the same 
as what Mr E could have seen on his actual credit report. And I dont think  the information 
that Lending Stream saw gave it any reason to decline Mr Es applications. So I dont think 
Ref: DRN58882063Lending Stream was wrong to have  provided these loans based on the information it 
gathered from the credit  reference agency.
He also said as he made none  of the contractual repayments on the second  loan and only 
repaid it after the debt had been  sold, loan 3 definitely shouldnt  have been given. But this 
doesnt match the evidence Lending Stream has given us. Looking  at the statement of 
account for each  loan,  sent to Mr E on the 29 April 2019, I can see loan two was repaid in 
full just under five weeks after it was taken out. Ive found no reason to think  this evidence is  
inaccurate, so it doesnt seem Mr E repaid  loan 2 in the way he recalls. 
It follows I dont think Lending  Stream was wrong  to give loans 1 to 3 to Mr E. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5888206