complaint
Mr M is complaining about  the value Advantage Insurance  Company Limited has put on his 
car after he made a claim on his car insurance  policy.
background
In December 2018 Mr Ms car was damaged in an accident, so he contacted Advantage to 
make a claim on his car insurance policy. Advantage  declared  the car a total loss and said it 
would settle the claim  by paying him the cars market value, less his excess. It initially  valued  
Mr Ms car at around £4,000.
Mr M didnt  think  Advantage had valued the car fairly and highlighted that hed paid £9,500 
for the car six months beforehand. He also said hed been  offered £7,000  for the car by a 
dealership shortly before the accident. He said his car came  fitted with a large number of 
optional extras and was a limited-edition model. Advantage increased its valuation to £4,500  
but wasnt willing to increase it further.
Mr M still thought the valuation was unfair  so referred his complaint to this service. He also 
provided a list of similar cars available for sale and he adjusted  the cars values to reflect the 
differences in age, mileage and level of optional extras.  And he maintained  his car was worth 
in excess of £7,000.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said Advantage had valued the car by using  
the industrys made car valuation  tools.  And she said this was fair. She also thought there 
were adverts for cars similar  to Mr Ms in the region of the valuation  Advantage had offered. 
So she didnt think it needed  to increase the valuation any further.
Mr M didnt  agree with the adjudicator. He didnt think it was fair for Advantage to place such 
a high reliance  on the valuation guides when he says his research showed similar cars to his 
were being  sold for significantly  more  than Advantage  was offering. He said he didnt dispute  
there were some cheaper models  of his car available  on the market, but he said they were 
generally in poor condition, had limited service history or were serviced with non-standard 
parts.
As Mr M didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
K820x#14
Ref: DRN5033863K820x#14This services role isnt to work  out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We 
look at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy  correctly  and valued  the 
vehicle fairly.  Under the terms of Mr Ms policy, Advantage has to pay him the market 
value of the car, less his excess.
Advantage has valued Mr Ms car at £4,500.  Its said its valued this by reviewing the main  
industry valuation  guides.  Mr M doesnt think this valuation is fair because he says the 
valuation guides  dont reflect the fact his car was a limited edition, had a significant  
number of optional  extras and was in excellent condition.  He also highlighted hed paid 
£9,500 to buy the car six months beforehand.
Its standard practice  for the industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated 
market value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does so. The valuation the guides 
give are based on the advertised prices of similar  cars with similar  age and mileage for 
sale at the time of loss. The guides  also give an option to adjust  the cars value to take 
into account optional  extras.
Ive looked at the valuation of Mr Ms and I think thats fair. Ive looked at the four main 
valuation guides  and they give a range  of between £3,600 and £4,400.  So I think  
Advantages valuation of £4,500 for the car was fair given the valuation guides. As I said,  
the valuation guides also have the option to adjust for the cars optional  extras.  Weve  
contacted two of the valuation guide providers  to request an updated  valuation  given all 
the optional extras Mr M has said were on his car. But both confirmed the original 
valuation given already took into account the extras on Mr Ms car.
Ive taken into account all the additional  information Mr M has provided us  included the 
list of adverts hes provided us. But, as I said above, my role isnt to specifically value Mr 
Ms car, but to look at whether Advantage has followed  a fair process in valuing his car.
Ultimately, Advantage  has followed the standard industry approach  to valuing a car. 
And I dont  think Ive seen  enough to say it was unfair for it to do so in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5033863