K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains Vanquis bank Limited  allowed a fraudster to open an account in his name.
background
In 2014, a credit card account with Vanquis  was opened in Mr Bs name.  Mr  B said he did 
not open this.  The  account was then used and managed until March  2017.
At around this time, Mr B contacted Vanquis  in response to it attempting to contact him. He 
said he didnt know anything about this account,  so Vanquis asked that he sign a declaration 
form for it to start its fraud investigation.
Mr B refused  to sign the form, so no investigation took place.  It was only after he brought 
the complaint  to this service that he finally agreed to sign the declaration.  After a short  
investigation, Vanquis decided it was not going to hold Mr B liable for the debt  so removed 
it from his credit file as well as the default it had registered.
But Mr B wasnt  happy  with that response.  He said he was caused  a huge amount of stress 
by the delays in Vanquis  resolving his complaint and the fact that someone was able to use 
his details and open the account in the first place.
Our adjudicator explained that he wouldnt be asking Vanquis  to do anymore.  He  explained  
that as the account had been managed  for over three years, Vanquis had no way of knowing 
that a fraudster had applied  for it.  He also explained to Mr B that whoever had opened this 
account was able to intercept the card and PIN when it was sent to an address where Mr B 
had previously lived  because the fraudster  had used a genuine address.
Mr B made further submissions and asked that his case be looked at by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  but based on what I have seen, I wont be 
asking Vanquis  to do anymore here.
I think the adjudicator  has explained his reasons in details to Mr B  and my reasons for not 
upholding this complaint are very similar.  Ill use similar headings to give brief explanations.
delay
Mr B says that Vanquis took too long to investigate and resolve his complaint  albeit in his 
favour. But until Vanquis was made aware that a fraudster was running this account, I cant  
expect it to have  done  anything.  And when in March 2017  Mr B told Vanquis that he hadnt  
opened this account, it required a signed declaration from him in order to begin the 
investigation. The delay  from there  was caused  by Mr B not willing to sign.   So, I cant  see 
Vanquis has done anything wrong in this regard.
account opening
As the adjudicator explained,  we are looking at what Vanquis did wrong  here.  In 2014,  it 
was presented with an application for an account,  submitted with genuine details.  It 
Ref: DRN55228302approved that application  and the account was managed relatively well until March  2017.  
Vanquis sent the card and PIN to the registered  address  an address  where Mr B had lived.   
And a second replacement  card was sent in 2016.  Again, this appears to have been 
intercepted.
I accept, by virtue of Vanquiss decision not to hold Mr B liable for the account, that it allowed 
a fraudster to open  an account  in Mr Bs name.  But in the circumstances, I think  it dealt  with 
this aspect of the complaint fairly and reasonably.
credit file
Mr B says that the details of the account and the adverse information which  Vanquis  entered 
onto his credit file led to him having  difficulties  in obtaining credit  and opening  accounts.
Again, I can see that the adjudicator has dealt with this point quite clearly  there  were  other 
aspects of Mr Bs credit  file which were  going to cause him some  difficulties.  His mortgage 
refusal letter states that a number of factors were  taken into account when considering  his 
credit scoring.  So, I cant see anything to suggest  that the entries from Vanquis alone were  
what caused these  difficulties for Mr B.
In the circumstances, I think Vanquis  has dealt with this complaint fairly and I wont  be 
asking that it does anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5522830