K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains that faulty work carried out by British Gas Insurance Limited  (BGI) under 
her home emergency insurance policy resulted in her dishwasher catching fire and extensive  
damage to her kitchen,  for which BGI hasnt properly compensated her.
background
Miss W had a home emergency  insurance policy with BGI covering kitchen appliances. 
When her dishwasher stopped working  she made a claim on her policy. BGI responded  and 
the dishwasher was repaired  in March  2018.  Shortly afterwards, the dishwasher caught fire 
and her kitchen was badly damaged.
BGI accepted that its repair work had been  faulty, which resulted in the dishwasher catching 
fire and damaging the kitchen. It paid her compensation for matters not covered by the 
insurance of her house, as follows:
£368 loss of earnings;
£50 policy excess;
£42.77 for paint;
£250 food allowance  because her kitchen  was unusable for some eight weeks;  and
£500 for the emotional distress  and upset to her health caused  by the fire.
Miss W didnt accept  the figures  for food allowance and emotional distress.
On the food allowance, BGI was unhappy  with some of the receipts  and said others  didnt 
have any breakdown for what  had been consumed and by whom.  It said Miss W would  have 
had to spend money on buying food in any event.  Miss W said she could only provide in the 
way of receipts what she had been  given. And the loss of use of her kitchen for eight weeks 
had cost her more than BGI was allowing.
On the psychological issues that Miss W said had resulted from the fire, BGI said that on the 
limited medical evidence Miss W had made available it thought its offer of £500  was 
reasonable. Miss W didnt  think this was enough.  She said she had provided evidence  that 
following the fire she had been  prescribed sleeping tablets and anti-depressants.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that as a result 
of the fire, Miss W was unable to use her kitchen for approximately eight weeks.  In such 
circumstances, when  receipts werent available our approach was that a disturbance 
allowance of £10 per adult and £5 per child should  be paid for each day the kitchen wasnt  
usable.
Miss W said she lived with her child, and so the investigator thought she should be paid a 
disturbance allowance of £15 for every day she was without the use of her kitchen. Miss W 
said she was without  a kitchen for eight weeks or 56 days. So he recommended  that the 
food allowance  be increased by £590  from £250 to £840.
In considering the compensation  for Miss Ws emotional distress, the investigator noted that 
she was at home when  the fire broke out. So it was reasonable to assume that this must 
have caused her some distress.  Her medical  records also suggested the fire had affected 
her. Shed inhaled smoke, suffered with nightmares,  and been prescribed  medication to help 
Ref: DRN57691172her cope with stress.  So he recommended that the compensation for this aspect be 
increased from £500 to £1,000.
Miss W accepted the investigators recommendation. BGI didnt agree with the 
recommendation. It said its view remained that the compensation it had offered was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. So this complaint has been passed to me to issue a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the investigator, I think the offer of a food allowance  of £250 for Miss W and her child in 
respect of the loss of use of a kitchen  for some  eight weeks  is inadequate.  Its less than 
£4.50 a day for the two of them.
I understand that BGI had reservations about  some  of the receipts  that Miss W produced.  In 
the absence of adequate  receipt evidence, where  a kitchen is out of action our practice is to 
suggest a daily allowance  of £10 per adult and £5 per child for each affected  day. In this 
case that amounts  to £840. So I agree that the food allowance  in this case should be 
increased by £590.
For the reasons  the investigator gave,  I also agree that the compensation for Miss Ws 
emotional distress should be increased  by £500.
BGI has already paid Miss W a food allowance of £250 and compensation for distress  of 
£500. I think it should pay her a further £1,090 (£590 + £500).
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order British Gas Insurance Limited to pay 
Miss W a further £1,090  in addition to the sums it has already paid her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5769117