K822xcomplaint
Mr B and the late Mrs B (Mr and Mrs B) say Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS), mis-sold them  
two mortgage  payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policies. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on 16 August 2019.  A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explained why I 
provisionally upheld,  in part, Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Both parties  confirmed they received my provisional decision. And both parties agreed with 
my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As both parties agree to my provisional  findings,  and as neither party  has given me anything 
else to consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. So I now confirm 
those findings.
putting things right
BoS should:
Refund to Mr and Mrs B each payment they made towards the unemployment element of 
the PPI. This will, as far as possible,  return Mr and Mrs B to the position  as if the policy  
never included  unemployment and remained as an accident  and sickness policy only.  
Deduct the successful claims that Mrs B made under the policy.  As the policy  shouldnt  
have ever included  the unemployment element, I dont think Mr and Mrs B would have 
amended the policy to cover Mrs B and it would have stayed in Mr Bs name. So its fair 
BoS can take off what Mrs B got for the claims from the amount it owes Mr and Mrs B.  
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  
The rate of interest is 8% a year.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  BoS to take off tax from this interest.  BoS must give Mr and Mrs B 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr B asks for one.
Ref: DRN57954962my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and within my provisional decision,  I partially  uphold  
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Bank of Scotland plc needs to put things right as I have directed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B, on behalf  of 
himself and the late Mrs B, to accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN57954963Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), mis-sold them two mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policies.  
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a joint mortgage in 1990. No PPI policy was taken at this time.  
In January 1992 Mr and Mrs B applied for some extra borrowing and a PPI policy was sold at this 
time. The policy was in Mr Bs name only and initially only covered him for accident and sickness,  not 
unemployment. The policy cost £10 per month and provided a monthly benefit  of £500.
The policy was amended  a couple of months later to include unemployment. The cost of the policy  
changed to £30 per month with the monthly benefit remaining the same, so £500. In the event of a 
successful claim,  the PPI would have covered  Mr B for up to 12 months per claim. 
In November 2004, BoSs system notes show the PPI was switched from Mr Bs name to Mrs Bs 
name following  a request. It appears that a new policy number was generated for Mrs B, but 
essentially the policy  remained as it was previously. Mr and Mrs B were  still paying a monthly amount 
for the PPI and it still provided cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.  However the policy  
terms had changed to allow for successful claims to pay out for up to 24 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. As Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,  
the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive provisionally decided to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in part. Ill explain why.
BoS doesnt have copies of all of Mr and Mrs Bs paperwork. Due to the time that has passed I dont 
find this unreasonable. 
But BoS has managed to provide some information about  what  happened in 1992 and 2004.  
First, I can see BoS has provided  a copy of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage application  which was 
completed in October  1989  and I can see that PPI wasnt taken  at this time.
PPI was taken in 1992  when  Mr and Mrs B applied for some extra borrowing.
the PPI taken  in 1992
BoS has provided a copy of the homeowner loan application form Mr and Mrs B completed in 
January 1992.
Having looked at the application I can see that the section for PPI (Section H Repayment Insurance) 
hasnt been completed.
Ref: DRN57954964But BoS has provided  a copy of a schedule  of insurance that was issued to Mr B on 30 January  
1992. The schedule shows that a policy had been set up in Mr Bs name. It was set up to cover him 
for accident and sickness only  and not unemployment. 
The monthly  premium Mr and Mrs B had to pay was £10 and the PPI in the event of a successful 
claim provided a monthly  benefit of £500. 
So, while the homeowner loan application form hadnt been ticked  for PPI, I think  it is likely that 
during the application process there was a discussion about  PPI. And from this conversation PPI was 
added with Mr and Mrs Bs consent and at the level they required,  which was to cover Mr B for 
accident and sickness only  not unemployment.  
Given what I have said above, I think it is likely,  because there was a discussion,  that BoS 
recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B. So it had to make  sure the recommendation was suitable  for 
their needs. 
On the whole,  I think its initial recommendation in January 1992, to cover  Mr B for accident and 
sickness only was a suitable  recommendation. Ill explain why.
Mr B was self-employed at the time and was the main earner. As Mr B was self-employed he didnt 
receive any sick pay. So the policy  provided  a useful benefit in the event Mr B was unable  to work 
because of an accident or sickness.
But I note Mr Bs policy was amended two months later to include unemployment cover.  To reflect  
this, the monthly cost of the policy went from £10 per month, to £30 per month.   
As Mr B was self-employed,  Ive looked  at the closest  relevant  policy document  to see what the policy 
terms required  for a self-employed person to be able to claim. Amongst other things, Mr B had to 
provide a letter from his accountant that he had ceased trading  due to financial insolvency and 
provide evidence  from his bank that he had instructed  them to freeze his trading account.  
So the terms that Mr B needed to meet in order for an unemployment claim  to be successful were  
considerably more difficult than that for an employed  person. 
Mr Bs PPI was initially  set up without  unemployment  benefit, and I think  that was the right 
recommendation for him. I dont know the reasons  why the policy was later amended  as the records  
are limited. But in my opinion, it is likely that Mr B in making any amendment was relying on what  he 
had been told about the PPI at the point of sale, two months earlier. 
Had BoS made Mr B aware at the point of sale that the unemployment cover  part of the PPI policy 
wasnt right for him then I dont think he would  have agreed to amend  the policy  to include 
unemployment a few months later. 
So I think Mr B has lost out. I dont  think  Mr B should have been sold the unemployment element  of 
the policy.  So I think BoS needs to return the payments  Mr and Mrs B made  towards the 
unemployment element  of the cover.
Ill set out later on what I think BoS needs to do to put things right 
what happened to the PPI in 2004?
In November 2004, BoSs records  show that the policy was amended  from Mr Bs name  to Mrs Bs 
name and that this was as a result of a request from Mr and Mrs B.
BoS has said that because there  was a change in the person who was covered under the policy a 
new policy was set up with a new policy number.  And for the purposes of Mr and Mrs Bs mis-selling  
complaint it has treated this as a separate sale.  
Ref: DRN57954965I disagree. I dont think there is sufficient evidence to indicate that what happened in 2004 was a 
separate sale. There was no additional  borrowing for example, and no separate  application for PPI 
was completed.  
It appears that the cover was simply  amended from Mr Bs name  to Mrs Bs name. 
The cover  (accident, sickness  and unemployment),  cost and monthly benefit  of the PPI also remained 
the same.  However  I do note that because a new policy  was generated  the terms of the policy  in 
2004 allowed  for successful  claims to be paid out for up to 24 months as opposed to the 12 months 
under the earlier policy.
BoS has provided some further information which I think shows, on the balance of probabilities, what 
most likely happened. 
The records  show that on 13 November 2004 BoS  claims department requested the policy be 
changed from Mr B to Mrs B.
And I can also see that following this, Mrs B made a successful unemployment claim on the policy. 
The claim was backdated to 1 October 2004 and ran till 9 March 2005 with a total claim benefit  of 
£2,199.99 being paid.
 
So it seems  to me, for reasons now unknown, that Mr and Mrs B were  in contact with BoS about the 
PPI policy  in 2004 and it was ultimately transferred  or amended from Mr Bs name  to Mrs Bs name. 
And this allowed Mrs B to successfully claim  under the policy.
As I consider  it was an amendment  to the policy, despite BoS giving  it a further different policy 
number, it is in my opinion a continuation  of the existing  policy taken in 1992.
When looking  at a mis-selling  complaint,  like this one I have to look at what  happened at the point of 
sale. And if something went wrong  I have  to consider whether Mr and Mrs B would have done 
anything differently?
And this is important in this case. It is important, because having  looked at what happened  with the 
sale in 1992, I considered that Mr B wouldnt have thought the unemployment element  was useful as 
he was self-employed and I dont think  he would have gone  ahead with the amendment.  
As I consider  that the PPI policy in 2004 was a continuation of the 1992 policy, it follows that I 
provisionally consider the policy  through its whole duration  (from 1992 until 2010)  shouldnt have  
had the unemployment element. It wouldnt  have been added  at the start and this means, it wouldnt 
have been in place later on when the policy was amended in 2004.
And because  of this, it also leads me to consider  that it is unlikely that the cover would have been 
amended in 2004 to cover  Mrs Bs. Based on the information I have,  it seems the only reason the 
policy was switched was to allow Mrs B to claim under  the unemployment element of the PPI. But had 
the policy  not had unemployment  cover  then I dont  think it is likely that Mr and Mrs B would have 
agreed to switch. And it would have most likely stayed in Mr Bs name. Mr B has told us that he was 
still self-employed in 2004 and presumably had no sick pay. So the PPI providing accident and 
sickness benefit would have been of use to him.
I appreciate that Mrs B made a successful  unemployment  claim under  the policy   and had the PPI 
not had the unemployment cover I dont think Mr and Mrs B would  have agreed to change the person  
covered  and so Mrs B wouldnt have been able to claim. So I think it would  be fair for BoS to deduct 
this unemployment claim from the refund  of the unemployment premiums.
Ref: DRN57954966I also note Mrs B made a successful  accident and sickness claim in 2008 that paid out £150. Again, 
as I dont think the policy  would have been switched to cover Mrs B and would have most  likely 
stayed in Mr Bs name, I think it would  be fair for BoS to deduct this accident and sickness claim from 
the refund of the unemployment premiums.
an overall summary of my provisional findings
BoSs initial recommendation to Mr B for accident and sickness only in 1992 was suitable.
But, I dont think, had things  been explained clearly, Mr B would have thought  the unemployment part 
of the PPI policy was useful. And I dont think Mr B would  have agreed to go ahead with the 
amendment made to the PPI shortly  after the sale.
Im satisfied that there wasnt  a separate sale of PPI in 2004. The policy from 1992 in essence 
continued, but was simply amended to switch the person  covered under the policy from Mr B to 
Mrs B. 
I consider that the PPI policy in 2004  was therefore a continuation of the 1992 policy, so it follows that 
I consider the policy  through  its whole duration (from 1992 until 2010)  shouldnt have had the 
unemployment element.
As the PPI policy shouldnt  have  had unemployment  cover,  I dont think Mr and Mrs B would have 
gone ahead with amending  the cover from Mr B to Mrs B. I think it was likely that the PPI would have 
stayed in Mr Bs name.
As Mrs B made two successful  claims  under the policy when she wouldnt have  otherwise been able 
to had she not had the PPI, I think it would  be fair for BoS to deduct  these claims  from the refund of 
the unemployment  premiums.
Having carefully considered this complaint, I think things havent gone as they should  have. In order 
to resolve things fairly I propose the following:  
putting things  right
The PPI taken  in 1992 initially cost Mr and Mrs B £10 per month. With unemployment cover, it went 
up to £30 per month. 
It appears Mr and Mrs B were charged £30 from 1 April 1992 up until the policy ended  in 2010. (If the 
policy ended before this  BoS should let me know.)
So BoS should:
Refund to Mr and Mrs B each payment they made towards the unemployment element of the PPI. 
This will, as far as possible, return Mr and Mrs B to the position  as if the policy  never  included 
unemployment and remained as an accident and sickness policy only.  
Deduct  the successful  claims that Mrs B made under the policy. As the policy shouldnt have ever 
included the unemployment element, I dont think Mr and Mrs B would  have amended the policy  
to cover Mrs B and it would have stayed in Mr Bs name. So its fair BoS can take off what Mrs B 
got for the claims from the amount  it owes Mr and Mrs B.  
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  BoS to take off tax from this interest. BoS must  give Mr and Mrs B a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if Mr B asks for one.
Ref: DRN57954967my provisional  decision  
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I provisionally intend to partially uphold  this complaint.
I invite both parties to respond to me by the deadline set out at the start of this provisional decision.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5795496