K820x#14complaint
Mr P says The Co-operative Bank  Plc (Co-op Bank) when it was trading as Britannia  
Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
The Co-operative Bank merged with Britannia Building Society and it is dealing with this 
complaint. So, to keep things  simpler, from now on Ill just refer to Co-op  Bank  as the seller  
in my decision.
background
During a meeting at a Co-op  Bank  branch Mr P took out PPI whilst arranging  a mortgage 
that started  in 2002. The policy protected his mortgage repayments in the event  of accident, 
sickness and unemployment. Mr P paid a monthly amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator felt this was a complaint we should uphold. Based on information Mr P told 
us about a pre-existing medical condition  our adjudicator thought Mr P probably wasnt  
covered for absence  from work related to health  problems related  to his condition.  She felt 
that if Co-op Bank  had explained this to Mr P, then it was unlikely he wouldve wanted the 
PPI. 
And so she felt Mr P probably wouldnt have bought the policy if hed understood this at the 
time and that hed lost out as hed been  paying  for it.
Co-op Bank  responded to our adjudicators opinion by asking to see written  confirmation 
from Mr Ps doctor of his condition and the date of diagnosis. And when our adjudicator  
provided the information from Mr Ps doctor,  it said that as the condition was seemingly 
diagnosed after the policy was taken  out, Mr P would've been covered for his condition as 
long as itd been diagnosed by a specialist.
Our adjudicator asked  Mr P to tell us a bit more  about how his condition had affected him 
during the period leading  up to his diagnosis. But we hadnt received any more information 
about this.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mr P told us that he was never  aware  that PPI was being applied  to his account.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr P to remember  exactly what was discussed when he 
took out the policy as this was so long ago. This means that what he says isnt enough on its 
own for me to be able to uphold his complaint. I have to base my decision on what I think is 
most likely given the available information  and the wider circumstances.
I think the paperwork he had to complete wouldve made it clear that PPI was optional and it 
was up to Mr P to say if he wanted  it with the mortgage.
Ref: DRN58790722Ive seen the mortgage application Mr P completed in March  2002. This shows  that PPI was 
available as an option and it was his choice if he wanted it with the mortgage. He signed the 
form which had been filled in to say that he wanted accident, sickness  and unemployment 
cover. Theres a declaration he couldve signed instead to say that PPI wasnt required   this 
is left blank on the form Mr P signed.  And I think  its likely the form reflected what  hed told 
Co-op Bank  he wanted.
He also signed  a form which clearly states that hed been given details of Co-op Banks 
accident, sickness and unemployment insurance  and an explanation  that these are not a 
condition of sale.
And this is borne out by Mr Ps mortgage  offer  this mentions nothing that suggests that PPI 
was required as part of the borrowing. 
A separate  PPI application had to be filled in if he wanted to take out PPI. Ive seen the PPI 
application that Mr P signed in March 2002.  His name is shown on the form indicating  he 
was the person to be insured. He answered questions intended to check he was eligible for 
the policy and chose to take out accident, sickness and unemployment  cover  of particular 
amounts and length. Mr P signed  the completed  form to get the policy. 
And it looks like Mr P mustve decided he wanted  accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover after speaking with the advisor. I say this because Co-op Bank  wrote to him shortly 
afterwards setting out details of the cover hed chosen showing that Mr P was covered  
including what it would  cost. 
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, repayable over a substantial number of 
years. Mr Ps home wouldve been  at risk if the mortgage payments werent  kept up to date. 
PPI provided dependable cover and better protection than he had otherwise. So, I can see 
why Mr P mightve felt PPI was useful to have.  
I can completely understand how Mr P mightve  forgotten these details. But, based  on the 
information Ive seen, I think its likely that Mr P decided he did want  the benefits  that PPI 
offered. And, on balance, I find that he chose to buy the policy, knowing it was up to him to 
say if he wanted  it.
In my view, Co-op Bank didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P personally. But it still needed to 
sufficiently highlight the significant  details  of the policy to Mr P so he could decide if it was 
right for him.
Mr P was eligible for the policy.  The policy  wouldve paid out a benefit for up to 18 months  in 
the event of a successful  accident or sickness claim  and repeat  claims were  possible 
providing Mr P with long term cover. The policy covered his mortgage  repayments for 
significantly longer  than Mr P told us he wouldve  received  sick pay from his employer if he 
couldnt work  and it wouldve been paid in addition  to any work benefits Mr P mightve got. 
The policy wouldve also protected his mortgage  monthly repayments  for up to 12 months 
per claim if Mr P lost his job unexpectedly  and was out of work. 
Mr P told us he had no significant other means  to rely on to pay his mortgage if he wasn't 
working. So I think the policy offered him useful  benefits in his particular circumstances. 
Ref: DRN58790723Its possible Co-op Bank didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. Mr P 
told us hed had a medical condition  diagnosed  in 1992 that had led to him being off work  
although this wasnt around the time of the mortgage. 
Under this particular policy, no monthly  benefit was payable for any disability arising from 
any condition that had required medical  or surgical treatment or consultation during the 
12 months before the policy started.
His doctor has said that Mr P ...has been suffering from (his medical condition) since  at 
least 2003.
This information doesnt rule out the possibility that Mr P was affected  by his condition  as 
long ago as 1992. But when Mr P applied for the PPI he filled in details to check  his eligibility 
and entitlement  to the policy benefits. This included the question:  Have  you consulted your 
doctor during  the past 12 months other than for minor illnesses and Mr P said No. And he 
answered other questions  in a way which suggested he hadnt  had any health problems at 
the time.  
Mr P wouldnt have  been covered for a pre-existing medical condition  he had when he took 
out the PPI if hed been treated for it in the prior 12 months. But, at the moment, theres 
nothing to show me that Mr P had been getting  medical advice or treatment for his condition 
in the previous 12 months, or that it had affected  his ability  to work, when he arranged  the 
PPI. So based  on what Ive been told so far I dont think that Mr P wouldve expected  to have 
to claim on the policy for the condition he was later diagnosed with. And even if he did claim, 
he would  be covered for it provided  it was diagnosed by a specialist consultant.  
And Mr P had the benefit  of other  cover that the policy offered. So I dont think  its likely that 
having clearer information about  the circumstances when the policy  wouldnt pay out 
wouldve made any difference  to Mr Ps decision to take it out. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr P when he signed up for it. But the 
unemployment cover  was free of charge for the first 12 months.  And the cost of the accident  
and sickness cover was shown in the welcome letter and schedule  sent to him. So he 
couldve queried it then if he decided this wasnt something he wanted to pay for. But, from 
what Ive seen, it doesnt look as if that happened. Mr P hasnt suggested that he couldnt 
afford the monthly  premiums. And he wouldve signed an instruction form to his bank to 
cover the cost. So it seems he was happy  at the time to pay for PPI. And as he was paying 
for it monthly,  he could  cancel it at any time without extra cost if his situation  changed  or he 
no longer wanted  it. 
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr P still wouldve  decided  to buy the policy even if hed been better informed as the 
policy gave him useful protection in his particular situation. 
This means,  as things  stand, Im not currently planning to tell Co-op  Bank that it needs to do 
anything to put things right. 
Ref: DRN58790724Based on the information Id seen, my provisional decision was not to uphold  this complaint.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr P has confirmed  that he accepts what Ive said in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, and in view of the comments received in response to my provisional  
decision, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision. 
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.  
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN5879072