K822xcomplaint
Mrs R complains that FCE Bank  Plc (trading as Ford Credit) has unfairly charged additional 
monthly payments  after she handed  back a car shed  acquired under a hire purchase 
agreement. 
background 
In January 2015 Mrs R entered into a three-year hire purchase agreement  for a new car. At 
the end of the agreement  Mrs R could  choose to return the car, pay a lump sum and own it 
or take out another agreement.
In December 2017, due to change  in personal circumstances and wanting a bigger car, Mrs 
R visited the dealership and made arrangements to return her current  car. Mrs R says she 
knew she was handing the car back early but that the dealership had told her that there 
wouldnt be any additional  charges as the car was in good condition  and it would  buy it from 
her.
The car was handed back at the end of December  2017. Mrs R then received  an invoice 
from Ford Credit for two monthly payments under the agreement which it said were  still 
outstanding. Mrs R complained to Ford Credit about  this bill.
Ford Credit didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint. It said that in order to hand the car back  all the 
payments under the agreement had to be made  as set out in the agreement  under Payment 
details and Mrs R had paid 34 out of the 36 payments. This meant there was a remaining 
liability for two payments  but as a gesture of good  will Ford Credit  said it would reduce Mrs 
Rs liability to owing  one months payment.
Mrs R was unhappy at Ford Credits decision and complained  to this service. She said if 
shed known there would have been  charges to pay when handing the car back  she would 
have kept it until the agreement  had ended.  
Our investigator recommended that Mrs Rs complaint  should  be upheld.  He said he thought 
Mrs R had been misled  by the dealership  as otherwise it would be very unlikely shed have 
handed the car back so close to the end of the agreement  knowing shed still have  to pay the 
last two monthly payments. He appreciated shed wanted a bigger car for personal reasons 
but for the period left of the agreement Mrs R would have been able to cope  with the car she 
had.
Our investigator said that in the end of contract  letter  sent out by Ford Credit  to Mrs R in 
October 2018 it said she should  discuss your options with the dealership. This indicated 
that Ford Credit had given  the dealership some authority to discuss with Mrs R what she 
could do as the contract was nearing its end. This meant it was fair for Ford Credit to be 
responsible for the information then given by the dealership.
Our investigator said it wasnt fair that Mrs R should have to pay the two remaining 
instalments.
Ford Credit disagreed  with our investigators  view. It said the optional final payment letter  
sent to Mrs R had been  clear that she could return the car if all of her obligations  under the 
agreement had been fulfilled and she hadnt done  this as there were still two instalments left.
Ref: DRN58809752Ford Credit said the Options Hand Back Customer Information Sheet says ... if the vehicle 
is returned at the end of the agreement there will be nothing to further  to pay but the car 
hadnt been returned at the end of the agreement.  It said it was clear  the customer had to 
pay all the instalments before returning the vehicle.
Ford Credit said that it had offered as a gesture of goodwill to reduce  the outstanding 
instalments from two to one in recognition of the misinformation given by the dealership  and 
this was fair.  It said Mrs R should  pay the remaining one instalment.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted that Mrs R spoke with the dealership about handing the car back  and didnt 
speak with Ford Credit before this took place. But Im not surprised by that since the letter 
Mrs R received, about what she could do now the agreement was coming to an end, 
directed her to talk to the dealership. She simply followed  the advice she had been given.
Mrs R has explained her personal circumstances had altered and she wanted a bigger car 
so she wanted  to change the car she had. However, Ive seen there wasnt an urgent need 
for her to change the car. 
Mrs R says the dealership  told her there  would be nothing further  to pay due to the car being  
in good condition. And although I dont know exactly what was said between Mrs R and the 
dealership Ford Credit  has accepted Mrs R was given misinformation. And from Mrs Rs 
actions I think its reasonable to think the dealership did give assurances that there  would be 
nothing further  to pay when she returned  the car. I dont think  that keeping the car and 
waiting for the end of the agreement would have caused Mrs R any difficulties and would 
have been a sensible decision if the alternative  was paying an additional two months 
payments for a car that had been  handed  back.
I also dont think that what the dealership said would have been something that would have 
sounded surprising  to Mrs R and led to her querying the terms and conditions of the 
agreement with either it or Ford Credit. So although  the agreement  sets out what  happens at 
the end of the agreement  I think it was reasonable for Mrs R to rely on what  the dealership 
had said about  the last payments not needing  to be covered. The agreement was very close  
to the end and there were only two payments left to make. 
A hire purchase agreement can be ended in a number of ways. It can come  to an end 
naturally at the end of its term, or it can be ended due to the default of one of the parties  or 
it can be voluntarily terminated (VT)  by the consumer and the car handed back early.  
However to VT a consumer must put that request in writing to the credit provider.
Although the car was handed  back early Ford Credit  didnt deal with it as a VT, it treated the 
agreement as though it had completed  its full term and charged Mrs R for the two remaining 
months of the agreement. I think it was reasonable for Ford Credit to not treat this as a VT 
since the rules on that process are quite clear  but I dont think  its decision to invoice the 
remaining payments  was fair.
Ref: DRN58809753I agree  that the terms and conditions set out that there is nothing  further  to pay once the 
agreement has ended  (save for any damage  or excess mileage) and that Mrs R knew  shed 
handed the car back early but she had relied  on what  the dealership had said. So I think 
what was going  to happen when  she handed  the car back two months early was 
misrepresented to her. 
The general rule when a consumer is misled  is to put them  back in the position they would 
have been in, that is she would have kept the car to the end of the agreement, but here that 
isnt possible as the car has been  returned. I think the fairest option is that the agreement  is 
treated as ended when  the car was handed back with nothing further to pay.
Ive seen that our investigator has made  a number of different recommendations when 
looking at this complaint  and that Ford Credit  has queried that. But when looking at a 
complaint and gathering information views about  what is fair and reasonable will alter and 
change. I think  that when  looking at all the evidence that this is the fairest resolution to Mrs 
Rs complaint.
And so for the reasons given above Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint and ask Ford Credit  to 
cancel the outstanding invoice for £211.72.  I would also ask Ford Credit to remove any 
adverse information  regarding  this account  from Mrs Rs credit file.
my final decision
As set out above Im upholding  Mrs Rs complaint. Im asking FCE Bank  Plc to cancel the 
outstanding invoice for £211.72 and remove any adverse information about  this agreement 
from Mrs Rs credit  file. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.  
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5880975