K821x#15complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the way a claim under her home emergency policy  was handled  by 
Inter Partner Assistance  SA (IPA).
background
Mrs S made a claim to IPA after water started getting in through  her roof.
IPA accepted the claim and arranged repairs. Mrs S says that when scaffolding  was put up 
to repair  the upper part of her roof, the scaffolder  damaged the lower part of her roof over a 
small extension.
IPA agreed that the scaffolder had caused  some  damage and offered to send the scaffolder 
back to repair it. It said Mrs S had turned down this offer.  Mrs S said she wanted  an 
experienced roofer to repair the damage.
Mrs S says according to her roofer the whole  roof should be replaced and she thinks IPA 
should pay for this. She said she only contacted a roofer herself because she was worried 
about delays on the part of IPA. 
IPA paid Mrs S £100 as compensation  for the distress and inconvenience it had caused her. 
It also paid £442.93  being the amount  quoted  by its contractor for repairing the damage.
Mrs S complained to this service. After being contacted by our investigator, IPA agreed to 
pay a further £150  for Mrs S to have an independent  report  prepared about the damage.  
The report  stated that about 60-70% of the roof tiles on this part of the roof had been 
damaged by the scaffolding. Her building consultant said it would be nigh on impossible  to 
remove and replace individual damaged tiles. He also thought  the roofing felt underneath 
should be replaced because there were several tears in it.
Our investigator thought IPA should  pay £150  towards the cost of the report and the amount  
of the lower quote obtained by Mrs S to repair the damage being  £2,900.
IPA paid £150 for the report but didnt think it was liable to replace the whole  of this area of 
roof.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a repairer is appointed by an insurer, they become the insurers  agent. So if theres a 
problem with the repairers work,  the insurer is responsible for sorting it out. The dispute in 
this case is about  the extent  of the works required to repair the roof.
IPAs engineer said there were about 60 cracked and broken tiles on the lower roof, 
including some bedded verge  tiles. It said on removing  some of the damaged tiles there 
were no obvious  signs  of damage to the roofing felt or structural damage.  It said:
To put the property  back into a pre loss position  a small scaffold tower will need to be 
supplied and erected, then the damaged tiles removed including stripping back the bedded  
Ref: DRN57776452verge area, then the area prepared and new matching tiles supplied and fitted and the verge  
tiles bedded and the verge pointed in.
It also said it is my considered  opinion that it is very unlikely that the works  have caused 
any damage to the roofing felt or weakened  the structure of the roof timbers.  
 
But his notes said SMALL LOW LEVEL ROOF  WILL REQUIRE A PERMANAENT REPAIR 
IE ROOF STRIPPED OFF NEW  FELT  LEAD ETC.
After reviewing photos supplied by Mrs S showing damage to the roof felt, IPA changed  its 
mind to some extent regarding the felt. It agreed  the felting had been damaged by the tiles 
but said it would only pay for repairs patching up the pinhole  damage to the felt. Ive seen a 
photo of one of the holes in the felt measuring 3cm. I dont think this can be classed as a 
pinhole.
Mrs Ss building consultant found there  were  punctures in the felt in three areas of the roof. 
He recommended replacing the roofing felt and said that meant  removing the tiles, lead and 
battens. Since he wasnt quoting for the work, I place more  weight on his independent  
opinion than IPAs  engineer or the roofers who quoted to Mrs S.
But the roofers are broadly in line with the building consultants opinion. One roofer  said the 
weight of the scaffolding had caused  structural issues  to the lower roof. He said the lead 
work was split in several places with scaffolding  plank  markings,  roofing battens were  
broken, the felt was pierced in several  places and the main  roofing timbers were bowed,  split 
and broken. The other roofer  said much the same  but didnt refer to any work on the main 
roofing timber and his quote was lower.
So Im not persuaded that IPA has correctly assessed the work required to repair  Mrs Ss 
lower roof.
Even if I thought that IPA had correctly  assessed the repair  works required,  I still wouldnt 
think its settlement was fair. If Im satisfied the insurer has offered to carry out an effective 
and lasting repair but the consumer insists on a cash  settlement,  then I often think it would 
be unfair for the insurer to be forced to pay the cost to the consumer when it could have had 
the works  done  for less. But in this case IPA said it couldnt carry out the works. So I think 
its only fair it should make a settlement based on the cost to Mrs S. That means it should 
pay £2,457.07,  being £2,900 (the lower of the two quotes obtained by Mrs S) less the 
£442.93 already  paid by IPA.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay £2,457.07 to Mrs S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  7 March 2019.
Ref: DRN57776453Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5777645