K821x#15complaint
Mr P bought a complaint about the service  provided  by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) in 
relation to a claim  under his home  emergency insurance policy.  The complaint is being 
continued on behalf of his estate  by his son, also Mr P, and his wife. 
background
On 4 June 2018, Mr P made a claim under  his policy after noticing  leak in the bathroom. IPA 
sent a plumber out, who apparently replaced a stopcock among other things, which was 
believed to have  resolved  the leak. However,  on 26 December  2018 Mrs P found the hallway 
carpet was wet and on opening the airing cupboard door they were met with a torrent of 
water gushing out at high pressure. 
Mr and Mrs Ps son was staying at the time and as he is a plumber  he repaired the leak.  He 
said the wrong fitting had been used on the stopcock and this is why the leak happened on 
26 December 2018.
Mr P made a complaint to IPA and asked for the cost of a replacement  carpet. Mr P said 
hed hired a dehumidifier and cleaned  the carpet but it is still badly stained. 
IPA doesnt accept that it has done anything wrong. It said Mr P should  have reported the 
leak in December 2018 to it immediately, so it could mitigate the loss. Its plumber says the 
correct stop cock fitting was used in June  2018 and it is unable to verify that the fitting he 
used was incorrect. If it had been incorrect or incorrectly fitted, it would have failed sooner 
and not seven months later. 
Mr P said the leak was uncontrollable, it was Boxing Day and it would've been unreasonable
for them to have called IPA for an emergency plumber, while their son, who's  a plumber, 
was present at the time and could carry out the repairs immediately.  If they had not done so, 
the damage would  have  been considerably worse. 
One of our investigators  looked into the mater. He determined that it should be upheld. He 
accepted that it would have been  unreasonable for Mr P to call IPA out, when his son was 
there and able to resolve the problem  immediately. The investigator therefore recommended 
that IPA pay the cost of the replacement  carpet. 
IPA didnt accept  the investigators assessment, so the matter  has been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IPA hasn't been  able to provide a report from its plumber about the repairs he did. However, 
its notes of the claim record that the plumber traced the first leak to the area around  the 
bathroom toilet and basin and found  a fault with the main cold water isolation valve,  a 
leaking ball cock in toilet cistern and a leaking flush valve. He replaced the pan soil pipe 
connector and ballcock,  as well as also fitting  a new stopcock with a compression ring the 
same size as the old one (22x15 reducer) close coupled linkage assembly and Isolation 
valve.
Ref: DRN51067972Mr and Mrs Ps son, who is also a plumber has provided the following report: 
the fitting connecting the water main  to the copper pipe work was the wrong type of fitting.
The fitting used  was a copper to copper 22mm to 15mm  brass compression reducer. The 
leak was caused  by the 22mm olive being  pushed off the end of the plastic water  main. It 
was fixed by using  the correct poly main  to copper adapter.
From this it seems clear  that the second  leak was not in the same  vicinity as the first leak 
and was from the new stopcock fitted by IPAs plumber. Mr Ps son is clear that the incorrect  
fitting was used and has said it should have been  fitted with a poly main  to copper adapter. 
IPA hasnt commented on his report other than to say it hasnt been able to verify that the 
wrong fitting was used  and if it was the wrong  one, itd have expected  it to have  failed 
sooner. 
Mr Ps son has confirmed  that the fitting used by IPA was a 22mm  to 15mm compression 
ring, which is also what IPA has recorded was sued by its plumber. So there seems to be no 
dispute about what fitting IPA did use. And IPA has not commented on the fitting that Mr Ps 
son said should have  been used instead.  I am not able to state  which was right, only make  a 
determination on the evidence presented from each side. On balance I consider Mr Ps sons  
evidence to be persuasive and IPA has not provided any argument or evidence  that what  he 
has said about the fitting that should have  been used is incorrect. In addition, I am not 
convinced that just because some time had passed  since it was fitted that this means it is 
not the cause  of the leak. It seems the fitting popped  off, it may have taken some time for it 
to move far enough  to actually come  off but once  it did come apart, the mains  water was 
pumped straight out causing the damage Mr and Mrs P have reported. 
I do not think that the fact Mr Ps son repaired this, and he didnt call IPA out should make a 
difference to the outcome here.  I think their reasons for acting as they did are entirely 
reasonable and it would have been absurd to require them to leave the leak as it was while 
waiting for IPA to attend. 
 
Mr P and Mrs P have provided  a quote for the replacement  carpet  of £820.63,  inclusive of 
VAT. Ive not seen  any photographs of the damage  but have no reason  to doubt Mr Ps 
account of this. The quote is for like for like carpeting and there  is nothing  to indicate the 
quote ifs not reasonable. Mr P said theyd  made  efforts  to try and clean and dry the carpet 
unsuccessfully. I therefore agree with the investigator that IPA should reimburse the cost of 
replacing the damaged carpet.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Inter Partner  Assistance  SA and require it to reimburse the 
cost of the replacement carpet, on proof  of payment for this work. If the carpet  has already 
been replaced, then then interest should be added at 8% simple per annum  from the date it 
was paid for, to the date of reimbursement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask The Estate of Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5106797