K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that (the company now known as) Fairmead Insurance Limited has 
declined their contents insurance claim for damage  caused by an escape of water. 
background
In early February 2019 Mr and Mrs R noticed their house was starting to smell and that 
water was pushing  up through their laminate flooring in the hallway, kitchen  and at the 
entrance to their living room. As they rent their property from the local authority, they called it 
to come and assess what could be going  on. The councils contractor found  a broken waste 
pipe behind  a concealed cistern in the downstairs WC which  was allowing water to escape.  
Mr and Mrs R called  Fairmead to report the damage  and it appointed  a surveyor to visit their 
home, inspect the damage and validate  their claim. Fairmead asked Mr and Mrs R if they 
were liable for the damage to their buildings under their tenancy agreement  and they said 
that they were. Fairmead asked them to provide it with a copy of the tenancy agreement so it 
could check what they were liable for. 
The inspection took place 4 days later and the surveyor filed a report  to Fairmead  
recommending that the claim be declined. It thought the damage  wasnt the result of a one-
off insured event  (as required for the policy to engage). The surveyor  thought that the 
damage wouldve  been evident for some time before its cause  was investigated. It said that 
under the policy  terms Fairmead could decline the claim  on the grounds that Mr and Mrs R 
had failed to mitigate  the loss and because the damage had happened gradually.  The 
surveyor wrote to Mr and Mrs R to say that their claim wasnt  covered. 
Mr and Mrs R complained  to Fairmead about its decision not to accept their claim.  Fairmead  
reviewed the surveyors  report  and noted that there were  various  areas of damage  which  
wouldve been apparent. Mr and Mrs R said they had a letter  from the council stating that 
they wouldnt have  been aware  of the leak.  Fairmead reviewed the letter  but noted itd been  
written by a customer and community support officer rather than an engineer.  So, it thought  
its surveyors opinion about the damage was more persuasive. It also looked at the 
photographs of the damage  again and noted a build-up of mildew in the toilet and noticeable 
water damage to the skirting boards and wallpaper all of which  it said wouldve been 
noticeable. 
Mr and Mrs R said they thought the damage to their wallpaper was caused  by their 
grandchildren and then that they thought  the damage to their wallpaper  was a result  of leak 
in their neighbours property. And they said the grouting  between  the toilet  floor tiles was 
black in colour not mildew. 
Fairmead didnt change its mind so Mr and Mrs R complained  to this service.  Our 
investigator looked into their complaint and recommended that it was upheld. He thought  
that the photographs  didnt show damage  that wouldve drawn Mr and Mrs Rs attention to 
the fact they may have a leak that needed  investigating. He thought that Mr and Mrs R 
wouldve reported the leak right away if theyd been  aware of it. He thought Fairmead  should  
pay for the damage  caused to the fixtures and fittings covered under the policy.
Fairmead disagreed  with our investigators  findings  and said that the discolouration of the 
skirting boards our investigator had referred  to indicated there was an issue that required 
investigation. Our investigator looked  at the complaint again but remained of the view that 
Ref: DRN58387112Fairmead hadnt fairly or reasonably declined the claim because  he didnt think  damaged 
wallpaper and discoloured  skirting  boards were signs of an ongoing problem that 
Mr and Mrs R wouldve  been aware of. 
Fairmead still disagreed  with our investigators  findings. It said Mr and Mrs Rs failure to 
investigate had prejudiced its position. And it said it still hadnt  been provided with a copy of 
the tenancy agreement to see what it was that Mr and Mrs R were responsible for. 
The complaint was passed  to me and I issued my provisional decision in July 2020.  I didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld. I made the following findings: 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  With regret  for any disappointment this 
will cause Mr and Mrs R, I dont  think their complaint should be upheld.  Ill explain why. 
This is a claim made under a contents-only  policy. The policy booklet contains some  
definitions of certain key words. It says contents are, All of your or your familys belongings 
or property  which  you or your family  ownwhich are kept in your home  and gardens,  these 
are: furniture, fixtures and fittings  which can be easily removed and reused  such  as carpets 
and curtainscontents  does not include [my emphasis]:wooden, laminate or vinyl floor 
coverings. 
And it says buildings includes the permanent  fixtures and fittings moulded upon the 
buildings that could not easily be removed  and reused such  as fixed sanitary fittings (for 
example, toilets,  sinks  and baths)  and; laminated, wood effect or vinyl floor coverings. 
So, it is clear from the policy terms that insured damage to laminate floors,  sanitaryware and 
skirtings is covered under the buildings section of the policy  which Mr and Mrs R do not have 
cover for. 
Under the contents cover section of the policy there is a section  for Tenants Cover. This 
section provides cover for Loss or damage  to: a) fixtures and fittings installed by you at the 
home for which you are responsible; b) the structure, decorations,  fixtures  and fittings  of the 
home that you are responsible for as a tenant under a tenancy  agreement insured by 
Section 1  Buildings. Effectively  this term extends  buildings cover to Mr and Mrs R for 
damage to their home  for which their tenancy agreement makes  them  responsible. 
Not unreasonably, Fairmead asked Mr and Mrs R to send  it a copy of their tenancy 
agreement so it could  check to see exactly what aspects of the building  they were  
responsible for so it could consider its liability. My understanding is that the tenancy  
agreement was never provided.  Consequently, I dont think  Fairmead has unfairly failed to 
consider Mr and Mrs Rs claim for damage  to their buildings (as extended by the Tenants 
cover section of their contents policy) because, as things stand, it is unaware to what extent 
their responsibility extends. So, I cant look here at their claim insofar  as it relates to damage 
to the structure  of their home (as set out above) because Fairmead has yet to have the 
opportunity to doing so itself. It must first be allowed to consider its liability so it would be 
neither fair nor reasonable for me to look at this here.
The contents section  of the policy provides cover  for loss or damage  caused to contents  by 
certain insured  events.  One such event is damage caused to contents by an escape of 
Ref: DRN58387113water. It isnt in dispute that there was an escape of water from a pipe at the back of 
Mr and Mrs Rs concealed cistern in their downstairs WC. In so far as any contents  are 
damaged, Fairmead  must pay the claim unless it can successfully rely on one or more of the 
policy exclusions to decline the claim.  
Fairmead has relied on two policy exclusions to decline the claim. The first says that If you 
make a claim and we determine that the loss, [or] damagethat led to the claim was 
caused or made worse by you failing to take necessary  steps under this condition we may 
refuse to pay you claim The second says Your  policy  will not provide cover [for] Loss  or 
damage caused by ...anything that happens gradually.
So Fairmead is saying  that whilst there is an escape  of water,  any damage caused to 
contents isnt covered  because Mr and Mrs R failed to take steps to mitigate the damage 
that had, in its opinion, been  going on gradually  for some time. I must  decide whether 
Fairmead has reasonably  relied on these exclusions to decline the claim. 
I can see that the surveyor asked Mr and Mrs R about the damage when he visited  the 
property. In the report sent to Fairmead  the surveyor reported that Mr and Mrs R said they 
had recently noticed  the hall laminate floor was moist and on closer  inspection that the base 
of the wallpaper  was brown and skirtings  were damaged. They  told the surveyor  they called 
the council because of the presence  of a bad odour and because it was responsible  for the 
plumbing. Mr and Mrs R went on to tell the surveyor that the councils contractor, on seeing 
the extent of the damage in the various rooms,  thought that itd been going on for a 
considerable amount of time. 
I can see too that the surveyor  noted that all the ground floor rooms  were affected and that 
the damaged  items (skirtings, laminate etc.) had been removed. The surveyor noted  the 
presence of considerable gradual long term highly visible water damage  to the lower 
sections of the wall paper on both sides of the hall and that a section of plasterboard under 
the paper  was coming away. And he noted that the base of the door to the downstairs WC 
was swollen and not closing properly  and that sections of the skirting  in that room were 
cracked and perished.  He reported  that Mr and Mrs R told him that they didnt normally  pay 
too much  close attention  to the bits and pieces of the property.
I cant reasonably ignore  the surveyors report. His is the only expert evidence  available  
about the cause and extent of the damage. To disregard what  he says,  and place greater  
weight on the view of the councils community liaison officer  (who  isnt a surveyor  used to 
looking into how damage is caused) wouldnt be reasonable.
Ive looked at the available photographs and I can see brown water staining  damage to the 
lower sections of the wallpaper which, it is reasonable to think, appears to be older than a 
few days. This, together with the fact the base of the door to the WC is reported  by the 
surveyor to have been swollen to such an extent  that it wouldnt close should  have alerted 
Mr and Mrs R sooner  that damage was occurring gradually. Whilst I note that Mr and Mrs R 
said they thought the damage occurred  over a 24/48  hour period, it takes longer than that for 
moisture thats come into contact with a door to cause it to swell. And I note in any event that 
Mr and Mrs R said they didnt pay close attention to the bits and pieces of their home.
Im unable to agree  that the damage  to the wallpaper looks like a juice spillage by 
Mr and Mrs Rs grandchildren. And in any event, that is at odds with Mr and Mrs Rs account 
that the damage all happened in a 24/48 hour period.
Ref: DRN58387114Damage that occurs  gradually  as opposed to that caused by a one-off incident like a 
sudden burst pipe  is excluded from cover by the policy terms. And I think the nature of the 
damage is such that it occurred gradually.  And I think that the swelling of the WC door,  and 
the staining to the wallpaper  in the hall, shouldve alerted  Mr and Mrs R sooner that they 
needed to act to mitigate their loss. So, in the circumstances, I dont think  that Fairmead has 
unreasonably declined to accept Mr and Mrs Rs contents claim by relying  on two of the 
exclusions in the policy.
It is worth pointing  out that I am not sure from the evidence  Ive seen exactly what  contents 
are being  claimed  for as damaged by the water leak. Ive only seen reference to damaged  
skirting, laminate and wallpaper all of which I understand would  fall under the buildings cover 
section of the policy. And, as I said above,  without  the tenancy agreement, it isnt possible to 
know what parts of the building Mr and Mrs R are responsible for and whether their cover is 
extended by the tenants cover provided  by the contents section of the policy.
Fairmead replied to my provisional decision to say it had nothing to add. Mr and Mrs R 
havent responded with any comments. 
The complaint was returned  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any substantive comment in response to my provisional 
decision my provisional findings  and provisional  decision remain unchanged.  For the 
reasons I gave in my provisional decision,  Im satisfied that this is a complaint that cant  fairly 
or reasonably be upheld.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 September 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5838711