K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) closed their account  in 
error and offered them inadequate compensation for the effect this had upon them.
background 
I set out the background  in my previous provisional  decision dated  18 July 2019.
my provisional findings and the parties responses 
In my provisional decision I reached  the view that the complaint should be upheld in part. I 
said the parties disagreed as to whether RBS had made a mistake in closing Mr and Mrs 
Ws account, but in any event RBS didnt have to explain its reasons. I said RBS had acted 
in accordance with the legal and regulatory requirements placed  upon it.
There was confusion over the addresses  held by RBS and I found its communications  were 
poor, causing Mr and Mrs W much inconvenience.  RBS acknowledged it gave inconsistent 
advice about their account  and I suggested  it adopt  a single point of contact for customers  in 
these circumstances.  I said that not knowing  where  their funds were must have been 
extremely worrying for Mr and Mrs W.
Mr and Mrs W said they should  be compensated for professional fees they incurred in 
sorting out the problems with their account. I said I thought that Mr and Mrs W were able to 
sort the problems out without the need  for professional assistance. 
I said that RBS should  pay Mr and Mrs W £750  for the trouble and upset caused to them,  
and pay for their calls and internet roaming fees.  I said RBS should also repay their online 
banking fees for May and November 2018  when that service  was interrupted, totalling £80. I 
said although their account remained open, RBS ought to have anticipated the access  
problem following its previous notice to close the accounts. I said that because there were 
other means  to access the account  the £100  compensation  offered by RBS is reasonable.
Mr and Mrs W responded to the provisional decision saying they were on holiday when their 
funds disappeared for three days and anybody  would  seek help from an adviser  and so RBS 
has a duty to pay their accountancy fees.  Mr and Mrs W asked how it was that RBS only told 
Mr W about the account closure and why didnt it write to Mrs W for whom  it held the correct  
address. They said if this had happened  they would not be in the position they are in today.
Mr and Mrs W said it was clear throughout that RBS hadnt followed the correct protocol,  nor 
did it follow the correct  procedure or evidence, and RBS closed their account a second  time 
again by mistake.  Mr and Mrs W requested that we re-look into their out of pocket expenses.
RBS had no further comment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN57105782Ive looked again at RBSs handling  of Mr and Mrs Ws account and the decisions  and 
communications it has made. Having done so, I remain  of the view that Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint should  be upheld  in part, and for the reasons set out in my provisional  decision 
I havent seen  anything to suggest that RBS closed  Mr and Mrs Ws account by mistake, as 
they suggest, so I disagree with them about this. However I agree that the communications 
they received  were  poor and left them in the dark for a short  period about  the whereabouts 
of their funds. I can understand the amount of worry this would  have caused  Mr and Mrs W.
Mr and Mrs W ask why RBS didnt write to Mrs W about the account closure. As I said in my 
provisional decision, Ive seen RBSs  business  records and it wrote to Mrs W separately at 
the correct address. I understand from Mr and Mrs W that this letter wasnt received, but this 
wasnt RBSs fault. In these situations if we can see that a letter  was properly  addressed and 
evidence of dispatch, we accept that a business  has met its responsibilities. 
Although Mr and Mrs W faced uncertainties  about their funds while they were away  on 
holiday, I remain of the view that they were able to sort the problems out without recourse  to 
professional assistance,  and so I dont think its fair to require RBS to pay for this. 
Ive looked again at the process  RBS followed in closing Mr and Mrs Ws account. I can 
assure them that RBS was entitled to take this action under the terms and conditions of their 
account and acted in accordance with its legal and regulatory responsibilities in doing  so. 
I remain of the view that RBS should meet the cost of the calls Mr and Mrs W made  to 
resolve the problems  with their account  and their internet roaming fees.  I also think Mr and 
Mrs Ws request  for a refund of online banking fees for May and November 2018, totalling 
£80 is reasonable given  that the service (but not their account) was interrupted.  I think  RBS 
should have anticipated this problem,  but I still think the compensation of £100 offered by 
RBS is reasonable  for the lack of online access at that time.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld  in part. I 
require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay Mr and Mrs W a total of £850 compensation 
for the trouble and upset  its poor service has caused  them.  I also require The Royal Bank  of 
Scotland Plc to pay Mr and Mrs Ws call and internet roaming costs  on production of these 
bills, and refund their online banking fees totalling £80 for the months  of May and November 
2018 when the service  was disrupted.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 September 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5710578