K820x#14complaint
Miss J complains  that Lloyds Bank Plc, (trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester, (C&G)), 
mis-sold her a mortgage  payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
background
Miss J bought the monthly premium  MPPI  during a meeting at the same time remortgaging  
her home. The policy covered her against accident, sickness  and unemployment. And the 
premiums were about £20 a month.
Because of the time that has passed, C&G  hasnt been able to give us a copy of the policy  
that was in use at the time the insurance was sold to Miss J. So Ive looked at the one that 
was in use just three  months later, (the Policy). Knowing what we do about these types of 
policy generally, I think that its reasonable to assume that the terms and conditions  of the 
MPPI taken by Miss J didnt vary much  from those of the Policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Miss J disagreed 
the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in Miss Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  because:
I think that Miss J knew that the policy was optional and that she chose to take it. I say 
this because Ive seen her signed  mortgage application form. The form has been 
completed in handwriting. There is a section in it dealing with MPPI. I can see that the 
box next to the sentence requesting the insurance has been ticked. Whereas the box 
next to the equally prominent sentence  declining  the insurance has been left blank. Even 
if it was C&Gs representative  who completed the form this way, Im satisfied that this 
would have been after a discussion with Miss J. And Miss J would have  had the 
opportunity to review  the form before signing it.
Because the sale was so long ago I can understand why Miss J can no longer remember  
the detail of how the MPPI was sold to her;
C&G  recommended  the policy to Miss J. This means that it had to take reasonable steps 
to ensure that it was suitable for her needs.  Knowing what I do about Miss Js 
circumstances at the time and the Policy,  I find that its likely  that the MPPI was suitable 
for her because:
oMiss J would have been eligible for the Policy;
oMiss J wasnt caught by any of the main restrictions  and limitations in the Policy  
such as those affecting someone who had a pre-existing medical condition;
Ref: DRN54535022oMiss J wasnt entitled to any sick pay from her employer. And she didnt have any 
other insurance or savings to help make  her mortgage repayments if she had 
been unable  to work. But following a successful claim the MPPI would have paid 
over £270 a month for up to 12 months. So I think that it could have  been  of use 
to Miss J;
oThe policy was competitively priced  by reference to other similar policies 
available in the market at the time and had a reasonable  benefit;  And I havent  
seen anything to suggest that Miss J couldnt  afford it. In any event had she later 
felt that the insurance  was unaffordable or that she no longer wanted it, she could  
have cancelled it at any time without further cost;
I dont know what information C&G  gave  Miss J about the MPPI. Its possible that it didnt 
tell her everything that it ought to have  so that she could make an informed decision 
whether to take it or not. But, as Ive concluded that she chose to take it and that it was 
likely to have been suitable for her, I dont think that better  information  would have 
changed her mind and stopped  her buying  it. This means that Miss J is no worse  off 
because of anything  that may have been wrong with C&Gs  sales  process. So theres 
nothing that I require it to put right.
Ive also thought about whether C&G needs  to give back  to Miss J some of the 
commission she paid. The Supreme Court ruling  and new rules and guidance dont apply 
to certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As Miss Js 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So C&G  
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Miss J paid for the MPPI she had with that 
mortgage
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  my decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5453502