K820x#14complaint
Ms M has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  wont refund transactions she 
didnt make or authorise.
background
Ms M and her husband, Mr S, and their daughter moved abroad to settle in August 2016. On 
their way they first spent  some time in her husbands home country. In March 2017  Ms M 
found out her husband had discovered her online banking details when theyd been moving 
and had used  these to transfer  funds from her own accounts into the account they shared. 
Hed then spent quite  a bit of the money  on spread  betting.
Ms M and her daughter had had to come back to the UK as they now had no money.  She 
asked Halifax to refund more than £7,200 which  she disputed.  They believed this was a civil 
matter and her husband may have to be prosecuted for them to consider a refund.
Ms M brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence, including bank statements. Unfortunately  Halifax no 
longer held online banking records for Ms M or Mr S (as their joint account was now closed). 
This meant he could  not identify whether Mr S or Ms M had made transfers from her sole 
accounts. As a result  he believed it was most likely  Ms M had made the transactions herself. 
He believed this was the case as transfers were  often made to enable  card payments and 
other transactions.
Ms M was deeply disappointed by this outcome. She felt this only added  to the distress of 
finding out she had little money and someone  shed trusted had betrayed  her. Shes asked 
an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 11 May 2020.  I came  to a similar outcome as our 
investigator but expanded  on the reasoning and the evidence Id reviewed.  
Ms M had no further comments  to provide and Halifax accepted the decision.
I now have all I need to complete  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as in my provisional decision. As neither party provided further evidence, this 
follows the same arguments as I made  on 11 May.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. These  primarily require banks 
to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise  payments  themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply  but nothing thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making 
here. So when  we look at whether a bank  has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud 
Ref: DRN52680612complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer  made  the transactions  
themselves or allowed  them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank 
to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Halifax and Ms M have shared with us. 
Firstly I can see the timeline of events, each  partys testimony and how the transactions  
were made were comprehensively covered  in our investigators view of 30 March  2020. This 
included an appendix  detailing transactions from and to the three  accounts  involved. I dont 
intend to repeat everything that was said there. I will, of course,  refer to those aspects which  
form the basis of my decision.  I can reassure Ms M and Halifax  Ive read the file thoroughly.
The following  summarises what Ive considered:
Ive seen an email from Mr S apologising to Ms M for the rift hes caused within their 
family. He admits to stealing from her accounts.
Ms M and Mr S held a joint account  with Halifax. Ms M has told us that to all intents 
and purposes this was operated as a sole account by Mr S. This account  is where  
the card transactions were made to the spread betting company.  
There were  13 transactions which took place in two batches: seven payments from 
22 July to 19 September with the maximum paid being £500.  Another six 
transactions took place from 10 November to 15 December with no single payment 
exceeding £150. The total spent  was £2,503. These 13 payments  were  all made 
using Mr Ss debit card attached to the account.
As this was a joint account, Mr S needed  no authority from Ms M to make  payments 
to and from the account. They  were  both authorised to use it. Like our investigator  
Ive not looked at transactions on this account  any further as theres been no 
allegation that anyone other than Mr S was using it. He was authorised to do this.
The main issue is the payments  being  made online from Ms Ms two sole accounts. 
She believes this was her husband,  and his own testimony shows this too.
Our investigator provided  a full appendix of payments to and from these two 
accounts often  resulting  in payments being made into the joint account  from both of 
these accounts.
This doesnt, however, show transactions being made   as her account statements 
do show  in June  2016. So for instance, theres  a payment for £233 crediting  the 
joint account on 30 June  2016. This doesnt  appear  to have come from either of 
Ms Ms Halifax  accounts but is marked as a faster payment from an account in the 
name of Ms M. I know she held accounts with other banks.  
On 4 July 2016  theres a payment of £14,079  crediting Ms Ms account  ending in 
6130. I dont know  where  this came from but I suspect it was a foreign transfer. Two 
days later two payments  from Mr S also credit this account  for £5,500  and £500.
On 4 August  2016 theres a payment of £7,000 crediting Ms Ms account ending  
4021 which may well have come from her account with another bank as well.
Theres no doubt there are many  transfers  of different amounts  none  exceeding  
£1,250 and often much smaller  from both of Ms Ms sole accounts to each other 
and the joint account  from September 2016 to March 2017. The account ending 4021  
is essentially emptied  and £7,213 is transferred to both the joint account and Ms Ms 
other Halifax account.
But what  is difficult to judge is who is making  these transfers and whether this is over 
and above general  household financial management  within a family. One member  of 
Ref: DRN52680613whom lived mostly outside  of the UK before the family moved  overseas in August 
2016.
The transfers were  made  mostly online as I can see from Halifaxs  online  banking 
records for the period 7 November 2016 to 2 March 2017. But Halifaxs records  are 
limited as the joint account is now closed and they dont  retain data when this 
happens. So what I cant tell from this kind of data is whether Ms M was carrying  out 
the transfers using her logon details or whether this was Mr S.
I know Ms M has told us Mr S was able to find out her logon details when they were  
moving in August  2016. But this doesnt  explain payments and transfers  before that 
period. So it could be argued  that Mr S paid nearly £20,000  to Ms Ms account 
ending in 6130 in July 2016 to help them with the move (as a hypothesis).  The 
transfers to his account later on were to repay him.
I do agree its likely Mr S made all the transfers. Ms M has told us she rarely  used  
online banking. She got paper statements sent to her rather than checking online.
All the payments have the look of someone  trying to cover  their tracks. Payments 
being made from one account to another and back again.  Generally this resulted in 
regular payment obligations being met and Ms Ms sole account  rarely being left 
overdrawn for too long. This could either be someone avoiding  detection  or, as our 
investigator believed,  someone making  sure their account was able to be used. I tend 
towards the first interpretation rather than the second based  on the evidence Ive 
reviewed.
However  and as I state above   Im not convinced this was anything  more than family 
financial management. Im also not able to categorically state that as Ms M had received a 
lot of money from Mr S, she didnt owe him money. I know  Ms M has robustly  denied  this 
and she was angered by the suggestion  shed  made  the transfers  herself. Im not saying  that 
however.  
I believe its difficult to be sure what  Mr S was using the money for that was transferred from 
Ms Ms accounts. She alleged hed spent many  thousands on spread betting.  From the 
account statement  I can see its a large  amount but not the figure  she originally suggested. I 
believe its just as likely Mr S was using the money  for family expenses as much as anything  
else.
On that basis it wouldnt  be fair to ask Halifax to refund Ms M. This is even taking into 
account that I believe Mr S did make  the transfers.
I know Ms M feels  this this has all caused  them to have to return  from the UK from overseas 
where theyd hoped to settle. But there  are many reasons why this may not have worked  and 
I cant see the evidence  this was the only cause in this family rupture.
I have considered this complaint carefully.  I have to decide this case on the balance  of 
probabilities, and considering the case overall and on balance  I have decided the facts 
support the outcome as outlined above.
Ref: DRN52680614my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Ms Ms complaint against Bank 
of Scotland,  plc, trading  as Halifax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5268061