K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) taken  out in 2004. 
Mr and Mrs L say Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold them the PPI.
background
The PPI was part of a Total Mortgage  Protection  Plan, which can also include other types  of 
cover like life and critical illness cover.  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint is about  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
The PPI was taken  out with Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage. Theres very little from the time of the 
sale to go on. But from what we know of how Halifax sold PPI like this in meetings at the 
time, I think Halifax  wouldve normally given  a choice about the PPI - and only added the 
cover if it was wanted. 
Mr and Mrs L say this didnt happen in their case.  Theyve said they were  led to believe they 
had to have the PPI to get the mortgage.  But the sale was well over a decade  ago. And Ive 
not seen anything else to make  me think Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs L a choice about the 
PPI. With that in mind, Mr and Mrs Ls recollections  arent enough to make  me think Halifax  
didnt give them a choice  like I think it normally wouldve. So, taking everything into account, 
I think Halifax likely made it clear  that Mr and Mrs L didnt have to take the PPI and they 
chose to take it  but I can understand why they might not remember this. 
If Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs L it had to check the PPI was right for them.  
And Halifax thinks it did recommend the PPI. So I think  its fair to assess  the complaint on 
that basis, which places  on Halifax a higher level of responsibility for the sale.
The PPI was protection for Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage  in case  of disability or unemployment. 
And from what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think  the cover was right for 
them. For example, Mr and Mrs L werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the 
cover  they didnt have  existing health  issues for instance, so exclusions for existing health 
issues wont have affected them. Also Mr and Mrs L seem to have had a need  for the cover.
I say this taking into account  that, from what theyve told us, Mr and Mrs L wouldve received 
work sick pay at full pay for six months. For a successful disability or unemployment claim, 
the PPI benefit  wouldve been  paid out for longer  up to two years   and on top of their work 
pay. Mr and Mrs L didnt  have savings or anything else to help pay their mortgage. So, with 
all this in mind, the PPI benefit wouldve given Mr and Mrs L more security  at what  could be 
a difficult time if either of them suffered unemployment  or was too sick to work.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But, for the reasons Ive given above, it seems like the cover would have 
Ref: DRN52727062been useful for Mr and Mrs L if something went wrong. And I havent seen enough to make  
me think they didnt  choose to take the cover, so I cant say that I think  they didnt want this 
type of cover. Taking  everything into account,  I dont  think better  information  about the PPI 
would have put Mr and Mrs L off taking the cover.
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give back  some of the commission 
Mr and Mrs L paid. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules  and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreements  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mr and Mrs Ls 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Halifax 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission for the PPI Mr and Mrs L had with that 
mortgage.
Ive thought about all Mr and Mrs Ls points but, for reasons Ive given above already, these 
points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5272706