K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a PPI policy with further advance in 1990 to also cover a mortgage 
taken in 1986. They paid a monthly amount for the policy.  The policy only provided cover  for 
Mr D.   
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, and Ill explain why.
After such a long time,  I dont have much information about how Mr and Mrs D came to buy 
the PPI. Ive not been given any notes  of the meeting in which the PPI was sold.  So I dont 
know what was said. And Halifax hasnt been  able to provide copies of the actual paperwork, 
including the policy document that it thinks Mr and Mrs D wouldve seen  or signed at the time 
of sale. So Ive had to decide  what I thinks most likely to have happened.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs D have said, including that they were told they 
had to take the policy with the mortgage.  But Halifax has said the optional  nature of the 
policy wouldve been explained. Ive seen nothing to show me the PPI was a condition  of the 
mortgage. And Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Halifax didnt make  Mr and Mrs D 
aware the PPI was optional. So I cant fairly  uphold  the complaint on this point.
Mr and Mrs D had the mortgage with Halifax from 1986 before taking the PPI with the further 
advance in 1990  so I think  they would have known  they didnt have to take the PPI with the 
mortgage. Its also likely Mr and Mrs D were advised  they should  take out the cover  
particularly as they were  probably taking out borrowing against  their home and would be 
responsible for the repayments  but this is different from being  told they had to take it out. 
So having  thought carefully about  all the information  Ive got, on balance  I think  its likely 
Mr and Mrs D were made aware the policy was optional and they chose  to buy it, even 
though they may not remember that now, many years later.
Halifax has given us a policy  document which it says would  have similar terms to the policy 
sold to Mr and Mrs D. So I have taken this document into account  but Ive also looked at 
other policies from around this time and considered their terms too. And having thought 
carefully about this I think its most likely that the terms and conditions of these policies 
wouldve been broadly similar  to the one sold to Mr and Mrs D. 
Ref: DRN54031452Mr and Mrs D and Halifax agree that Halifax recommended the policy. From what Ive been  
told thats probably right. This meant  Halifax needed to take reasonable steps to find out 
about their needs  and make sure the policy was suitable for them. And I think the 
recommendation was right for them, based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time and what I know about  the likely terms of the policy. I say this because:
Ive seen nothing  to make me think Mr D wasnt eligible for the policy, and it doesnt 
look like they wouldve been  affected by any of the main things the policy  may not 
have covered, for example  any unusual employment terms or pre-existing medical  
conditions. 
Mr and Mrs D said Mr D didnt  have any sick pay or other means to make 
repayments had he been off work through accident or sickness. The have said they 
could have relied on Mrs D to make the repayments but its likely there would have 
been a significant reduction in their family income.  However  its likely  the policy 
wouldve paid for up to 12 months, if Mr D was too unwell to work. So I think  they 
couldve found it useful. 
And I note they were  taking out a mortgage, a significant  financial commitment. They 
were borrowing a large sum over a long period,  secured  on their home. The effects of 
not keeping up the repayments  couldve been serious for them.  So Mr and Mrs D 
may have valued the extra peace of mind  the policy gave them.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think the cover was unaffordable  for Mr and 
Mrs D  or that they had a particular need to keep the costs down. And as they were 
paying for the PPI monthly, they could cancel it without further  cost if their situation 
changed or they no longer  wanted  it. 
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think that the policy  was suitable  for 
Mr and Mrs D.
As well as checking the policy  was right for Mr and Mrs D, Halifax  also had to give them 
clear enough  information  about  the policy so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But as Ive explained I think  Mr and Mrs D chose the cover and for the 
reasons I mentioned above about why I think the policy  is suitable,  I dont  think  better 
information wouldve  stopped them from buying it.
Mr and Mrs D also said that they felt the policy  wouldnt have paid out as the bills werent 
being paid from Mr Ds account  but I havent  seen that it was a condition of the policy that 
Mr D had to be paying the bills so I still think policy would have been useful. 
I know Mr and Mrs D feel strongly, and have put time and effort into their complaint. I realise 
theyll be disappointed  by the outcome. And its difficult  to decide a complaint when I know 
so little about the sale. But on balance,  for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think theyve 
lost out because of anything  Halifax mayve  done  wrong. 
Ref: DRN54031453my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 March  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5403145