K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  made a number of errors 
in transferring his pension  to another provider.
background
Mr G had a pension with his former employer which was administered by Prudential. He left 
that employment and notified Prudential on 21 March 2017. It should then have transferred 
his pension to the new provider as a routine matter.
It asked him for the details of his date of leaving and his final pension contribution, which  had 
been made in February. Prudential accepts it should  have  made it clear  that it had received 
the January payment in February and it would wait until the February sum had been paid 
before making  the transfer.  
However, it failed to do so and there  followed a series of errors. The February contribution 
was received on 17 March, but Prudential took longer to deal with the monies than it should. 
It then sent out the paperwork for leaving the scheme on 23 March, but that didnt include 
the February contribution.
The new providers request for the transfer  was received on 6 April. This should have been 
actioned within five working days, but it wasnt. After five days Prudential  realised that it had 
received the February payment and it wrote to the old employer to ask whether the 
contribution should be invested  to Mr Gs plan or refunded back  to it. The old employer told 
Prudential to invest the contributions, but it didnt  do as requested. It refunded  the 
contributions of £778.46 by cheque on 18 April.
Prudential made  the pension  transfer on 17 May, but this omitted the February  contribution. 
It accepts that it failed to notice this mistake and only did so after Mr G made further  
enquiries. 
It liaised with the new provider and identified  that the effect of the errors which had delayed 
the correct sum being transferred Mr G was to increase the value of is new pension by 
£376.05. In response  to Mr Gs complaint it apologised  for the errors and paid him £300  in 
compensation.
Mr G brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. Mr G had said he wanted Prudential  to 
compensate him for his time in dealing with its failings  and for it to review its past pension  
transfers for other customers.  
The investigator noted that Prudential  had corrected its errors and Mr G hadnt lost out 
financially. She didnt  think that Prudential should  pay Mr G £1,702  which he had suggested, 
this being the sum he may have  lost had he not alerted the business  of its errors. She 
thought the compensation  paid by Prudential was fair. Mr G didnt agree and listed the errors 
Prudential had made. He thought it had been unprofessional and he wondered  if it made 
errors with other customers.
Ref: DRN57280802my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service  is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award  redress where  appropriate.  I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have  the power to make rules for financial businesses  or 
to punish them.
The business made a mistake  and it is clear that the initial  error  was compounded by further 
mistakes. Regrettably this can happen  on occasions and it seems that Mr G has been  
unfortunate in that regard. Prudential has accepted it got this transfer  wrong not only with the 
original errors, but the ensuing mistakes. It has acknowledged this and says it has provided  
feedback to the team concerned. It rectified  the errors  and ensured  the correct  sum was 
transferred to the new provider and it has also apologised.
It then contacted the new provider and worked with it to establish what the situation  would 
have been had the transfer gone through  correctly and on time. It told Mr G that it would 
cover any loss he might have made as a result  of its mistakes.  However,  Prudential  
established that Mr G hadnt lost out financially in the transfer  and in fact he had made a 
small gain.
The increase  in value if Mr Gs pension as a result of Prudentials  delay was inadvertent and 
not something for which Prudential can take credit. It was simply an accident of changes  in 
fund values during  the delay in the transfer.  Nonetheless he has had that benefit. 
The aim of this service  is to put people back in the position they would have been in had the 
mistakes not happened. In this case that isnt appropriate and I consider it fair and 
reasonable that Mr G retain this inadvertent benefit.
However, I consider  that the issues  Mr G faced were  both distressing  and inconvenient  and 
for that he is entitled  to compensation in addition to the inadvertent benefit  in the increased 
fund value. Prudential  has paid Mr G £300  and in the circumstances I consider that to be 
fair. 
I appreciate Mr Gs desire that Prudential review all its pension transfer, but this is outside 
my power. As I have set out above my role is not that of regulator. He has suggested that I 
inform the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). This service is independent of the FCA, but 
we do liaise  with it and we share  information as and when it is appropriate. We also engage 
with businesses directly.  However any such feedback isnt reflected in the decisions we 
make. I appreciate  Mr G will be disappointed,  but I dont consider I can uphold his complaint
Ref: DRN57280803my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in that The Prudential Assurance  
Company Limited  need do no more. It is my understanding that The Prudential Assurance  
Company Limited  has paid compensation of £300, but if it has not yet done so it should, if 
Mr G accepts this decision. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr G to accept or reject  my decision before 1 March  2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5728080