K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc allowed his account to go overdrawn when he had no 
arranged overdraft facility  on his account. Hes unhappy it applied charges to his account 
and sold the outstanding debt to a debt collection agency when the balance was in dispute.
background
Mr H had a current account  with Santander with no arranged overdraft facility. In November 
2012, his account became overdrawn when a direct  debit  payment  and other transactions  
left his account. As he didnt have sufficient funds  to cover this transaction he went  into an 
unarranged overdraft. 
Mr H brought his account into credit in December 2012. But on 1 January 2013 a card 
payment left Mr Hs account,  which caused him to go overdrawn again. On 4 January 2013  
Mr Hs account was debited with £95 to cover  the cost of his unarranged  overdraft usage for 
the previous month. His account remained overdrawn until 7 January 2013 when a credit  of 
£170 was made to his account.  This pattern continued until March 2013  and, in April 2013, 
£95 of unarranged overdraft usage  fees and charges debited  Mr Hs account.
Because Mr Hs account remained  overdrawn for a long time Santander closed his account 
and sold it to a third party debt collection agent, which resulted in a default mark being 
applied to his credit file. In September 2018, Mr H received a letter from a debt collection 
agency who told him Santander  had sold his debt to it. It said he owed almost  £500. But Mr 
H disputed this debt and said it shouldnt be that much. He felt his debt shouldnt  have been 
sold to a third party.  When he complained  to Santander it said it hadnt  done anything wrong 
because the charges had been  applied correctly  - in line with the terms and conditions of his 
account. It also said it had tried to contact  him numerous times about  the outstanding  
balance. And when it wasnt able to recover what was owed it was passed  to a debt 
collection agency. 
Mr H wasnt happy with this so he referred  his complaint to us. He told our investigator he 
disputed the debt outstanding and said Santander  shouldnt have defaulted  his account or 
sold it to a debt collection  agency. He wanted our service to remove this adverse entry from 
his credit file and award compensation.  But, as our investigator didnt think Santander  had 
done anything  wrong or treated Mr H unfairly, he asked for his complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While I sympathise with Mr Hs situation, 
having considered everything that he and Santander have said, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons. I know  Mr H feels  very strongly  
about this matter, which is understandable.  And I appreciate the reasons why he has 
brought his complaint to us. But what I must  determine here is whether Santander acted 
fairly and reasonably.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
must base  my decision  on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered  all the 
information provided by Mr H and Santander, but Ill concentrate  my decision on what I think  
is relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific  point its not because 
Ref: DRN55774222Ive failed to take it on board and think about  it, but because I dont think  I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H says Santander was wrong to allow  his account to go overdrawn when he had no 
arranged overdraft facility.  He says it shouldnt have  applied fees because it shouldnt  have 
allowed payments  to leave his account when he didnt have funds available  to cover those 
transactions. He believes that he went overdrawn due to fees incurred. But I can see his 
account went overdrawn because he spent more than the available balance. It was his 
responsibility to ensure  that funds were  available to cover transactions that were likely to 
leave his account to avoid  him entering an unarranged overdraft situation. 
 
When there arent sufficient funds  available to pay a transaction its Santanders policy  to 
either allow the transaction to be paid or to reject it as unpaid.  Its also its policy to charge a 
customer each time a transaction is attempted whether its paid or rejected. If paying a 
transaction causes  an account to go into an unarranged overdraft by £12 or more  a daily fee 
of £6 is applied to the account.
Santander has provided a copy of terms and conditions for Mr Hs account. I know  Mr H 
opened his account with Santander almost 10 years  ago. So its reasonable to expect  the 
terms and conditions to have changed  over that time. Mr H says he doesnt believe hes 
agreed to any terms and conditions but hed have had to accept the terms and conditions to 
proceed with his application before opening  his account. And he continued to use his 
account after it was opened so Im satisfied he gave his consent to the terms and conditions 
that applied while he was using his account.
The terms Ive seen  clearly state that a customer is treated as having requested an 
unarranged overdraft if they dont  have enough  money in their account to cover  a payment 
from it. So I think it wouldve been  clear  to Mr H that if he tried to make payments when he 
didnt have enough money  in his account  Santander would treat him as having requested an 
unarranged overdraft. And Im satisfied it acted in accordance with those terms in allowing 
direct debits and payments to leave his account when Mr H didnt  have funds available  to 
cover these transactions. 
The terms and conditions  make it clear that fees will be charged  in such  scenarios. So, I 
think the fees applied by Santander are in line with those terms. And I also think Mr H ought  
to have known  the way he was using his account  meant he would incur fees. I say this 
because he was overdrawn  at times  from November 2012 until April 2013. So, from looking 
at his account hed have  seen Santander  charging  fees for each  month his account had 
been overdrawn. 
Santander said it sent Mr H several  letters about the overdrawn balance on his account.  It 
requested that he make  contact to discuss repayment or his financial situation if he was 
unable to pay the balance owed in full. Mr H hasnt said he didnt receive  these letters. 
Instead, he said he told Santander he was suffering financial difficulties at the time as hed 
become unemployed. But theres  no evidence  that he contacted it at all. Santander says it 
has no records and I think it most likely  that if hed discussed his financial situation with it, 
thered be a record of such  conversations. 
While I can understand that Mr H must have been  under  a great  deal of stress on losing his 
employment it was his responsibility  to communicate with Santander to resolve this situation.  
Before it defaulted  his account,  it proactively tried for a significant  period  of time to get a 
response from him. And it took appropriate  steps  to offer support and explain what  would 
Ref: DRN55774223happen if his account wasnt brought up to date. It follows that I cant say it acted unfairly 
when it defaulted  his account  and passed  it to a debt collection agency. By this point the 
account had remained  in an unarranged  overdraft for a prolonged period of time and thered 
been no response from Mr H. I understand that after this action was taken no further interest  
or charges were added to Mr Hs account,  which  is fair and reasonable. 
Mr H wants the default  information to be erased from his credit file. But, Im satisfied that 
Santander was right to default his account  and has reported this information properly. 
Financial  businesses should make sure that the information they report  to credit reference 
agencies is accurate. As Mr H hasnt  maintained  his account in line with its terms and 
conditions I cant say Santander acted unfairly  and unreasonably in reporting this 
information. So I cant ask it to remove it as its a true reflection of what happened. 
I recognise that Mr H is unhappy  that the outstanding debt was passed to a debt collection 
agency when  he is disputing the balance.  But this is in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions Ive seen.  These clearly  state  "we can transfer all or any of our rights  In relation to 
your account... This includes us appointing  an agent to recover debts, or transferring our 
rights to a third party for any monies  owed  by you to us." So, its clear  Mr H was warned this 
could happen.  Im satisfied Santander was entitled to transfer or sell the collection of the 
debt or sell it to a third party. It acted  reasonably  and didnt do anything wrong in doing so. 
This is a commercial decision its entitled to take if it wishes  especially where no 
repayment plan had been agreed and theres been  no contact from a customer  to discuss 
their account . And its common practice  for businesses to take this action  so that agents can 
take over, as they are generally more able to be more flexible with the payments  and 
amounts theyre  able to accept without any further charges or interest being applied.
Mr H believes  that, because his debt has been sold to a debt collection agency, Santander 
shouldve deleted his details. But Santander  is only recording information about  the conduct  
of Mr Hs account from when it was still administering it  which is what Id expect a business 
to do. Those records wont disappear just because  Santander has sold his debt, as its 
entitled to still record historic information about an account. I can see that our investigator 
has already signposted Mr H to the Information  Commissioners Office, which deals with 
data privacy issues, should he wish to pursue this issue further.
Lastly, Mr H has raised a number of legal points as to why he thinks  this debt isnt 
enforceable by Santander, or the agents  who are now asking him for payment. This service  
is a quick and informal alternative to the courts and we dont have the same powers. So I 
cant say whether or not the contract  here is enforceable or not in the way Mr H would like. 
But Mr H borrowed  money when he used  his overdraft, so I think its fair for Santander  to ask 
him to pay it back. If Mr H feels that this isnt legally right, then hell need  to raise that 
through the appropriate legal channels. But he should seek  advice before doing so.
I appreciate the reasons why Mr H brought this complaint to our service. And I sympathise 
with the difficulties he found himself  in. But I dont think Santander has done anything wrong 
here and, because of this, I wont be asking it to do anymore.
 
Ref: DRN55774224my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5577422