K820x#14complaint
Mr M brings  this complaint as Administrator of the estate of his late wife, Mrs M, who died 
(without leaving a will) in 2007.  I understand that Mr M is the sole beneficiary of the estate. 
At the time of her death Mrs M had a mortgage with Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as 
Cheltenham & Gloucester  Plc). Mr M is unhappy that Lloyds is asking for the mortgage  to be 
repaid. He says he has repaid it by presenting Lloyds with a promissory note.
background
After Mrs M passed away in December 2007, Mr M remained  living  in the property, and for a 
while made payment  towards the mortgage. He has now stopped making payment and 
presented Lloyds with a promissory note which he claimed discharged the mortgage debt.
Lloyds has explained  that, because Mr M isnt the mortgage account holder, hes not obliged 
to make payments.  But Lloyds disagreed  with Mr M that his promissory note was a valid 
method of payment.
Mr M complained to us. A casework  manager looked at the complaint but didnt think it 
should be upheld.  Mr M has asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. These are my reasons.
Im aware that Mr M is in dispute  with various  insurance companies about insurance policies 
which he believed Mrs M had taken  out before her death. Those are the subject of separate  
complaints to our service so I cant comment on them here.  But what  I am looking  into is 
whether Lloyds has acted reasonably in relation to the mortgage account.
Its correct that Mr M isnt the mortgage account holder  he is the Administrator of the estate 
of the mortgage  account holder. As such he is under a duty to settle the debts of the estate. 
This includes the mortgage debt owed to Lloyds.
In his capacity  as Administrator, Mr M is responsible for paying the mortgage out of the 
assets of the estate.  Mr M isnt personally liable to make payment. But a mortgage  is 
considered a priority  debt of the estate and so should  be settled as soon as possible. In this 
case, it is more than twelve years since Mrs M passed away, yet the mortgage account 
hasnt been repaid.
I note Mr M considers his promissory note to be a valid method of payment. But it is not. It is 
simply a promise  by the person who gives the note that they will pay the amount owed when 
it is called  upon.  Lloyds isnt required to accept  this because Mr M, in his capacity as 
Administrator of Mrs Ms estate, is already under a legal obligation to repay the debt.
Ive noted the arguments  Mr M has made  about  securitisation, the creation  of money, and 
why he thinks his promissory note is valid, as per the Bills of Exchange Act 1882. Im familiar 
with all the arguments Mr M has made. But he is incorrect  about all these matters. It seems  
likely to me that Mr M has been  misled by incorrect information hes found online. 
Ref: DRN52421182Mr M has also misunderstood  what Lord Denning said about  promissory notes. It is correct 
that Lord Denning said that a promissory note is as good as cash.  But he then went on to 
say (and I paraphrase)  that if a creditor agrees to accept  a promissory note (and there is no 
obligation to do so), then the debtor (that is, the person who has given the note to the 
creditor) is required to pay the full amount stated on the promissory note when they are 
called on to do so by the creditor.  So Lord Denning actually said the opposite  of what  Mr M 
believes he said.
In this case, Lloyds  hasnt  agreed  to accept  a promissory note, it doesnt  have  to, and the 
note is not cash in any event.
I can understand that, having come across  (probably online) the mistaken  and erroneous  
theory that one can use self-created promissory notes to pay debts, Mr M might have 
thought this was a way to pay off the mortgage.  But it is not. Mr M is under a legal duty as 
Administrator of the estate to repay  the mortgage debt out of the assets  of Mrs Ms estate.  
For every  month he doesnt do so, the balance on the account increase if the monthly 
repayment isnt made.  Arrears are now about £17,000.
If Mr M isnt willing to settle the debt owed to Lloyds  (despite his duty as Administrator to do 
so), then Lloyds is entitled to ask the court to grant  possession and sell the property itself to 
recover the debt.  This is usually a last resort, but Im satisfied Lloyds has shown Mr M 
considerable forbearance for more than 11 years by allowing  the mortgage account  to 
continue. 
This isnt a situation  where the borrower  is in arrears and the court  can suspend possession  
if an arrangement to clear  the arrears is reached. Instead it is a situation where the mortgage 
is repayable immediately in full  and has been  since 2007  but the debt remains  
outstanding because the estate hasnt settled it. 
I appreciate that this is Mr Ms home  and he wants to stay there. But in his capacity as 
Administrator of the estate, he has a duty to pay off the mortgage. In this regard, I think Mr M 
might benefit  from taking legal advice from a specialist  probate solicitor about  his obligation 
as Administrator  to pay the debt to Lloyds. He can find details of a specialist local to him 
from the Law Societys website at:
http://solicitors.lawsociety.org.uk/
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied Lloyds  has acted fairly and reasonably. It is now over 
11 years  since  the debt became payable to Lloyds.  I can see no basis  upon which it would  
be fair or reasonable  to expect Lloyds to continue to wait for the debt to be settled, 
particularly as the balance is continuing to increase every month.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M, on behalf of 
the estate of the late Mrs M, to accept or reject my decision before 19 March 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5242118