K821x#15complaint
Miss W and Ms W have  complained that Allianz  Insurance Plc unfairly refused to pay their 
claims under their pet policy for their dog.
For ease, I shall mainly  refer to Miss W throughout this decision.
background
Miss W bought her policy with Allianz in 2011.  In August 2018, her dog became unwell and 
by November 2018, he was practically falling over. An x-ray was booked for 23 August, with 
a   CT  scan being done in November 2018. That CT scan very sadly confirmed a diagnosis 
of hydrocephalus. 
Miss W made  four claims after this. Allianz  said one of the claims was incomplete so it 
couldnt consider  it. However, it refused to pay the other three claims because  it said her 
dogs symptoms started more than 12 months  before  she made her claim and therefore the 
claims were  excluded  under the policy terms.
Miss W didnt agree  and so she brought her complaint to us. The investigator  was of the 
view it should be upheld.  Allianz didnt agree so Miss Ws complaint has been  passed to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Allianz said that because Miss Ws dog has a history of nystagmus (flickering moving eyes),  
which is also indicative of hydrocephalus  and this history of nystagmus was 12 months 
before Miss Ws claims that means her claims are excluded. This is because  the policy says 
the following:
We will not cover the cost of any treatment  resulting  from an injury  or illness, which 
showed clinical signs more than 12 months before. 
Further the policy says clinical  sign defined  as a change in your pets normal  healthy state, 
its bodily  functions  or behaviour. 
Miss Ws referral  vet a specialist neurological vet said you could  get nystagmus with both ear 
problems and hydrocephalus. In other words, it can be a symptom of both issues. Miss Ws 
dog had ear problem in September 2013. And it was noted her dog always had nystagmus in 
the vet notes throughout February  2017 when the dog was been seen for some sort of 
conjunctivitis. 
In August  2018,  the vet noted this nystagmus was intermittent, happening when the dog had 
neck pain (he had an ongoing issue with his back and neck) or when he was excited. The 
vet also noted  the owner said it resolves after a few minutes. The vet noted they discussed 
vestibular syndrome and whether the issue was idiopathic, on the basis the dog was now 
requiring hand feeding. On the 23 August 2018, the vet noted the dog had nystagmus when 
he came  in but he had been fine since the last visit. From  then according  to the vet history 
Ref: DRN59953902the nystagmus  got worse with the dog becoming very ill in November leading to the CT scan  
and the diagnosis of hydrocephalus,  being the cause of the Miss Ws claims.
Looking at the vet history,  Miss Ws dog was last seen before August  2018 in February and 
March 2018 for an annual  vaccination booster following by a dental clean. Before that, the 
dog last visited the vet in August 2017.  So on the basis of the vet history, there was no sign 
this dog was unwell, prior to August 2018.  This is also borne out by the contents of the letter 
from Miss Ws vet of 29 January 2019. 
The clause in the policy requires the dog to show clinical signs which  are defined  as a 
change in the dogs normal healthy  state. This dogs normal healthy state includes 
intermittent nystagmus as seen  throughout the vet history of this dog. There  was a change  in 
the nystagmus  in August  2018 through to November  2018, but theres no evidence  of any 
change before that, other than it was present in an intermittent way. There is absolutely no 
indication that this dogs vet was in any way concerned about the presence of this fairly 
permanent but intermittent nystagmus, prior to August 2018. 
Therefore I consider  in the particular  circumstances of this complaint, on the balance  of 
probability, the clinical signs of this dogs  illness occurred in August  2018 as that was when 
things changed  and the dog became  unwell  requiring hand  feeding,  with a visit to the vet 
and the subsequent x-rays and finally the CT scan  in November 2018. This because of the 
definition contained  in the policy of what constitutes clinical  signs.  There has to be a change  
in the dogs normal state and so its clear to me on a fair and reasonable basis, the change 
here happened in August 2018.
Allianz has said that the dogs nystagmus was due to the hydrocephalus. But this isnt quite 
right, as nystagmus can also be present in vestibular syndrome as the vets said. So Allianz 
is wrong in saying the dogs previous ear disease  is nothing  to do with the nystagmus in its 
response of 5 July 2019 to the investigator as Allianz has provided no vet evidence saying 
this which  I consider would be difficult since nystagmus  can occur with ear issues.
Im also more persuaded by the vet evidence and history, rather than the contents of the call 
recordings. The call recordings in any event confirm  the situation changed in August 2018  
rather than at any time previously with this noted  intermittent nystagmus. 
If I was to follow the rationale of Allianz  argument,  it would  have never provided cover  for 
this condition, because  the condition didnt  require investigation, diagnosis and/or treatment 
until August 2018.  I dont  consider thats  fair or reasonable considering Miss W had insured 
her dog with Allianz  since 2011. 
Therefore taking all this into account  more especially the definition  in the policy  of what 
constitutes a clinical  sign,  I consider  that Allianz should now pay Miss Ws three claims with 
interest. It should also consider Miss W fourth claim when  Miss W provides the completed 
paperwork with a view to paying it.
Allianz admits in its final response letter that it made several confusing errors in its initial  
consideration of Miss Ws claims. It paid Miss W £50 compensation, which I consider is 
reasonable in these  circumstances.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN59953903I now require Allianz Insurance  Plc to do the following:
Pay Miss Ws three claims  in accordance with the remaining policy  terms and 
conditions, adding  interest of 8% simple per year from the date Miss W paid her vet 
to date of its refund.  If income tax is to be deducted  from the interest, appropriate 
documentation should be provided  to Miss W for HMRC  purposes.
Once Miss W has provided the relevant documents for her fourth  claim,  it should also 
consider paying  that in accordance with the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W and Ms W 
to accept or reject my decision before Miss W and Ms W.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5995390