K820x#14Complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs R says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in September  1994.
The policy cost was likely  to be no more than £1.00  per £100 Mrs R owed on her store  card. 
The policy would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month if Mrs R 
couldnt work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs R that the policy  was optional and get her consent before 
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Ive been given a copy of the application form which  
was completed at the time and I can see that there is a section  for PPI. In this section there  
are boxes to tick to accept  or decline to take out the cover. On Mrs Rs form the yes box 
has been ticked. Mrs R has signed the overall  application which suggests she agreed  with 
everything that had been entered. If Mrs R didnt want  to take out the PPI she could have 
ticked the no box.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL  made it clear the policy was optional and Mrs R 
chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt want  it.
From looking  at the paperwork supplied,  I dont think FICL recommended the policy  to Mrs R. 
So it didnt have  to check if the policy  was right for her. But FICL did need  to make sure it 
gave Mrs R clear enough information  about  the policy to enable her to decide for herself if 
she should take the policy. 
Its possible  the information FICL gave Mrs R about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mrs R 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements.
Ref: DRN51070952Mrs R has told us about medical conditions she suffered from at the time of the sale. As the 
policy didnt cover pre-existing conditions  this could mean that Mrs R may not have been  
able to claim if she was unable to work due to these conditions. But from what Mrs R has told 
us, these conditions  didnt impact on her daily life and she didnt need to take any time off 
work. So I dont think  she would have expected to be off work for more than the 30 day 
excess period and need to claim.  Ive thought  carefully about this and I dont  think  shed 
have made  a different decision if the exclusion had been clearly pointed  out to her.
And I think it could have been useful to her. Mrs R has told us she would  only receive 
statutory sick pay if she was unable  to work  due to due to accident or sickness but this policy  
would have paid in addition to her sick pay, and potentially for longer too. And while  Ive 
noted she did have  some savings, by having this policy it would enable her to protect her 
savings for another purpose or use them to cover  other essential  living  costs.  
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think  Mrs R has lost out as a 
result of anything that FICL may have done  wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5107095