K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Leeds Building  Society  refused  her mortgage application when she 
had been led to believe that there wouldnt be a problem. And she is unhappy  with the way 
in which  Leeds  dealt with her complaint. She wants Leeds to compensate  her for the trouble 
and upset she has suffered due to its poor communication.
background
Miss M made an online  application  for a mortgage  with Leeds in June  2018.  And Leeds  
approved the loan in principle. She was then asked to complete a full application, which was 
passed to Leeds underwriters.
Miss Ms application was declined on 8 July 2018. Leeds said that it couldnt  proceed until 
Miss M had been offered  a permanent job in the area where the property would be 
purchased, and the property would need  to be her main residence.
Miss M complained to Leeds. She said she had discussed the application with Leeds before 
applying and had been told there wouldnt be any problem.  But Leeds didnt uphold  her 
complaint, so she brought it to this service. And she also complained about the way in which  
Leeds had handled her complaint, as she said she hadnt received a callback shed been 
promised.
Miss M subsequently  applied separately  for a mortgage with her partner. She says that the 
complaint handler  encouraged her to do this, but that application has also been  declined. 
She is unhappy that she wasnt told immediately  that the second application would be 
unsuccessful.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold her complaint. He said, in summary:
Leeds hadnt been able to supply a recording of the telephone  conversation  where 
Miss M said she was told that she could  apply for a mortgage on a property while 
working in a different area. But he felt it was possible that the employee she had 
spoken to had suggested that she could apply. However, the employee was unlikely 
to have had all the details of the application available when providing information  to 
Miss M, and this was not an advised application.  So he didnt think  it was likely  that 
they would  have guaranteed that money  would  be lent in these  circumstances as it 
would have depended on a range of factors. 
Miss M was also unhappy  she wasnt told early  on that she wouldnt be approved. 
But the first mention  of not using  the property as her main  residence and her plan to 
change jobs was in the full application.  So he couldnt reasonably say that Leeds 
should have told her earlier.
He felt that Leeds had acted reasonably when it declined her application. It was 
concerned she was going to change jobs shortly after the mortgage started and had 
a significant distance  to travel to the property. And it felt that leaving the property 
empty for much of the week  put its security  at risk.
Miss M had said she was unhappy  that she wasnt  called back when she complained 
about the decision. But he could  see that when she raised her complaint she was told 
she would receive a call back  by close of business  on 13 July 2018. Miss M had 
called around  lunchtime  on 13 July and had spoken to the complaint handler. So he 
couldnt reasonably say Leeds  didnt meet the timeframe it had stated.
Ref: DRN58272972Miss M says she had been  advised to make  a joint application  with her partner and 
felt this advice  was incorrect as this application had also been  declined. But he had 
listened to the call, and didnt  agree that the complaint handler had advised  her to 
apply with her partner or promised  that a joint application would be successful.
Miss M doesnt agree with the adjudicators view, and has asked for her complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
adjudicator that Leeds didnt act incorrectly. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
I appreciate that Miss M believes that she was told on the telephone  that there wouldnt be a 
problem with her application  even though the house was in one area and she worked  in a 
different area. As the adjudicator has explained,  Leeds has been  unable to trace the relevant 
telephone call. In the absence of evidence, I must make my decision on the basis  of what  I 
feel is more likely to have  happened.
Having considered the circumstances, Im persuaded that Miss M may have spoken  to 
Leeds on the telephone  before making  her online application. And Im persuaded that she 
may have  been  told to apply. But Im not persuaded that the employee would have 
guaranteed that the application would be successful. In reaching  this decision I agree with 
our adjudicator that the employee  would be unlikely to give that assurance without having all 
the details of the application. And I note that the application was not advised.  
Ive looked at the information Miss M supplied when she completed  the initial online 
application, and also the full application form. And I agree with our adjudicator  that Miss Ms 
living/working arrangements were  first mentioned in the full application form. So I also agree 
that it isnt reasonable to have expected Leeds to tell Miss M that her application  wouldnt be 
accepted any earlier in the process.
Im also not persuaded that Leeds acted unreasonably in declining Miss Ms application. It 
has explained that it did so for reasons relating  to affordability, and concerns about her 
changing jobs and leaving the property empty. Ultimately, It is for Leeds to decide whether it 
wishes to lend on a property or not.
Miss M complains about the way in which  Leeds handled her complaint. In particular,  she 
says she didnt receive a callback  when  shed been promised. But, having  looked at the 
evidence, Im persuaded that Miss M was told she would receive a callback by close of play 
on 13 July. Miss M chose  to call Leeds earlier on 13 July and spoke to the complaint handler 
at that time. It was her choice to call before the end of the timeframe shed been  given. So 
Im not persuaded that Leeds did anything wrong.
I appreciate that Miss M feels that she was advised  to make a joint application with her 
partner. And she is unhappy that that application was also declined. But Ive listened  to the 
call, and Im satisfied that the complaint handler said that the joint application would mean 
starting from scratch. And she made it clear that she couldnt guarantee the outcome of the 
application. So Im not persuaded that Miss M was misled by Leeds.  
As Im not persuaded that Leeds  made  any errors I dont require it to do anything further.
Ref: DRN58272973my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5827297