K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies taken out 
in 2000 and 2004. Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) trading as Halifax  mis-sold 
them the PPI. 
They applied for the mortgage and PPI at a meeting with BoS and the policy  provided  cover 
for Mr W only. Mrs W wasnt  covered  by the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  because:
Mr and Mrs W have  said it wasnt made  clear  to them that the PPI was optional. 
Mr and Mrs W bought the PPI policies in two meetings. Mr and Mrs W and BoS havent been 
able to provide  much  detail about what was said in these meetings.  And there isnt much  
paperwork from the time of sales either. Thats understandable given the time that has 
passed. But it means I dont know exactly what was discussed. 
So Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs W and BoS have said. And Ive also used 
what I know about BoS sales  processes to help me make my decision. Having done this, I 
dont have enough to say that its likely BoS told Mr and Mrs W that they needed  to buy a 
PPI policy  at either time. I think its more likely BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs W didnt 
have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they 
cant remember this.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example Mr W wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and 
they seem  to have  had a need for the cover.   
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs W about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs W paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr and Mrs W back some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  I understand BoS has already 
paid this to Mr and Mrs W.
Ref: DRN51965322my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5196532