K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains on behalf of two Discretionary Trusts (the DTs)  and the respective trust 
funds managed by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  between 2008 and 2014. During 
this period RBS was the principal and professional  trustee (and investment manager) for 
both trust funds, and Mr H was a joint trustee. The complaint issues are as follows:
Concerns about alleged  unsuitability  of the initial advice to the settlors  with regards to 
setting up the trusts  and the trust funds. [issue 1]
Previously raised  concerns about fees charged by RBS and about performance of 
the trust funds. [issue 2]
Concerns about alleged  churning of the trust funds. [issue  3]
RBS alleged failure to provide requisite trust accounts and annual  investment 
reports. [issue 4]
RBS decision to cease its investment management  of the trust funds after it was 
retired as a trustee in 2014, forcing  liquidations  within the trusts  and associated  tax 
liabilities and exit fees. [issue  5]
background
RBS mainly says:
Issue 1  Its advice  to the settlors was suitable  for their Inheritance Tax (IHT) 
planning objective; its advice also matched their financial circumstances/capacity 
(their estate was worth around £7 million, they did not require income and did not 
require the use of  or access to the total of around  £620,000 used for the trust funds);  
it has not seen  evidence to support the allegation  that they were pressured  to 
establish the trust funds; at the time of advice information they provided to RBS was 
that they were  in their mid-70s but in good  health  (the latter being contrary to what  
the complaint  alleges); the advice and suitability assessment  process took place over 
months in 2008 and involved  key meetings and communications with the settlors  in 
April (two meetings, including a fact find exercise, and a follow up letter), May (a 
meeting to present recommendations and a follow  up letter  confirming 
recommendations) and June  (a meeting in which  the settlors  confirmed acceptance 
of the recommendations); the result was a balanced and diversified portfolio profile 
for the trust funds that sought to provide stability and prospects for capital and 
income growth; despite their ages the settlors agreed with the longer term approach  
in the DTs, for which they had to survive seven years in order  to obtain  the full IHT 
planning benefits; the adviser expressly noted  that he would not have normally made  
such a recommendation for investors of the settlors age(s) but did so because  of 
their understanding and acceptance  of the approach (and risks) within  the DTs; and 
the settlors were  fully informed throughout the advice process. 
Issue 2  Concerns and complaints (broadly about performance and fees)  were  
raised, mainly by one of the settlors, in September 2008, January 2009, July 2009, 
December 2009 and December 2011 but they were all properly addressed; 
performance was mainly subject to market impacts beyond its controls; it explained 
that the individual funds were  managed by independent fund managers and that the 
initial fees, Annual Management  Charges (AMC) and fund management fees which 
were applied  were as stated in the initial recommendation documents; the trust funds 
each produced a capital  return of around 23% during the relevant period,  against a 
benchmark (based  on equities and UK government bonds) performance of around  
29%, but the latter should be viewed more as a guide than a hurdle that had to be 
Ref: DRN54332262matched or beaten and its total return profile  is not directly comparable to the net 
performances of the trust funds.
Issue 3  The trust funds were actively managed portfolios based on asset 
weightings determined by the RBS Group Tactical  Asset Allocation Forum (TAAF); 
the RBS funds and third party  Open  Ended Investment Companies (OEICs) used 
within the portfolios  had no front end or third party dealing  costs; so movement of 
capital within funds  avoided such costs; part of the fees do relate to the fund 
management but movements of capital  were not done to take advantage of them,  
they were done to help the investment managers  meet their objectives.
Issue 4  RBS undertook and discharged its responsibility, as principal  trustee, for 
annual tax reporting for the DTs and it has not been suggested that it made  incorrect 
submissions in this respect;  investment reports (providing information about income 
and assets of the trusts) were  issued quarterly; it accepts that it failed to issue  end of 
tax year investment  reports  and it has offered £500 compensation in this respect;  
beyond this, and given the contents  of the quarterly  reports that were provided, it 
should not have to pay for Mr Hs work  in compiling an alternative report (for the 
purpose of clarifying capital and income in the trusts).
Issue 5  Upon being  retired as a trustee  for the DTs, continuation of RBS 
management service  would have meant providing the service to an external principal 
trustee; by 2014 and following the Retail  Distribution  Review (RDR)  in 2013 it no 
longer provided  such a service so it could not continue to manage  the trust funds; 
there were options to transfer and/or liquidate the funds  in this respect and it sought 
 between December  2014 and May 2015   instructions on what to do; no 
instructions were received so in August  2015  it confirmed the funds had been settled.
It has also offered compensation of £200  and £250 to show its apologies for delays in 
its complaint investigations and response to Mr H.
In the main,  Mr H reaffirmed the complaint; he accepted that he was not privy to the 
meetings that took place at the time of the recommendations but said information from his 
first hand  conversations  with one of the settlors  which  conflict  with RBS  representations  
should carry weight;  he said this particular settlor was visibly  in poor health at the time and 
the RBS adviser  ought to have seen  that; he considered it odd that this particular settlor  had 
previously dismissed the idea of IHT planning, yet RBS claims it was the objective he had at 
the time of the recommendations; he asserted that the recommendations turned out to be 
unsuitable given  that the settlors  passed away within seven years of creating the DTs; he 
considered it unreasonable that fees accounted  for around 80% of the trusts after tax 
income; he commented that the explanation behind issue 5 should  have been given earlier; 
and he said that fund management  fees gave scope for the alleged churning.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She issued a detailed  view and a 
supplemental view  in which she addressed Mr Hs points  with the conclusion that the 
complaint should  not be upheld. She gave broadly similar reasons  to those given by RBS 
and said RBS offers of compensation  for the service issues  were  reasonable. Mr H 
disagreed with aspects  of this outcome and the matter was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS compensation  offers
Ref: DRN54332263Like the investigator, I consider that RBS offers  to compensate for the service issues 
related to the delays in responding to Mr Hs complaint submissions  and enquiries,  and 
related to the absent end of tax year investment reports  are reasonable in the 
circumstances. I appreciate that they do not address  the main claims that have been 
pursued by Mr H, representing the DTs, but I consider  that they reasonably  express RBS  
concession of the relevant issues and its apology for them.
Issue 1
I have considered Mr Hs submissions on this issue and I accept that he has made them  
sincerely. However, by his own admission,  he was not directly  present in the meetings that 
took place in the process of RBS  fact finding, its assessment of suitability and its 
recommendations to the settlors. Some of his assertions are therefore  limited by this.
The balance of available evidence tips in favour of the detailed contents of the fact finding 
and suitability assessment (and recommendation)  documents. The fact finding and the 
recommendation documents are broadly consistent, the latter  was sent to the settlors  in May 
2008, was discussed in a meeting  with them in June 2008 and was the basis upon which 
they proceeded with the DTs. There does not appear to be evidence of the settlors  
highlighting any errors in the suitability  assessment  that coupled  the recommendations or in 
the fact finding  information that was reflected  in the assessment. 
On balance, I consider  these documents to be reliable. It is not clear why the settlors  could 
have presented matters  differently to Mr H  in terms  of aversion to IHT planning and/or in 
terms of pressure to establish the DTs  but available evidence suggests  that the settlors  
broadly agreed  with the facts upon which RBS assessed suitability of the DTs and made its 
recommendations. Those facts appear  to be as stated by RBS (as summarised above). In 
terms of the IHT planning objective I do not consider  that the DTs were unsuitable. It is not 
uncommon to use DTs as an IHT planning  tool. Mr Hs point about one of the settlors poor 
health does not appear  to have been  something that the settlor shared with RBS and I do 
not have enough evidence to make a finding on whether (or not) his state  of health was 
visibly evident to the adviser. 
Given the ages  of the settlors, the longer term aspect of using trusts for IHT planning and the 
notion that the settlors needed to survive seven  years to gain the relevant benefits it is 
arguable that state of health  was an important factor. I do not suggest that it was not, but I 
am not persuaded that, in light of evidence of the settlors circumstances at the time, it would 
have made  a pivotal  difference.  In the context of the IHT planning objective and of the rules  
related to IHT the task would have been  to find a way to potentially  mitigate  IHT on the 
settlors estate within the relevant rules and within their circumstances. A trust based 
approach was not unreasonable and the need for a settlor to survive seven years after 
creating a DT, to gain its main IHT mitigation benefits, arose from relevant rules. The settlors  
appear to have accepted this approach and the survival related risks associated with it. I do 
not consider that recommendation of the DTs was unsuitable. Unfortunately, and as Mr H 
pointed out, the settlors  did not survive the seven  years after establishing  the DTs, but I have  
not seen evidence that this was foreseeable in 2008.
It is not uncommon for a trust fund to be based  on a balanced risk profile, which  seeks to 
balance the need to sustain growth  and/or income with some exposure to risks. Mr H says 
he was familiar with the settlors  sufficiently to know they were  cautious investors. However  it 
should be noted that the settlors were not engaged  in a personal investment in this matter. 
They were  engaged in IHT planning for the future benefit of their estate  and of the 
Ref: DRN54332264beneficiaries of that estate. It is plausible that they departed from any usual  approach (to 
risks) they had for personal  investments in order to pursue a different  objective. 
In terms of the settlors  financial capacity  for the DTs, evidence  suggests they had a 
significant amount  in cash deposits,  disposable  retirement income and that they did not 
require access to the money invested  in the DTs. The value of their estate  was broadly as 
stated above and the money used for the DTs was based on the total of their individual  IHT 
threshold amounts,  which appear to have been  the gifts the wanted  to give from their estate. 
The trust funds also appear  to have had a reasonable level of diversification in their invested 
assets (investments  in equities,  corporate  bonds, high yield bonds and emerging markets)  
and in the investment management styles  used by the relevant fund managers.
Overall and on balance,  I consider  that the DTs were not unsuitable  for the settlors and the 
trust funds were not unsuitable for the DTs.
Issue 2
It appears that the previously raised concerns  about  the performance  of the trust funds and 
fees incurred by the DTs were addressed at the relevant times. I consider the following:
This service does not normally  address  matters  of investment  performance in 
isolation, especially  where it has been concluded  that an investment was not 
unsuitable. In some cases, where a firms responsibility extended beyond making the 
investment recommendation and extended  to managing the investment, we can look 
at whether (or not) such management  was reasonably executed, but performance 
would not be a determining factor in such a consideration. In the absence of 
unsuitable advice  and/or mismanagement and/or a guaranteed level of performance, 
from RBS, it would  not be reasonable to hold it responsible for the trust funds 
performance. I have  concluded that the investment  advice was not unsuitable  and I 
have not seen evidence that performance was guaranteed. I address the matter  of 
mismanagement  evidence of which, on balance, I have not found  below.
The matter of fees was addressed by RBS in response to the queries/complaints 
raised from 2008  the same year as the trust fund investments  to 2011. I also 
accept that the relevant fees were disclosed at the outset  of the recommendations 
and in the body of documentation that was made  available to the settlors  at the time. 
The settlors were not obliged to accept the overall fees structure (for both the trust 
and investment management aspects of the arrangement) at the outset, so the 
implication is that they did so wilfully  and agreed  to be bound  by it. The 
queries/complaints that were  raised  about fees also served as further opportunities to 
reflect on the arrangement,  but the settlors continued with the DTs  under  RBS 
professional trusteeship and investment management  thereafter and until 2014. 
The debate  about  fees appears  to boil down  to concerns about the effects  of fees 
that had been declared to and agreed  by them at the outset  and RBS  references to 
disclosures of, and the settlors  agreement with, the fees.  They did not escalate the 
matter any further  at the time. I consider that the matter was reasonably concluded  
on the outcome  that the settlors made the informed decision  to agree the fees they 
queried  by 2011.
Issue 3
The notion  of mismanagement and the allegation about churning  are arguably connected 
issues. There also appears to be a connection between them and the performance  related 
Ref: DRN54332265allegations that have been  made.  I understand why Mr H says it is concerning  that around 
80% of the funds  after tax income  was consumed by management related fees. However, 
mismanagement is not the automatic conclusion to be drawn from such  concerns and I have 
not seen enough evidence to establish  that the trust funds were mismanaged. 
In the context of discretionary  investment management, it is important to show, overall and 
on balance, that investment  management  decisions conflicted with the investment mandate  
and/or were  reckless and/or were  such that no reasonably minded investment manager 
would have made. In the present complaint  investment management models  appear  to have 
been determined  somewhat centrally,  within RBS, and then independent fund managers 
were selected to match those models. I have not seen  evidence of recklessness or 
negligence in the models used for the trust funds or in the selection of fund management, 
and the balanced profile which  defined the relevant mandate appears  to have been broadly 
consistent with the manner  in which the funds were  managed.
The allegation of churning goes somewhat deeper into the management of the trust funds. It 
features the generation of fees/charges from transaction activities  in an investment portfolio. 
The transactions (and charges associated  with them) should be legitimate and reasonable, 
but churning can arise  when they are not.
A series of transactions that are each suitable  when viewed in isolation may be unsuitable if 
the recommendation or the decisions to trade  are made with a frequency  that is not in the 
best interests of the client.
The above,  from the regulator, can be considered as its definition of churning. The focus is 
on the frequency with which a firm carries  out transactions for its client  and on its clients  
best interests  both elements are important. An interpretation is that frequent transactions  in 
a clients portfolio ought not to be carried out only or mainly for the purpose of generating 
commission for the firm, they should be carried out in the clients best interests.
Mr Hs point about around 80% of the trust funds income being consumed by fees should be 
qualified by noting that evidence submitted  to support it refers to management fees. Such 
fees would  not normally fluctuate with rises or falls in investment transactions.  However 
dealing costs incurred  in a portfolio can fluctuate  in this respect and I am persuaded by RBS 
evidence and assertion that such costs were avoided in the trust funds. I also agree with the 
investigators observations of low turnovers  within  the trust funds. Overall and on balance,  I 
have not seen enough evidence to establish  the allegation of churning in this complaint.
Issue 4
I have considered this issue  and verified RBS position on the matter. On balance, I accept 
that position. I repeat my summary  from above   of that position as follows:
RBS undertook and discharged its responsibility,  as principal trustee, for annual tax 
reporting for the DTs and it has not been  suggested that it made incorrect submissions in 
this respect; investment  reports  (providing information about income and assets of the trusts) 
were issued quarterly;  it accepts that it failed to issue end of tax year investment  reports and 
it has offered £500 compensation in this respect; beyond  this, and given the contents of the 
quarterly reports that were provided,  it does not consider  it reasonable to pay for Mr Hs work 
in compiling a report  to compensate for the absent  end of tax year reports  and for the 
purpose of clarifying  capital and income in the trusts.
Ref: DRN54332266I do not wish to be dismissive of the additional  work performed by Mr H in compiling the 
investment report for the DTs and I appreciate  why he could have  been  encouraged to do 
so. However, in terms of reporting income from and capital  assets  in the trust funds  the 
quarterly reports served  that purpose, so I am not persuaded  that the additional work was 
necessary  or, in the alternative, I am not persuaded that the information that was compiled 
had not been available,  from the quarterly reports,  from RBS. I do not consider that there is a 
reasonable basis to uphold  Mr Hs claim for the costs of his additional work.
Issue 5
I am satisfied that RBS withdrew its management  services in 2014  because it was retired  as 
principal trustee for the DTs and  given the prospect of a replacement external principal 
trustee  it did not provide (or no longer provided) its services to external clients.  As the 
investigator said, it had/has discretion to determine the service(s) it provided/provides. It is 
equally important to note the lack of evidence of precise instructions to RBS at the time with 
regards to how the trust funds were to be addressed in light of its withdrawal  from their 
management. In that context and without a definitive response to its queries at the time, it 
was arguably reasonable for it to eventually settle  the funds. 
I understand the claims related  to exit fees and tax arising from liquidations but, overall,  on 
balance and in the circumstances as they were, I am not persuaded that RBS should be held 
responsible for them. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold the complaint  Mr H has made  on behalf of the 
DTs. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5433226