K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Standard Life Assurance Limited  was responsible for poor returns on the 
investments in his personal pension and the consequent impact  on his retirement benefits.
Mr B is represented by James & George Collie Solicitors.
background
Mr B applied to open his Standard Life, Castle Pensions Series  Personal Pension in 1989. 
He made  regular monthly employee contributions until August 1997. The plan also received 
National Insurance rebates because he had contracted-out of the State Earnings Related  
Pension Scheme (SERPS). These  contributions ceased in April 1992.
In total £14,200 was paid into the plan over eight and half years.  The contributions were 
invested equally between  a with-profits fund and UK equity  fund. As of 21 September 2018, 
Mr Bs plan was valued at £60,035.  Of this, £35,078  was in the UK equity fund and 
£24,956.99 in the with-profits fund (including  a final bonus of £2,615.79).
Mr B complained to Standard Life in 2018,  he said:
-The investment  performance was poor given the plan had been  in-force  for 30 years.
-The illustration hed been given showed the pension hed receive would  be small.
-Hed been led to believe  all his funds would be invested in the stock market  to gain 
maximum returns but has since found  his plan is part invested  in a with-profits  fund.
-Plan charges  havent been  properly  disclosed  to him.
Mr B wants  compensation for the loss of investment to reflect the growth  he says should  
have accrued had the funds been  properly managed.
Standard Life said that average  annual investment returns  on Mr Bs pension were  around 
5.9% (for the UK equity fund element 6.6% and for the with-profits fund element 5.1% ). It 
believes this was reasonable, and in any event it couldnt guarantee performance. Standard 
Life said that to date Mr B had chosen to invest in only two funds, but that he had access  to 
300 alternatives and couldve moved his money if hed felt he couldve achieved a better 
match for his risk appetite.
Standard Life told us it thought Mr B mayve been confused by the illustration it had provided 
because it gave separate projections for different elements of his fund which  had different 
retirement dates associated with them. From  his complaint points, it seemed hed formed the 
impression his pension  benefits would only be based on the element accounting for 20% of 
his total funds. It says it couldve  issued another  illustration  showing the position  for his total 
funds using a common retirement date if this had been requested.
The investigator concluded Standard Life had acted reasonably. He thought fund 
performance was broadly  in line with sector benchmarks; expectations of investment returns  
and annuity rates had changed  significantly since the late 1980s; the two funds  selected  
were a reasonable choice as they provided some diversity  and reduced  risk; and the plan 
charges had been disclosed.
Ref: DRN57070542Mr B disagreed, in particular concerning  fund performance,  so his complaint has come to me 
for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the investigator for broadly the same reasons. It follows that I wont  
be upholding Mr Bs case. Ill explain why.
Ive no doubt when Mr B took out his policy in 1989 the returns  illustrated wouldve been  
higher than those  his pension plan has achieved. The same will have been true of the 
annuity rates  he was informed of at the time. I recognise this is disappointing and that he 
finds himself in a difficult position.
But the pressures  on personal pension provisions  have been driven by various macro-
economic factors  such as prolonged low interest  rates and lower investment returns, as well 
as social  advances such as increasing  life expectancy.  These matters are complicated, 
difficult to forecast accurately decades into the future in isolation and even more  so when 
considering the cumulative impact taken  together.
With regard to the performance of Mr Bs two funds the investigator  said:
The returns of the past five years [for the equity  pension  fund]  has been broadly in line with 
its peers within the same sector, ABI Pension  UK All Companies. If [Mr B] had invested in a 
similar fund with another provider hed be in a similar position  to where he is today.
Turning to the with profits fund looking at information from 1994  (the earliest I have 
available) [annuity] rates of 11-12%  per year couldve  been  achieved. A similar arranged 
annuity would now be a little over 4%.
I agree  with the investigators findings  here.  Aside from being impacted by matters affecting 
the whole  sector,  I cant discern anything particular  that Standard Life got wrong in Mr Bs 
case.
Mr B told us that he was led to believe all his funds  would  be invested in the stock  market to 
gain maximum  returns. I appreciate the event complained  about  happened over 30 years 
ago. Memories can and do fade and I dont expect  perfect recall.  Ive reviewed the pension 
plan application  form he submitted and signed  in March 1989. I can see it was his decision 
to split his contributions 50/50 between equities  and with profits  funds.
Mr B couldve selected from several other funds when he set-up his pension. The funds he 
chose provided  some  balance between equities  and the lower  risk with-profits funds. 
Actually, the later fund had a valuable guaranteed  minimum growth  rate of 4% per annum 
attached. And if hed had more appetite for risk, he had the opportunity to move  his money in 
subsequent years.
The investigator found that Standard Lifes statement of investment for Mr B had listed the 
explicit charges and credits applied to his fund as well as the rate of annual  management 
charges. So, it had provided  details of the charges  applied to his pension.
Ref: DRN57070543Having carefully considered Mr Bs case and the evidence  available  to me, it wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to uphold his complaint. I cant see Standard  Life was responsible for 
causing him any financial detriment.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. It follows that I dont 
require Standard Life Assurance  Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 March  2021.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5707054