K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2000. The policy  was added to
Mr Ms credit card account  when he applied  for the card in person.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 March  2019. I said I intended  to uphold 
the complaint,  but that I intended to expand on the adjudicators reasons for upholding it. I 
thought it was fair to give the parties  an opportunity to present any further  points before I 
made a final decision.  Ive summarised my provisional findings below:
Barclaycard recommended the policy to Mr M, so it had to check it was right for  
his circumstances  and needs.  But I didnt think it was suitable  for him. The policy  
terms say disability  benefit will not be paid for any claim that is the result  of:
any conditions you knew about before  the start date or (my emphasis) for which  
you got advice,  treatment or counselling from any doctor in the 12 months 
immediately before the start date; or
Mr M had been diagnosed  with a serious medical condition only a few years before 
he bought the PPI. Hed told us he had been given the all clear by the time he 
bought the policy.
Barclaycard considered the exclusion above wouldnt  have applied to Mr M and he 
wouldve been covered by the policy. It argued  that its recommendation was 
suitable.
But I considered Mr Ms condition was a condition he knew about when the policy  
started, and so was unlikely  to have been  covered  if it returned. And the all clear  
wasnt a guarantee  that it could never  come  back.
I was mindful of the serious nature of the condition Mr M was treated for, and the 
fact that the PPI was sold just a few years later. At the time of the sale,  I thought  it 
was likely that in his particular circumstances Mr M wouldve still had the recent  
diagnosis well in mind,  and so been mindful  of the possibility of its recurrence.  And 
in those circumstances, it was possible  in my view likely - that the policy wouldnt 
have paid disability  benefit to Mr M.
It hadnt been clearly  shown  that Barclaycard discussed Mr Ms health with him at all 
at the time of sale. Barclaycard thought its adviser wouldve done so, but hadnt 
given me anything showing that it did this or what was said, including  the questions  
asked or what answers Mr M gave, or that he was given any advice about  the 
exclusion and how it might affect  him. On balance,  I thought  it was unlikely it did so.
Barclaycard may have  given Mr M a leaflet about the PPI (which included details of 
the exclusion),  but even if it did I thought it was unlikely he wouldve had an 
opportunity to study the details at the time of sale. And anyway  that wouldnt in my 
view have been enough. As it was recommending the policy to Mr M personally,  
Ref: DRN55987952Barclaycard shouldve looked into his circumstances and taken his condition into 
account when  giving  him advice.
So Barclaycard  should have checked Mr Ms medical history  to make sure that the 
PPI was suitable for him. Had it done so, I thought  it wouldve  realised  that the PPI 
wasnt suitable for him, because he might not have been covered for disability benefit 
if his medical condition had recurred. Or at the very least, Barclaycard shouldve told 
Mr M clearly  that he might not be covered  if his condition came back.
I didnt think Mr M would have bought the policy if Barclaycard had made it clear it 
wasnt suitable, or hadnt recommended  it to him.
Mr M didnt  make any further representations in response to my provisional decision.
Barclaycard said it accepted that the complaint  should be upheld, and that it was willing to 
pay compensation in line with the recommendations in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
As Barclaycard has accepted that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld,  I see no reason to 
depart from the position set out in my provisional  decision.
fair compensation
Barclaycard should  put Mr M in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out
PPI.
A.Barclaycard should find out how much Mr M would have owed when  he closed his 
credit card account  if the policy  hadnt  been  added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest  charged  on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclaycard should  then refund the difference between what  Mr M owed when he 
closed his account and what he would have  owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr M made a successful claim  under  the PPI policy, Barclaycard can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.Barclaycard should add simple interest  on the difference between what  Mr M would
have owed when  he closed his account  - from when he closed it until he gets the 
refund. The interest  rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when Barclaycard  works out what Mr M would  have  owed each month without 
PPI  Mr M paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, Barclaycard should also 
pay simple interest  on the extra Mr M paid.  And it should carry on paying interest 
Ref: DRN55987953until the point  when Mr M wouldve owed Barclaycard something on his credit card. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.Barclaycard should tell Mr M what its done to work out A, B and C.

HM Revenue & Customs  requires Barclaycard to take off tax from this interest. Barclaycard
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading  as 
Barclaycard) to pay compensation to Mr M in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5598795