K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say that National Westminster Bank PLC (NatWest) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M re-mortgaged their home  with NatWest in 2004. At the same time they bought 
a PPI policy which wouldve covered their mortgage  repayments for up to 12 months at a 
time if Mr M was too sick to work.  It wouldve  paid off the mortgage  if Mr M had died in an 
accident.
Mr and Mrs M say that they didnt  know they had the policy, and that it wasnt any use to 
them as Mr M was self-employed and wouldnt have been able to make  a successful claim.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs M 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. 
Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.  
Mr and Mrs M say that they didnt  know they had the PPI, although they have described  the 
sales process they experienced. NatWest says that Mr and Mrs M made an active  choice to 
take the PPI.
NatWest has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage application  form. This shows  
clearly that Mr and Mrs M had a choice  about  the PPI. Theres a tick in a box to say they 
wanted it, and theyve selected  their cover to only include Mr M for accident  and sickness.  
They could have  ticked the box to say they didnt want the PPI at all, or another box to say 
they wanted to arrange  PPI from another provider. They both signed this form.
There isnt a copy of the PPI application form, but the mortgage  offer letter says that The 
borrower has instructed  the lender to arrange [PPI].  If Mr and Mrs M didnt think theyd done  
so I think theyd have  queried this at the time.
Mr and Mrs M had to complete a separate direct debit form for the premiums  to be taken. 
The policy couldnt  have  been set up without it. So the premiums appeared on their bank 
statements each month. If they hadnt  agreed to take it I think  theyd have queried this when 
they saw the money going out of their bank account.
So, on balance, I think Mr and Mrs M bought the PPI knowing they had a choice about it, 
even if they dont remember this now.
NatWest didnt advise  Mr and Mrs M to buy the PPI, so it didnt have to check  it was right for 
their circumstances. But it did need  to provide enough information for Mr and Mrs M to make 
up their own minds about it.
Ref: DRN59237032I dont know how the information was presented to Mr and Mrs  M, so its possible they didnt 
receive all that they needed. But I dont think more, or better, information  wouldve changed 
Mr and Mrs Ms decision to buy the PPI. I say this because:
Mr M (whom the policy covered) was eligible for the policy and wasnt  affected by any 
of the terms which mightve  made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim, 
such as those related  to existing medical conditions;
Mr M says that the policy wasnt any use to him as he was self-employed  and 
wouldnt have been able to claim. It is sometimes more  difficult  for self-employed  
people to make successful PPI claims for unemployment, but Mr M wasnt covered 
for this  he was only covered for sickness or accident. And I cant  see any reason 
why he wouldnt have  been able to claim for this;
As Mr M was self-employed he didnt have  any contractual  sick pay, so the policy  
wouldve been particularly useful for him. Mr M says it wouldve been  impossible  for 
him to be off sick, but I dont think Mr M couldve guaranteed his continued good 
health;
Mr M says that his wife wouldve helped out with the mortgage if he couldnt  work. 
But I dont think her salary wouldve covered all their usual expenses  if Mr M wasnt 
earning any money;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  around 
the same  time. I havent seen anything to suggest  the policy was unaffordable for Mr 
and Mrs M.
So, on balance, I dont  think Mr and Mrs M lost out as a result of anything  NatWest mightve 
done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, so it follows that National Westminster  Bank  
PLC doesnt  have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 March 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5923703