K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L say that Market Harborough Building Society mis-sold them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ive issued two provisional decisions on this case - in October  and November 2018. Ive attached  a 
copy of my most recent provisional decision, issued in November 2018  and it forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Mr and Mrs L added some additional  comments; mainly about  the savings they say they 
had access to at the time of sale. Market Harborough Building Society didnt add any additional 
points.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  Even when Ive considered the additional information that Mr L has told us during 
a recent  phone call to our Service, Ive still reached  the same conclusions  reached in my 
provisional decision, for the same reasons.
Specifically, in relation to the information about the savings:
I still think that Mr L had a need for PPI. Although Mr and Mrs L may well have felt that they 
had access to the savings that their relatives had from the sale of a property, based on 
what Ive been told, it doesnt appear  that the money was Mr and Mrs Ls. 
Ive also considered what Mr L has told us about  Mrs L having power of attorney over her 
parents financial  affairs.  Mr L has also told us that the records  that would show this 
arrangement were destroyed. But even if the records were available,  this doesnt 
necessarily mean that Mr and Mrs L would  automatically be able to use these savings to 
make their mortgage repayments when needed. 
So, on balance, I still think that its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs L had a need  for 
PPI and could  have found it useful  if they ever needed to claim on it.
I dont expect Mr and Mrs L to agree with my decision, but I do hope  that they feel listened to and 
that Ive given careful consideration  to their complaint.  
what the business needs  to do
Market Harborough  Building Society has to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Market  Harborough  Building  Society  
should also pay back to Mr and Mrs L any extra  interest they paid because of that.
Market Harborough  Building Society should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs L the extra they paid each 
month because the commission  and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Market Harborough  Building Society should  also pay Mr and Mrs L 8%* simple  interest  on each 
payment.
Ref: DRN50630982*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs L can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.  
But Market  Harborough  Building Society  does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs L any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
copy of my provisional decision
Ref: DRN50630983background
Mr and Mrs L took out a PPI policy with a re-mortgage in 2000. They  paid a monthly  amount for the 
policy. Mr L was the only person  covered  by this policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls case. 
To summarise, in my first provisional decision  I explained that I wasnt  intending to uphold this 
complaint, very broadly,  for these reasons:
PPI was compulsory  with this particular mortgage
Market Harborough  Building Society didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for him. I dont think that better information about the PPI would have 
changed Mr and Mrs Ls decision  to go ahead and take this particular mortgage with this 
compulsory PPI policy. 
Mr L called  our Service in response  to my provisional decision and Ive listened to those calls.         
I thank him for taking  the time to let us know why he still felt that the PPI was mis-sold. I also 
apologise if Mr and Mrs L dont feel that my decision  reflects the situation,  as theyve described it. 
Ive come to my decision  based on the available evidence and decide what I think is more  likely 
than not to have  happened.  
However, Im still currently not intending  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint and this provisional 
decision will mainly address Mr and Mrs Ls response to the first provisional decision
The taking of PPI was compulsory with this particular mortgage. I appreciate what  
Mr and Mrs L have said about the sales adviser telling them that it was government policy 
to take PPI. 
Ive not seen any evidence that it was government policy at the time to take PPI with 
mortgages. There is also no way for me to know exactly what was said at the time as I 
wasnt there and theres no recording of the sale.
The paperwork completed at the time of sale also doesnt refer to government  policy. As 
Ive said already, Ive seen a document from the sale that shows  the following headings 
Compulsory - which has an X beside  it, and theres also a Voluntary heading. 
In my opinion, this is evidence that shows that PPI was not compulsory with every 
mortgage with Market Harborough Building Society at that time. Ive also clarified that this 
was the case  with the business. In the final response letter  sent to Mr L in February 2013, 
Ref: DRN50630984Market Harborough  Building Society again  states; ASU (PPI) was a compulsory 
requirement for the mortgage product that you chose.  
Its not wrong for Market Harborough Building Society to have made having a PPI policy  a 
condition of this particular mortgage,  so long as they made  Mr and Mrs L aware of this. 
From the information Ive seen, I think its likely they did. 
Mr and Mrs L still had the option of taking  a different mortgage that didnt have PPI as a 
requirement if they felt that they didnt  want or need  PPI. 
So, to be clear, at the time of taking this particular  mortgage, PPI was compulsory.              
Mr and Mrs L have referred to the PPI later being cancelled  as evidence that, at some  point 
it was no longer compulsory. 
Market Harborough  Building Society has told me that their policy on compulsory PPI with 
particular mortgages  didnt change and that it was a case  by case basis at a managers  
discretion. 
As Ive already  said, this is supported by the letter  my colleague  has now sent to                
Mr and Mrs L dated November 2004. The letter says I have spoken  to my manager ******* 
(name redacted) and he has confirmed that it would  be in order to cancel..as you have 
now changed employment.
It seems  reasonable to assume that, although the PPI was still compulsory, at a managers 
discretion it could still be cancelled. Just because  it was later cancelled,  this doesnt mean 
that the PPI was voluntary  to begin with.
Mr and Mrs L have said that they didnt need  PPI as they had savings and theyve 
previously told us this in the PPI questionnaire.  But the PPI would pay out in addition to any 
savings they had. Its also possible that Mr and Mrs L had a specific use in mind for their 
savings as they were  paying extra to borrow more instead of using their savings. 
Ive noted  what  Mr and Mrs L have said about  my comments about there potentially being a 
link between taking PPI and a discount  on part of the mortgage.  As I said, I cant  safely  say 
if there was link. The point I was making is that its not uncommon  in cases where  PPI was 
a compulsory condition  of a particular mortgage  that an incentive would be offered such as 
a discounted rate. In this complaint I cant safely say if that was the case or not. 
In relation to Mr and Mrs Ls point  about  what Ive seen around exclusions  and limitations 
of the policy, Ive considered the nearest relevant PPI policy  document  alongside what 
theyve told us about their circumstances.
Although Mr L has said that PPI was generally  mis-sold,  Ive not seen  evidence  that this 
particular PPI policy was mis-sold.  Which  means  Market Harborough Building Society 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But Market  Harborough  Building Society  will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs L because:  
Ref: DRN50630985When the policy was sold, Market  Harborough Building Society expected to get a high level 
of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told 
Mr and Mrs L about that. Because Market Harborough Building Society didnt tell Mr and 
Mrs L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Market Harborough  Building  Society has basically offered to pay back the 
amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I 
think that offer is fair in this case.
So these points dont  change my provisional  decision.
what the business needs  to do
Market Harborough  Building Society has to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Market  Harborough  Building  Society  
should also pay back to Mr and Mrs L any extra  interest they paid because of that.
Market Harborough  Building Society should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs L the extra they paid each 
month because the commission  and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Market Harborough  Building Society should  also pay Mr and Mrs L 8%* simple  interest  on each 
payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs L can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
my provisional decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Market  Harborough Building Society does not have  to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But I intend to tell Market Harborough  Building Society to pay back  to Mr and Mrs L any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
If either  Mr and Mrs L or Market Harborough  Building Society  have anything  further to add, they 
should do so by 4 December 2018. Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5063098