K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained that Amtrust Europe Limited  unfairly cancelled  his caravan insurance 
policy after he made a claim  under it.
background
Mr R held a caravan insurance policy with Amtrust,  which covered him for theft, amongst 
other things.
In September  2018 Mr R contacted Amtrust to make  a claim as his caravan had been stolen. 
Amtrust considered the claim but declined it. It said the caravan had been parked in a 
communal parking space outside the boundary of Mr Rs home when it had been stolen, 
which is excluded under the policy terms. Mr R advised that the caravan had been parked in 
his driveway at home, and not in a communal parking space.  This led Amtrust to cancel the 
policy as it didnt think Mr R had accurately described where he kept his caravan  when  not in 
use. It didnt think  Mr Rs parking space  could reasonably be described as a driveway.  It 
returned the premiums  Mr R had paid.
Mr R referred  his complaint to our service. He said hed accurately described where the 
caravan was parked when he took the insurance  out and said hed provided evidence from 
the council that it wasnt  kept in a communal parking space.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She thought Mr R had shown that where he parked 
the caravan was within the boundary of his home and it could reasonably be described  as a 
driveway. So, she thought the claim should  be reconsidered.
Amtrust didnt agree  and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said photographs of Mr Rs 
property showed  his driveway  ended  at a footpath and the caravan was parked outside of 
this area.  It maintained  that where Mr R parked  the caravan didnt fall within  the everyday 
meaning of the word  driveway. It thought it was parked  in a communal area without any 
restrictions.
Another investigator contacted Amtrust  with his opinion on the complaint, addressing  the 
issue of the cancellation of Mr Rs policy. He didnt  think  Mr R had made any 
misrepresentation about where the caravan  was parked when he took the policy out. For this 
reason he recommended  the policy should  be reinstated, and the claim should  be 
reconsidered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigators.
misrepresentation
Ill first address the alleged misrepresentation of where Mr R stored  his caravan when not in 
use.
Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 
(CIDRA). It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer  when entering into an 
Ref: DRN59604322insurance contract.  CIDRA places  the consumer under a duty to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided the insurer  
has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt  take reasonable care to answer 
questions accurately it sets out the remedies  available  to the insurer.
According to the statement of fact, Mr R said:
Storage location: kept on an unsecured driveway  at home
Amtrust says this description wasnt accurate. It says Mr Rs driveway  ends at a footpath and 
when he made the claim Mr R said the caravan  was parked beyond  this. It didnt think  where 
Mr R parked the caravan fell within the ordinary meaning of the word,  driveway,  which it felt 
was, a short road leading from a public  road to a building. It says if it had actually known 
where Mr R parked his caravan, it wouldnt have been able to offer him any cover.  Under 
CIDRA, this permits Amtrust to cancel the policy.
Ive seen photographs of Mr Rs driveway  and I accept it is somewhat unusual.  The 
driveway begins at his house, it is then intersected by a footpath and the tarmac  area 
continues to the road. Mr R says his property allows for the parking of three vehicles; the first 
on the driveway immediately in front of his house, the second on the tarmac area and the 
third on the road. Mr R said his caravan was parked  in the middle space on the tarmac.
As Mr R parked the caravan on the tarmac area before the road, I think  its fair to say this is 
part of his driveway. The freeholder of Mr Rs property, who Ill call T, has also confirmed 
this is Mr Rs personal parking space  and the title plan shows  this is within the boundary of 
the property. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr R to describe the location  as an 
unsecured driveway  at home. As I dont think Mr R made a misrepresentation in response to 
Amtrusts question about where the caravan was stored, it follows  that I dont think  it was fair 
or reasonable for Amtrust to cancel Mr Rs policy. So, I think Mr Rs policy  should be 
reinstated subject  to Mr R paying  the policy premiums.
refusal of claim
Before Amtrust made the decision to cancel Mr Rs policy, it declined the claim on the 
grounds the caravan wasnt parked at home.
Under the policy terms, theft is covered  if it occurs at home. Home is defined  as:
Within the boundaries of Your permanent place of residence or Your  Immediate Familys 
permanent place of residence but excluding communal parking areas and any public road or 
highway.
So, I have to consider  whether Mr Rs caravan was parked within the boundary of his home  
and not in a communal parking area.
Mr R provided  evidence  from T confirming the parking space is not communal and is for his 
use only. Weve also seen  the title plan for the property  which  shows the area on which  Mr R 
parked the caravan is within the boundary  of the property.
I appreciate that Amtrust still believes the area is a communal parking space because  of the 
lack of any signs. But the owner of the land has confirmed it isnt communal,  so I dont think 
the absence of signs is relevant. For these reasons, I dont think it was reasonable for 
Ref: DRN59604323Amtrust to decline this claim and my decision is that the claim should be reconsidered. If the 
claim is otherwise payable, Amtrust can deduct  the refund of premiums paid to Mr R when 
the policy was cancelled.
compensation
I also think Amtrust  should pay Mr R £200 for the trouble and upset caused by the way his 
claim was handled.  I appreciate this wasnt a scenario Amtrust intended to cover, but I think 
the action taken  particularly  cancelling  the policy  was unreasonable  and excessive. 
I dont think Amtrust can be said to have treated Mr R fairly as it assumed he had misled it at 
the outset, rather than considering the unusual circumstances of this case and giving him the 
benefit of doubt.  Overall,  I think Mr R took the insurance in good  faith and it was reasonable 
for him to expect to be covered in these circumstances. And I think having the policy  
cancelled wouldve caused him additional  distress on top of that caused  by having his 
caravan stolen.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding this complaint.
Amtrust Europe Limited should reinstate Mr R policy and reconsider his claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions. If Mr Rs claim  is payable,  Amtrust Europe Limited 
can deduct the premiums  owed.
Amtrust Europe Limited should also pay Mr R £200  for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5960432