K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say St Andrews Insurance plc mis-sold them  a payment  protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs D bought  the policy in July 2000 some time after taking out a loan. They applied 
for the PPI policy through the post.
The loan was repayable over a 50 month  term. The monthly loan repayment  was £113.00 
with the PPI costing  an additional £10.91  making the total monthly repayment £123.91. The 
policy didnt attract interest  and could be cancelled by either  party without penalty. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs D for accident, sickness and life  subject to its exclusions 
and limitations. It offered  to repay Mr and Mrs Ds monthly loan repayment  for up to 12 
months in the event  of a successful disability  claim.
At the time,  Mrs D was self-employed as a Nursery  Manager. She has told us she was not 
entitled to any sick pay or redundancy pay but had £3000 in savings she could use to meet  
her repayments. Mrs D has said she didnt  have any health problems at the time of the sale.
St Andrews  has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account  closed in 2004.
Mr and Mrs Ds representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ds representative says:
St Andrews failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr and Mrs D 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ds representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means St Andrews should 
have told Mr and Mrs D about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means St Andrews should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs D 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The information Mr and Mrs D received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue;
Ref: DRN56921642Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ds. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not St Andrews. That means  the 
unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme 
Court judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the 
FCA about the handling of complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
This sale took place  in July 2000  before the sale of general insurance  products like this 
became regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching 
principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable 
to this complaint;  nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from firms, like St 
Andrews selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN56921643The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required  to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If St Andrews gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs D with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether St Andrews  gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient, appropriate  and timely  
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs D, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs D 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs D 
and St Andrews, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs D know they had a choice?
Ref: DRN56921644St Andrews  had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
I note Mr and Mrs D did not take out PPI at the time of taking out the loan. Instead it appears 
the PPI was sold to them  the following month  by post.  Further, St Andrews has given us a 
copy of the direct debit  form it sent to Mr and Mrs D to sign and return  if they wanted the 
PPI. The direct debit form was only for PPI. So I think  it wouldve been clear to Mr and Mrs D 
that PPI was all they were  agreeing  to when Mrs D signed and returned  it. 
In these circumstances and without more detailed  testimony from Mr and Mrs D to suggest 
otherwise, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs D knew the policy was optional  and they 
agreed to take it out without undue pressure.  
did St Andrews provide  advice?
St Andrews  says it didnt  provide advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs D are silent on this 
point in their PPI questionnaire. Looking at what happened when St Andrews sold Mr and 
Mrs D the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice. This is because  it appears the 
policy was sold through the post without  any apparent involvement  from a representative.
This means  St Andrews didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs D. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable Mr and 
Mrs D to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to 
their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs D were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mrs D was unable to work through accident,  sickness and disability). Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr and Mrs D would have taken out the policy  without 
any sense of what the policy was for. I also note that the creditcare acceptance form set out 
the cost and benefit of the policy. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  St Andrews gave sufficient  
information about how long the benefit would be paid for, or about the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs D agreed to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think St Andrews gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ds representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ds. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
Ref: DRN56921645-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ds representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs D about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ds representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs D have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that St Andrews ought to have done either. 
What effect did St Andrews  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs D? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs D suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that St Andrews didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr and 
Mrs D. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr 
and Mrs D suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr and Mrs D would have still taken out the policy, had St Andrews done things 
properly. 
Mr and Mrs D say they would not have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs D had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs D chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs D thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs D has suffered  any loss 
or detriment.  
The information Mr and Mrs D were given  about  the cost and benefit  was clear. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as exclusions wasnt as clear as it should  
have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs D thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:  
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions for which treatment and/or 
advice had been suggested by a doctor  during the 12 month  period prior to the start 
date; a condition  which  had been  diagnosed by a registered  medical  practitioner  
Ref: DRN56921646during the 12 month period prior to the start date; or a condition whether diagnosed  
or not for which significant  and substantive symptoms were experienced or for which 
investigations have  been commenced by a registered medical practitioner during the 
12 month period  prior to the start date; or a chronic or continuing disease that Mrs D 
was aware of at the start date;
The policy excluded claims relating to mental  health conditions and it contained 
limitations on claims relating to back conditions;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs D be unable  to 
do her own work,  or any paid work  which her experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified her to do.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs D pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs D from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mrs D was eligible  for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest they wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs D didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions. So, I still think they had some  good reasons to take the 
policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems. In this case the 
policy excluded claims for mental health conditions and there was a limit to claims relating to 
certain back conditions.  While  this exclusion and limitation might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr and Mrs D from taking out the policy,  Mr 
and Mrs D in their circumstances, still had some good reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs D had known Mrs D could only claim for disability if she was not only unable  to 
do her work but also unable to do any work  which she might  reasonably  be qualified for, it 
might have played into their thinking  about what they would do. And I accept it may have 
given them pause for thought  although  given Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances, on balance,  I 
still think they would have been  interested in taking out the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs D would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  were  Mrs D unable to work through accident or disability. In the 
circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs D would have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ds representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN56921647That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs D would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Ds circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position Mr 
and Mrs D found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs D believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs D in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude St Andrews  should pay Mr and Mrs D compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs D thinks St Andrews misrepresented  the terms of the policy  
in how it described  the PPI. Whilst I accept there  is a possibility a court might conclude  some 
of St Andrews statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why St 
Andrews failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information St Andrews gave  Mr and 
Mrs D, in the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in July 2000  when  providing information about an 
insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ds representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find St Andrews  negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs D and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that St Andrews  had been  in breach 
of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs D in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN56921648my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 September 2021.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5692164