K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him a credit  card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr A took out the PPI at the same time as applying for the credit card by filling  out a form in 
January 1999.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr A disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr As complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr A says that the application form was completed for him by the adviser and he just signed 
it  so the PPI was added  without his knowledge  or consent. Looking  at the application  form, 
there is a separate section for PPI that contained  yes and no boxes to either accept or 
decline the policy. The yes box has been  ticked to request the policy. Below this there  is 
another section  for a different type of insurance  product   the box in this section has been 
left blank to decline  the insurance.  If, as Mr A says,  the adviser automatically added the 
policy, I might have  expected him to end up with all of the available insurance  options.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mr As recollection of 
events has faded   and indeed he did say originally that he couldnt remember how the sale 
had been made. Overall,  looking at the available evidence, I think that its most  likely that 
Lloyds made  the optional  nature of the policy clear. It seems to me that Mr A probably 
decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even  if he no longer remembers doing so.
Lloyds says it advised Mr A to take out the policy. Therefore  in recommending  the PPI to him 
it needed to ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know  of Mr As circumstances at 
the time,  the policy was suitable for him.
Mr A hasnt told us what sick pay he would have got from his job, if any. But the policy  would 
have paid out in addition  to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr A would have 
received full pay for. And Mr A didnt have any other means, such  as savings, to fall back on.
Mr A has said that his parents would have made his credit card repayments for him if 
necessary. But other people cant always  be relied upon as their circumstances can change. 
And presumably asking  someone else to pay his debts  would  have been  a last resort  for Mr 
A. So I think that Mr A had a need  for the policy and could have benefitted from it at what  
would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that Lloyds  didnt provide as much information about the policy  as it should  
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr A wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that Mr A had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
Ref: DRN52395542think that further information  would have caused  him to change his mind. So Mr A is no 
worse off as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong,  so theres nothing that Lloyds 
needs to do to put things  right. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019. 
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5239554