K820x#14Complaint
Mr K complains that FICL  mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card which Mr K took out in 1995.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr K disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.  Having  done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
FICL has provided a copy of the card application which Mr K signed  for his store card.  
Theres a section on this headed Payment  Protection (Details  attached). And I can see that 
the Yes  box provided to confirm that PPI was required has been  ticked.  If Mr K didnt want  
PPI, he didnt have  to tick to take it. Mr K has said PPI wasnt  explained and he was just told 
where to sign. I dont know what was discussed at the time but as Mr K was agreeing  to 
additional credit, I would have expected  him to have  read the form and raised  any questions 
he had at the time before signing in agreement with it.
So from what Ive seen,  I think its most likely Mr K knew at the time that the PPI was 
optional and that he actively decided to take it. But I can understand why he might  not recall 
this now, as the sale took place a long time ago.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr K so it didnt  need to check that it was suitable, given 
his circumstances  at the time. But it did need to ensure that he was given enough 
information to decide whether he wanted to take it. Although  I dont know  what  was said to 
him then,  I think its likely that the information  he received about the PPI could have been 
better than it was. But I dont think better information would have changed  his mind about 
taking the cover. I say this because:
Mr K appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
The policy would have paid out for up to 12 months if Mr K wasnt able to work  because 
of an accident,  sickness or unemployment.  Mr K has said he would have received some 
sick pay from his employer at the time but PPI would have paid out in addition, and for 
longer than his sick pay would have  lasted. So I think he would have valued the extra  
security which  the policy gave him if things went wrong. Whilst I appreciate that Mr Ks 
family would  have wanted to help, their support cant be relied upon as their 
Ref: DRN52412382circumstances can also change, meaning they are unable to provide such financial 
assistance.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr K. And as the policys 
premiums were  paid monthly,  he could  have cancelled it if it no longer  met his needs.
Ive thought about what Mr K has said in responding to the adjudicators view, but this hasnt 
changed my mind about not upholding his complaint. I still dont think  that hes lost out by 
anything that FICL  may have done  wrong  when it sold him this PPI policy.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Financial Insurance  
Company Limited.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5241238