K821x#15complaint
Ms L has complained  that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) wrongly  refused to pay the 
whole of her claim under  her travel insurance  policy.
background
Ms L bought  and paid for a trip for her and her daughter to go abroad.  Unfortunately the 
night before in the airport hotel Ms L was taken ill and brought to hospital. She was 
discharged the next day but too late to catch  her flight with her daughter.
So she claimed  the full cost of her holiday, which  she had bought for her daughter and 
herself in the sum of £702.00. IPA said her daughter wasnt insured  under Ms Ls policy  and 
therefore it wouldnt refund her portion.  Consequently, after the deduction of the excess  Ms L 
received £296.00.  So she complained but IPA wouldnt change its mind. Ms L also 
complained that IPA harassed her with telephone  calls when she was in hospital when she 
expressly said she didnt  want to give out her private details on the phone. IPA apologised 
for this and offered her £75 compensation.
Ms L remained unhappy and brought her complaint  to us. The adjudicator was of the view 
that as Ms L had paid the entire cost of the holiday for both her and her daughter  as a gift to 
her daughter, it was fair and reasonable that IPA should refund the entire amount less the 
excess.
IPA disagreed and so Ms Ls complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im upholding this 
complaint and I'll now explain why.
Theres no dispute that Ms L had a valid claim, which IPA has accepted.  Theres  also no 
dispute that from Ms Ls statements  she did pay the full £702 herself. IPA said that Ms Ls 
daughter could claim her portion on her own insurance policy. It said it wouldnt  pay the 
daughters portion, as she wasnt insured on Ms Ls policy, only Ms L was. 
As the adjudicator explained,  the policy says the following:
We will pay you up to £2,000 for your proportion only of any irrecoverable unused  
travel and accommodation costs (including  excursions up to £250) and any other pre-
paid charges which you have paid or are contracted  to pay, together  with your 
proportion only of the any reasonable additional  travel expenses incurred.
Ms L has confirmed that her daughter had not taken  out any insurance policy for this trip and 
that she paid nothing towards  it. Therefore,  there is no other  means for Ms Ls daughter to 
claim for her alleged proportion. And indeed since Ms L paid for the trip in its entirety, there 
is no split proportion, since the liability was all Ms Ls. That in turn would mean had Ms Ls 
daughter had any policy (which she doesnt) it would be unlikely any such claim would be 
payable when Ms Ls daughter herself didnt  suffer any loss, as she didnt pay anything  
towards this holiday.
Ref: DRN55364212Therefore, I agree  with the adjudicator  that in the particular  circumstances  of this complaint, 
its only fair and reasonable that IPA refunds Ms L the entire  cost she paid, less the excess, 
which is also below the maximum  amount insured.  Interest of 8% simple  per year should  be 
added to this payment.
Also given its common for most insurers to validate  claims  by telephone, I dont consider 
IPA needs to pay any more compensation to Ms L than its offered of £75. I do understand 
Ms L felt she was harassed, but I think IPAs apology and offer of £75 compensation is 
adequate for this service issue.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Inter Partner Assistance SA to do the following:
Refund Ms L the remainder of her claim,  adding 8% simple interest from the date this 
remainder should have been  paid to the date it pays her.*
Pay Ms L (if it hasnt done  so already) the £75 compensation.
*If Inter Partner Assistance SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Ms L how much its taken off. It should  
also give her a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5536421