K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) unfairly  terminated  
her finance  agreement and started  repossession proceedings. She wants  her agreement to 
be reinstated, to keep  the car and minimise the impact to her credit file.
background
On 26 September  2017, Mrs O took receipt  of a new car. She financed the deal through a 
hire purchase agreement with VWFS  under which  she was to pay 48 monthly instalments of 
£385.00.
On 3 May 2019,  VWFS terminated Mrs Os agreement after the account fell into arrears.
Mrs O says she spoke with VWFS  on 28 December 2019 and explained  she was 
experiencing financial difficulties. She said although she couldnt  make the payment due she 
would pay double the next month.
On 10 April 2019, Mrs O sent VWFS an email detailing her financial position. She said she 
had sought advice from a debt charity  and could offer to pay her monthly payment and £31 
per month towards the arrears. Mrs O attached information regarding  her household budget. 
Mrs O says the next time she was contacted was by a repossession company and they 
informed her agreement  had been terminated. She says she didnt get any letters  or notices 
as she had moved address.
VWFS say they did receive an email from Mrs O in April with an income and expenditure 
form completed by a debt charity.  They tried to contact  Mrs O to discuss  her financial 
position but didnt get any response.  They issued a default notice on 13 April 2019 requiring 
payment of £1,126.00 to bring  the account  up to date by 2 May 2019.  As this wasnt  received 
a termination notice was issued, and repossession  proceedings  commenced.
An adjudicator looked into matters for Mrs O. She found VWFS had issued letters  and 
notices to the address they had on file and she couldnt see that Mrs O had informed VWFS 
she had moved address.  She found the account had fallen into arrears  and so under the 
terms and conditions of the agreement Mrs O signed, VWFS  had the right to terminate the 
agreement and recover the car. She found  VWFS to have acted fairly and reasonably  and so 
she didnt ask them to do anything further.
Mrs O disagreed. She feels it was unfair of VWFS  to terminate the agreement when she had 
put forward a reasonable offer to maintain her monthly payments and pay an amount 
towards the arrears.  She also knew her financial position would improve  and she would be 
able to increase  the payment towards the arrears. She asked for an ombudsman  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I know it will be 
disappointing but I agree  with the adjudicators  view of this complaint and for broadly the 
same reasons. Please let me explain why. 
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN52995132Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
Miss O acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is 
a regulated consumer  credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the finance agreement. It allows VWFS  to default 
the agreement  if payments  arent  received. It says: 
missing payments could  have severe  consequences  It may lead to us serving a default 
notice on you, on the expiry  of which we may terminate the agreement
Ive also looked  at Mrs Os payment history.  I can see the October  and November payments 
in 2018 were received. In December 2018,  the payment  was received and then rejected on 
03 January 2019.  Mrs O contacted VWFS on 28 December to explain she wouldnt be able 
to make this payment  and wanted  to make two payments  in January. I have listened to the 
call recording  and Mrs O explains her position.  The VWFS representative  says she can 
make a double payment  but this may affect her credit file. Mrs O explains she is seeking  to 
pay a double payment next month  without  any impact  on her credit  rating.  VWFS explained 
they couldnt guarantee taking this action wont her credit rating. I have also noted  Mrs O 
confirmed her address  as the one VWFS  held on file for her.
Mrs Os payment history then shows payments made from January to April. The monthly  
repayment is made and then rejected.  I have  noted three further  ad-hoc payments,  two of £2 
and one of £25. After each  missed  payment, VWFS sent a Notice of Sum in Arrears  to the 
given address on file. There  doesnt  appear to be any contact from Mrs O with VWFS until 
an email on 10 April 2019, in which she makes an offer of payment  to include the monthly  
payment due and an additional £31 per month towards the arrears. This is supported with a 
debt charity income and expenditure form, which was submitted with the email.
I can see from the contact history VWFS  then tried to telephone Mrs O regarding her email 
but received no response so they sent an email requesting contact. VWFS didnt  receive a 
response and so they issued a default  notice on 13 April requiring Mrs O to bring her 
account up to date by 2 May 2019. 
Im satisfied from what Ive seen VWFS tried to contact Mrs O to discuss the payment offer 
she made in her email.  They wrote  to the correct address they had on file and telephoned 
her given contact number. They also sent emails  requesting she contact them. 
Unfortunately, Mrs O didnt respond. The May payment  of £385 was also rejected and 
VWFS didnt  receive the additional payment towards  the arrears  either,  and so on 3 May 
2019 VWFS  issued a termination notice.
I appreciate Mrs O made a payment offer but that in itself doesnt mean VWFS have to either 
accept it, or prevent  it from taking further  action if its unable to contact Mrs O to discuss  or 
agree the offer.  As no further payments were  forthcoming Im not persuaded VWFS did 
anything wrong  in issuing the default  notice and the subsequent termination notice. 
Whilst I appreciate this has been  a difficult time for Mrs O, I dont  agree  VWFS  have acted 
unfairly and so I cant ask them to reinstate  the agreement. VWFS also have a duty to 
Ref: DRN52995133accurately report the position of Mrs Os account to credit  reference agencies and so Im 
unable to ask them to amend or change  the information regarding the termination of the 
agreement.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5299513