K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) misrepresented  
a car he has been  financing  with them.
background
Mr C took receipt of a new hybrid car in June 2018.  He financed  the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with VWFS. 
Mr C says that when he signed up for the deal he explained his usual daily commute and 
was assured by the dealership that his car would return a fuel consumption  in the region  of 
the 166mpg published by the New European Driving  Cycle (NEDC).
Mr C returned the car on several occasions  as he explained that from very early on it was 
apparent the car wasnt achieving the fuel consumption that had been suggested. He said 
that over 9,000 miles the consumption he achieved was only about  53mpg.
The dealership identified a problem with the settings and amended  that but eventually they 
advised Mr C that the lower fuel consumption  was the result of his driving style and there 
was nothing wrong with the car.
Mr C therefore complained to VWFS  but they explained that the NEDC figures were 
produced under standardised  testing conditions and that they may not represent real world 
driving situations. They noted that the dealership  could find nothing  wrong  with Mr Cs car 
and they explained that part of the problem  was that the car wasnt being  charged whilst at 
Mr Cs place of work;  so the return journey  was in petrol and not electric mode.
Mr C was disappointed  with their response so he referred his complaint to this service and 
our adjudicator provided her opinion. She didnt think VWFS had any choice but to quote the 
NEDC figures for consumption and whilst she understood Mr Cs testimony  that hed been 
told he would realise better consumption, she didnt think that evidence had been 
corroborated. She therefore didnt think she could safely conclude that the car had been 
misrepresented to Mr C.
Mr C was disappointed  with the investigators  view and he therefore asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr C so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN52464012board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
The relevant  law also says the car should not have been misrepresented to Mr C and if it 
was, and if Mr C would not have proceeded with the deal if hed not been misinformed, Id 
also ask VWFS to take some action.
was the car of satisfactory  quality?
Ive reviewed the evidence provided  by the dealership and can see that the car did need  to 
be reset  to optimise  its efficiency. But that seems  to have been all that was necessary and 
the overall picture is of a car that is working  as it should do.
Im persuaded that the lower fuel consumption is probably because the way in which  the car 
is being driven does not mirror  the cycle used in the NEDC tests.  But that doesnt mean the 
car is not working  correctly: I think its most likely  that it is.
was the car misrepresented to Mr C?
I understand Mr Cs frustration that a car he thought would deliver an excellent fuel economy 
is not doing so. He says that he provided  the dealership with all the details they would need 
in order to advise  him on the consumption he could expect. But the dealership  dispute  that 
and in the absence of any further corroboration I dont  think it would be fair to simply accept 
Mr Cs testimony.
The dealership appears to have  no choice but to quote the NEDC figure. Its a standardised 
approach used across  the industry.  It would not be fair to suggest they have misrepresented 
the fuel economy  of the car simply because the results they have to present are different  
from those obtained  over a different cycle of driving. Thats  not a fair comparison.
In those circumstances I dont think it would be safe for me to conclude  that there  is 
evidence this car was misrepresented to Mr C or that it hasnt been of satisfactory quality 
and Im therefore not asking VWFS to take any further action.
Ref: DRN52464013my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5246401