K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited provided poor service 
after he made a claim  on his policy. Mr L is represented by Ms L.  
background
Mr L told LV about an accident hed had on 4 August 2017 involving another  driver. He said 
he didnt want to make a claim, as there was minimal damage to both cars. He says LV told 
him the file would be closed if the other driver didnt make a claim in the next six months.  It 
was only in May 2018 that Mr L found  that LV had settled a claim the other driver made  in 
December 2017.  Mr L thought liability should  be split equally,  but LV held him fully at fault, 
as both he and the other  driver had said Mr L was reversing at the time. 
Mr L had told LV he was a stonemason,  but later he also took on some part-time  work as a 
delivery driver. He didnt tell LV about  the new role, but he was driving  in that role when the 
accident happened. When LV found out about it, it said the delivery driver / fast food job 
wasnt acceptable to its underwriters. It said Mr L was using his car for a purpose it wasnt 
insured for  so the claim shouldnt have been  dealt  with  and it cancelled the policy.   
Mr L said if LV had contacted him before settling  the claim,  he would have referred it to his 
new employers insurer (insurer A) at that point. LV said it had contacted Mr L, as soon as 
the other drivers insurer  contacted  it on 8 August 2017. It said it had called Mr L and left a 
message asking him to call back with further  details  of the incident.  It left a second  message 
on 10 August 2017. It also sent Mr L a letter asking him to contact it, but got no response.
LV was given a certificate number for insurer As policy by Mr Ls broker.  LV contacted  
insurer A, but several of its advisors said they were unable to assist. They  said they needed 
a policy  number to locate the policy. As LV made no progress with insurer A, it pursued Mr L 
for its outlay  on the other drivers claim.  He couldnt pay the £2,585.58 it required.  So in 
December 2018  LV instructed solicitors  to recover its outlay, and legal action began.  Mr L 
was distressed by the letters he got from the solicitors and from the court.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ls complaint. He asked LV to put the legal action on 
hold until our review was complete. LV wasnt obliged to do that, and it said it wouldnt do so. 
LV said Mr L should have  reported the incident  to the correct insurer in the first place and 
should have co-operated with LV later on, which he hadnt done.  
The investigator advised Ms L to raise a claim with insurer A in July 2019. She did so - using 
the certificate number  LV had used  previously.  At that point, insurer  A located the policy.  
In his view about  Mr Ls complaint,  the investigator accepted that LV had tried to contact 
Mr L and that he hadnt  engaged with it. But he said Mr Ls severe dyslexia made managing  
correspondence hard. He thought it was fair for LV to cancel the policy. And he thought 
insurer A was at fault, as LV had given it details from which  it should  have  been  able to trace 
Mr Ls employers fleet policy. 
The investigator also thought LV should have done more, such  as sending  the details it had 
to insurer A in writing.  He said potentially the issue could have been resolved many  months 
previously. Instead,  LV took recovery measures that caused Mr L great distress. He said it 
should cease  legal  action against him, refund any payments hed made to LV and remove 
Ref: DRN56593512any markers from his credit file. He said it should also pay Mr L £500 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.  
LV didnt accept  the investigators  view.  It said only Mr L could take action to remove  any 
markers. It said it was Mr Ls role to inform insurer A of the claim, both at the start and when 
LV cancelled his policy.  LV said it couldnt be expected to do more  to pursue insurer  A, as 
that would  be beyond what it was required to do as an insurer. LV said it hadnt known about 
Mr Ls dyslexia and would always make reasonable adjustments if told about  such  
difficulties. It asked for a review of the case  by an ombudsman.  In October 2019, LV told us 
insurer A had accepted  liability for the claim,  so legal proceedings against Mr L would cease.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows:   
I think it was reasonable  for LV to settle  the claim. At the time it had no reason to think  that 
the accident took place  whilst Mr L was acting outside the policys remit. A driver who is 
reversing has a higher duty of care when  carrying out that manoeuvre.  With no independent 
evidence that the other  driver was at fault, I can see why LV thought it wouldnt be able to 
defend the other drivers  claim. 
LV has shown that it made several attempts to contact Mr L to discuss  the situation with him 
before it settled the matter. It isnt clear  why he didnt  reply to the messages - or mention 
them to Ms L, so she could respond on his behalf. Mr L told us he didnt read LVs letter  
because he assumed the claim  was closed. LV may have  made  extra attempts to contact 
Mr L had it known about his severe dyslexia. I havent seen any evidence that it did know  
about it, so I think its attempts to contact  him were reasonable. 
Once LV found that Mr L hadnt told it about  his new job, I think  it was reasonable for it to 
cancel the policy.  LV has shown that its underwriting criteria wouldnt have allowed it to 
cover Mr L if hed disclosed  that he was working  as a delivery driver. So LV paid out 
£2,585.58 in good faith, purely because Mr L didnt update it.  
In my opinion, Mr L should have  told his employer (and hence  insurer A) about the accident 
at the time. Had he done so, there would have been  no confusion  involving LV later on. It 
seems that when he reported  the incident,  Mr L was confused about which insurer was the 
relevant one, but that isnt LVs fault.  
Ive listened to the call recordings LV provided  of the conversations  between  its advisor and 
insurer A in May 2018. LVs advisor  spoke to five of insurer As advisors, but he only gave 
the certificate number  to the first and fourth  advisors. He gave another number to three 
advisors and said it was the policy  number.  LV says it got that second number from Mr L. 
Insurer As advisors couldnt  link it to a policy. 
I dont think its certain  from the calls whether the certificate  number was recognised,  but it 
looks likely.  The first advisor  said it should  be sufficient, and was then able to pass the call 
on. The fourth advisor also used it to direct LVs advisor elsewhere (although it was to the 
wrong team). So had the certificate number been used in all the calls,  I think  it might have 
made a difference. At that point, LV asked  Mr L to contact his new employer and get it to 
report the claim to its insurer or provide the right policy number. It seems Mr L didnt do so. If 
he had, that might also have helped to resolve  the issue  in May 2018.
Ref: DRN56593513In July 2019, our investigator asked Ms L to call insurer  A to make  a claim using the 
certificate number. That was after hed contacted insurer A directly  and it had said the 
certificate number and the policy  number were the same. Insurer  As systems may have 
changed between  July 2019 and May 2018, when LV called it. But theres no evidence  of 
that. So I think LVs use of a number  other  than the certificate number in most of the 
conversations its advisor had with insurer A may have confused matters. When  Ms L made 
the claim,  insurer A recognised  the certificate  number  and agreed  to refund LVs outlay. 
In my opinion, its fair to say that Mr L was mostly  to blame for what  happened.  He didnt 
report the incident to his new employer  or to the right insurer.  And later on, he didnt co-
operate with LV. In addition, I think insurer As advisors could have been more helpful  to LV 
than they were. Mr L no longer faces  legal  action over a debt and he can have  his credit 
record amended  as needed.  Ms L says he made several payments to LV to begin paying  off 
the debt. If so, LV may have returned the money,  but if not I think  it should do that. 
Overall, I think LV acted  reasonably in the way it dealt with the claim.  But it had what looked  
like a valid certificate of insurance  that covered Mr L in May 2018. The only way forward  - 
unless the other insurer accepted liability - was to pursue Mr L for its outlay. LV must have 
known that was a very serious  matter  for Mr L. And it also knew that the two advisors that 
were given the certificate number during calls from LV didnt say it wasnt valid. 
I think it would have  been reasonable for LV to pass the certificate to insurer  A. I think  its 
more likely than not that it would have  made  a difference. The policy  was valid. Any 
confusion caused  by LVs use of a second number would have ended.  Because of that, I 
think it would  be fair and reasonable for LV to pay Mr L £100 for distress and inconvenience.
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional view. LV didnt comment.  Ms L provided  
evidence that two payments of £50 were  made  by Mr L to LV in June  and September  2019. 
She said when Mr L called LV to report the accident  (in case a claim  was made later by the 
other driver)  he told it he was insured elsewhere for work. LV didnt tell Mr L when it had 
contacted his other insurer. He thought the only issue LV was dealing with was the video 
evidence hed sent it. She said Mr Ls employer wasnt helpful in giving Mr L details of its 
insurer. And LV didnt  contact Mr L to say legal  action had stopped when  the other insurer 
refunded it for the cost of the claim. Ms L thought as Mr L had faced a significant  amount of 
stress, £100  compensation was too low. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We passed on to LV the evidence of the payments Mr L has made  and Ive listened  to the 
additional call recordings LV has provided.
The call reporting the accident was made by Mr Ls broker, so I assume Mr L called the 
broker about the accident. And he may have told the broker about his work  insurance.  
If he did, the call recording shows that the broker didnt mention that to LV. He was asked 
what Mr Ls journey was, and said he thought Mr L was driving to work. That didnt prompt  
the broker to mention  the insurance  policy that covered Mr L at work,  so I think  there has to 
be some  doubt about whether he was aware of it at the time.  LV took all the details of the 
Ref: DRN56593514incident and said it would  keep the file open in case a future claim was made. There  was no 
reason for it to think  another insurer was involved. 
It seems  the first call Mr L made to LV was after hed found  out that the claim had been 
settled. He wasnt happy that LV hadnt  contacted him first. But even in that call, Mr L didnt 
mention the other insurer, or query  why LV was dealing  with the claim. He called LV again 
about his policy being cancelled. In in that call, he said he was covered for work by another  
insurer. But that was well after LV had paid the claim.
In the initial  call with the broker, LV asked for Mr Ls telephone number. I think  that shows it 
intended to contact Mr L if necessary - and it can show it tried to do so later on. In a call with 
Ms L much later in the process,  LV checked  the number it had for Mr L and found that it 
wasnt the right number. It isnt clear  whether the broker supplied  the wrong  number, or 
whether Mr L changed his number later and didnt  advise LV. Either  way, I dont  think he can 
show that it was LVs fault if calls didnt  reach  him.
By the time LV knew about the other  insurer, the claim had been paid and the decision to 
cancel the policy had been  made. I appreciate that insurer A wasnt helpful, either to Mr L or 
to anyone else. But I dont  think thats the central  issue in this case.  I think LV should  
probably have  contacted  Mr L directly when legal action ceased. But as it contacted us, Mr L 
was made  aware  of it quickly  anyway. 
I dont think it would  be reasonable to require LV to pay more  compensation. I know Mr L 
has faced a good deal of stress and inconvenience,  but I think  most of that could have been 
avoided had he acted  differently, as set out in my provisional decision. I think LV should now 
refund the payments he made in 2019  as well as paying Mr L £100 compensation.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited  to refund  Mr L £100  for the payments  he made in 2019 and pay him £100 
compensation fro distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5659351