K822xcomplaint
Miss F says MBNA Limited mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy. 
background 
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Miss F took out in 1999. It was added to her 
account at some point  after the card had been  set up.
I issued a provisional decision saying I was planning  to uphold the complaint. Miss F had 
anything further  to add. MBNA replied to query the Miss Fs employee benefits. MBNA  said 
the employee benefits mentioned by Miss F was for the wrong employer. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Fs case.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Fs complaint  because  I dont  think  MBNA gave her clear  
enough information about the policy. I say this because the cost and benefits of the policy 
were not clearly explained to her during the phone call when she agreed to the PPI. I think  
this would have  mattered to Miss F because she had significant sick pay benefits through 
her work. This means that without the PPI she couldve  kept up with her card repayments for 
more than three months if she was off sick.
I dont think Miss F wouldve bought the policy if MBNA had given her enough information 
about it. So, I think Miss F has lost out because of what MBNA did wrong.
Ive thought about everything MBNA has said, including about Miss Fs employee benefits. 
But this doesnt  change my decision.  Before issuing my provisional  decision, I clarified  
Miss Fs employee  benefits. She confirmed  they were as shed initially indicated. While her 
employer had changed, her employment benefits  had stayed the same.  
While these were unusually  generous, shes been consistent throughout her complaint about 
what her employee benefits  were.  And Im satisfied that she wouldve had at least 3 months 
sick pay (she says that she had much  more than this) and therefore wouldnt have thought 
the PPI was worthwhile  if shed been  given clearer information about it.
putting things right
MBNA should put Miss F in the financial position  shed  be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.MBNA should find out how much Miss F would have owed when she closed her 
credit card account  if the policy  hadnt  been  added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest  charged  on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest  added  to those charges.
Ref: DRN59603352MBNA should then refund  the difference between what Miss F owed  when she 
closed her account and what she would have  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, MBNA can take off what she 
got for the claim  from the amount it owes her.
B.MBNA should add simple interest  on the difference between what  Miss F would have 
owed when she closed her account from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  MBNA  works out what Miss F would  have owed each month without  PPI  
Miss F paid more  than enough to clear her balance, MBNA should  also pay simple 
interest on the extra Miss F paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point 
when Miss F wouldve owed MBNA something  on her credit card. The interest  rate 
should be 8% a year. 
D.MBNA should tell Miss F what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  MBNA  to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must give
Miss F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. MBNA Limited should put things right 
by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5960335