K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains on behalf of Mrs C that she has been paying  very high premiums to 
U K Insurance Limited for her home insurance over a number of years,  when a far cheaper 
policy was available. 
background 
Mrs C, with her late husband, had home insurance  through her bank for many  years.  In 2002 
the underwriting of the policy transferred to UKI. In about 2006 Mr C sadly  passed  away.  The 
policy continued but Mrs C didnt contact UKI about it until 2016  when Mr S, her son in law, 
looked at her latest renewal quote which was for £1,127. He contacted the bank and agreed 
a few changes  to the policy, removing  the £20,000 personal possessions  and family legal 
protection cover; removing a bicycle from cover; and increasing the excess. The new 
premium was £188.
Mr S complained to the bank. UKI dealt with the complaint and advised him that the 
premiums were correct and it had followed its process in sending out renewal letters every 
year. It wasnt aware Mr C had died.
After referral to this service, UKI recognised that Mrs C hadnt engaged with it over a number 
of years.  It reviewed the premiums and thought  it would be fair to cap the rise in the 
premiums from 2006 onwards as that was when the price began  to rise steeply. With the 
addition of 8% interest a year,  UKI made a goodwill offer of £3,100 plus a further £100 
compensation for inconvenience. Mr S thought that to be unacceptable.  UKI increased its 
offer to £4,000. Our adjudicator recommended acceptance as it was in line with the 
approach we take in such cases and the compensation  is about the same as what we would 
have awarded.
Mr S still felt that the offer was unacceptable. He pointed out that Mrs C had her premium  
reduced to £188  in 2016. Even allowing for the changes  in cover from 2016  onwards, he felt 
that the premium  from 2016 (which he estimated at £250)  should  be back  calculated to 2005 
allowing for an 8% per year increase.  This brought a figure of over £8,600.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont generally  tell insurers what they can charge for cover in what  is a competitive 
market. But we are concerned to see that they charge each customer fairly within their own 
pricing criteria. So any customer  in a similar  position  is charged  a price, within a reasonable 
range, for the same risk criteria. The policy, which is an old policy which  transferred over to 
UKI from 2002 does  appear to have been priced within  UKIs pricing criteria.  
But I appreciate  that policy would no longer be available to new customers.  As Mr S has 
found, UKI would no longer offer a policy with such  a high personal possessions cover  limit. I 
accept also that it was no longer suitable  for Mrs C. This was due to a combination of Mrs C 
not engaging at all with UKI, as her late husband dealt with all the finances, and UKI itself 
Ref: DRN54596822not recognising  her potential vulnerability.  She is elderly and clearly had made no contact 
with UKI over the years,  when it could have done more to ensure she did engage.
We do take the view that, where a customer clearly isnt making contact with the insurer, 
despite the policy auto renewing  each year, that customer should  be made aware of their 
right to get in touch  about the premiums. And so have the opportunity  to reduce the risk of 
paying too much for their insurance in what is otherwise a competitive  market.  
So if a customer has effectively become inert, and is vulnerable to being taken advantage 
of in terms of pricing, we will expect an insurer to recognise that inertia and take steps  to 
ensure the customer  can engage. In order to treat such a customer  fairly, well look at any 
increases in price  post the point  when the customers inertia should have become clear  to 
the insurer, so that we can ensure  they were being  treated fairly.
If the perceived risk posed by that customer had gone up, that may be a reason for the 
policy price to have increased.  Or if the insurers commercial model  had necessitated a rise 
for all customers, again that may mean  that the price could, justifiably, have  been  increased. 
But if other customers were paying  much  less for similar cover while posing the same risk, 
then that is where  we may think something  might have gone wrong and it would be right for 
this service to intervene. 
I havent seen  the old renewal letters in this case,  although UKI has provided us with 
templates. Its clear that, if Mrs C had considered each renewal letter, she wouldnt have 
been aware from the letters that she had the right to challenge premiums or that alternative 
policies may have been available. In Mrs Cs case,  the point from when Ive determined  that 
the increases  should be capped is after the 2006  premium. Its from that point  that the price 
began to rise steeply,  and its also the point where  it should have been apparent that Mrs C 
had become inert.
I understand Mr Ss points  which I think hes made  clearly, but I think  it most  unlikely that the 
lower premium charged in 2016  would have been  available from 2005 as he says.  Insurance  
premiums in more recent years have become far more competitive with the increased use of 
price comparison  websites. I appreciate also why he has used an 8% year on year inflation 
figure. Thats not the actual average increase, but the addition  of 8% interest is intended to 
reflect this and the fact that the customer had nominally been kept from having that money.  
We have considered very carefully over the last few years  what is a fair basis  to calculate  
compensation. Whilst nobody can say that is an exact calculation,  we think  that it fairly 
reflects that insurers should have done more to help their vulnerable customers. This is 
balanced against the insurers  ability to make a profit  and charge premiums  which  reflected 
the market at the time and the risk to them of providing cover.
So I think that UKIs offer of £4,000 including 8% interest and £100 compensation for 
inconvenience is fair. I think this reflects fairly the formula I have detailed  and also,  because 
of the further amount offered, reflects the fact that in recent  years  UKIs polices were 
available at a much lower  premium. The interest  figure has had tax deducted and I draw 
Mr Ss attention to my decision below concerning reclaiming of that tax from HMRC.
my final decision
U K Insurance Limited has already made an offer to resolve this complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN54596823So my decision is that U K Insurance Limited  should pay compensation including  interest* to 
Mrs C of £4,000.
*U K Insurance  Limited  is required by HM Revenue  and Customs to deduct tax from that 
interest and should  tell Mrs C how much  its taken off. Should Mrs C, or Mr S on her behalf, 
request it, UKI should provide her with a certificate  showing how much tax has been taken 
off so that, if appropriate,  she can reclaim  it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019
Ray Lawley
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5459682