K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains about an international payment  she made, the blocks National Westminster 
Bank Plc placed  on her account  and the service  she has generally received  from them.  Ms 
M is also unhappy with the issues  she experienced  when trying to complete the re-
identification process.
background
Ms M complained to NatWest. On balance  they felt there had been  some service issues and 
so awarded Ms M £140 compensation to cover  the trouble and upset shed experienced and 
the cost of any phone calls shed made. Still unhappy with the situation, Ms M referred the 
matter to our service.
An investigator has already considered this complaint.  Overall  whilst she acknowledged  
there had been  some  service issues, she felt that the compensation awarded  was fair to 
reflect those  issues. The investigator  didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
In light of Ms M not agreeing with the investigator, this complaint has now been  referred  to 
me to look at.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  A lot of evidence has been filed with our 
service concerning this case. Whilst I have considered all the issues  raised, my decision  
focuses on what I consider are the key issues in dispute. I too have decided  to not uphold 
this complaint, for reasons in line with those already expressed by the investigator.
I think the international payment made in March 2019 was processed  correctly. Ive not seen 
anything to suggest NatWest stopped this payment. I do accept that Ms M experienced 
service issues  though in respect of the information she was given from NatWest about this 
transaction. 
NatWest has explained  that there was a temporary  block placed on online transactions from 
Ms Ms debit card (although she could still use her debit  card for chip and PIN transactions 
at an ATM  machine). In respect  of the security checks carried out by NatWest,  Im satisfied 
that these safeguards are in place to protect a customers account from fraud. 
I fully appreciate that Ms M is upset  by the re-identification process she went through.  But I 
do think NatWest needed to do this as part of their regulatory requirements.  They  must be 
sure that the information they hold for a customer  is accurate. And indeed these checks  are 
in accordance with NatWests terms and conditions and their fraud prevention strategy.  
I accept that given the number of emails going back and forth there was possibly some 
confusion. At times it may not have been easy for Ms M trying  to contact a UK bank when 
she lived abroad. But overall I think  NatWest was clear in explaining the information  they 
needed from Ms M. Whilst Ms M may have wanted  NatWests fraud  department to 
communicate with her via email, I appreciate  that the fraud  team needed to speak with her 
on the telephone as a safeguarding procedure  to discuss activity on the account. Indeed 
once the requested information was eventually received  by them,  NatWest  confirmed the 
process was complete  and Ms Ms account could remain  open.  
Ref: DRN55110792There have clearly been a number of service elements within this complaint. And indeed 
NatWest has awarded Ms M a total of £140.  Overall Im satisfied  this is appropriate 
compensation to reflect  the trouble and upset Ms M has experienced. 
This whole process  has been a very worrying and stressful time for Ms M. And Ive given 
careful consideration to the information Ms M has kindly shared with us concerning  her 
mental health issues. However on balance of everything that has happened,  and when 
looking at all the evidence, I dont uphold this complaint  against  NatWest. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5511079