K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complained that Scottish  Equitable Plc (trading as AEGON) had reduced the amount
payable under her buy out policy for her Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) earned by
service with a previous  employer.
background
AEGON issued a buy out policy in October  1996  to take a transfer of Mrs Gs benefits from
her former employers occupational pension scheme. The policy document stated her GMP
revalued to state  retirement age would be about  £6,400 pa.
In 2013, AEGON did an audit of its policies and informed Mrs G that HMRC had revised her
GMP amount to about £5,900. Mrs G queried that figure in 2016 and AEGON replied that the
previous figure was incorrect  and her GMP was about £6,400  pa.
In July 2017, AEGON  issued wake  up documents  to Mrs G in advance of her forthcoming
selected retirement date.  In those documents it confirmed her GMP was about £5,900.
AEGON reconfirmed the GMP of about £5,900 in September 2017.
Mrs G complained to AEGON about the reduction in her GMP. Her complaint was not upheld
however, AEGON paid Mrs G £400 compensation for her loss of expectation caused by
AEGON providing incorrect values in 2016.
I issued two provisional decisions in this case as further information came  to light. In my 
second provisional decision, I said that on balance it now seemed  that the most recent GMP 
figure of around  £5,900 is likely to be correct. I said that because it was clear  the starting 
GMP was also lower  due the different leaving service date. It was thought  that the error in 
the leaving service  date meant too few years  of revaluation were added  and the GMP should  
be around £6,400.  However AEGON explained that the wrong  leaving service  date also 
affected the starting GMP with the result  that changing the starting GMP to a lower figure 
and increasing  the number  of years revaluation produced the figure of around  £5,900.
AEGON confirmed it had taken steps to amend the policy  with the insurer to the correct
amount. On that basis and assuming that the small increase has been implemented and
backdated to the start date, Mrs G was receiving what  she was entitled to. I said it would be 
helpful if before I issued  my final decision the parties could confirm that this had been  done.
Neither Mrs G nor this service was able to check the amounts and calculation  of the GMP.
Should it subsequently emerge that the revised  figure is also incorrect  I thought it could be 
the basis of a further compliant to this service.
Mrs G should now be receiving the correct GMP. However it had taken some  considerable
time and effort  from Mrs G to get to this point. It was also clear that AEGON made mistakes 
in giving confirmations to Mrs G about the amount of her GMP and in the amount that was
initially put into payment.  I needed  to consider what loss has flowed from these mistakes.
Mrs G is receiving a lower  GMP than the one contracted. However Mrs G was paid an
amount of about  £3,000  which AEGON  said was no longer needed  as investment to support
payment of the lower GMP payment. I note also that it hasnt asked  for further  money from
Mrs G in the light of the recent small increase in GMP. The money shes been paid is in her
hands now rather than money that would be paid in future as part of her GMP. The
Ref: DRN51018242approximately £3,000 amount isnt a measure of the value of the lost pension  which  she
wasnt entitled to. Instead it was surplus  funds not needed to secure the GMP that is now 
being paid. On that basis I thought the payment was fair and reasonable and it wouldnt  be 
appropriate to test whether there  was any loss by reference to the reduced  amount  of the 
pension.
I considered that Mrs G entered into a financial obligation in the light of the assurances
from AEGON  that her pension was the higher amount of around  £6,400.  I have seen the
papers which  show  the commitment is at broadly the level of income she expected from the
policy. She has also explained that she gave  away the money borrowed on a non returnable
basis. However while it isnt disputed that Mrs G checked the figures with AEGON, I am not
clear that she told AEGON she would be relying on those assurances  to enter into that
obligation. On that basis I cant hold AEGON  directly responsible for the gap in income. I
note also that AEGON have paid her £400 for loss of expectation.
However I did think that AEGON had taken some time to sort this out. The original contract
was set up by them.  It is clear from the differences between the contract  and the application 
form that errors were  spotted. I dont accept  what  AEGON says about  the impracticality  of 
checking differences between the figures  they hold and those provided by HMRC.  It wouldnt 
require it to check every figure  but it would seem reasonable to check  where  there is a 
reduction, as in this case. Had a more thorough check  and investigation  been  undertaken 
the position couldve been clearer sooner.
It is also clear  that Mrs G didnt fully understand what was happening  and AEGONs
explanation of the change  wasnt helpful.  Had she been better  informed I think she wouldve
followed up. I say that because  she has invested  significant time and energy in getting  the
correct information  recorded and getting her old employer scheme to correct the leaving
service date. I have no reason to believe that she wouldve  been  any less vigilant  in seeking
to get the higher GMP had she been  fully aware  in 2013. It would also have meant  she
wouldnt have entered into a financial commitment  at the level she did.
I thought that given  all the efforts put into the checking the figures  it mustve  be very 
upsetting to find her careful plans to match her new financial commitment  with her 
anticipated income had been  thwarted by incorrect information from AEGON. She was clear  
that this was her only pension income  and that is why she opted to take the money from her 
employers scheme and put it into this policy to make sure there  could be no risk she didnt  
get her GMP. She said personal family circumstances meant  she couldnt earn further 
pension. She has suffered  more than simple loss of expectation. It is clear she gave careful 
thought and planning to her future retirement  but has end up with higher  outgoings  than her 
income and a consequent  financial strain.
Given this I thought the level of distress and convenience she had suffered was substantial. 
In the circumstances I thought an award of £1,500  (excluding the £400 already paid) would 
be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs G confirmed the revised pension had been  put into payment and backdated to the start 
date. She agreed  that the lump sum paid to her by AEGON was not a measure  of the value  
of the lost pension of around £400  per annum. She said shed made enquiries and it 
wouldve cost her around £10 to £11,000 to purchase the lost pension in the market.  She 
was disappointed not to receive the original contracted figure  but said she accepted the 
provisional decision.
Ref: DRN51018243AEGON said it disagreed with the amount of compensation awarded. It said it only made 
one mistake regarding  the GMP entitlement and that was in their letter  of February 2016 
when it confirmed the higher pension having  told her in 2013 that it would be a lower  
amount. All the other changes were due to HMRC or change in the length of service where 
details were updated by HMRC  or the employer. It agreed its letters in 2013 couldve been  
clearer but felt the level of pension was clearly stated in 2013 and Mrs G clearly  had the 
letter as she referred  to it in 2016. She didnt  follow up until 2016  and didnt get her service  
corrected until 2017 which delayed getting the position sorted with HMRC.
It agreed it had taken longer than it wouldve liked to clarify the GMP but said it was the 
employers responsibility  to provide HMRC with date of service and HMRCs responsibility to 
provide it with the GMP figures. It wasnt feasible  to check figures  with HMRC  in 2013 due to 
the scale of the problems  with HMRC. However had Mrs G questioned the figures  in 2013 it 
would have taken  it up with HMRC. It also said it had queried  the figures in 2017/18.
It felt the total amount awarded of £1900 was out of step with similar cases. It said the 
difference in net income between the two annuities  of around £6,400  and £5,900 was 
around £29 per month assuming  Mrs G was a basic rate tax payer. It wanted further 
reasoning particularly given its view of the role of HMRC.
I replied to AEGON to explain that the award for distress and inconvenience is based on the 
impact on the individual and will therefore vary from case to case. My provisional decision 
explained what I thought the impact had been and why I thought an award  at the level 
indicated was merited in this case.
AEGON said it still didnt  think  this service was being fair and reasonable and had 
overlooked what  it said.  It repeated that AEGON had only made  one mistake  when in 2016 it 
confirmed an incorrect GMP. It wasnt aware of any other mistakes. It also said that Mrs G 
never made them aware that this was her only source of pension. It queried  whether she 
received a state pension and if so this would be adjusted to reflect the level of GMP. It asked  
whether she had taken  into account any state  pension in 2016 when she made her financial 
decision. It said that when it took on the plan it was based on figures supplied  by HMRC or 
the employer and it felt they should be responsible for some  of the compensation suggested.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AEGON objects to the level of award I proposed for distress and inconvenience. It doesnt 
believe it to be fair. 
An award for distress  and inconvenience is not designed  to punish a business nor reflect the 
number of mistakes it has made  but instead to reflect the impact  on the consumer. It is for 
this reason that it is difficult  to compare the level of award between  cases  as the impact  on 
an individual can very significantly. 
I have considered that AEGON argues it only made  one mistake and that was to confirm  the 
incorrect level of GMP in 2016. I dont agree that this is its only failing  and my previous 
provisional decisions have highlighted other  issues. But even if AEGON is correct and there 
was only one mistake in 2016 the impact of that mistake on Mrs G was substantial.  I say that 
Ref: DRN51018244for the reasons already given and further  highlighted in the email Mrs G sent to AEGON in 
February 2016 Mrs G said:-
I need  to be absolutely  certain of the amount of annual pension that I will receive from 
AEGON so that I can plan my retirement
As my retirement planning  has been based  on the clear guaranteed figure provided and 
reiterated by you several  times, please  will you confirm that I am entitled to and will receive a 
pension of £6,406.97 per annum from age 60 as originally notified
AEGON accepts that it did subsequently  provide confirmation that the pension  would be at 
the level quoted above and the pervious figure was an error.  Based on this I think  Mrs G was 
very clear that she needed certainty and was going to base her retirement planning on the 
information provided. So I think AEGON shouldve been aware  that she was relying on that 
information at the time.
We know that she then went on to enter into a significant and irreversible  financial  
commitment in the light of the information  provided.  So even if AEGON is correct  and it only 
made one error in 2016 the impact of that error  alone was substantial  and an award at the 
level proposed  is merited.
Mrs G confirms that the payment under this policy is her only annual  income.  She is below 
the personal income tax threshold  and is not a tax payer. She is not yet in receipt of her 
state pension  and it will be nearly 5 years  before  this is paid. She isnt certain that she will 
receive a full state pension. She is currently entirely  reliant on her husband for income. 
In the light of this further information  and for the reasons given I remain of the view that the 
impact on Mrs G was substantial and the award  for distress and inconvenience is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
HMRC and the employer  are not a party to this complaint. But even if they were  it seems 
that the mistake  made in 2016 was the fault of AEGON in that it gave an incorrect  
confirmation of the amount for the pension having established the higher figure  it 
reconfirmed to Mrs G was wrong. So I dont accept that there should be a shared award.
Ref: DRN51018245my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part.
I direct  that Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as AEGON) should pay Mrs G £1,500 (in addition  
to the £400 already paid).
Scottish Equitable  Plc (trading as AEGON)  must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the 
date on which Mrs G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
further interest on the compensation  from the date of the final decision until the date of 
payment at the rate of 8% simple per year.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct  income  tax from the interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Mrs G can reclaim the tax if she is able to.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5101824