K820x#14complaint
Mr B took out a mortgage in 1991  with Skipton Building Society (Skipton) and was sold a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy  at the same  time. Mr B says he was 
told around 5 years  ago that because the MPPI  was sold through an intermediary, Skipton 
wasnt responsible  for the MPPI sale.
However, Mr B is now complaining specifically about the amount of commission Skipton got 
from the MPPI sale. This follows some recent guidelines about how much commission or 
profit-sharing businesses  were allowed to receive in these situations,  which  was pitched at 
50% of the MPPI premium. I can see Mr B is familiar  with these rules.
background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this commission complaint and told Mr B its 
unlikely to be upheld  because the level was below 50%. Mr B disagreed  and asked for it to 
be passed for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
I can see Mr B feels very strongly that Skipton received money from a policy he wasnt 
happy was sold correctly to him. He wants evidence that the commission  really  was below 
the 50% level, essentially because he doesnt accept or trust what  hes being  told by 
Skipton.
I think its relevant that this sale was a long time ago. In that respect, I dont think its 
unusual that the evidence  about  the commission might be archived and not readily 
accessible to consumers  like Mr B. But weve spoken to Skipton about these types of 
situation and weve been provided with examples of how the commission  levels  for MPPI  
are extracted from its systems. Having looked  in detail at what weve  been  told, were  
satisfied that the commission levels quoted by Skipton  for policies like these, are generally 
correct.
Our adjudicator asked  Skipton for the actual percentage level in this case. Having  gone  
through the process described above,  he was told the level was around  41%,  which is 
obviously below the level where we would  be telling the business  to pay some money back.
Overall, Im satisfied weve taken proportionate  and diligent steps  to ensure what weve 
been told is correct.  I think the evidence is therefore more persuasive  that the levels of 
commission didnt exceed 50% and so Mr B isnt due any money back. 
Im sorry  to disappoint him.
Ref: DRN56468242my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. And I dont direct Skipton Building Society to do anything. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5646824