K820x#14Complaint
Mr B complains that a car he obtained through a hire purchase  agreement with 
Black Horse  Limited was not of satisfactory  quality. He wants Black  Horse to accept his 
rejection of the car.
Background
Mr B obtained a second hand car in October  2017, financed through  a hire purchase 
agreement with Black Horse.
In or around May 2018, he reported black smoke coming from the exhaust  when  he 
accelerated and, on inspection, the third party garage discovered a tracker device was fitted 
to the car.
Mr B took his car to one of its manufacturers garages and he referred  his complaint to 
Black Horse.  The garage replaced  the oxygen  sensor and Black  Horse agreed to pay for the 
tracker to be removed.  Black Horse also arranged  for an independent report. It didnt think 
the findings of this report showed the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.  
So it didnt agree to accept Mr Bs rejection of the car.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
there was enough  evidence  to suggest the faults  were present when the car was supplied 
and that they were  more likely due to wear and tear.
Mr B didnt agree and so his complaint has been  passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
The hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement.  As such,  this 
service can consider complaints relating to it. Black Horse is the supplier of goods under this 
agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of goods is satisfactory.  As such,  in order to uphold this complaint I would have 
to be persuaded  that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has 
taken place.
In deciding whether  a car is of satisfactory  quality, some of the factors  to consider are its age 
when it was supplied,  how much mileage the car covered  since it was supplied  and how long 
after supply the fault materialised. 
Ref: DRN51361992The car in this case was around three  years  old when it was supplied  in October 2017 and 
its mileage was around 26,000 miles.  Mr B reported  black smoke coming from the exhaust 
around seven months later. As this was more  than six months  after the car was supplied, it 
would be for Mr B to evidence that the faults  were  present when the car was supplied. 
Black Horse  paid for an independent inspection. The engineer didnt see any black  smoke, 
but he noted that, the engine appears  to run normally and there  are no fault codes present 
within the diagnostic  memory.  When the manufactures  garage  had been  asked to inspect 
the car, it found  that there  was a fault with the oxygen sensor and replaced it. The 
independent engineer said this was an item that can fail at any stage . So I dont think  the 
conclusions of the report show that there was a fault when the car was supplied and that any 
problem with the oxygen sensor or with smoke from the exhaust are more  likely to be due to 
normal wear and tear. In reaching this conclusion,  Ive taken into account  that Mr B had 
been able to drive  the car nearly 7,000 miles before  the oxygen cylinder was replaced. The 
mileage covered doesnt suggest to me that the car was unsatisfactory when it was supplied.
Its normal to expect  some repairs due to wear  and tear, particularly in a second  hand car. 
I think its likely that these  faults were due to wear and tear and as such  Black Horse  isnt 
responsible for the cost of the required repairs.
During one of the inspections, the garage found  that the car had been fitted with a tracker 
device. Following enquiries by Mr B its clear that this was fitted before he obtained the car. 
But theres nothing  to suggest  that the device affected the cars performance and 
Black Horse  paid for it to be removed. So I dont require it to do anything else.
Mr B stopped making his monthly payments  while his complaint was being investigated, 
although Black Horse advised  him against this. Whilst  I accept  Mr B was unhappy  with the 
car, he was still obliged to make  the payments hed agreed to under  the terms of the hire 
purchase agreement.  And Black Horse  is obliged to give accurate reports to the credit  
reference agencies.  So I dont find it needs to make any amendments to Mr Bs credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5136199