K820x#14complaint
Mr P isnt happy with how Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BoS)  resolved his 
complaint about  a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy attached to a credit  card.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 13 November 2018. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I 
provisionally decided  BoS had acted  fairly  in trying to resolve Mr Ps PPI complaint.
I was of the opinion that the amount of compensation BoS had offered for Mr Ps mis-sold  
PPI was fair. And it was in line with what  I would expect  to see in placing Mr P in the position 
as if he hadnt  taken out PPI.
But Mr P had another concern. And this was that he thought BoS should pay him some more 
compensation. Mr P said he suffered some  serious health issues,  wasnt able to work  and 
couldnt claim on the policy. He said this caused  him considerable stress and it meant  he 
had to try and return to work earlier than he wanted to when  he was still receiving treatment. 
Mr P wasnt  able to keep up with his card repayments and got into debt on it. BoS sold the 
debt on to a third party who took Mr P to court for the debt. 
BoS said it would be willing  to re-consider Mr Ps claim and pay him the higher of the two 
amounts. That is the amount it worked out as compensation for being  mis-sold PPI or the 
amount of the total successful claim.
I considered that this was a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
So, I asked Mr P to respond to my provisional decision confirming whether he wanted BoS to 
look at the possible  claim.  If Mr P responded saying he did want  the claim looked into, I said 
I would pause  on issuing my final decision until that has happened. I said once the claim had 
been reassessed and it is known  whether it was successful  or not  I would then be in a 
positon to see whether  Mr P has received fair compensation. 
Both parties  have confirmed that the provisional decision was received. 
BoS had nothing further to add.
Mr P responded initially advising  that he was taken to court by the third party for the debt 
owed. Mr P explained that the third party produced a letter  from BoS saying that his 
complaint with our service  was closed. Mr P says this affected his ability  to pursue  the matter  
in court.
But since  Mr Ps initial  response  he hasnt responded further. And the deadline that I set out 
for both parties to respond  by has passed.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN56762732I note that Mr P said he was unhappy  that when  he was taken to court by the third party  
they produced  a letter from our service saying his case  was closed, and this affected his 
court case.
I cannot discuss, within this decision, Mr Ps court  case that he had with the third party for 
the debt. That is a matter between Mr P, the third party and the court.
In my provisional decision and within this final decision, I have only looked  at whether BoS 
has acted fairly in trying to resolve  Mr Ps PPI complaint.
As Mr P hasnt  responded confirming whether  or not he wanted  his claim looked into again, 
then I am of the opinion that the way in which BoS has calculated Mr Ps offer is fair in terms 
of refunding what he had paid or was charged  for the PPI policy.  This is on the basis  that he 
was mis-sold the policy and is being put as far as possible back in the position  as if he had 
never had the insurance.
And BoS does not need to do anything further  in regards  to Mr Ps concerns about his claim.
my final decision
Bank of Scotland plc has acted fairly in trying  to resolve Mr Ps PPI complaint. The amount 
of compensation  Bank of Scotland plc has offered  for Mr Ps mis-sold PPI is fair.
If the amount has not been  paid,  Bank  of Scotland plc should recalculate  the amount to bring  
it up to date and pay Mr P.
Bank of Scotland plc does  not need to do anything further in regards to Mr Ps concerns 
about his claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019..
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN56762733Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr P isnt happy with how Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax (BoS) resolved  his complaint about  
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  attached to a credit card.  
background
In 1999 Mr P took out a credit card and at the same time he was sold a PPI policy. 
Mr P later complained that the policy had been mis-sold. This was mainly because hed tried to make 
a claim and says it was turned down  because he was self-employed. He says this put him in financial 
difficulty. 
Mr P struggled to make the necessary repayments  on the credit card and so went into debt on it. BoS 
ended up selling the debt remaining on the credit card to a third party. 
But when it looked at his PPI mis-sale complaint  in 2014 BoS agreed to uphold it and offered  him 
£9,020.06 (after  tax). It later wrote to him in 2016 and said it owed  him a further £107.92 (after tax). It 
is not clear from the letters that BoS sent to Mr P why it upheld his complaint. 
Mr P isnt happy with the offer BoS has made and thinks  it should pay him more. The reason he said 
this was because he says he wasnt able to claim on the policy and he says if BoS had sold him a 
suitable policy  it would  have prevented his financial troubles during what  was an already difficult time 
for him. 
Our adjudicator looked  at the complaint and thought that the offer BoS had made was fair. Mr P didnt 
agree and asked for an ombudsman  to look at the complaint. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I have no information about why BoS upheld Mr Ps complaint that the PPI was mis-sold. In its letter  
to Mr P in 2014 it didnt  explain why it was upholding  the complaint.  It could be for a number of 
reasons. An assumption has been made by our adjudicator and Mr P that it was because  Mr P was 
self-employed and so couldnt claim on the policy. But this is an assumption so I cant  be sure.  
Also, when a business investigates the mis-sale  of a policy it has to look at what happened at the time 
the consumer was sold the policy. So in Mr Ps case, this would be 1999.  Having looked at the policy 
document that was likely  in force around that time the policy actually  doesnt make it any harder for a 
self-employed person  to claim than a regularly  employed person. 
So I dont think it was necessarily wrong for Mr P to take out this PPI policy  in 1999 because  he was 
self-employed  but I accept  there could have been another reason why it was mis-sold. In 1999 its 
likely Mr P would have  been  able to make a claim even though he was self-employed.  So I wouldnt 
have said the policy was mis-sold for that particular  reason. 
But, some  years later, the policy terms were amended which did make it harder for self-employed 
people to claim. It isnt uncommon for policy terms to change  over time.  There are a number of 
reasons policy terms can change  for example  a different  insurer may take over the policy and have 
different requirements  for claiming under the policy. Im not sure what  happened in this case, and BoS 
may have looked at this change  and upheld  the complaint for this reason. But overall, I cant be sure.
But BoS did make an offer to compensate Mr P for the PPI he was sold in 1999.
Ref: DRN56762734When a business agrees to settle a PPI mis-sale complaint Id expect  it to, as far as is possible,  put 
the consumer in the position theyd be in had they not been sold the policy. 
With a PPI policy sold alongside a credit card this typically means  a refund of all the PPI premiums 
charged, card interest charged because of the PPI, any fees/charges directly  caused by the PPI 
policy and 8% simple  interest  to compensate the consumers for the time theyve been without the 
money. 
Id also expect  a business  to consider  any extra losses a consumer may have incurred and has 
complained about, caused as a direct result of buying the PPI policy. 
Ive had a look at BoSs calculation  of Mr Ps PPI refund. And it seems  broadly in line with what  Id 
expect to see. It has looked  at Mr Ps credit card account history  and reworked it, to demonstrate how 
the account may have looked if he didnt have PPI. So it has removed the PPI premiums Mr P was 
charged and it has also stripped out the card interest  he was likely charged as a result of the PPI. 
BoS has also worked  out some 8% simple interest to compensate him for the time he was out of 
pocket. BoS hasnt refunded  any fees/charges  because it says these were not directly  caused by 
having PPI on the account. 
So I think the way in which BoS has calculated Mr Ps offer is fair in terms of refunding what  he had 
paid or was charged for the policy. This is on the basis that he was mis-sold  the policy  and is being  
put as far as possible back in the position as if he had never  had the insurance.
But Mr P thinks BoS should pay him some  more compensation. Thats because, due to some serious 
health issues, he wasnt able to work  and says he couldnt claim on the policy. He said this caused 
him considerable stress and it meant he had to try and return to work earlier than he wanted to when 
he was still receiving treatment. Mr P wasnt able to keep up with his card repayments and got into 
debt on it. BoS sold the debt on to a third party who are seeking to get a county  court judgment 
against the debt. 
I dont know what happened when  Mr P tried to claim  on the PPI, he says he was told that he couldnt 
claim and it was because he was self-employed. But for Mr P to claim under  the sickness element  of 
the PPI policy  it wouldnt necessarily be declined  just because he was self-employed. The claim 
would need to have  been assessed against  the terms and conditions  of the policy at the time. And 
typically for a sickness  claim, this would require medical  records and confirmation  that a consumer 
was unable to work  and there  may be some  additional  requirements for a self-employed person  to 
show that they were not working.   
As it stands,  there  havent been any details around Mr Ps claim  provided. So I dont  know what 
happened when he tried to make his claim.  
I note that in BoSs final response letter in 2014 it advised  Mr P that if he had a claim turned down at 
any point, then he could  have this looked at again. Mr P didnt take up this option.  I also note that 
when Mr P brought the complaint to our service this option  was again put to him, but at that particular  
time he said he didnt want to do this.
At the moment BoSs offer is aiming to put Mr P, as far as possible,  in the financial position he would 
be in had he not been sold the PPI policy in the first place.  If that had happened and Mr P hadnt been 
sold the policy  he wouldnt  have been able to make a claim. 
But BoS has said if he wants to have his possible claim  looked into, and if it were upheld, it would  pay 
him the higher of the two amounts, that is the amount it has worked out as compensation  or the 
amount of the total successful claim. And that seems a fair way to resolve this complaint.
Ref: DRN56762735Mr P has said that he couldnt claim and it was because  he was self-employed and thinks he is owed 
more in compensation because of this  but BoS are offering Mr P the opportunity to have  that looked 
into again, although at present it seems  Mr P has declined this.
So I cant say, as it stands,  that BoS are acting unfairly and that Mr P is worse  off accepting  the mis-
sale compensation thats been offered. And this is because Mr P isnt willing  to have his declined 
claim looked into. 
If Mr P, in response to this provisional decision, agrees to have his declined claim looked  into, then I 
would wait until the outcome of that claim  assessment before issuing my final decision on whether the 
offer BoS makes is fair compensation in this complaint. If this happens then Mr P would  need to 
provide the required information and evidence  to support his claim on the insurance policy.
If Mr P, in response to this provisional decision, does not want BoS to reconsider his declined claim, 
then my final decision  would be along the lines that what  BoS have offered for his PPI policy being  
mis-sold is fair. And this would be for the reasons  given above. 
I would also like to add that I dont know if Mr P has been paid the compensation  yet for his PPI mis-
sale complaint. And it is up to him what he does  with the money. But he could use some of the 
compensation to repay the debt currently owed to the third party  and stop the legal threats  being 
made against  him and his home. 
my provisional  decision
I am currently of the opinion that Bank of Scotland plc has acted fairly in trying to resolve  Mr Ps PPI 
complaint. 
The amount of compensation Bank of Scotland plc has offered for Mr Ps mis-sold  PPI is fair.
If Mr P thinks he has lost out more than this because he had a declined claim, then he needs to allow 
Bank of Scotland  plc the opportunity to assess that declined claim.  
Bank of Scotland  plc says if the claim  is assessed and is successful,  it will honour the higher amount  
of the claim amount or the mis-sale compensation. Bank of Scotland plc, if the claim is successful 
should bear in mind  what knock on effect  the claim  had on Mr Ps account.  So it should  assess  the 
claim as if it happened at the time.
If Mr P agrees to have the declined claim re-looked into I will pause on issuing my final decision until 
that has happened.  Mr P would need to liaise  with Bank of Scotland  plc and provide it with some 
information and evidence about his claim. 
Once the declined claim has been reassessed and it is known whether  it was successful or not  I will 
then be in a positon to see whether Mr P has received  fair compensation. 
I invite both parties to respond by 13 December 2018 with anything further that they wish for me to 
consider. 
Mr P should also respond confirming whether or not he wishes to proceed with having  Bank of 
Scotland plc look at his declined claim  again. Or if not, if there  are any further comments or 
information he wants  to provide about the mis-sold  PPI compensation.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5676273