K822xcomplaint
Miss A complains  that Amigo Loans  Ltd (Amigo) did not carry out proper checks  before 
providing guarantor  loans that she couldnt afford  and failed to provide an appropriate 
response when  she experienced  financial problems.  
background 
Miss A got three loans  from Amigo in 2017.  She borrowed £2,000 in early  January, then 
another £3,000 a month later and £2,000 more in April 2017. Amigo asked Miss A for 
evidence of her regular income  but not proof  of her declared outgoings. Miss A thinks Amigo 
should have done more  checks  to ensure  that the loan repayments were  affordable  for her. 
She says Amigo would have realised  the loans were  not affordable if it had checked  her 
bank statements and credit file. Miss A also feels Amigo treated her unfairly when she was in 
financial difficulties. Amongst other things, she wanted to set up a temporary  payment  plan 
so her guarantor wouldnt  have to get involved - but Amigo said shed have to pay off arrears 
quite quickly or it would ask her guarantor to pay. Miss A wants Amigo to write off the 
balance owing, refund  interest, rectify  her credit file and pay compensation for stress and 
upset. 
Amigo says it spoke  to Miss A to check her situation  before lending. It verified her identity 
and checked the income  and expenditure she declared against payslips and her other  credit  
commitments. Amigo considers it was entitled to rely on information Miss A provided and 
this, taken with information obtained  from other  sources, suggested the loan repayments  
were affordable so it wasnt irresponsible to lend. Amigo acknowledged it could have 
provided better service  when Miss A had financial problems and offered to pay £25 
compensation in recognition of that.   
Our investigator thinks the checks Amigo did for the first loan were appropriate and it looked 
as if Miss A should  be able to afford the repayments so it wasnt wrong to lend. He thought 
Amigo should perhaps have asked more  questions when Miss A applied  for her second  loan, 
so soon after the first. But, Amigo said it asked Miss A about that and she explained the first 
loan was for travel abroad and the top-up would provide more funds for the trip. Amigo  didnt  
think that seemed  unusual - especially for travel  to the part of the world that Miss A said she 
was going to. Taking this into account, our investigator thought the checks  Amigo  did 
seemed reasonable and it wasnt wrong to provide the second  loan.  
Our investigator says the third loan application  should have prompted further checks as this 
was made  just a few months after the first two and Miss As total borrowing increased 
significantly over four months  - by 400% to £7,000.  He considers Amigo should have taken 
additional steps at this stage to verify the information Miss A provided about her finances. He 
didnt think it would  have  been too difficult for Amigo to check  Miss As bank statements, for 
example. And hes satisfied, if it had done  so, Amigo would have seen numerous online 
gambling transactions and realised it would be irresponsible  to lend. He recommends Amigo  
should refund interest and charges on Miss As third loan, pay interest on the refund and 
remove any negative information  about the third loan from her credit  file. 
Our investigator also looked into Amigos response  when Miss A said she was having 
financial trouble.  He wasnt persuaded it was wrong of Amigo  to ask the guarantor  to step in 
and make payments  when Miss A wasnt able to do so. He considers Amigo  responded 
Ref: DRN50609352positively and sympathetically overall and he didnt think  it should have to do anything 
further. 
Amigo accepted  our investigators  recommendations but Miss A didnt. She thinks  Amigo 
should have done more  checks  before agreeing to provide  the second loan. Shes also 
unhappy with the way Amigo responded when  she had problems meeting repayments. She 
says Amigo carried on chasing payment  after she tried to do the right thing  and she was 
upset that a call handler  responded  unsympathetically  when she tried to explain about  her 
gambling addiction.  She felt dismissed  and ignored  by Amigo  which increased the 
considerable stress she was already under. She says its unfair for lenders to respond in this 
way and she doesnt think £25 is enough compensation. She asked for an ombudsman  to 
review the matter. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 5 February 2019.  Ive summarised  my provisional  findings 
below. 
Lenders like Amigo are required  to take reasonable and proportionate steps to ensure that a 
borrower like Miss A is likely to be able to repay  the money she borrowed sustainably. But 
Amigo wasnt required to do any one check in particular - whats  appropriate depends on a 
number of factors including the amount of money borrowed as well as the frequency and 
size of repayments. 
Miss A agreed to repay nearly £2,500 over 24 months at £206 a month when she took out 
the first loan. I listened to a phone call she had with Amigo before this loan was provided. I 
was satisfied that Amigo asked for payslips to verify income and considered  Miss As other 
credit commitments  and regular outgoings. Miss A told Amigo that she lived at home, had no 
dependants and received a regular income  of about £1,400 a month. And the routine 
outgoings she declared indicated she would still have monthly disposable income  of over 
£1,000 after shed made the monthly repayment  for the first loan.  
I thought the checks Amigo  did seemed reasonable and proportionate. And Amigo was 
entitled to rely on information that Miss A provided  - unless it had reason to think that might 
not be correct. I didnt think Miss As declared disposable income sounded unreasonable  
and I wasnt persuaded that Amigo should reasonably have undertaken additional checks. I 
didnt think it was irresponsible to provide the first loan. 
I wasnt persuaded that Amigo  should have suspected there  might  be a problem when Miss 
A asked  for the second top up loan either, in these particular circumstances. There  was no 
dispute that she told Amigo that she wanted the first loan to pay for a holiday. I was satisfied  
that she also told Amigo she wanted  to borrow another £3,000 the following month to pay for 
her trip and I didnt  think that sounded  implausible.  
I accepted the second loan (which paid off the first) increased the amount  Miss A had to 
repay each  month to over £550. But, I was satisfied that Amigo had checked Miss As 
income and other credit  commitments and taken  her declared routine outgoings into account 
and the increased  repayments looked  affordable. I understood Miss A felt Amigo should 
have thought something might be wrong  because  someone with her disposable  income 
wanted to borrow  more money. And she thinks Amigo  should  have researched flight  prices 
and other  information  to check  the cost of her trip. But, I didnt think  it was unusual for a 
Ref: DRN50609353consumer to pay for a holiday  using credit  - even if they had a relatively high disposable 
income. And I wasnt persuaded that Amigo should  have undertaken further checks. 
I thought the checks Amigo  did before it provided the first two loans seemed reasonable and 
proportionate. I was unable to say either  loan looked  unaffordable - in light of what  Miss A 
had told Amigo about her finances and the additional information Amigo  obtained from other  
sources. I didnt think Amigo had reason to undertake further  checks  at this stage  and I was 
not persuaded it was wrong to provide the first two loans. 
Miss A asked to borrow another £2,000  about two months after she got the second loan and 
agreed to pay back over £10,000  at over £400  a month over two years  under the terms of 
the third loan. For broadly the same  reasons as our investigator,  I considered Amigo  should  
have looked more closely at Miss As situation  at this point and I thought it would likely have 
refused to lend if it had done so. Amigo accepted our investigators  recommendations and 
agreed to provide a refund in respect of the third loan and rectify  Miss As credit file. I 
thought that sounded  fair. 
I considered what Miss A said about Amigos actions after she found  herself  in financial 
difficulties. I acknowledged Miss A has had a difficult and stressful  time and she was doing 
her best to try and sort things out. I understood it took a lot for her to contact Amigo about 
the problems shed been having - and I could  see why she was disappointed  and upset by 
Amigos response. I accepted Miss A would have preferred  to agree a repayment  plan so 
that her guarantor wouldnt be asked to make  payments. But, I was satisfied  Amigo  agreed 
to consider this and a suitable  repayment  plan couldnt be arranged  as, having considering 
Miss As income and expenses, Amigo  didnt  think shed have enough left each month to pay 
her priority debts.  
I found it understandable  that Miss A was unhappy when Amigo  said it was going  to ask her 
guarantor to meet her monthly repayment.  But, I was satisfied  the loan terms say Amigo  can 
ask the guarantor to step in and pay if the borrower cant - and Amigo drew Miss As 
attention to this possibility  specifically  in a number of conversations  before she took out the 
loans. I was unable  to fairly find it was wrong of Amigo to tell Miss A it would be contacting  
her guarantor in this situation.  
I considered Amigos  contact with Miss A about  repaying the debt.  Having listened  to some 
collections calls I could see why she found  one particular  call handler unsympathetic. Miss A 
said this increased  the stress she was under significantly - affecting her relationship with her 
guarantor, who is a family member. Amigo accepted Miss A should have received better 
service and apologised. And I was satisfied it did ultimately listen  to what  Miss A had to say 
and the response  was positive and sympathetic overall. But, I considered service failures 
had caused Miss A additional and unnecessary stress and inconvenience  and I thought  
Amigo should pay Miss A £75 compensation for that. 
I invited both parties to think  about  my provisional  findings and let me have any further 
submissions before I reviewed the matter and made my final decision. 
the responses received from the parties
Amigo accepted  my provisional findings  but Miss A still feels  strongly  that it was 
irresponsible to lend.  She says Amigo failed  her as a customer  by not undertaking more 
extensive checks. She asked me to consider the following (in summary):- 
Ref: DRN50609354the fact that she borrowed  so much (£7,000 within 4 months) with her declared 
income of around £1,550 per month (excluding overtime)  should have created 
suspicion as to why she needed  to borrow so much within a short  space of time;
flights to her destination cost no more  than a few hundred  pounds  and hotels could 
be booked for similarly modest  amounts so Amigo should have realised she was 
unlikely to need as much  as she said for the trip and checked her finances more  
closely before agreeing to the second  loan;
after she disclosed her gambling  addiction Amigo promised to treat her (and this 
information) sensitively but she was asked the same questions repeatedly and Amigo  
lost her income and expenditure  form which she had to resend which  was 
inconvenient and distressing;
a call handler was unprofessional and rude and accused her of telling lies. This had 
such a negative impact on Miss As emotional  wellbeing that she requested 
communication via email going  forward but Amigo carried on making requests for her 
to phone when  it should have known  she was unable to do so;
Amigo also continued sending unnecessary  communications which she feels 
pretended to be informative but were intended  to add pressure to pay;
she was told she was eligible for a £10,000  loan top up even after disclosing her 
gambling addiction  and was accepted with the aid of a guarantor; 
Amigo says if a customer falls into arrears it will always work with the borrower  first 
before approaching the guarantor but it failed to do that in her case; and
the loan was not affordable for her guarantor.  
Miss A thinks Amigo lent to her irresponsibly  and provided very poor service  so it should pay 
much more compensation.  
my findings 
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
I want to thank Miss A for her detailed response to my provisional decision.  I am sorry its 
taken so long to reach this point and I want to assure her that I have considered  everything  
that she has said carefully. Im afraid however that this has not persuaded me to change  my 
mind and Ill explain why below. 
irresponsible lending
My role here is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this 
complaint - taking the relevant rules, guidance  and good industry practice  into account. As I 
explained in my provisional decision,  Amigo was required  to do reasonable and 
proportionate checks before lending in order to satisfy itself that Miss A was likely to be able 
pay back the money she borrowed in a sustainable  way. 
For the reasons  I set out in my provisional  findings,  I remain  of the view that the checks  
Amigo did for loans one and two were  reasonable and proportionate.  I accept  Miss A told 
Amigo she had a relatively high disposable  income  but I dont think  Amigo had reason to 
question that, in this situation. Im satisfied Amigo checked proof  of income  and asked Miss 
A about her outgoings in some detail. I acknowledge Miss As declared outgoings were fairly  
Ref: DRN50609355low, compared  to national averages. But Miss A told Amigo that she lived at home  with no 
dependants and I dont  think that sounded  unreasonable. 
I am satisfied that Amigo checked Miss As credit history as well before providing the first 
two loans. Amigo told us the information  it saw indicated Miss A had two credit cards and a 
telecommunication debt and there  was no reason to think she might struggle to meet  the 
relevant loan repayments. Ive seen a copy of Miss As credit file for the relevant time that 
she provided. I accept theres  some  historic adverse information but I dont think that should 
reasonably have raised a red flag for Amigo, in these circumstances. It looks  as if Miss A 
took out some high cost short term loans around  the same  time that she applied  for the first 
two loans with Amigo. But, I think its likely  these  werent recorded on her credit file for a 
month or so and Amigo wouldnt  have seen this information when it considered her first two 
applications. 
For the reasons  Ive set out already, I think Amigo was entitled to accept the information that 
Miss A provided - which sounded  credible  and was not inconsistent  with information it had 
obtained from reasonable and proportionate checks with third party sources.  And Im not 
persuaded that Amigo should reasonably have undertaken any additional checks - or 
investigated the likely cost of Miss As trip - before providing the first two loans. 
By the time Miss A came  to apply  for the third loan however, I think  Amigo  should have done 
more checks. Im satisfied  that Amigo could see, from information on Miss As credit  file, 
shed taken on more  debt with other lenders. I dont think Miss As explanation that this was 
being repaid by others was sufficient  - taken with the fact that shed  also applied to Amigo for 
three relatively large loans in quite quick succession and increased her total borrowing 
significantly. Amigo accepts it was wrong to provide the third loan and agreed to refund 
related interest  and charges,  pay interest on the refund and remove any related information  
from Miss As credit file. And I remain of the view thats fair and reasonable overall. 
did Amigo act unfairly  or unreasonably in some  other way? 
Its clear that Miss A has experienced some very difficult personal and financial problems. 
Im satisfied that she told Amigo about her financial issues and her gambling  addiction in 
October 2017. I can see that she wanted  to repay the debt herself under a repayment  plan 
without involving her guarantor and I understand she was unhappy with the way Amigo got 
in touch.   
Where a customer tells a lender that theyre  having difficulty with money  and other issues we 
expect the lender to listen and try to get some  idea of the borrowers  circumstances. This 
might include  asking  for details of income  and expenditure and then making efforts  to try and 
agree the best way forward. Wed also expect  the borrower to work with the lender and 
provide any reasonable information thats  requested. But, I accept a lender shouldnt ask for 
more information  than it needs and lenders  should deal with the borrowers appropriately 
depending on the circumstances, including taking account of the way the borrower wants  to 
be contacted.  
Amigo has supplied notes  relating to the contact it had with Miss A after she said she was 
having financial problems.  I have also listened to recordings of several  collections calls.  Its 
clear that Miss A had a poor experience with one telephone adviser. This call was handled 
badly and I have  no doubt Miss A found  it upsetting.  I appreciate she also found it frustrating 
and upsetting to have  to tell different call handlers about her difficulties  and provide 
information about her finances when she had already done so. 
Ref: DRN50609356Im satisfied however  that Amigo signposted free sources of debt advice early  on. And it also 
asked Miss A about any relevant  medical  conditions, explained that it would need  up to date 
information about her financial situation from time to time, offered some breathing  space  
and allowed Miss A some time to pay off arrears. I think these were  positive and sympathetic  
steps and what  we would expect a lender  to do in these circumstances. It looks as if Amigo  
also took account of the fact that Miss A didnt want to be contacted in certain ways and 
explained it could  communicate with her in different ways but some  correspondence would 
still need to be sent for legal reasons. I cant fairly criticise Amigo  for that. 
Ultimately Amigo  wasnt  satisfied that Miss A had enough disposable  income for a suitable 
payment arrangement and told her it would be looking to her guarantor to pay back  the debt. 
I realise this wasnt what Miss A wanted  to happen  and I can see why she found  it upsetting.  
But, I dont think it was unreasonable for Amigo to keep the situation  under review. And, 
looking at Miss As financial situation  at the relevant time, I cant  fairly say Amigo  should 
reasonably have agreed a payment plan. 
Amigo accepts it should have provided better service here and Im satisfied it has apologised 
for that. Taking everything into account,  I remain of the view that it is fair and reasonable for 
Amigo to pay Miss A £75 compensation. I am not persuaded that I can reasonably require 
Amigo to pay more,  in all of the circumstances. I appreciate this decision is likely to come as 
a disappointment to Miss A. And I have sympathy for the situation she finds herself in. But, 
for the reasons Ive set out already, I see no fair and reasonable grounds to depart from my 
provisional conclusions.   
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint and I require Amigo Loans Limited to 
1.refund  interest  and charges  in respect of Miss As third loan;
2.pay interest on the refund at 1 above  at 8% simple  a year from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement; 
3.apply the total refund  due from 1 and 2 above to reduce any balance  owed  and, if 
theres any surplus, pay that to Miss A; 
4.remove any adverse information  recorded  about the third loan from Miss As credit 
file; and 
5.pay Miss A £75 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
If Amigo considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Miss A how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5060935