K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ms unhappy with the way Ageas  Insurance  Limited has recorded  an incident  as a fault 
claim on her motor  insurance record. 
background
Mrs Ms car was hit by another vehicle and damaged while  parked. She notified Ageas and 
is unhappy that when she came to renew  her insurance she found  out this incident was 
recorded as a fault one. She says this is incorrect, questions her integrity and has increased  
her premiums. She wants  Ageas to apologise and correct whats recorded on the Claims 
and Underwriting Exchange database  (CUE). And she wants compensation for the extra 
premiums she will have to pay, for defamation as she says its questioned her honesty and 
for the stress  shes been  caused. 
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
Ageas  told Mrs M that it may not be able to recover the cost of the claim and that 
might affect her policy. It also said her excess  would be payable  and her No Claims 
Bonus (NCB) may be affected.
Its a condition of the policy that Mrs M tells Ageas of any incidents or accidents  
whether or not a claim is being  made  under the policy.  And the policy says that any 
incidents will be passed onto the CUE database.  So she cant agree with Mrs M that 
Ageas has made a data breach by recording the matter on CUE.
Ageas  says the claim wasnt  recorded as a fault one. But as it was unable to recover 
its outlay it was recorded that Mrs Ms NCB  was disallowed. Thats  fair. And although 
it isnt recorded  on CUE  as a fault claim that is how it will be regarded  by insurers.  
That isnt unfair and she cant ask Ageas to change this. Ageas hasnt done anything  
wrong.
 
Mrs M remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. She says false  
information has knowingly  been recorded  on her record.  This has had an impact on her 
personally and is a breach of the General  Data Protection Regulation  (GDPR).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how frustrating it is for Mrs M to find that insurers  regard this incident  as a fault 
one when she says she wasnt  responsible  for the accident as her car was hit while parked 
and stationary.
Even so in this case Ageas has correctly recorded  that Mrs Ms NCB was disallowed. Thats  
fair. And although  it hasnt recorded this as a fault claim  on CUE that is likely how it will be 
regarded by the insurance industry.  That isnt a reflection of Mrs M being liable or 
responsible for what happened. Its in fact an acknowledgement that Ageas hasnt, for 
whatever reason, been able to recover all of its outlay  on the claim. A claim is only recorded 
or regarded  as non fault if an insurer  recovers all of its costs  of dealing with the claim. And 
unfortunately thats not the case here.
Ref: DRN53172402I also think Ageas has acted in line with the policy terms and conditions by disallowing Mrs 
Ms NCB as a result, as the policy sets out what will happen to her NCB if a claim is 
recorded. And it says it will advise CUE of what has happened. 
As a result I think Aviva  was entitled  to record the claim on CUE  and has properly done so. 
And I cant therefore fairly ask it to amend or correct this entry as Mrs M would like. 
I also realise how disappointed Mrs M will be that her subsequent premiums have increased 
as a result  and accept  that shes been  distressed by this. But that isnt Ageas fault and I 
cannot reasonably  require  it reimburse  her for any additional premiums  she may have to pay 
in the future or pay her any compensation as shed like.
Taking everything into account,  and although  I understand Mrs Ms strength of feeling, I dont 
think Ageas  has done anything  wrong.  And, although I sympathise with the unfortunate 
situation she has through no fault of her own found  herself in, I cannot fairly or reasonably 
require Ageas to do anything  more.
Mrs M says theres been a possible breach  of GDPR. And she may wish to contact the 
Information Commissioners Office  about  her concerns.
Overall I dont see any reason to change the proposed  outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.  
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5317240