K821x#15complaint
The trustees of a trust, W, complain that DAS Legal Expenses  Insurance Company Limited 
(DAS) have unfairly declined its insurance claim for legal expenses.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in June 2019, which forms part of this final 
decision. I said I was minded  to uphold Ws complaint, as I considered that its claim met the 
requirements for cover under the policy. As a result, I said I intended  asking DAS to pay Ws 
reasonable legal costs  in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions, but at the full 
rate charged by Ws solicitor, given that it had lost the chance to negotiate any other  rate 
when DAS wrongly declined the claim.
W responded and accepted the proposals set out in my provisional  decision. DAS also 
accepted the outcome, but argued  that Ws legal costs should be reimbursed at the 
applicable country court rate as this is the most  they would have paid under the policy terms 
and conditions. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so  and given  that both 
parties have accepted the outcome set out in my provisional decision  I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. However, I will respond to 
DASs argument  in relation to the rate at which they should cover Ws costs, and expand 
upon my reasoning as to why they should pay the full rate charges by the solicitor.
In my provisional decision,  I said I intended asking DAS to pay Ws reasonable legal costs in 
line with the remaining policy  terms and conditions. However, I qualified  this by saying that 
DAS ought to pay the full rate charged  by Ws solicitor. 
DAS say theyre only obliged to pay Ws costs  at the applicable county court rate given that 
this is the maximum they would have paid under the policy. I agree this would have most 
likely been  the case if DAS had agreed to cover Ws claim from the outset as they should 
have. But given that they did not, I consider this to amount to a breach of the insurance 
contract, meaning  the fair and reasonable remedy in these circumstances is compensation. 
So it follows  that I consider DAS to be liable for Ws reasonably  foreseeable losses that were 
proximately caused  as a result  of the breach, and which arent too remote.
In these circumstances, I think its reasonably foreseeable that W would  continue  to instruct  
its solicitors at the full rate once DAS failed to indemnify the claim. So I dont think  it would 
be fair for DAS to now insist on paying  the contract  rate in line with the policy terms and 
conditions when it was DAS that breached the contract. And given that this breach led to W 
incurring legal costs  at the solicitors  full rate, this is what I will be directing DAS to pay.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above  as well as those set out in my provisional  decision  I uphold 
this complaint and direct  DAS Legal  Expenses Insurance  Company Limited to:
Ref: DRN58877982Reimburse Ws reasonable legal costs in line with the remaining policy  terms and 
conditions at the full rate charged  by Ws solicitor  plus 8% simple  interest  per year 
on those costs from the date(s) they became  payable to the date of indemnity (less 
any tax properly deductible).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Jack Ferris 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN58877983COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
The trustees of a trust, W, complain that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS)  
have unfairly  declined its insurance claim  for legal expenses.
background
W has held a commercial legal  protection policy  with DAS since 2004. It made  a claim on 25 April 
2018 in relation  to a dispute  concerning trespass onto communal land, which  it asserts  is owned  by 
W. In essence, the third-party  owner  of the property which was alleged  to be encroaching onto Ws 
land had recently changed  hands, and the new owners  initiated proceedings in the Land Registration 
Tribunal claiming adverse possession.
DAS refused indemnity  on the basis that there was no cover under  the policy  for the defence of 
adverse possession  claims. They acknowledged  that a claim in trespass would  be covered in theory,  
but that it would be excluded under  the policy  terms and conditions on the basis that the initial 
encroachment of the land was the originating cause of the trespass dispute,  which occurred around 
30 years prior to the policys inception.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she felt there was a dispute over who owned the land. 
She also didnt consider  that the defence of an adverse possession claim was an insured peril 
covered under the policy. W disagreed. It submits that there  was no dispute over who owed the land, 
and that it was clear that the trust had ownership of it given that the third party was now attempting to 
adversely possess the parcel  of land from W going forwards. It also submits that the defence of an 
adverse possession  claim is covered under  the policy  by virtue of the wording  relating to trespass 
claims.
The adverse possession claim was subsequently withdrawn following  a formal mediation  between the 
parties, where W says the third party acknowledged that they had no legal  claim to the property.  But 
W argues that the legal costs it incurred in securing this outcome ought  to be reimbursed by DAS 
given that the dispute falls within the legal action covered  by the insurance.
As no agreement could  be met, the matter has been passed to me. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im currently intending to uphold it.
The policy terms and conditions state that cover will be provided for:
2. Nuisance or trespass:
A civil dispute relating to physical property which  is:
(a)Owned  by you or is your responsibility  following a legal nuisance or a trespass.
Please note you must have, or there must be reasonable  prospects of establishing  you have, the legal 
ownership or right to the physical property that is the subject  of the dispute.
(b)Owned  by, or the responsibility of, another party, and to which you are alleged  to have  
committed legal nuisance or trespass.
Ws dispute related to the ownership of three areas of land which  formed part of the freehold 
registered title of its trustees and under  the management control of its committee. It submits that DAS 
Ref: DRN58877984ought to indemnify the costs expended towards defending the adverse possession  claim as it was a 
civil dispute following a trespass relating to physical property  owned by the trust  which it says fulfils 
the requirements of cover  under section 2(a) of the policy. 
DAS say that a claim  for trespass would be covered  under section 2 of the policy, but that the defence 
of an adverse possession claim would not as it isnt an insured  peril in itself; and neither would it fall 
within the scope of a claim in trespass. But I dont consider this to be a fair and reasonable 
interpretation of the policy terms and conditions.
Considering first the matter of ownership, W says that the land area in question  is owned by the trust,  
which is demonstrated by Land Registry entries. And based on DASs final response it doesnt appear 
that they are disputing Ws claim to the land. And I note that the third-party  developers who were  
claiming adverse possession  have since withdrawn their attempted claim  following formal  mediation, 
where W say they acknowledged that theyve never had a legal claim  to the property. So I dont intend 
on exploring  the matter  of ownership  any further,  as this complaint is fundamentally  concerned with 
whether the defence of an adverse possession  claim  is covered under the policy.
I appreciate that adverse possession is not expressly  listed as a separate  and distinct  insured peril 
within the policy terms and conditions. But neither is it expressly excluded,  and I consider that the 
policy wording of section 2(a) is broad enough to encompass  such a claim as the policy contracts to 
cover civil disputes that result from trespass. Adverse possession is a natural  corollary of the tort of 
trespass and I believe  that such claims and counterclaims/defences  are often interlinked. So I think it 
would be an excessively narrow and unreasonable interpretation of the policy terms to conclude that 
adverse possession  cannot  be regarded as a civil dispute  resulting from a trespass. Indeed,  DAS 
have even argued  themselves (in relation  to a separate point regarding  an exclusion) that, but for the 
initial trespass, there would be no basis for the recent legal action. So I dont think it would  be fair for 
DAS to assert  this on the one hand,  but then deny cover under the trespass element  of the policy on 
the other. Im persuaded that the circumstances  of Ws claim satisfy the requirements of section 2(a) 
of the policy.
DAS further  argue that cover would be excluded  in any event as the date of occurrence  of the insured 
incident (i.e. the initial trespass)  pre-dated the policys  inception. The relevant  policy exclusion  states:
We agree to provide  the insurance described in this policy for youin respect of any insured incident 
arising in connection with the business  shown in the scheduleprovided that:
2. the date of occurrence  of the insured  incident is during the period of insurance.
The date of occurrence is further defined as:
(a)For civil cases the  date of the event that leads to a claim. If there is more  than one event  
arising at different times from the same originating cause, the date of occurrence is the date 
of the first of these  events.  (This is the date the event happened, which  may be before the 
date you or an insured person first became  aware  of it).
DAS submit that the date of occurrence would  be the date the encroachment  or trespass first 
occurred, which was in the 1970s. As such, they say the originating cause of the insured incident 
occurred before  the policy  began in 2004 because, but for the initial trespass,  there would  be no basis 
for the recent legal  action.  
However, W disputes this. It says it was aware  that the previous neighbours had encroached onto its 
land, but that it had always  had an agreement in place. The previous neighbours  had agreed to 
eventually remove the encroaching structure,  but they unfortunately passed away before being  able to 
do so. The land was then sold to the new third-party developers in or around 2017, and it was at this 
point that the dispute  between the two parties began, as they tried claiming  that theyd successfully  
trespassed onto the relevant parcel  of land for a sufficient period in order to claim adverse  
possession.
Ref: DRN58877985Having considered  both arguments carefully, I do not consider the originating cause of the dispute to 
have been the initial encroachment onto Ws land by the previous neighbour.  DAS claim that, but for 
this initial trespass, there would be no dispute or claim  of adverse possession.  But the tort of trespass 
requires an unauthorised intrusion onto another persons property. And the nature of the agreement 
W had in place with the previous neighbours was such that they effectively had authorisation  to 
encroach onto the land until such  time that W revoke it and insisted that the structure be removed. As 
such, the initial encroachment cannot reasonably be regarded as a trespass. 
The new third-party developers  took over the neighbouring property in 2017, and they had no 
corresponding agreement in place with W. So the trespass  couldve only started  when the new 
neighbours took ownership,  as they did not have the same authorisation to encroach onto the relevant 
land that the previous neighbours enjoyed. And it was this trespass in 2017 that instigated  the claim 
for adverse  possession  that W had to defend, so I consider  this recent trespass to be the originating 
cause of the legal dispute as there was no trespass committed  by the previous neighbours. And given 
that the recent trespass occurred after the policy  was taken out in 2004, the exclusion does not apply. 
In summary, I consider that Ws claim meets the requirements of section 2(a) of the policy and, given  
that the date of the insured  incident occurred  in 2017, the policy term excluding incidents  that occur 
before the policys inception does not apply. So I intend asking DAS to meet  the claim and pay Ws 
reasonable legal costs in line with the remaining policy  terms and conditions. And I intend asking 
them to pay these costs  at the full rate charged by Ws solicitor, given that theyve lost the chance to 
negotiate any other rate. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct DAS Legal  Expenses  
Insurance Company  Limited to:
Reimburse Ws legal costs in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions at the full 
rate charged by Ws solicitor  plus 8% simple interest per year on those costs from the 
date(s) they became  payable to the date of indemnity (less  any tax properly deductible).
Ill consider any further arguments either party may have before issuing  my final decision, so long as 
these are received  before  28 June  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5887798