K820x#14complaint
Mr R complained that Provident Personal  Credit Limited (trading  as Satsuma) acted  
irresponsibly when it gave  him unaffordable loans.
background
Mr R took out two loans  with Satsuma with a gap of around 17 months in between. 
Heres a table showing  more information:
LoanDate TakenDate
RepaidInstalments Amount
1 06/01/2015 09/10/2015 39 Weekly instalments £300.00
2 02/03/2017 07/11/2017 12 Monthly instalments £500.00
Mr R said that Satsuma  had issued loans to him without taking his finances properly into 
account and this pushed him into further  debt and had a detrimental  effect  on his credit  
rating and mental  health.
When Mr R complained to Satsuma it said it didnt believe that it acted irresponsibly and the 
loans Satsuma issued  were fair and affordable based on the information Mr R provided at 
the time and the checks that were  carried out. 
So Mr R brought  his complaint to us.
Overall, our adjudicator thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about 
Mr Rs circumstances and his history  with the lender, it wouldnt have been  proportionate for 
Satsuma to ask Mr R for the amount of information needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. 
And our adjudicator  didnt think that the number of loans Mr R had taken out, the amounts 
hed borrowed or the length of time hed been borrowing from Satsuma shouldve alerted 
Satsuma to think he was having money  problems. So she didnt  uphold  Mr Rs complaint. 
Mr R disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman  to look at his 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach  to help me decide this complaint.
Satsuma provided Mr R with high-interest loans intended for short-term  use. So Satsuma 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Ref: DRN56379902Satsuma was required to carry  out proportionate  checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending  was sustainable for Mr R before providing it. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when  deciding whether a lenders checks were  proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much  
information it gathers  and what  it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed  to do more  if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount  lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship  goes  on, the greater  the risk of it becoming  
unsustainable and the borrower  experiencing financial  difficulty.  So wed expect  a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Rs 
complaint. Heres why I say this.
Satsuma says it agreed to Mr Rs applications  after carrying out eligibility, creditworthiness  
and affordability checks. And it relied  on information Mr R provided about his monthly  
income and expenditure as well as information obtained  from credit reference agencies.  
Satsuma relied on the fact that the information Mr R provided showed that repaying the 
balances wouldnt become difficult for him - and in these circumstances it was reasonable to 
lend. 
loan 1
I dont think Satsuma was wrong  to lend Mr R loan 1. This was his first loan with Satsuma  
and so I think Satsuma  was entitled  to rely on the information Mr R provided. This suggested 
that he was well able to afford this borrowing. 
At this early stage, Mr R didnt  have  any track  record with the lender  that shouldve  alerted 
Satsuma to any underlying money problems.
And I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr R provided or the information 
Satsuma had, which meant that Satsuma shouldve enquired further  into Mr Rs financial 
circumstances. 
So I dont  uphold Mr Rs complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
The gap in lending between Mr R paying  loan 1 and taking  out loan 2 seems long enough to 
me for Satsuma reasonably to think that Mr R mightve put his finances in order during this 
period. This meant that when Mr R applied for loan 2, he was effectively starting over.  So it 
was fair for Satsuma to treat this as new borrowing and assess his lending requests 
accordingly.
I dont think there was anything in the information  that Satsuma had recorded for Mr R, or 
anything else that it shouldve been  aware of, which wouldve made Satsuma think  this loan 
wasnt affordable for Mr R. I think that the amounts that Mr R needed to repay on this loan 
wouldve seemed  relatively affordable compared  with the take home  pay hed declared and 
what hed told Satsuma  about his expenses. 
Ref: DRN56379903And given  what was apparent about  his circumstances  I dont  think  it wouldve been 
proportionate for Satsuma  to ask Mr R for the amount of information that would be needed to 
show the lending  was unsustainable  before agreeing this loan.
So I dont  feel Ive seen  enough to be able to uphold Mr Rs complaint about  loan 2.
Im sorry  if these  loans have caused  problems for Mr R  particularly if worrying  about  them 
has made him unwell.  But in order  to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender 
did something wrong. And, in this case,  I dont think that Satsuma did anything  wrong  in 
deciding to lend to Mr R. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5637990