K821x#15complaint
Miss F complains that P&H Motorcycles Ltd (P&H) mis-sold loan payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  in 2005.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional  decision of 
May 2020. Ive attached a copy here because this forms part of this final decision. In my 
provisional decision I explained why I was likely to uphold Miss Fs complaint and I invited 
both parties to let me have anything they thought was relevant in response.
Miss F replied and in summary she said she accepted my provisional decision. She then 
contacted us again because she received  an offer of compensation from the lender of the 
finance agreement  the PPI related to  not P&H the seller of the policy   and she doesnt 
understand whats going on.
P&H replied and said that, if the lender was offering compensation  it was happy with this 
arrangement.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Despite attempting  to provide some  clarity  for Miss F and to resolve things informally, its still 
not clear to me why a different business   in this case  the lender  who isnt responsible for 
this complaint has offered Miss F compensation for her mis-sold PPI. P&H is the responsible  
business here. Its also unclear from the copy of the correspondence Miss F has provided  
why the lender has offered compensation of around  £870. This was a single  premium  policy,  
the upfront  cost of which was over £2,000 before the addition  of interest charges. So, on the 
face of it, it appears  this sum falls well short of what is owed to Miss F.
In light of the continuing ambiguity around this matter and to provide Miss F with certainty of 
outcome, I feel it is appropriate  to now go ahead and issue  my final decision.
So, given that neither  party has provided  me with anything  new to consider, I see no reason  
to change my mind and depart from my reasoning  and conclusion  as set out in my 
provisional decision  I uphold this complaint.
putting things right
Miss F borrowed  extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it shouldve  been, and 
she paid more than she shouldve each month. So, Miss F needs  to get back  the extra shes  
paid. 
So, P&H should:
Work  out and pay Miss F the difference between what  she paid each month on the loan 
and what she wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Miss F paid each month from when  she paid it 
Ref: DRN55970462until she gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
If Miss F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, P&H can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires P&H to take off tax from this interest.  P&H must give 
Miss F a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  above and in my provisional  decision, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. 
And I direct P&H Motorcycles Ltd to pay Miss F compensation as set out in the section 
above. I make no other award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN55970463copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Miss F complains that P&H Motorcycles Ltd (P&H) mis-sold loan payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  in 2005.
background
Briefly:
In 2005 Miss F took out PPI with a finance agreement to purchase a vehicle. Both things 
happened at the same time during a meeting in a showroom.
The policy provided  protection for Miss Fs finance payments in the event she couldnt  work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment   it also provided  life cover (and critical 
illness cover  for those who were self-employed  at the time of the sale.)
The policy was a single premium policy, so its cost was added to the loan upfront attracting 
interest. The total cost was around £2,800 repayable over the five-year  loan term. For the 
disability cover the policy would pay out for up to 24 months per claim  subject  to an overall 
aggregate limit of 36 payments  over the term. And for unemployment  it was 12 months in 
total over the loan term.
At the time of the sale Miss F said she was working,  but it was less than 16 hours a week  
(about 3 hours at the time) in her fathers  firm. She said she was in receipt  of incapacity 
benefit due to her health  she suffered from an existing medical condition  present since 
childhood.
The adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld.  They  said because Miss F 
was working less than 16 hours a week, she didnt meet  the eligibility criteria - so the policy  
was worthless to her.
P&H disagreed  it said it wanted Miss F to provide payslips to demonstrate she was 
working less than 16 hours a week.
The adjudicator then provided  further reasons for upholding  the complaint. They said Miss F 
had an existing medical condition and the terms of the policy wouldve made  it difficult  for her 
to claim for her condition.  And because she was working for her father, the terms of the 
policy wouldve also made it difficult for her to make a successful unemployment claim. As 
such, they didnt think  Miss F wouldve taken the policy out had P&H made  these things 
clearer.
P&H disagreed with the adjudicator, so the complaint comes to me for a decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant  
here in deciding Miss Fs complaint.
Ref: DRN55970464Having done so, Im likely to uphold Miss Fs complaint. And as I said above, I want to clarify 
and expand on my reasoning, which  Ive set out below.
P&H say they didnt advise  Miss F or recommend PPI to her. And Ive not seen enough 
evidence to persuade me that it did. This means  P&H didnt have to ensure that the policy  
was right or suitable  for Miss F. But it did have to give Miss F enough clear  and timely  
information about the policy so she could make an informed decision about  it.
Regardless of whether  P&H provided  advice  or not, it needed to firstly establish that Miss F 
was eligible for the cover  it was going  to sell  whether by providing her with clear 
information about the policys eligibility  criteria or by asking her a series of questions. But Im 
not persuaded it did this.
P&H says Miss F bought the Gold level of cover, which provided the benefits I set out 
above. The policy document applicable  to Miss Fs policy says under  the heading Section 1 
Eligibility:
You are covered under  this policy if on the start date;
Gold
For life cover, you are 18 or over but under 75;  and
For disability, unemployment  and critical illness cover, you are 18 or over but under 
75 and
You are working when  you apply; and
You are resident in the UK; and
You have agreed to pay the appropriate premium  for cover
The policy went on to define  Work  (working) as:
Working in paid employment  for at least  16 hours or more  a week in the UK or in self-
employment in the UK. You must also be paying  the correct  class of National Insurance 
contributions.
So, to be eligible  to qualify - for the Gold level of cover, one of the important criteria (Miss  
F had to fulfil all of them because the first four bullet points ended with an and) was that 
Miss F needed to be working for at least 16 hours  a week.
But in bringing her complaint, Miss F said that she was working less than 16 hours a week. 
She expanded on this by saying that she worked in her fathers  firm, and at the time of the 
sale she was working approximately  three  hours  a week. Miss F says that she suffers  with a 
medical condition  and has done so since childhood.  Because of this, she qualified  for and 
was claiming incapacity  benefit  at the time of the sale.  And shes provided supporting 
evidence of this in the form of a Certificate  of Taxable Benefit Paid and Income  Tax  a P60 
substitute. I note this has already been  shared with P&H.
To be eligible for incapacity benefit  at the time of the sale, by definition any work Miss F did 
had to be for less than 16 hours a week  what was known as permitted work. So, I think  it 
has been shown  that, more likely than not, Miss F was working  less than 16 hours a week 
and so was not eligible for the PPI cover sold to her by P&H. Because Miss F bought and 
paid for a policy which she was not eligible for - and so could not derive any benefit  from - 
that was unfair. So, P&H needs to do something to correct the unfairness  it needs to put 
things right.
Ref: DRN55970465Ive thought about everything P&H has said, including what  its said about  wanting to see 
Miss Fs payslips from the time; that Miss F was eligible for the other parts  of the cover; that 
its not liable  for the compensation because the premiums were paid to the insurer;  and that 
Miss Fs employment circumstances have  changed   she said she was working  part-time  but 
the adjudicator  said she was self-employed.  But these  things  dont change  my decision.
Miss F has attempted to provide us with her payslips without success  due to the passage  of 
time. But in my view and as Ive said above,  Miss F has already provided sufficient evidence 
to persuade me that she was, on balance  working  less than 16 hours a week  - so there is no 
need for her to provide  anything more. Miss F was ineligible  for the whole policy - not just 
parts of it. The policy eligibility  terms Ive set out above are clear on that. 
Im satisfied that P&H is responsible for the sale of PPI to Miss F and so the correct 
respondent in a complaint  made about the sale it is responsible for this mis-sale complaint.
Any confusion about Miss Fs employment circumstances is because the adjudicator 
expanded on why they thought the policy wasnt right for Miss F  she was working  for her 
father at the time and the policy terms wouldve treated any unemployment claim as if she 
was self-employed  because it was a family business. And while I too have concerns about  
the appropriateness of the cover for Miss F and the clarity of the wider  information she was 
given about it, I dont need  to make any findings on these because  Ive concluded Miss F 
was not eligible for the policy in the first place.
putting things right
Miss F borrowed  extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it shouldve  been, and 
she paid more than she shouldve each month. So, Miss F needs  to get back  the extra shes  
paid. 
So, P&H should:
Work  out and pay Miss F the difference between what  she paid each month on the loan 
and what she wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Miss F paid each month from when  she paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
If Miss F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, P&H can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires P&H to take off tax from this interest.  P&H must give 
Miss F a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive provisionally decided  to uphold this complaint and I 
intend to direct P&H Motorcycles Ltd to pay Miss F compensation in line with the formula Ive 
set out above.  I dont  intend to make  any other  award.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5597046