K822xcomplaint
Mrs S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc changed  its decision about lending to her without 
explaining why. 
background 
Mrs S and her ex-husband had a joint mortgage with HSBC.  They  separated. Mrs S 
remained in the house and paid the mortgage. Mrs S applied to HSBC for a mortgage in 
mid-2018 and received a decision in principle.  She wasnt able to proceed at that time,  as 
her divorce hadnt completed. When she applied  later in 2018, HSBC  declined her 
application. She says it hasnt given her a credible  reason why.
Our investigator said HSBC hadnt  been able to explain why it changed its lending  decision 
in such a short time. The investigator said that while we couldnt require HSBC to change its 
lending decision,  it should pay compensation of £200 for the upset this caused  Mrs S.
Mrs S didnt agree, saying  £200 isnt enough for the distress this has caused her. 
Mrs S has now repaid her mortgage  with HSBC and has a mortgage from another lender. 
She says since she brought the complaint to us, there have been events that she considers 
suspicious. Mrs S is concerned her ex-husband is interfering in matters.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S explained the history of her account  to our investigator. Im sorry for the difficulties 
shes had to deal with, and I do appreciate how important this matter is to her. 
Mrs S explained that what she needed from HSBC was an indication  of her borrowing 
capacity. She needed this for the divorce  proceedings  and to plan her future. It must have 
been confusing  and upsetting to be told in May 2018  she could borrow  up to a certain  
amount, and then be told something different a few months later.  
HSBC says it declined  Mrs Ss mortgage application due to credit  scoring,  which could be on 
her credit files with the credit reference  agencies or internal  to HSBC. It said Mrs Ss 
mortgage had been in arrears which werent  cleared until mid-2017. And there were some 
missed or late payments later in 2017. 
Mrs S is worried the change in lending decision was due to her ex-husband interfering  in 
some way. HSBC says it declined to lend in late 2018 due to credit scoring: I havent seen 
anything to suggest this wasnt the reason. 
However, HSBC hasnt been able to explain why it issued a decision in principle  to Mrs S in 
May 2018, as it would have been aware  of her previous  arrears  at that time. I understand 
Mrs Ss frustration  about this.
Im pleased that Mrs S had been able to obtain  lending elsewhere, and Im sorry this matter  
has caused her upset. HSBC agreed  to pay compensation of £200 for the upset caused by it 
Ref: DRN57926002issuing a decision in principle in May 2018,  and then declining  to lend a few months  later. I 
think this is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order HSBC Bank UK Plc to pay £200  to Mrs S, 
if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2021.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5792600