K821x#15complaint
Mr C says MYJAR Limited (Myjar) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four instalment loans that Myjar provided to Mr C from December 
2016 onwards.  Mr Cs last loan was provided in April 2018.  
Myjar agreed it shouldnt  have provided loan one to Mr C and agreed  to settle the complaint  
about this loan in the way we would say it should. So we thought  what it had done in relation  
to this loan was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And we only looked at whether 
Myjar had treated Mr C fairly  and reasonably  when  providing loans two to four.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Cs complaint and thought  that he also shouldnt  have been  
provided with loan four. Myjar disagreed. So the complaint was passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Myjar needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr C could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Myjar should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at Myjars  overall lending  history  with Mr C, I think that as well as loan one Myjar also 
shouldnt have provided loan four to Mr C. I say this because loan four was provided to Mr C 
after a sustained period of him owing Myjar money  at very high interest rates.  
Ref: DRN51151422So Myjar  ought to have realised that a monthly  disposable  income  in excess  of what  he was 
seeking to borrow  was more likely than not unrealistic. And Mr C applying  for this loan, in 
these circumstances,  shortly after having repaid his previous  one ought  reasonably  to have  
alerted Myjar to the fact that any further  lending was more  likely than not unsustainable.  
Mr C had to pay, or is being expected to pay, interest  and charges on loans that Myjar 
shouldnt have provided him with. So I think he lost out and Myjar should put things right.
putting things right  what Myjar needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loan one (as it has already agreed  to 
do);
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove all the interest  and charges applied to loan four from the outset. The 
payments Mr C has made to loan four should then be deducted from the amount    
Mr C was originally lent. It is likely  that an outstanding balance  will remain on loan 
four after all adjustments have  been made and Myjar  can offset any compensation 
due on loan one from this should it wish to do so.  
any adverse information recorded about  loans one and four should be removed from 
Mr Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Cs complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should pay Mr C compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5115142