K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc (Morgan Stanley) incorrectly 
priced his factor long certificates.
background
In July 2018, Mr P bought some factor long certificates which  were  produced  by Morgan 
Stanley. The certificates offered six times daily leverage on the performance of Facebook  
shares on the US Nasdaq stock market  (NASDAQ)  and had a strike  level set at USD 181.27. 
This meant that if the price of Facebook shares dropped below this strike level the 
certificates would  have no value.
Mr P called Morgan Stanley in the morning  of 26 July 2018. He explained  hed seen that the 
certificates had been trading normally several times  but that there had been  quotation  
interruptions. He also couldnt understand why the certificates had retained any value given 
that Facebook shares had dropped below the strike level.  Morgan Stanley explained  that the 
certificates could only re-set when the NASDAQ reopened at 14:30 BST but it agreed to call 
him back to provide a further  explanation around  the valuation.  
However, by the time Morgan Stanley returned the call the NASDAQ had re-opened, 
Facebook shares had fallen below the strike  rate and the certificates had become worthless.
Mr P complained that the certificates  shouldnt have been traded when they did and that he 
missed out on an opportunity to trade  as he had been waiting for the call back.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint. He was satisfied Morgan Stanley had acted  
fairly and reasonably in the way it had offered the certificates for trading on the day in 
question. He explained that when the NASDAQ was closed Morgan Stanley priced the 
certificates on the basis of referencing  instruments. And although he acknowledged that 
there was a delay  in Morgan Stanley calling Mr P back, he didnt think  Morgan Stanley 
should be held responsible for any of Mr Ps trading decisions,  or that this delay contributed  
to Mr Ps perceived losses. 
Mr P didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Before I address Mr Ps complaint points,  Ill provide  an explanation  as to how his investment 
worked. 
Mr Ps certificates are a type of daily leverage certificate. These  are considered  high-risk 
investment products that give investors a fixed leveraged return  based on the daily 
performance of an underlying reference instrument. 
Ref: DRN58394982The underlying reference instrument for Mr Ps certificates was the price of Facebook  shares 
on the NASDAQ and they provided  a six times daily leverage. In practice, this meant that if 
the underlying  increased by 1% from its closing  price  of the previous trading day, the value 
of his certificates would  increase in value  by 6%. 
Its also important to note that Mr Ps certificates had a strike level set at USD 181.27  which 
meant that the certificates  would have  no value if the price of Facebook shares fell below 
USD 181.27  on the NADSAQ.
did Morgan Stanley correctly price  the certificates?
The price  of these  investment  certificates are not determined on the basis  of supply  and 
demand but determined by means  of internal pricing  models.  This means  that the price is set 
at the sole discretion of the issuer  or market  maker and relevant legislation  does not require 
the stock exchanges to supervise or review how these prices  are determined.
Mr Ps concerns about the price  are two-fold; hes unhappy that trading of the certificates 
occurred during a period where he says they shouldnt have had a value and also that his 
certificates became  worthless following the NASDAQ reopening.
Ive considered the evidence Mr P provided which shows trading of the certificates on the 
morning of 26 July 2018. And having  done  so, I dont think  Morgan Stanley has done 
anything wrong. 
The particular trades Mr P raised  concerns  about occurred on the German stock exchange, 
Boerse Stuttgart, between 8:34 and 8:55 BST. Looking  at the key information document for 
the certificates, its clear  that these would be priced  by reference to the price  of Facebook  
shares trading  on the NASDAQ. However,  these  trades occurred whilst the NASDAQ was 
closed.
Morgan Stanley has explained  that it used referencing instruments such as Global 
Depositary Receipts on Facebook in order to set the price  whilst the NASDAQ was closed. 
Whilst theres no mention  of this in the key information document  or the base prospectus, the 
use of alternative reference  assets is in line with standard market practice and so I think  
Morgan Stanley was fair to this. In doing so, it allowed for continuous quoting  during hours  
when the primary exchange  for the underlying reference asset was closed. 
Whilst I appreciate that Mr P feels strongly  about  the certificates being allowed to be traded 
during this time, I dont think allowing this disadvantaged him in any way. This is because it 
gave him an opportunity to buy or sell the certificates for some additional periods of time. 
Although the value  of the reference instrument did fluctuate throughout the day, I can 
confirm that the value  was above  the strike  rate when the trades occurred and so Im not 
persuaded theyve  acted  unfairly in the way they priced the certificates, based on the 
information in the prospectus about how this price would be calculated.
Mr P noted  that there had been quoting interruptions throughout the day but these occurred 
only when the value dropped below the strike rate. As a market maker, Morgan Stanley has 
the right to suspend market making due to extraordinary market  movements  of the 
underlying.  This is explained  in the base prospectus and the terms and conditions  for the 
certificates. So I think it was fair for Morgan Stanley to stop quoting prices whenever  the 
certificates had no value.
Ref: DRN58394983When the NASDAQ did reopen at 14:30 BST,  Morgan Stanley was able to resume pricing 
according to the price  of Facebook shares on the NASDAQ. However, the opening price  of 
Facebook shares was below the strike  rate. As per the terms and conditions, when the strike 
level is reached, investors are entitled  to receive  only the residual  value, which is EUR 
0.001. 
So taking into account all of the above,  Im satisfied that Morgan Stanley correctly priced 
Mr Ps certificates and that he had the opportunity to sell them on the morning of the 26 July 
if he wanted. Unfortunately  he didnt and his certificates became worthless following the 
share price drop. None  of that appears to be anything other than the way these high risk 
certificates were designed to function.
delayed call back
Its key to point out that Morgan Stanley provided  no advice to Mr P and so any decision to 
trade would be down to Mr P himself. Furthermore, although Morgan Stanley could provide 
price information over the phone, any decision to trade wouldve needed to have been 
executed through Mr Ps broker. As I mentioned above, Mr P did have the opportunity to 
trade but he didnt  do so.
So whilst I appreciate  Mr Ps frustration in not receiving a call back  until the NASDAQ  had 
re-opened and the certificates had lost their value, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable  to hold 
Morgan Stanley responsible for his loss. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
John Norton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5839498