K821x#15complaint
Mrs T has complained AXA Insurance UK Plc delayed in repairing her car under her motor 
policy following an accident.
background
Mrs T was involved in an accident, which wasnt her fault on 20 November 2018. She took 
her car to a repairer who wasnt on AXA approved repairers list, who provided AXA with an 
estimate to repair her car. She said she didnt  hear anything from AXA until 8 February when 
it confirmed the other drivers insurer had accepted liability. It then told her it would waive  the 
excess and reinstate her No Claims Bonus (NCB). 
But then Mrs T said AXA didnt do this. She wanted  AXA to allow  her to negotiate with the 
other drivers  insurer  direct  in order to get them  to pay for the repairs  to her car and provide 
her with a hire car. 
As she felt she was getting nowhere  she brought her complaint to us. The investigator was 
of the view AXAs communications with Mrs T were poor and it should pay her £100 
compensation. AXA had informed the investigator  that it agreed she could negotiate  with the 
other drivers  insurers  to get her car repaired.  AXA also confirmed it would update her NCB 
and refund any extra premium she had paid as a result. 
Mrs T didnt  think  the compensation was sufficient given the six months of wasted time and 
stress it had caused her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint but along the same lines as the investigator.  Ill now explain why.
First, I would like to apologise for the length of time it has taken for Mrs T receive  my final 
decision. 
The remaining  issues  of this complaint are solely one of compensation for AXAs failures  to 
communicate with Mrs T efficiently at the time of her claim. 
Being involved  in any accident  is very distressing and causes untold  stress, worry and sadly  
time. Its more upsetting  when the accident isnt your fault, as is the case  with Mrs T. 
Obviously AXA didnt  cause this accident, the other  driver  did. 
But my role and that of this service isnt to punish  businesses, instead its to ensure 
businesses, namely  AXA here has put things right, which I believe it has done now. 
AXA has acknowledged  its communication with her was below its standard and that it 
caused Mrs T trouble  and upset. I consider compensation of £100 is reasonable and fair in 
these circumstances.  Its also in line with what I have awarded in previous similar  cases. 
Therefore, I dont consider it should  be increased.
Ref: DRN50127432my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mrs T the sum of £100  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5012743