K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt  convert his account from a 
packaged account to a fee-free account when he requested it to in 2015.
background
Mr C raised a complaint  about the mis-sale of his packaged bank accounts,  which  Lloyds 
answered in April 2015. Mr C says that shortly after receiving Lloyds response  to that 
complaint, he contacted  Lloyds by phone and asked  for his account to be converted  to a fee-
free account.
Mr C says that Lloyds didnt carry out this request so he has continued to be charged for his 
account. 
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Lloyds had acted unfairly and didnt recommend that 
Lloyds should  pay Mr C any compensation or put anything right. Mr C didnt agree so he 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After giving Mr Cs complaint a lot of thought, Im not going  to tell Lloyds to put anything  
right. Ill explain why.
Ive seen the response that Lloyds sent to Mr C in April 2015 when it answered his previous 
complaint. At the end of the letter it told Mr C that he still had a packaged account, and 
advised him to contact  Lloyds if he no longer wanted it. Mr C says he did contact Lloyds at 
that point.
Lloyds has provided  its fairly extensive contact records  in relation to Mr Cs account. And 
from what I know about Lloyds, it tends to log details of telephone calls it has with its 
customers in the system  that Ive seen screen  shots of. I cant see any contact from Mr C on 
or around  April 2015, when he says he contacted Lloyds  to downgrade his account.
Lloyds has also provided a letter that it sent to Mr C around two months after it resolved his 
complaint about  his packaged bank account.  The purpose of this letter was to inform  Mr C 
that he still held a packaged  account,  and to urge him to consider alternative options  if he 
still felt the account  was unsuitable for him. Lloyds has provided  a copy of the letter,  which is 
personally addressed  to Mr C, so I think its likely  hed have received it.
Lloyds also says it sent an Annual  Eligibility Statement to Mr C for three consecutive years  
after he says he asked  to downgrade his account. I havent seen a copy  of the actual 
documents it sent, but Ive seen  Lloyds records which suggest they were sent in March 
2016, March 2017, and March 2018.  From  what I know about these documents I think it 
wouldve been clear  to Mr C that he still held a Platinum packaged bank account when he 
received them. I say this because  the purpose  of these documents was to remind customers 
of their packaged accounts  main benefits,  including any restrictions or limitations on them, 
and I also think theyd  most likely have included the monthly fee. 
Ref: DRN52746382Overall, the information  Ive seen doesnt persuade me that Lloyds has acted unfairly  in this 
case. It sent numerous letters to Mr C about  his packaged bank account after he says he 
asked for it to be downgraded. And even though  it upheld his previous complaint about the 
sale of the account,  it wasnt  Lloyds responsibility  to change Mr Cs account to a fee-free 
account without  his knowledge  or consent. And even though Mr C wasnt  using the benefits 
associated with his account, Lloyds made him aware that he should, and could consider 
alternative account options if he wanted  to.
I want to reassure Mr C that Ive looked at all the information I have about his complaint. And 
Ive thought carefully about everything hes said. But having done so I havent seen enough 
to make me think its more likely than not that Lloyds  failed to carry out Mr Cs instruction to 
downgrade his account. So I dont uphold this complaint or require Lloyds to put anything 
right. 
my final decision
I know itll come as a disappointment  to Mr C but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont  
uphold his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5274638