K820x#14complaint
Mr S says that in 2007 he was mis-sold a self-certified mortgage by Gem  Mortgages and 
says he has an interest-only mortgage  with no repayment vehicle.  Mr S wants this service  to 
assist him to rectify  the situation.
background
Mr S says Gem Mortgages advised him that he should get on the housing market in 2007 
and recommend to him an interest  only 25 year mortgage. Mr S says that it wasnt  until 2018  
that he came  across the terminology  of a repayment  vehicle and says that he wasnt advised 
to have one set up so that he could pay off his mortgage in 25 years.  Now with 13 years  to 
go, Mr S says that he has little chance  of paying his mortgage off in that time. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld  as the repayment 
vehicle - which was the sale of the property - was set out in the mortgage  offer and Mr S 
could see from the annual statements that the mortgage was interest  only.  Mr S asked for a 
review and said that he thought that at the time of application that he was on income support 
hoping to procure  some work.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S bought a property  in 2007  for £101,000. Mr S needed to borrow £85,850 and Gem 
Mortgages recommended  that Mr S take out an interest-only mortgage. That loan attracted 
interest and required  to be repaid. The mortgage  offer that Mr S signed  says that his plan 
was in 25 years time to sell the property to pay off the mortgage. Mr S says that he didnt  
know anything about a repayment vehicle  until 2018.  But it clearly states in his mortgage 
offer what  this repayment vehicle is to be, so I must assume that he read the offer and that 
he was content  with it. In any case Mr S would have known that his monthly repayments 
werent repaying the capital as he got annual statements telling him exactly  that 
I also note from reading  Mr Ss mortgage  account that Mr S would, on occasion, make 
repayments of capital such as £1,000 in both July and November  2013,  £9,600  in August 
2014, £2,000 in 2017 etc. This indicates  to me that Mr S was well aware how the mortgage 
worked and that the monthly payments werent  paying off the capital. In the 11 years  until 
2018 Mr S made no complaint about  that. So, its reasonable to assume that Mr S was 
content with interest  only and that he could reduce the capital balance from time to time as it 
suited him.
Mr S makes  a number of other points against  Gem  including  that it forced him onto the 
property market.  But, on the other hand, Mr S also says that he wanted to own his own 
home. Furthermore, that it pressurised him into the mortgage but Mr S seems  to have had a 
good deal of breathing  space before he agreed the mortgage and never  complained of this 
pressure for 11 years.   Mr S complains that the mortgage was self-certified but that wasnt  
uncommon in 2007 and I cant  see that Mr S was disadvantaged by it. He certainly seems to 
have been able to make the payments required under the mortgage  contract  and he makes 
no issue that he couldnt afford the payments. I also note all fees that he had to pay were  
Ref: DRN58874342disclosed in the mortgage offer and I cant see that there are breaches of regulations in 
respect of disclosure.  For the reasons set out above  I cant  fairly uphold this complaint.    
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5887434