K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to him in an irresponsible manner. 
background
Mr B took out seven  instalment  loans with Uncle Buck between June 2015 and May 2017. 
The loans were  repayable in three equal  or broadly equal instalments. Mr B repaid all the 
loans he had with Uncle Buck. A summary of Mr Bs borrowing  with Uncle  Buck is as follows:
date £ amount 
borrowedno. of 
repayments 
at outsetdate repaid
15 June 2015 100 3 14 August 2015
228 August 2015 400 3 13 November 2015
327 November 2015 400 3 15 February 2016
43 March 2016 125 3 29 April 2016
53 May 2016 125 3 15 July 2016
61 December 2016 200 3 15 February 2017
76 May 2017 100 3 15 August 2017
Mr B says that Uncle Buck shouldnt have given  him the loans and that he couldnt afford to 
repay them.
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Bs compliant. She said that Uncle Buck  shouldnt  have 
given Mr B loans four to seven. The adjudicator set out what Uncle Buck  should  do to put 
things right. 
Uncle Buck  didnt agree with the adjudicator.  It said,  in summary:
There were  gaps  in Mr Bs borrowing.
Mr B could  afford to repay the loans.
Loans four and five were not significantly higher  than loan one.
Mr Bs cancelled  applications were cancelled by him, possibly as they were  duplicate 
applications.
Its not correct to say that by loans six and seven,  Mr B had been  committed for 
nearly two years,  as there  were gaps in borrowing. 
It wouldnt refuse to lend simply because there was another  short-term loan. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  its been passed to me, an ombudsman,  to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN50451782Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Uncle Buck has said about the gaps  in borrowing. I dont 
think that the gaps  of approximately  four and a half months between Mr Bs repayment of 
loan five in mid July 2016 and taking loan six in early December 2016 or the gap of less than 
three months between  the repayment of loan six in mid February  2017  and taking of loan 
seven in May 2017 are such that they break the chain of lending. I dont think that either of 
those gaps was sufficient to enable Uncle Buck to treat Mr B as a new customer. So, Im 
dealing with one chain of lending here. 
I dont think that the cancelled  applications are significant. Looking at the dates of the 
cancelled applications,  they may well have  been  duplicates or incomplete applications. 
Ref: DRN50451783I dont think that Uncle  Buck  was wrong  to give Mr B loans one to three. Given  the 
repayment amounts,  what was apparent  about Mr Bs circumstances at the time and Mr Bs 
history with Uncle Buck at that point, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate  for Uncle  
Buck to ask Mr B for the amount of information  needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr B provided or the information 
Uncle Buck  shouldve been aware  of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  for Uncle  
Buck to start verifying what  Mr B said about his finances.
I think that the position changed by loan four. Ive looked at the overall  pattern of Mr Bs 
lending history with Uncle Buck,  with a view to seeing if there  was a point at which Uncle  
Buck should  reasonably have seen  that further  lending was unsustainable,  or otherwise 
harmful. And so Uncle Buck should have realised  that it shouldnt  have provided any further 
loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
four. I say this because  by loan four, Mr Bs overall pattern of borrowing suggested that he 
had become persistently reliant on short-term  loans. Mr B had taken out four loans in around 
nine months. He wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Uncle  Buck. And 
after loan four, whilst the amount borrowed fluctuated, they didnt decrease significantly.  
Loan seven was taken out almost two years  after Mr Bs first loan from Uncle Buck.  Mr B 
had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service an intermittent debt to Uncle Buck  
over an extended period.  In my view,  the pattern of lending from loan four onwards shows  
that the loans  from here were unsustainable.  So, I dont think that Uncle Buck  should  have 
given Mr B loans four to seven.  
I think that Mr B lost out because Uncle Buck gave him loans four to seven.  These loans had 
the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness  by allowing him to take expensive  credit 
intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time. The number of loans was likely 
to have had negative implications on Mr Bs ability  to access mainstream credit and so 
potentially kept him in the market for these high-cost loans. So Uncle Buck  should  put things 
right.
putting things right 
I dont think that Uncle  Buck  should  have agreed  to give Mr B loans four to seven. So, to put 
things right, Uncle Buck should;
    
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans four to seven;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan four onwards means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans four to seven should  be removed 
from Mr Bs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN50451784my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and direct Uncle Buck  to put 
things right as indicated above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5045178