K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that her credit card account  with HSBC UK Bank  PLC wasnt closed in 2015  
as shed believed  and shes concerned about the impact this will have on her credit history.
background
Ms H had a credit card with HSBC that was closed in 2015 when she took out a personal  
loan. But when she checked her credit record in 2018 she saw that the credit  card account 
was showing as being open.  
She complained as she felt it would have an affect  on her credit  rating  and could impact  on 
her remortgage being agreed.
HSBC said that Ms Hs credit card had been  closed in June  2015  and had stopped reporting 
to credit reference agencies two months  later. But a credit or refund of £3.50 was applied  to 
the account by a retail company in April 2018 which meant a statement was produced and 
the status of the account was reported  to the credit reference agencies.  But it said the card 
was permanently closed  down and wouldnt be reopened.
HSBC arranged for the credit balance to be paid into Ms Hs open account along with a 
payment of £100  as compensation for her inconvenience.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld. 
Although he thought HSBC shouldve notified Ms H about the credit on her closed account 
and shouldve responded more quickly to her complaint, he thought the actions it had taken  
were reasonable. He didnt think it being  reported  on Ms Hs credit file would have  
significantly affected her rating.
Ms H asked for the complaint to be reviewed. She said she was disappointed with the time it 
had taken for HSBC  to deal with the matter and felt her available credit would be halved.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And, having done this, I find Ive reached  the same  conclusion and the investigator for much  
the same  reason.
HSBC has told us that Ms Hs credit  card account was closed in mid 2015, and so it 
wouldve stopped  being reported on her credit file after this time. But the refund applied  in 
2018 caused it to again be reported as HSBC  is obliged to report  accurate information to 
credit reference agencies and this included  that the account was in credit by £3.50.
Although I understand Ms Hs point that her available credit was reduced  when this credit 
card account  was closed,  from what I understand the closure was part of her acceptance for 
a personal loan with HSBC  in 2015. So this credit  facility  wouldnt have  been  a part of her 
available credit from that time, and wouldnt have been available  to her even after the refund 
was applied in 2018 as this didnt mean  that HSBC had reopened her account. 
Ref: DRN56860562I also appreciate that Ms H feels that this situation  has impacted on her application to 
remortgage. But I havent seen that this was directly caused by the reappearance  of the 
HSBC credit card account with a credit balance of £3.50.
As the investigator  said, there was a delay in HSBC  addressing Ms Hs concerns and it 
couldve contacted  her earlier about the balance showing on her account. However it has 
apologised for the inconvenience she was caused  and paid her £100  to recognise this. It has 
also returned the £3.50 to her and has confirmed that her credit file will update to show  the 
account is closed.
Overall, I think that HSBCs actions represent a fair resolution to Ms Hs complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5686056