K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the settlement his home  insurer, Covea Insurance plc, made to him 
after he was burgled.  He also thinks the claim took too long to resolve.
background
Mr S was burgled in December 2017. He notified  Covea and it appointed  a loss adjuster. 
Mr S told Covea  and the adjuster that a lot of damage had been caused to his home by the 
thieves, including  chipping of the granite worktop,  scratched floors and damaged wallpaper.  
The adjuster  assessed the damage and didnt accept  it had all been caused during the 
burglary, he felt much of it had been  caused by general wear  and tear.
Mr S was dissatisfied and Covea agreed  to send  a further adjuster to his home.  In April 2018 
Mr S provided an estimate to Covea for replacement patio doors. Covea accepted  the doors 
had been damaged during the burglary but didnt think they were  of a premium  brand, which  
was the basis  of the replacement estimate.
Following the second  loss adjusters  visit Covea  agreed to cover some further damage, but it 
maintained that much  of the damage at Mr Ss home  was not related to the burglary. It said it 
would settle in cash for repairing the damage  it accepted it was liable for, including  what it 
estimated to be the cost of replacing  the patio doors on a like basis. The total settlement it 
paid was £16,360.09 (net of the £100  excess) and covered repair/replacement of the 
following items:
Patio doors
Loft hatch
Lounge floor
Gate
Third-bedroom flooring and dcor
Bedroom cupboard
Mr S said his quote for the patio doors did reflect a like-for-like item. He remained adamant  
that the kitchen  worktop and door, the bath panel  and the dcor and flooring in many  rooms, 
had been damaged by the thieves.  He felt Covea should include costs for their 
repair/replacement in its settlement. Covea wasnt minded to change  its view but said it 
would review the settlement for the patio doors if further evidence  as to the quality of the 
damaged ones was provided. It also said that some  of its settlement had been  made  net of 
VAT and it would reimburse  Mr Ss VAT costs if such were incurred. Finally it accepted that it 
had caused some delays and offered £100  compensation. Mr S complained to this service.
Our investigator felt that Covea had been  entitled to rely on its loss adjusters advice as to 
what items had likely been damaged during the burglary and, therefore, what its settlement 
should cover. She felt it had acted  fairly  regarding the patio doors too. 
Mr S said he was unable  to provide further evidence  for the patio doors as he hadnt put 
them in. He asked  for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN58684822With regret for any upset this causes Mr S, Im not minded top uphold  his complaint. 
Insurance policies  dont  offer cover  for any and all damage which occurs to a home.  An 
insurer will fix or pay to fix damage  which occurs as a result  of things like a burglary. But it 
has to be reasonably satisfied that the damage  claimed for has resulted from the incident 
which occurred and which it offers cover  for. 
Ive seen the detail of what Mr S was claiming  for. I think the adjusters view,  that some  
items, such  as chipped granite worktops,  are unlikely to have been caused by the thieves, is 
reasonable. I cant see any logical reason why such damage would have  occurred, even 
during an untidy search of the home, as happened  here. Ive seen that wallpaper  has been 
damaged and scuffed  in places, that is the type of damage that might be seen following an 
untidy search of a house. But I note the adjuster  saw that, for example, some marks were  in 
line with where backs  of chairs or beds rest against,  or might often come into contact  with, 
the wall. He concluded the damage had more likely been caused by wear  and tear than 
during the burglary. Again I think his conclusions are reasonable. 
I havent detailed  every item here,  but I have considered the detail provided by Covea about 
what items it would  and wouldnt cover and why. Im satisfied that its views are fair and 
reasonable. Im not going to require it to offer settlement for any additional items. 
I appreciate that Mr S wants to have a premium replacement for his patio  doors. But there  is 
no evidence that the doors currently in place are of a similar type.  I understand they were in 
place when Mr S moved in, so he has limited information about them.  But that doesnt mean 
he can reasonably  just pick any replacement product  and expect Covea to pay for it. Im not 
going to make it pay or review anything further at this stage.
Covea has agreed  that if further evidence is provided by Mr S it will review that  it might be 
possible, if he wanted to do so, to have a company provide a report  on the nature and type 
of installation in place (if its still there).  That may help Mr S establish what a like 
replacement for the existing doors  would be.
I appreciate it was a few months before Covea offered  any settlement for the claim. But 
I note it was several months  before Mr S provided the replacement  invoice for the patio 
doors. I also see that Covea was reviewing the extent of its liability in response  to concerns 
Mr S had raised. Covea  has paid £100 for any upset caused by any unreasonable  delays it 
did cause. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Covea Insurance plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5868482