K821x#15complaint
Mr V has complained about Insurance Factory Ltds (IFL) handling of his car insurance 
policy.
Reference to IFL includes their agents.
background
Mr V took out insurance for his car with IFL on 5 February 2018.  On 7 June 2018,  he 
contacted them to make an enquiry about  insuring a second car. Following that contact, IFL 
wrongly believed  Mr V was in breach  of his policy and issued him with a seven day 
cancelation notice.  They thought Mr V had exceeded his agreed annual mileage, which he 
hadnt. And they thought  his insured  car was his main car, which it wasnt.  His main  car was 
one owned by his wife.
Mr V said that IFL told him during a call that he wasnt  covered by his policy for any incidents  
that may occur during  the seven day cancellation  period.  He said that caused him great 
distress. Mr V said that during the cancellation notice period he received calls from IFL 
asking to cancel  his policy immediately. But he said he refused as he wanted to find 
alternative cover first. And when he found  insurance elsewhere on 11 June 2018, Mr V 
called IFL and cancelled his policy.
IFL said that they told Mr V the policy wouldnt  be cancelled provided that he confirmed he 
wouldnt exceed the policy mileage limit and if he sent them a copy  of the V5 logbook  for his 
main car. They said that Mr V didnt do that and instead he cancelled the policy himself. But 
Mr V disagrees. He said that IFL told him to keep the policy  going he would have to increase 
the mileage limit on his insured car, which would have been too expensive. And he said they 
didnt ask him to send  them a copy of his V5 logbook for his main  car.
IFL said that soon after Mr V cancelled the policy, they told him that they could reinstate his 
policy provided he increased the mileage limit on his main cars policy to unlimited and 
provided them with a copy of the insurance  certificate. And also that he provided a copy of 
the V5 logbook  for his main car. But they said Mr V didnt do that, so the policy  couldnt be 
reinstated.
On cancellation,  IFL only charged Mr V pro-rata  for the number of days he was insured. 
They said that as his policy was a short  period  rates policy,  on cancellation  he should have 
been charged more  than he actually  was. But they didnt do that in acknowledgement of the 
inconvenience he suffered. They said they also refunded him a total of £138.28, which 
included the cancellation and arrangement fees. 
Mr V complained. IFL upheld his complaint saying they were wrong to send him the 
cancellation letter and their service was poor. But they said they tried to put things right by 
giving Mr V the opportunity to avoid the policy being cancelled. And after it was cancelled, 
they gave him the chance to have the policy reinstated. But they said it was his decision to 
cancel the policy and not have it reinstated.
Mr V didnt think IFL had dealt with his complaint fairly. He brought  his complaint to our 
service. One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint. He felt that IFL had dealt with 
Mr V fairly. As Mr V didnt  agree with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
Ref: DRN57547902My provisional decision was issued on 25 June 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
IFL have  accepted  that their service was poor and that they shouldnt have sent Mr V 
a cancellation  letter without first investigating the matter and giving him the 
opportunity to comment. There are a number of differences  between what  IFL and Mr 
V say happened. Our service asked IFL for the call recordings between them and Mr 
V to listen  to what was said between  them.  But we havent been provided with all the 
recordings. I can therefore only base my findings  on the information available  to me.
From the information I have seen, Mr V didnt exceed the policy mileage limit, nor 
was the insured car his main car. His main  car was one that belonged to his wife for 
which he was a named  driver on her policy. IFL shouldnt have therefore issued him 
with a cancellation notice. He was told the policy would cancel in seven days and that 
he wasnt covered for any incidents during that time. That was clearly wrong as he 
would have been covered  if anything happened. But I believe that caused  Mr V a lot 
of distress and inconvenience, especially as his car was at the time at his place of 
work. And he was concerned about  driving  it home given he was told he wouldnt be 
covered. I also understand that during the cancellation period, Mr V spent a lot of his 
time looking for suitable alternative cover  to avoid his car being uninsured, which  
again inconvenienced him. 
Mr V said that because of the way he was treated hed lost faith in IFL, which is why 
he cancelled  the policy and didnt want it reinstated. I can understand why he felt that 
way. I can see that on cancellation  IFL charged him only for the time he was insured 
rather than the short period rates, which would have cost him more.  I think  that was 
reasonable. I also think IFL were reasonable to refund him £138.28, which  included  
admin fees. But IFL didnt offer Mr V any compensation because they said it was his 
decision to cancel the policy. But I think Mr V cancelled the policy  because  it was 
about to be cancelled by IFL at the end of the cancellation notice. While IFL said he 
could have avoided  the cancellation  by confirming he wouldnt exceed the mileage  
limit and by providing  a copy of the V5 logbook for his main car, Mr V said to avoid 
cancellation IFL told him he would have to increase the mileage limit on his car, 
which would have been too expensive.  Without  the call recording of what  was said,  I 
think the benefit of the doubt should be given to Mr V. Because he hadnt exceeded 
the mileage limit on his car I dont think it was reasonable for IFL to ask him to 
increase his mileage  limit.
And with regards reinstating his cancelled policy, in a letter to Mr V dated 13 June 
2018, IFL told him that they could reinstate his policy  provided  he increased the 
mileage use on his main car to unlimited and provided them with a copy  of the 
insurance certificate. But I think to increase the mileage limit to unlimited on his main 
car would have had a cost to him. And, again, as he hadnt done  anything  wrong to 
cause the cancellation notice being  issued, I dont think it was reasonable for IFL to 
expect him to do that. 
I therefore intend to uphold  his complaint. I intend to require IFL to pay Mr V £300 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  he experienced. 
Ref: DRN57547903Finally, while  Mr V asked IFL to cancel the policy  on 11 June 2018, IFL had before  
then sent Mr V a cancellation notice. But as IFL shouldnt have sent that cancellation 
letter, its important that the insurance databases dont show the policy was cancelled 
by the insurer.  I therefore intend to require IFL to send Mr V a letter confirming  that 
they have checked the insurance databases  and that this cancellation  hasnt been  
recorded as a cancellation by the insurer.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mr V accepted  my provisional findings.  
IFL said that the £300 compensation I proposed was excessive given they had already 
compensated Mr V with £138.28. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. 
IFL said they feel the compensation  Ive proposed is excessive given  they have already 
refunded or waived  certain fees amounting to £138.28. That includes a cancellation fee. But 
given the cancellation would not have happened  but for IFLs error,  I dont  think  not charging 
it or refunding it can be deemed compensation.
The events and Mr Vs treatment have clearly  been  a great source  of distress and 
inconvenience to him. I therefore felt it appropriate  to award  a moderate amount of 
compensation to address that. In doing so, I also took into consideration the £138.28  and the 
fact that Mr V was charged pro-rata for his time on cover. But I feel the compensation is 
commensurate with the level of distress and inconvenience he suffered.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Insurance  Factory  Ltd to:
Pay Mr V £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Mr V has accepted  my final 
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Send  Mr V a letter confirming that they have checked the insurance databases and 
that this cancellation hasnt been recorded  as a cancellation by the insurer
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.   
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5754790