K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about the advice he was given  by Lexington Wealth  Management Ltd 
(Lexington) to transfer his two personal pensions into a new plan.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in the provisional decision I issued in May 2019  
(copy attached). I confirmed that I intended to uphold the complaint and explained  how I was 
minded to award compensation.  
Lexington told us it had nothing further  to add, but questioned the date used in the proposed 
method of compensation set out in the provisional decision. It said Mr Cs pension  monies  
were invested on 27 and 29 February  2008, and not 5 February 2008. It also questioned  
what trouble and upset  Mr C had experienced in his dealings with Lexington. He never  
suggested he was unhappy with the advice hed during  the regular reviews. 
Mr C confirmed through his representative that he accepted my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not received any further submissions in relation  to my findings in my provisional  
decision, so I have no reason to alter my opinion on Mr Cs complaint. But I have considered  
Lexingtons points  about the redress I proposed  to award.
Lexington says Mr Cs pension fund was actually invested on 27 February  2008  and 
27 February 2008. But Lexington sent an instruction to Mr Cs two current  pension providers 
on 5 February 2008 to move his funds into cash. I think  this was part of the process to 
transfer his pensions into the SIPP, as Lexington  also sent the SIPP provider various forms 
to start SIPP  and transfer Mr Cs funds  on the same day. I assume the aim of switching into 
cash was to protect the funds from adverse stock market trends. But this also meant that 
Mr C wouldnt  benefit from any upward movements.
In the circumstances, it remains my opinion  that 5 February 2008 is the most appropriate 
date to use in the calculation,  as this reflects the point at which  Mr Cs existing plans were 
first affected by the advice to transfer.  
Ive also noted  Lexingtons comment that it doesnt  think Mr C has suffered any trouble and 
upset. But for the reasons Ive explained,  he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his 
pensions in 2008, which it seems has caused  him a financial loss. The fact that he may not 
have expressed any concerns about the advice during the time he was a client doesnt  
change this. So I think Mr C should  be paid a modest sum to reflect  the trouble and upset 
hes been caused. 
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr C should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
Ref: DRN56072392I take the view that Mr C would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr Cs circumstances and objectives when  he invested. 
what should  Lexington  do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, Lexington  must:
Compare the performance of Mr Cs investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Lexington should add interest  as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Lexington should  pay into Mr Cs pension  plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should 
allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Lexington is unable  to pay the total amount into Mr Cs pension plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Cs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr C would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr C £200 for the trouble  and upset hes been caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Lexington deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr C how much has been  taken off. Lexington should give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN56072393investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
New 
personal 
pension still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index5 February  
200816 July 
2009the loss is then 
to be revalued 
using  the FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index  
on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of my final 
decision
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Lexington totals all those payments and deducts that figure 
at the end instead of deducting  periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr C wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Cs circumstances and risk attitude.
Ref: DRN56072394my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Lexington  Wealth  Management Ltd should pay 
the amount calculated  as set out above.
Lexington Wealth Management Ltd should provide details of its calculation  to Mr C in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN56072395COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr C complains about the advice he was given  by Lexington  Wealth  Management Ltd (Lexington)  to 
transfer his two personal pensions into a new plan.  
background
In 2008, Mr C held two personal pension plans. Lexington advised him to transfer these into a new 
arrangement and invest in a range of funds it recommended. 
In 2009, Mr C sought further  advice from Lexington. At that point he took the maximum  tax free cash 
sum from his plan, and also started taking capital withdrawals. 
Mr C complained to Lexington through a claims  management  company (CMC) in February 2016. He 
didnt think the transfer was justified. 
Lexington didnt uphold the complaint. It said one of Mr Cs plans was invested  in a property fund, and 
while Mr C had been  happy with this he now wanted to reduce his property exposure.  He also wanted 
to consolidate his pensions.  As his current pension providers didnt allow access  to the type of funds  
Lexington thought were  suitable,  Mr C was advised to transfer to an alternative provider.  
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint, and thought it should succeed. He thought Mr C 
should have been advised  to change the investments he held in his existing plans  rather than transfer 
into a new plan.  The fact Mr C was made aware  that charges could be higher in the new plan didnt  
make the advice suitable. 
However, the adjudicator noted that Mr Cs circumstances had changed in the middle of 2009, and he 
needed to access some of his retirement benefits. So at that point switching  to a flexible arrangement 
would have been suitable.  The plan Lexington had recommended in 2008 allowed him to take his tax 
free cash and start drawing an income. But Mr C shouldnt have been charged a further fee for the 
advice. 
The adjudicator proposed Mr C should be compensated for any loss he had suffered up to date,  
including the period after 2009. He also said Mr C should be paid £300 for the trouble and upset  hes 
been caused.  
Lexington didnt agree with the adjudicators  assessment.  In response,  it said:
Mr C wanted to move  from property funds in 2008 and wished to review the options available. 
An alternative investment  strategy was discussed which Mr C liked. 
The investment strategy Mr C was willing to pursue wasnt possible  under his existing plans. 
The adjudicator should only have focused on Mr Cs complaint  about  the advice  he was given  
in 2008, not what happened later. 
It didnt  agree Mr C should  be paid £300. It said hes had little to do with the complaint  and the 
CMC has mostly dealt with it. 
Mr Cs CMC agreed with the assessment. 
As the matter  remains  unresolved, it has been passed to me for review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN56072396As an initial point, I note Mr Cs complaint concerns the advice  he was given in 2008 to transfer his 
two existing pension  plans. As part of his investigation, the adjudicator also reviewed later events, 
such as Mr C taking his tax free cash sum in 2009  and starting taking withdrawals from the plan. He 
also commented  on various fees Lexington had charged. 
But I consider that I should only concentrate  on the complaint Mr C has made. If he has concerns 
about later events, he should complain  to Lexington  in the first instance and allow it the opportunity to 
address these. He may then be able to refer further complaints to this service.  
In February 2008, Mr C held two personal pension plans  with transfer values of £71,230 and £32,905. 
The larger of the two was invested entirely in a property fund. The other plan was apparently invested 
in a balanced  portfolio. 
Mr C was advised  to transfer both plans  to a new personal pension.  It was noted  that he wished to 
consolidate his pensions and reduce his commercial property exposure. Mr C would  face a 3.5% 
charge for the transfer, but wouldnt  be restricted on any funds he would  use in the future. After  
discussing the management of his pension fund, Mr C had agreed to a balanced approach to 
investing of 40% in equities  and 60% in fixed interest investments.  
In the circumstances,  it seems Mr C was looking in 2008 at how his pension should  be invested going 
forward. Its clear that a large proportion of his pension was invested in commercial  property.  So a 
reduction in this would have been  reasonable in any event  to increase diversity. 
But like the adjudicator,  Im not convinced it was necessary to transfer his pensions to a new provider 
in order to change the funds. I think its likely that both his existing  providers would have  had a range 
of funds available that could have met Mr Cs needs.  In fact, I note that the portfolio Lexington 
recommended included 29% to be invested in an index-linked gilt fund offered by one of Mr Cs 
existing providers. 
When initially responding to Mr Cs complaint, Lexington explained that the existing  providers 
restricted Mr Cs portfolio to a range of principally  actively  managed investment funds.  But Lexington  
believed that the long-term investments returns of clients would be better  met by investing in a range 
of passive or index funds.  It said this methodology  was discussed and agreed with Mr C. 
For my part, Ive not seen evidence of what was discussed with Mr C. In particular, to what  extent 
there was a full exploration  and discussion about what Mr Cs current  providers  offered. The suitability  
letter Lexington issued is silent about why the portfolio  was a better option than funds already 
available to Mr C. As such, its not clear  what Mr C found to be especially attractive  about  the 
investment strategy Lexington was recommending when compared to investments he could  make 
within his existing plans.  
Further, while  I accept financial advisers can have a preference  for a particular  approach to investing, 
this doesnt mean alternative strategies arent suitable. Ive not seen  evidence the portfolio  Lexington  
recommended was obviously better than other investments available  without having to transfer to a 
new plan. Mr C was assessed as having a balanced attitude to risk, and I think it would have been  
possible to devise a portfolio of investment funds from his existing providers  which would  have met 
his needs.    
In saying  this Im mindful that transferring to the new plan came at a cost. So any investment returns 
would need to be sufficient to cover these before actual growth was achieved. Im not convinced  the 
portfolio Lexington recommended was sufficiently superior to investments 
Mr C could have made while remaining in his existing  plans. 
I appreciate that one of Mr Cs aims  was consolidating his pensions.  But while  I can understand his 
thinking, Ive not seen evidence he was being disadvantaged financially by holding two pension plans. 
And as Ive noted above, consolidating the two plans led to his pension incurring higher charges. 
Ref: DRN56072397But while I agree with the adjudicator that the advice Mr C was given  in 2008 was unsuitable, I intend 
to take a different  approach  to compensation. As Ive noted above,  my consideration is only in respect 
of this advice,  and not what  happened later. The method of compensation I propose to apply  takes 
this into account,  and Ive explained this below. 
Further, while  I appreciate  Mr C has suffered some trouble and upset from the advice he was given, I 
think a sum of £200 is more appropriate in the circumstances of this case.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr C should be put as closely as possible  into the position  he would probably now be in 
if he had been given suitable  advice.  
I think  Mr C would have invested differently.  Its not possible  to say precisely  what he would have 
done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below  is fair and reasonable given Mr Cs circumstances 
and objectives when he invested.
 
what should Lexington do?
 
To compensate Mr C fairly, Lexington must:
Compare the performance  of Mr Cs investment with that of the benchmark shown.  If the fair 
value is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the 
actual value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
 
Lexington should  add interest as set out below.
If there  is a loss, Lexington should pay into Mr Cs pension plan to increase  its value  by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount  paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if 
it would conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If Lexington is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Cs pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would  have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore  the compensation should  be reduced  to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr Cs actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would  equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr C would  have been able to 
take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay Mr C £200 for the trouble and upset  hes been  caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Lexington deducts income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. Lexington should give Mr C a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN56072398investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
return
New 
personal 
pensionStill existsFTSE UK Private 
Investors  Income 
Total Return 
Index5 February  
200816 July 2009the loss is then 
to be revalued  
using the FTSE 
UK Private  
Investors  
Income Total  
Return Index 
on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of my final 
decision
actual value
This means  the actual  amount of the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr C paid into the investment should be added  to the fair value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation 
from that point  on. If there is a large  number of regular  payments, to keep calculations  simpler, Ill 
accept if Lexington totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically. 
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment  risk.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.  
Although it is called  income index,  the mix and diversification provided within  the index is close 
enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable  measure  of comparison  given Mr Cs 
circumstances and risk attitude. 
The additional return is for being deprived  of the use of any compensation  money since the 
end date.  
Ref: DRN56072399my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint. My provisional decision is that Lexington Wealth Management Ltd should pay 
the amount calculated as set out above. 
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5607239