K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that a series of loans provided  by Santander UK Plc werent affordable.  Hes 
represented by a relative, Miss C. 
background 
Some years  ago Mr B suffered injuries  which have  left him with physical and mental 
difficulties, and his income is largely  made  up of state benefits. He has taken out a number 
of loans over several years, including five taken out since 2013 and which  form the subject-
matter of this complaint.  In summary,  those loans were:
in May 2013, a loan of £13,388.28 with a monthly payment of £299.13;
in September 2014, a loan of £14,611 with a monthly payment of £290.15;
in January  2016, a loan of £15,610  with a monthly payment of £334.68;
in October 2016, a loan of £18,045 with a monthly payment of £395.03; and 
in July 2017, a loan of £18,551.56 with a monthly payment of £422.92. 
In each case, most of the loan was used to repay the previous borrowing, with some left 
over. Mr Bs income was noted  as being  made up of industrial injuries benefit, enhanced 
employment support  allowance and disability living allowance.  
In March 2018 Mr B contacted Santander to say that he was unable to meet the monthly  
payments and that hed arranged a meeting with Citizens  Advice to discuss  his situation.  
Santander cancelled  the direct debit  so that further payments wouldnt be collected. It later 
agreed, through a debt charity which has been helping Mr B, to accept reduced monthly 
payments. It also wrote  to Mr B indicating that the loan balance had been reduced  to zero 
and the loan contract written off. In fact, that wasnt the case,  but reflected Santanders own 
internal arrangements  once the loan was not being  repaid in accordance with its original 
terms. 
Mr B and Miss C complained that Santander  shouldnt have agreed to the loans and said 
that his debt should be written off. They also said that the correspondence  hed received 
after the payments  stopped was particularly distressing  from, especially in the light of his 
mental health condition. They referred  the matter  to this service,  and one of our investigators 
considered it. 
The investigator thought that Santander had properly assessed the affordability of each loan 
and was entitled to believe that Mr B would be able to make the monthly payments. He 
noted that Mr B had benefited from each loan,  by having the previous loan repaid and 
having a surplus  payment. He didnt  think the loan should be written off. He did however 
think that the correspondence  suggesting the loan had been written off was misleading and 
that it would  have been distressing for Mr B when  he found  out that he still owed the 
balance. He recommended  that Santander pay Mr £250 in recognition  of that  which  it 
agreed to do. 
Mr B and Miss C didnt accept the investigators  findings  and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.  Miss C said that the bank should have known about Mr Bs mental  health  
condition and that his income was derived from benefits. That should  have been sufficient 
Ref: DRN56584132reason not to give him a loan. She also said that disability  living  allowance in particular is 
intended to cover the extra costs  of living with a disability and so ought not to be taken into 
account in assessing income.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think it would  be fair to conclude that Mr B shouldnt have had the loans simply 
because his income came from benefits. That could, of itself, be unfair,  and Id expect 
Santander to look more closely into affordability  before  either agreeing or declining a loan. 
And, whilst I accept Miss Cs point about  disability living allowance  in particular, I think  it was 
reasonable for Santander to have  regard to it as part of its overall  assessment  of Mr Bs 
income and expenditure. 
I also agree  with the investigator that Santander  probably wasnt  fully aware  of Mr Bs mental 
health condition  until after he stopped paying the fifth loan. So, whilst Miss C says that this 
meant that Mr B had difficulty understanding and managing his financial affairs,  I dont  
believe it was something Santander ought  to have known about. And, for a time at least, he 
appeared to be managing his borrowing in a satisfactory manner. The adjustments  its made 
since finding out about Mr Bs condition appear to me to be reasonable in the circumstances.        
The investigator took the view that all the loans were affordable. I do note however that, after 
the January 2016 loan, Mr B refinanced his borrowing twice more  in just over 18 months. I 
think that might have given the bank cause for concern, especially as the monthly payments 
increased by nearly £100 in that time.  I say that, even though  Mr Bs bank statements 
indicated the loans were affordable. The increased frequency with which  Mr B was 
refinancing his borrowing might have suggested all was not well. 
I dont believe it necessarily follows however that the loan should be written off. As Ive 
indicated, most of the borrowing  was used to repay existing debt going back many years. 
And the final loan provided Mr B with an additional  £4,000. Further, if the October 2016 or 
the July 2017 loan had been declined, it isnt at all clear that Mr Bs overall  position  would  
have been significantly  different. Its likely  that Santander would have had to agree a similar 
repayment plan in respect of existing borrowing to that which  its agreed now.
The investigator recommended  that Santander pay Mr B £250 in recognition  of the distress 
Mr B suffered  when  he was apparently  told that the loan had been written  off, only to find out 
that wasnt the case. Santander agreed, and I share the investigators view that this is a 
reasonable level of compensation. I will make a formal award  of that amount   on the 
assumption it hasnt already been  paid. 
I note that Mr Bs benefit payments  may have changed recently;  its possible too, likely even, 
that they will change  in the future.  I would therefore remind Santander of its obligation to 
keep the position under review and, if appropriate, to adjust the steps its taking to assist Mr 
B. 
Ref: DRN56584133my final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Bs complaint, Santander UK Plc should pay him £250 
under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5658413