K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that West Bromwich Building Society  (WBBS) mis-sold him a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1995 when he applied for a mortgage.
background
Mr H took out a PPI policy in 1995 to support a mortgage. The policy  covered Mr H for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. The mortgage ended  in 2003.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with our adjudicators  view and 
asked for the matter  to be looked  at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. I know  this will disappoint  him 
so Ill explain why.
Mr H said he was told he had to have  PPI to get the mortgage. So he concludes he didnt 
know it was optional. The sale took place at a meeting in March  1995. I dont know  exactly 
what was said to Mr H during the meeting  but WBBS has sent us documents from this 
particular sale. Having  looked at them, I think it probably was made  clear  to Mr H that the 
policy was optional. There was a box on the mortgage application  form headed Loan 
Protection Scheme  and it says:  If you require this cover,  please  tick this box and the box 
next to that option is ticked. I think this shows Mr H wanted the PPI and consented to buying 
it. 
So taking all of the available evidence into account,  I think  Mr H was probably aware the 
policy was optional. I couldnt see any evidence which suggests the PPI was a condition of 
the mortgage. So I dont uphold that element of his complaint.
Mr H said the sale was advised but WBBS said this sale was non-advised. I havent seen 
that the policy was tailor  made for Mr H, so Ill proceed on the basis  that it was a non-
advised sale.
For a non-advised  sale, I wouldnt expect WBBS to carry out a full examination  of Mr Hs 
demands and needs  but Id expect it to give him enough information of all the main points  
which was clear, fair and not misleading  so he could make  an informed choice. I then 
looked at whether WBBS discussed the cost and benefit of the policy.
Although I could clearly  see Mr H was eligible to buy PPI, I couldnt tell from the documents  
how WBBS  had presented the cost and benefit  to Mr H. Mr H told us he would get less than 
three months sick pay if he couldnt  work  and that he had no savings at the time of the sale.  
So although  its not clear what he was told about  the cost and benefit of the PPI at the time 
of the sale, I think the PPI wouldve  been  of benefit to him and I think  its unlikely hed have 
changed his mind about buying PPI even if hed had more detailed  information.
Ref: DRN58575712Id also expect WBBS to have highlighted the main  things the policy  didnt cover  (the 
exclusions) to Mr H. I dont know exactly  how it did this but I could see the main exclusions 
and limitations on the cover didnt affect him. So again, I dont think hed have decided not to 
buy the PPI if hed been given any clearer information.
Taking everything into account,  Im not going  to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019..
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5857571