K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a secured 
loan in 2002. Mr and Mrs L say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  them  the PPI. 
The loan was in joint names, but the PPI policy  only covered  Mr L.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs L  
they clearly feel very strongly about  their compliant. Ill set out the reasons for my decision 
below. 
Mr and Mrs L say that there  was no discussion whatsoever with BoS about PPI. They say 
that given the chance, they wouldve declined the policy, and that it mustve been added  
behind their back.
But I think BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant  remember  this as it was so 
long ago. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs L applied for their loan and PPI policy during a meeting with BoS. I cant know 
what was discussed  with them, but BoS has been  able to provide copies of paperwork that 
was completed at the time  a personal loan agreement, and separate  loan application  form, 
both of which form part of the same  sale.
I can see on the loan application that the PPI is clearly presented as optional  there are two 
equally prominent boxes  for a customer to decline or select  PPI  and Mr L has signed  to 
select it. Then Mr and Mrs L then signed the application for the loan, separate  to Mr L 
signing for the PPI. The loan agreement  again  sets out the policy as an optional product, 
along with the monthly  cost of the PPI. Here  it has been selected with a tick, and again Mr 
and Mrs L have signed the agreement.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs L so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example Mr L wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
Ref: DRN51140432Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs L have said, including  theyve said about Mr L 
receiving excellent  sick pay benefits from his employer. But the PPI couldve paid out on top 
of any existing cover they had  and as they knew they had a choice  in taking out the policy,  
they wouldve  done so knowing what cover they already had in place. So this point doesnt 
change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 July 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5114043