K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the way Zenith  Insurance Plc has settled  a claim on his car insurance 
policy. As Zenith is the insurance company actually providing the policy, theyre responsible  
for the way the claim was handled. Ive referred to Zenith throughout this decision for the 
sake of ease. 
background
Mr M was involved in an accident with another car in December 2017.  Mr M made a claim 
under his policy and Zeniths claim handling  agent  arranged for his car to be repaired, 
subject to him paying the policy excess.     
Mr M wanted Zenith to get his excess back from the other drivers insurer, but the other 
drivers insurance company thought Mr M was responsible for the accident.  They  contacted 
Zenith to claim back their outlay  and claim the other drivers excess  for him. Zenith initially 
defended the claim,  but in the end they felt Mr M was liable for the accident and decided to 
settle the claim from the other drivers insurer in full. 
Mr M doesnt agree with Zeniths decision and doesnt believe they investigated his claim 
properly or reached  the right decision on the other  drivers claim. Mr M believes the other 
driver was responsible  for the accident.  Hes also unhappy because he believes Zenith  sold 
his details on to a personal injury company without his consent.  
Mr M complained to Zenith, but they explained  they had the right to deal with the other 
drivers claim  as they felt appropriate.  They also said they hadnt passed his details on.
Mr M complained to us. One of our adjudicators  looked in to the complaint. She thought 
Zenith had made a reasonable  decision on the claim. And she didnt think  theyd passed on 
Mr Ms details  to another party.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ms say Zenith can take over and deal with a claim in Mr Ms 
name.  I think  this means they have the right to settle a claim against  Mr M if they think this 
is the right thing to do. But, wed expect them to take a reasonable approach and properly 
investigate the claim  and consider all the appropriate evidence before they do this. 
Mr M says that he doesnt think Zeniths  approach is reasonable. Hes said they didnt  ask 
for any drawings or photos of the accident  and that they based their decision on evidence 
and details provided by the other  drivers insurer. 
Looking at the information Zenith have given us, I think they did investigate  the claim  
properly before coming to their decision.  I say this because I can see they considered  the 
information provided by Mr M when  he first contacted them, having made notes of what he 
told them  about  the accident.  And, they clearly took this into account along with the other 
drivers version of events. They also used information such as a map and drawing of the 
Ref: DRN57669232location to help them review both drivers route at the roundabout.  They  also considered  
photos of the two vehicles  from the time of the collision,  provided by Mr M.
Mr M has suggested that Zenith didnt take into account the accident  report hed provided to 
the hire car company  he used originally. But  as far as I can see - Zenith had this before 
they decided to settle the other drivers  claim in full, so I think  they did consider it along with 
the other evidence they had.  
Mr M also says that the Zenith staff who dealt  with his claim didnt come across  as having 
the correct knowledge or being  competent to make decisions  accurately. I appreciate  Mr Ms 
strength of feeling  about this, but having  considered everything carefully, Ive found no 
evidence from Zeniths  handling notes and other  documents to suggest that this was the 
case. And, I think Zenith  decided to settle the other drivers claim as this was the most 
economical thing  to do. 
Whilst I understand Mr Ms frustrations and concerns about  another company being aware of 
the accident, I havent seen any evidence which shows me Zenith were responsible for 
providing the personal injury company with Mr Ms details. Zenith have confirmed that they 
dont have a relationship with the personal injury company that Mr M refers to. And I have no 
reason to doubt this. So based on this, Im satisfied that Zenith werent responsible  for 
providing the personal injury company with Mr Ms details and the details of the accident.
I understand Mr M strongly disagrees  with Zeniths  decision  on the claim. But, as Ive 
explained, I think they carried out an appropriate  investigation taking into consideration the 
available evidence and reached a reasonable decision. And I dont think  they passed  his 
details on to a third party. So, its not appropriate for me to uphold his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5766923