K821x#15complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) didnt inform him earlier that it 
wouldnt cover  any costs  under his travel insurance  policy when the health  of his late wife, 
Mrs N, began to deteriorate whilst abroad.
All reference to IPA includes its claims handlers  and the policy administrator. 
background
Mrs N travelled abroad in January 2018  to recuperate at a house she and Mr N had 
together, after being given  a cancer diagnosis.
Whilst abroad, her health began to deteriorate  and she was admitted to hospital.  She 
subsequently discharged  herself as she was concerned about  the standard of care she was 
receiving. IPA was notified as Mrs N initially wanted to cut short  her trip abroad and return  to 
the UK. Mr N flew out to be with her on 21 January  2018. 
Over the next several  days Mrs Ns health began  to deteriorate to the extent that by the end 
of January 2018, Mr N reported to IPA that she wasnt well enough to return  back  to the UK; 
she was losing weight,  becoming very weak and in the advanced  stages of cancer.
On or around 9 February  2018, IPA told Mr N it wasnt able to provide any medical 
assistance for Mrs N because she wasnt covered under the policy.  Thats  because  Mr N 
hadnt been with her when she travelled abroad. 
Mr Ns unhappy because  he says he was led to believe  that Mrs N would be covered under 
the terms of the policy. As a result  he says he arranged  and paid for - an ambulance  to 
take her to and from hospital on 28 January 2018 and incurred hospital, consultant and 
prescription fees. He says if hed known that Mrs N wasnt covered he wouldnt have 
arranged for her to have  gone to hospital. And so, wouldnt have incurred any expenses. 
Further, both he and Mrs N wouldve avoided a long round trip which he has described as 
being very traumatic for them  both, for a variety of reasons.
IPA upheld Mr Ns complaint. It accepted that it couldve managed  Mr Ns expectations 
better, and particularly  after it had been  made aware that Mrs N had been diagnosed with 
cancer prior to traveling  abroad. It offered  Mr N £1,000 compensation to reflect the trouble 
and upset hed gone through.
Mr N declined this offer as the amount being  offered only just covered him for the costs hed 
incurred on 28 January 2018.  IPA says the compensation  offered is fair and reasonable 
because it advised  Mr N on numerous occasions  that it required medical evidence and the 
booking itinerary to either confirm or decline cover for Mrs N. Such  documents werent 
supplied before Mrs N was taken to hospital on 28 January 2018.
Our investigator ultimately  concluded that Mr Ns complaint  should  be upheld.  She 
recommended that IPA pay Mr N £900 for the costs he said hed incurred on 
28 January 2018,  and £1000 as compensation for the trouble and upset.
IPA doesnt agree so the complaint has now been passed to me to look at everything afresh 
and make a decision.  
Ref: DRN51817042my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  it. Before I 
explain why, Id like to extend my sincerest condolences to Mr N on his wifes passing.  
The reason  initially  given by IPA to decline Mrs N cover under Mr Ns policy  was because 
shed travelled on her own,  without  Mr N being with her. 
Mr Ns policy  forms part of a packaged bank account. And under the policy,  the cardholder  is 
covered. Immediate family which includes Mrs N, as his wife, can also be covered so long as 
theyre travelling with the cardholder  or if theyre  an additional cardholder (which Mrs N 
wasnt).  
Im satisfied that by 20 January 2018,  IPA was aware that Mrs N had travelled by herself.  
Theres a call note made on that date where  IPAs representative confirms shed asked 
whether Mrs N had travelled by herself and Mr N replied that she did; she flew out to stay 
with friends and family. So I think IPA shouldve made Mr N aware then  or shortly  after  
that Mrs N wasnt covered under his policy.
 IPA has also said in its final response letter to Mr N dated 4 October 2018:
On 23 January  (2018)  we spoke with Mrs N and yourself and were  advised that 
Mrs N was diagnosed  with lung cancer prior to her departure. As previously 
discussed, claims arising from pre-existing medical  conditions are not covered by the 
policy. I therefore feel that we should  have appropriately set expectations  at this time. 
Although we did not have a medical report for the current episode  of shortness of 
breath, we could  have  sensibly attributed this to the lung cancer and on this basis  
alone the claim was likely to be declined.  
It goes on to say:
On 28th (January 2018) you contacted us to ask if an ambulance  could be arranged 
as Mrs N needed to visit the hospital. Whilst I do not disagree  with the assistance 
team agreeing to or recommending  medical assessment and or treatment I do feel 
that had we appropriately set expectations you would have been  able to make an 
informed decision as to whether you were  to visit the private  facility  or not.
IPA concluded:
I am sorry that we did not appropriately set expectations on the first call, or at the 
very least when you confirmed on 23rd January (2018) the diagnosis she had been 
given in the UK. I appreciate that the costs incurred may have been on the 
understanding that these would be reimbursed. My understanding is that you paid 
cash and sadly were  not provided with receipts.  Had you been  aware  of the potential  
decline you would not have taken Mrs N to the hospital. In view of this I would like to 
offer £1000 as compensation  towards these costs  and for the distress and 
inconvenience we have caused.
Im therefore  satisfied that IPA shouldve told Mr N before hed asked  it for help arranging a 
private ambulance  to take Mrs N to the hospital  on 28 January  2018 that it was unlikely that 
Ref: DRN51817043the cost of the ambulance  and any treatment Mrs N received at the hospital would be 
covered under the policy. 
When making this finding Ive taken into account what IPA has said in response to our 
investigators most recent  view; that Mrs N travelled abroad knowing she had a serious 
illness and was ultimately uninsured. In the absence of a valid policy, the liability of any costs 
incurred on behalf  werent its responsibility.  That might  be the case  but as set out above,  IPA 
accept that it shouldve told Mr N earlier that Mrs N might not have been covered under his 
policy, and if it had done so, she wouldnt have gone  to hospital on 28 January 2018.  
putting things right
During the course of her investigation, IPA confirmed to our investigator that the reason for it 
offering Mr N £1,000  was in recognition of the distress the situation had caused him after it 
had failed to set his expectations  properly once it was aware of Mrs Ns cancer  diagnosis   
and the conversations  that took place leading Mr N to believe medical costs would be 
covered. 
It says Mr N had to watch Mrs N being  carried down the stairs from their house  into the 
ambulance and this wouldve been particularly traumatic. It says this made  the situation 
worse than in other circumstances. However, it told our investigator that the compensation 
offered wasnt to cover any of the costs  Mr N incurred on or around  28 January 2018.
However thats different to what it concluded in the final response letter; that it was offering 
£1,000 compensation towards  these  costs and for the distress  and inconvenience caused. 
So I think its clear that the offer of £1000  did include a contribution towards  the costs  
incurred.
Mr N says he paid:
-£700 in total for the private ambulance to take him and Mrs N to and from the 
hospital on 28 January 2018.  He says he paid this amount in cash  and this included  
the fees for the ambulance driver and nurse who accompanied them; 
-approximately £150 for attendance at the hospital, consultants  fees and tests  at the 
hospital such as checking oxygen  levels; and
-approximately £50 for medication  prescribed  but not needed, as the same medication  
had been previously prescribed by the first treating hospital and hadnt run out.
Im satisfied Mr N wouldve needed to have paid privately for these things. Thats because:
-although there is a public  health system in the country he and Mrs N were in, the 
hospital they visited on 28 January 2018 was a private hospital.  
-after IPA received no reply from a third party it had contacted to about an ambulance  
for Mrs N, it provided him with the local emergency number to arrange  this himself. 
So I accept what he says about arranging an ambulance to and from the hospital. 
-I dont know for sure whether Mr N did pay for the ambulance  as he says he wasnt  
given receipts for the cash he paid. But I find what Mr N says to be consistent and 
Ref: DRN51817044plausible about  having paid cash for that service  - and that it cost £700  for the round 
trip. I can see from cash withdrawals he made  in the days  leading  up to 
28 January 2018  that he wouldve had enough cash to make these payments. I also 
note hed made a cash withdrawal in the sum of around £520, two days after Mrs N 
returned home to cover  the fees of a private  doctor  who had been visiting Mrs N (and 
who he says, and I accept, was also paid in cash and thats  why hed withdrawn such 
a large amount on 24 January 2018  in advance of his next visit).
-credit  card statements  show that he paid £134.59 to the hospital  on 28 January 2018, 
in addition to a £3.91 non-sterling transaction fee and £32.99 to a pharmacy which  
also incurred a transaction fee of £0.96.  I accept this was for the prescription that Mr 
N says he discovered  Mrs N didnt subsequently need.
So Im satisfied Mr N incurred  £872.45  in costs on 28 January 2018.  Given  that IPA has 
already concluded that Mr N wouldnt  have  taken Mrs N to the hospital that day, had he been 
aware that it might not cover for Mrs N, Im satisfied these costs  were unnecessarily  
incurred. 
Mr N says that before the hospital visit Mrs N didnt want to attend a hospital again given her 
experience earlier that month that led her to discharging herself. And after that hospital visit, 
Mrs N continued to be seen by the private doctor making visits to their house and he and 
staff would look after her. He says she continued to take medication and was using an 
oxygen cylinder. Ive got no reason to doubt  what he says about that. So I accept if hed 
known that she wasnt covered  under  his policy, they wouldve  taken  the decision not to 
have gone to the hospital on 28 January 2018. 
IPA already accepts  Mr N had to watch Mrs N being  carried down the stairs from their house  
into and ambulance and that this wouldve been  traumatic for him to see. I also accept that 
the journey to and from the hospital - as Mr N describes  was traumatic.  
I think Mr N was put to the trouble of arranging  the hospital visit. I also accept that the 
subsequent distress and worry  caused  to him by Mrs N having to leave their house and 
travel to hospital, when  she was in significant  discomfort, wouldve been substantial. So Im 
satisfied IPA should pay him £1,000  to compensate  him for this.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ns complaint, and direct Inter Partner  Assistance SA to put things right by 
paying Mr N:
A.£872.45 for the unnecessary costs  he incurred on 28 January 2018;
B.Simple interest at a rate of 8%* per year on the sum set out in A. from 
28 February 2018 (one month after Mr N incurred those costs) to the date on which 
payment is made; and
C.£1,000 compensation for trouble and upset  (if this hasnt been paid already).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ref: DRN51817045ombudsman
*If Inter Partner Assistance SA considers its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest  paid,  it should  tell Mr N how much its taken off. It should  also 
give him a certificate  showing this if he asks for one. That way he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5181704