K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that because Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva)  incorrectly set up 
their mortgage payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policy  theyve paid double  the 
premiums they shouldve paid and so they should  be compensated. But Aviva refuses to 
refund them.  
background
Briefly:
Mr and Mrs R complained  to their mortgage  lender  that their PPI policy sold to them  in 2000 
was mis-sold. In answering their complaint it also said that the policy was set up incorrectly  
the benefit was double  what  it shouldve  been and more than the policy  terms allowed. So it 
directed Mr and Mrs R to complain to the insurers of the policy  one of which was Aviva.
Aviva didnt uphold  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. It said that the policy  terms allowed for each  
party to be insured up to 100% of the benefit, which is how Mr and Mrs Rs policy was set 
up. So it said it wouldnt be offering any refund. Mr and Mrs R brought  their complaint to us.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said that no paperwork from the time was 
available due to how long ago the policy  started. But they said the terms of the policy  did 
allow for Mr and Mrs R to each be insured for 100% of the benefit. So they concluded  there 
wasnt enough evidence  to say the policy had been incorrectly set up and it wouldnt be fair 
in these circumstances to tell Aviva  to refund some of Mr and Mrs Rs premiums.
Mr and Mrs R disagree.  In summary they say the mortgage lender said things had gone  
wrong and the other insurer of the policy agreed  and refunded them.  Given this and the fact 
they didnt need to have  200%  mortgage  benefit means they should be compensated.
The complaint therefore comes  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs R  I know this isnt the answer they were hoping  for. But 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  And I dont feel theres much more I can usefully 
add to what the adjudicator has already explained  to Mr and Mrs R  I think the adjudicators  
set out the position clearly. 
Regrettably neither  Aviva  nor Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage lender at the time has any of the 
paperwork from the sale in 2000. And while this is unfortunate, its perhaps  not surprising 
given how long ago the policy started. But it does mean that I dont know what the 
paperwork including the PPI application  said about how Mr and Mrs Rs policy  should  be set 
up.
But as the adjudicator said, we do have a copy of the policy  terms and conditions, which 
were relevant to the policy Mr and Mrs R took out. And I can see here that the terms allowed 
each person covered under a joint policy to be covered up to 100% of the monthly  benefit.  
Ref: DRN58949642Ive also seen an example of a PPI application  form,  which appears to have been  in use 
around the same time as Mr and Mrs R took out their policy. And this supports the policy 
terms and conditions because here it says: If you have a joint mortgage and want  to share 
the benefit, you can each have up to 100% of the benefit
So it appears that it was possible for Mr and Mrs R to have  a joint PPI policy, which covered 
each of them for 100% of the required monthly benefit. 
Ive listened to what Mr and Mrs R have said about  not needing this level of cover. But in 
light of the above and in the absence of anything to support  the view that Aviva made a 
mistake in setting up the policy,  I think its more  likely than not that Mr and Mrs R chose for 
each of them to be covered for 100% of the policy benefit by requesting it in their PPI 
application. In the circumstances of this particular case it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
me to conclude otherwise.
I can see Mr and Mrs R say the other  insurer (the insurer  which  took on the cover after 
Aviva) agreed with their mortgage lenders findings and refunded  them some money. But this 
is a complaint about Aviva and its actions - it wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment  
here about the actions of a different business.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint or make  any 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 October  2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5894964