K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about advice he received from BlackStar Wealth  Management Ltd. He 
is unhappy with the advice he received to transfer  his existing self invested personal  pension 
(SIPP) into a new SIPP.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision which  is attached 
below and forms part of this final decision. I explained why Id decided  not to uphold this 
complaint.  
BlackStar accepted  my provisional decision but Mr W didnt. He said, in summary, hed paid 
BlackStar for advice  and it had referred him to the DFM and caused him to lose his money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted what  Mr W has said in response to my provisional decision but Ive decided not to 
change my provisional conclusions. I confirm  these conclusions  here and I dont uphold this 
complaint. Ultimately the DFM was a regulated business in its own right and it didnt invest  in 
line with the instructions from BlackStar.  Im not satisfied that BlackStar  is responsible for Mr 
Ws losses, particularly when he is not unhappy with the Blue Dolphin investment.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN55421782extract from provisional  decision
complaint
Mr W has complained about advice he received  from BlackStar Wealth  Management  Ltd. He is 
unhappy with the advice he received to transfer his existing self invested personal  pension (SIPP) into 
a new SIPP.
background
Mr W took advice in late 2015.  He wanted to make investments into the Dolphin Trust  but his existing 
SIPP provider didnt allow this. BlackStar recommended that he transfer his funds  to a new SIPP 
which would allow him to make these investments. The transfer  value was over £200,000 and 
BlackStar recommended  that he invest around 40 per cent of the funds into the Dolphin Trust. It 
seems that Mr W may initially have wished  to invest more.
The balance  of the funds was allocated to another business  which was to act as a discretionary fund 
manager (DFM). BlackStar assessed Mr W as having  a medium attitude to risk and instructed the 
DFM to invest in line with that.
The DFM was a stockbroking firm and regulated in its own right. It seems that it didnt invest the funds 
in line with the instruction  it was given and there have been  significant losses. Mr W is pursuing a 
separate complaint  about the DFM  which  was with this service  but has since  been referred to the 
Financial Services  Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
Our adjudicator decided that the complaint should  be upheld. He said that the investments into the 
Dolphin Trust were unsuitable for Mr W. The adjudicator felt these investments  were too risky and the 
funds were unregulated and illiquid. He didnt  think that it was possible to offset the risks posed by 
these investments with a portfolio from the DFM.  But the adjudicator noted that Mr W wasnt unhappy 
with the Dolphin Trust investments. And he didnt make any assessment of redress as that was not 
possible whilst the complaint  to the DFM was unresolved. At that time the complaint to the DFM was 
with this service  and hadnt yet been referred to FSCS.
BlackStar didnt agree  and the case  has been referred to me for a decision. 
 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive reached different conclusions to the adjudicator and so Ive 
decided to make this provisional  decision.
Im not satisfied that the Dolphin Trust investments  were  suitable for Mr W. The funds are unregulated 
and illiquid.  He invested a high proportion  of his funds into this single asset. I think  that strategy was 
too risky for him. But its also true that he has made it clear that he isnt unhappy about these  
investments (I note that the first of the two investments  has matured and made the returns that were 
promised  the second  matures  in two years  or so). He has questioned the necessity and 
appropriateness of the SIPP transfer  itself, but he couldnt make these  investments  from his existing 
SIPP.  So overall, I dont think it would be fair to say that the advice to transfer was bad.
It seems that the DFM  didnt invest the remaining funds  in line with the instructions BlackStar gave it. 
A second adjudicator  has said that a redress calculation could be made by applying notional values to 
the funds invested by the DFM assuming that they had been invested  in line with the instructions. The 
notional value  would  be calculated by reference  to a standard  index in line with Mr Ws attitude to risk. 
The notional  value could then be compared to an industry benchmark. It wouldnt be fair to compare it 
with the actual  value of the remaining funds as any reduced  actual value would be the responsibility of 
Ref: DRN55421783the DFM. But the adjudicator  explained that this calculation would not produce any loss as the same 
index would be used  to calculate both values  and so the values would be the same.
In the particular circumstances  of this case a calculation like that would  be academic.  It would  not 
produce any loss. And, crucially, the DFM is an entirely  separate business from BlackStar and 
regulated in its own right.  So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to make BlackStar 
responsible for any losses that have been caused by the investments made by the DFM. 
My provisional  view is that Mr W has not suffered any loss for which BlackStar is responsible.  Mr W 
does not, in effect, have any complaint about the Dolphin Trust investments.  The losses that arise  
from the investments  made by the DFM are the responsibility of the DFM  and not BlackStar. And so I 
dont intend to uphold this complaint.
 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
This is my provisional decision and it may change depending on the responses I receive.
Ref: DRN5542178