K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken in 2004  when    
Mr H applied for a credit  card. Mr H says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
HSBC shouldve made Mr H aware the PPI was optional. Looking at the copy of Mr Hs 
application form, it asks applicants to sign a box to say if they want  PPI. And this box has 
been signed on Mr Hs form.  So I think HSBC made  it clear that he had a choice about 
taking the PPI, although I can understand why he doesnt remember this.
As I havent  seen anything to suggest  Mr H had any direct contact with a HSBC  advisor  at 
the time of the sale of the PPI, it doesnt look like HSBC recommend it to Mr H. So HSBC 
didnt have to check if it was suitable  for him. But it did have to make sure Mr H got the 
information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  Mr H has told us about a 
short term illness he suffered from during the time he had the policy. But this isnt something 
that the insurer would consider to be a pre-existing  medical condition so this wouldnt have 
impacted his ability to use the PPI. 
Mr H says he was entitled to sick pay and redundancy benefits from his employer.  The PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of any of the employee benefits Mr H had. It also doesnt  look like 
Mr H had any other means  such as savings  to make his card repayments  if he was too 
unwell to work or became  unemployed.  So I think  it would  have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. And I dont think better information about  the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said - including  what hes said about his father  being  
able to help out if he wasnt able to make his repayments. I dont doubt that his father 
wouldve wanted to help, but peoples  situations can change.  So I dont think Mr H couldve 
necessarily relied on his fathers help. Overall I dont think  Mr H has lost out by anything  
HSBC might have done wrong
Ref: DRN54291582my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5429158