K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Ageas Insurance  Limited  mishandled his buildings insurance claim.
background
Mr J held a home insurance policy with Ageas.  He submitted a claim in March 2018  after 
suffering an escape  of water on his property. Ageas accepted the claim and appointed a 
claims management company, who in turn appointed  contractors (the first contractors) to 
carry out the strip out works and reinstatement. 
Mr J became increasingly unhappy  with the way Ageas, the claims managers and the first 
contractors were handling his claim. This includes, but is not strictly  limited  to:
Problems with communication and a lack of progress with the agents Ageas had 
instructed, which required  Mr J to chase all of those involved;
Being  unhappy  with the alternative accommodation at the hotel he was placed in 
originally, as he found it stressful living in a room  that had no storage space;
The first contractors did not have all the required tools  and equipment  necessary, 
and kept on walking off site without  an explanation;
They also hacked off the top of Mr Js wardrobes without protecting or rolling  back  
the carpet (which  would  have  negated  the need  to cut the tops off the wardrobes in 
the first place) and also damaged the carpet when they were  moved;
The lounge and bedroom carpets had not been  covered with dust sheets when work 
commenced and they became full of debris;
He was unhappy with the way the contractors  were replacing the ceiling boards, 
which caused damage to the window sill, so he did not want  them  to proceed with 
any further work, and would not let them back on site.
Ageas moved  Mr J to a different hotel and made a payment of £100  for the stress he had 
been caused. They also explained  that their agents  had been receiving a high volume of 
calls as a result of bad weather at the time,  which led to the breakdown of communication  
with Mr J. So Ageas offered a further payment of £75 to recognise  the trouble  and upset this 
had caused. 
In terms of the quality  of workmanship completed,  the first contractors denied that the work 
was poor,  and said that the damaged carpet and window sill were not related to the claim 
and was historic damage. However, given  that Mr J was no longer allowing them back on 
site, Ageas agreed  to appoint a different claims management company and group of 
contractors (the second contractors) in September 2018 to complete  the works at the 
property.
However, Mr J subsequently contacted Ageas again  as he was unhappy with the quality of 
work completed by the second contractors  as well, including:
The plastering to the lounge ceiling  and walls  showed trowel marks, and cracks 
started to appear in the ceiling. The coving  had also started to come  away from the 
walls in several places;
The chimney breast had a large gloss patch in the emulsion paint;
There was a large sag in the plaster  in the ceiling in the bedroom;
The paintwork  was poor and had spoilt the wardrobe that was built by Mr Js son. 
The wallpaper also did not match properly.
Ref: DRN58104592Mr J had a site meeting  with the claims managers  and contractors,  who agreed that there 
were several issues that needed rectifying, so they offered to carry out the works and put 
things right. However, Mr J had since had his furniture moved back into the house and new 
carpets laid in both bedrooms. The lounge  carpet  had also been re-laid and cleaned. And 
given the second contractors lack of care when the rooms were empty, Mr J did not want 
them carrying out any further work  when  his furniture was in situ. 
Ageas upheld Mr Js complaint and made  a further payment of £150  in recognition of the 
trouble and upset  caused. However, they did not concede any liability  for the damage to the 
bedroom carpet and lounge  window  sill, which they maintained was historic  damage.  
But given that Mr J would not allow the second contractors back  on to his property,  Ageas  
said they would now cash settle the remaining snagging  issues  for £1,232.54, which is what  
they say it wouldve cost them if their second  contractors  had been  able to carry out the 
remaining works. Ageas sent this amount to Mr J via bank transfer.  
Mr J said this amount was not enough.  He received a quote  from his own contractor who 
said it would  cost £4,875 to address the snagging  issues, and says he was also told that all 
his furniture would need to be moved out again to avoid damage. So he says Ageas should  
also have to pay for further storage  and alternative  accommodation, which (including the 
cost of carrying out the works)  he estimated  to be £7,824.46. 
Ageas refused to pay anything over and above what it wouldve cost their contractors, and 
say that all the works included in Mr Js proposed schedule  of works were  included in theirs  
at the correct costs,  so they didnt consider Mr Js quote to be reasonable.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Js complaint. He didnt think Ageas had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably and thought  they had complied  with the policy terms and conditions. In terms 
of compensation,  the investigator  thought the amount Ageas had already paid was fair. Mr J 
disagreed, so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
snagging issues
In terms of the snagging issues, Mr J says that the settlement amount of £1,232.54 offered 
by Ageas is not sufficient, and says they should  pay £4,875  instead  as this is what  his own 
contractor has quoted. Ive reviewed the policy terms  and conditions  to establish what  Ageas 
is obliged to do under  the contract of insurance  in this scenario. The relevant term states:
How your claim will be settled
We will settle your claim by either
Replacing, repairing or rebuilding  items (depending on which will be most cost 
effective), or
Paying you their cash equivalent, based  on what it would cost us to replace  the 
items.
Ref: DRN58104593We will decide which option is most appropriate
So Ageas is only obliged to cash settle at the amount  it wouldve cost them  when using their 
own contractors. Ive reviewed the notes  between Ageas and the second  contractors,  who 
initially said they could  carry  out the work  for around £500. However, Ageas processed the 
remaining rectification  works through their third-party claims estimating software, which  
quoted around  £1,200. The contractors didnt think this was correct, as they said this would 
be the quote for an entire job rather than just the rectification of snagging issues. But Ageas 
agreed to use this higher figure  in any event as the amount it wouldve cost them  to address 
the snagging issues, rather than the £500  quoted by the contractors  which I think is fair. 
I understand that Mr J had lost faith in the ability of the second contractors, and that he didnt 
trust them not to damage his furniture that had recently been moved back in. But I have to 
take into account that they were denied  the chance  to put things right by Mr J. So I think it 
was reasonable  for Ageas to decide to cash settle the claim. And given that the policy  only 
requires Ageas to settle for the amount it wouldve cost them to do the work, I dont think  
theyve acted unreasonably by refusing to pay the costs quoted by Mr Js contractor, which  
seem to be a lot higher for the same level or work, and is outside the scope of the policy.  
Mr J says he will also require all of his furniture to be removed again  for the snagging issues 
to be rectified, meaning he will also require further  alternative  accommodation. Ive 
considered the outstanding work that remains to be done, but I havent seen enough to 
persuade me that it would require all the furniture to be removed again. I understand Mr J 
may want to do this as a precaution, and that his contractor may have recommended it, but 
Im not satisfied its strictly necessary  as his furniture and carpets can be covered and 
protected while the snagging issues are addressed. So it follows  that I dont consider it 
necessary for Ageas to have to pay for the removal/storage of the furniture or any further  
alternative accommodation. 
Ageas didnt uphold Mr Js complaint in relation to the damage caused to the window sill and 
carpets, as they said the damage  appeared to be historic. Theres  little independent 
evidence available  to suggest that the damage was caused by the contractors. So in the 
circumstances, I dont  think  there is enough for me to fairly  hold Ageas liable for this 
damage. 
compensation
Ive considered the compensation  Ageas  have  paid so far in recognition of the trouble and 
upset caused  which to date amounts to £325  in total (made  up of three payments of £100,  
£75 and £150). Mr J does  not feel this is commensurate to the trouble and upset caused by 
the way Ageas and their agents  have handled  his claim  and believes he should receive 
further compensation. 
The power to make  such an award  is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial 
Conduct Authority  Handbook, which sets out that I can award  fair compensation for distress 
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award  must be a proportionate 
reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in order  to 
award further compensation to Mr J, I would have  to be satisfied that the wrongful actions of 
Ageas and their agents have had a much greater impact.
Ref: DRN58104594Ive considered the service Mr J has received  from Ageas  and their agents, and its clear he 
has been left frustrated, stressed  and inconvenienced by the way his claim has been 
handled. Extensive  building  works are always going  to cause a certain amount of upheaval 
and stress.  But I can see, for example, that the communication had often been poor and that 
Mr J had to chase up all the various parties  involved in his claim.  I also appreciate that he 
did not have a good experience with the contractors and that he remains  unhappy with the 
quality of workmanship. 
I appreciate the experience wouldve been  entirely frustrating for Mr J. But I dont consider 
the actions of Ageas and their agents  to warrant any further compensation at a higher level,  
as I can see they have attempted to put things right after Mr J had expressed his 
dissatisfaction. I can see he was upgraded to a better hotel (and provided with breakfast and 
access to the facilities) when he said he wasnt happy with the first hotel. And they also 
offered alternative  agents/contractors for Mr J to use when he was dissatisfied with the first 
group appointed. But for the times  when Ageass service did fall below standard, I consider  
the £325 already paid to be fair compensation in the circumstances.
Im sorry  to hear that Mr J has been suffering from health problems, which he attributes to 
the stress  of his buildings  insurance  claim. But in the circumstances, I dont consider it 
necessary for Ageas to offer anything over and above what  they have already paid. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5810459