K821x#15complaint
Ms K complains  that Santander  UK plc (Santander) made a Direct  Debit payment from her 
account after she asked  for it to be cancelled.
background
Ms K held a current account with Santander. The account didnt have an overdraft facility.  
On 17 December 2017 a Direct Debit payment was taken from Ms Ks account  by a phone  
company. The account  went into an unarranged overdraft, and charges were  added.
Santander was unable to contact Ms K about the account and overdraft. It sent a default 
notice and said credit  reference agencies would  be informed  shed defaulted.
Ms K complained to Santander.  She wasnt happy the Direct Debit to the phone company 
hadnt been cancelled in December 2017.  She said shed  visited a branch  before the 
payment was made and asked for it to be cancelled. She said shed moved house and 
hadnt received  Santanders letters.
Santander responded and said it had no record of her asking to cancel the Direct Debit.  But 
it agreed to waive  the overdraft fees as a gesture  of goodwill. And it removed the default 
from her credit file. It also said it wasnt responsible for her not receiving the letters as it was 
up to her to update  her address when she moved.
Ms K referred her complaint to this service.  Our investigator reviewed  her complaint. They  
said they couldnt see any evidence Miss K had visited  the branch. And they said Santander 
hadnt done anything wrong  by sending her statements to the old address.  
Ms K disagreed with the investigators view. She said shed  gone  into the branch. And she 
thought Santander had deliberately put her account into an unarranged overdraft. She asked 
for an ombudsmans  decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
The Direct Debit payment  in December 2017
Theres a dispute  about whether Ms K visited a Santander branch and asked for the
Direct Debit payment  to the phone company to be cancelled.  I need to decide  whats more
likely than not to have happened.
Ms K says she visited  her local Santander branch on either  14 or 15 December  2017.  She
says she spoke to an advisor and asked to cancel a Direct Debit  payment  to a phone
company. Santander  said it had no record of this.
Theres a note on Santanders records. It says Ms K visited the branch on
13 December 2017. And during the visit, Santanders records show the advisor  accessed  the
Direct Debit entry to the phone  company. But no change or cancellation was made.
Ref: DRN51898212The advisor she spoke  with no longer works  for Santander. So I cant  get their account of 
what happened. Im aware the date of the visit recorded on Santanders system differs from 
Ms Ks account. But the difference is one or two days. I think Ms K may have been mistaken 
in remembering the exact date of her visit. The actual date is close  enough for me to be 
satisfied its the same  visit. Im also satisfied  the Direct Debit entry  to the phone  company 
was discussed.  I think  its more likely than not Ms K asked for the payment to the phone  
company to be cancelled.
Santanders said that even if it had cancelled  the payment at Ms Ks request, it would have 
still made the payment. This is because it would have received a request to pay it from the 
phone company. It would  have  assumed  Ms K authorised the phone company to receive the 
payment.
The guidance on the Direct  Debits website  says a customer  needs  to inform their bank or 
building society to cancel  a Direct  Debit. It recommends notifying  the organisation that is 
being paid. But its not a requirement.
So I think Ms K did take the right steps to cancel the Direct Debit  payment. She told 
Santander to stop making the payments to the phone company. And after visiting the branch  
she should reasonably have expected them to stop.
The unarranged overdraft and default
Ms K believes Santander deliberately put her account into an unarranged overdraft. But 
shes not provided anything to support this. Ive seen nothing which makes me think  it made 
the payment against Ms Ks wishes deliberately so her account would go into an unarranged 
overdraft.
Ive found it was Santanders error which led to the account going  into the unarranged 
overdraft. So it follows that Ms K should not have been charged fees because of this. And 
because the fees should not have been incurred, her account  should not have  been  
defaulted. And a note should not have been added to her credit file.
Putting things right
Santander should refund  Ms K the payment made to the phone company after shed asked 
for it to be cancelled. This was for £8.93.  But at that time the account was in credit by £7.38. 
So £7.38  is the amount which should  be refunded. Ms K hasnt had access to this amount 
since 17 December 2017. So I think simple interest  at a rate of 8% simple  a year from that 
date to the date of settlement should  be added. 
References to the default have been  removed from her credit file and its waived  the fees on 
the account. Id have  asked it to do this if it hadnt  done so already.
I also think Santander should compensate Ms K to recognise the distress caused  by its 
error. But I think this should be limited  because Ms K hadnt been  diligent in ensuring 
Santander could  contact her. The fees increased  and account was defaulted because Ms K 
hadnt contacted Santander  about the unarranged  overdraft. She didnt receive its 
correspondence. But she hadnt told Santander shed moved. Its Ms Ks responsibility  to 
make sure her contact  details  are up to date. 
Ref: DRN51898213I think Santander should pay £50 to Ms K to compensate her for the trouble  and upset 
caused by their error.
the response to my provisional  decision 
Santander accepted my provisional decision and didnt have any further  comments.
Ms K said she didnt think the compensation was sufficient. She said shed been  having 
issues with Santander  since 2007.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings, in particular the compensation  Id said should be paid in light of Ms Ks comments.
Neither party appears to be querying  my decision to uphold Ms Ks complaint in part. I 
havent seen anything to change this. But Ms K has said she doesnt think  £50 
compensation is sufficient. I dont  think this amount should be increased.  I explained  why Id 
limited the compensation to £50 in my provisional  decision, and Ive seen nothing  to change 
my opinion on this. And I cant  increase the compensation because  she says shes  had 
issues with Santander  since 2007.  Im assessing  her complaint about this matter only.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given ,its my final decision to uphold Ms Ks complaint in part. I direct  
Santander to:
Refund Ms K £7.38
Add simple interest to this amount at a rate of 8% simple a year from 17 December 
2017 to the date of settlement.
Pay £50 compensation to Ms K due to the distress and inconvenience caused  to her. 
If Santander UK plc considers it should  deduct income tax from any 8% interest element of
my award it may do so, but should  give Ms K the necessary certificate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5189821