K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the work AXA Insurance UK Plc carried  out to their kitchen 
after they made a claim for accidental damage under their home  insurance policy.
background
In September  2018 Mr and Mrs B made a claim to AXA after they were told by their water 
company that there was a water leak in their property. AXA instructed a supplier who dug up 
part of the kitchen floor to expose the water pipes. It said a leak was found and repaired.  
The water company said there was still a water leak. So shortly  afterwards the supplier went  
back to Mr and Mrs Bs property. It checked  the previous repair and found that section  of 
pipe wasnt leaking.  So it dug up a different part of the kitchen floor and said it found  a 
second leak further along the pipe. It fixed that leak but said it suspected there would be 
other leaks as the copper pipe was corroded due to not having been lagged  as it should  
have been. AXA said it wouldnt  deal with the other potential leaks.  It said there was nothing  
to suggest that any further leaks would have been caused by accidental damage.  AXAs  
supplier reinstated  the kitchen floor. Mr and Mrs B complained  that the quality of their work  
was poor.
Mr and Mrs B appointed a loss assessor to help them with their claim.  In October 2018 the 
loss assessor arranged for a leak detection company to carry out a survey.  It thought water 
was escaping due to a fault with the cistern  from a downstairs toilet. That fault didnt appear 
to have caused any damage. It also thought AXAs supplier had caused the leaks  in the 
kitchen. The company suggested  that if AXAs supplier had used different detection methods 
such as pressure testing  or tracer  gas it's likely they would have found the actual  source of 
the water  loss. Mr and Mrs B sent a copy of the report to AXA. AXA took two weeks  to 
consider it. 
Mr and Mrs B complained to AXA that its supplier had carried out unnecessary  work to their 
kitchen. They wanted AXA to restore their home to its previous  condition, compensate them  
for the delays and stress it had caused them and strike out any record of the original  claim.  
They also said they had a leak from the washing machine in their utility room.
AXA accepted that thered been  some poor service.  It offered Mr and Mrs B a total of £600  
compensation for this. It agreed  that Mr and Mrs Bs kitchen floor hadnt been  properly  
reinstated by its supplier. AXA agreed  to cover the reinstatement costs for the kitchen floor 
within the original  claim  and then to remove  the original claim from the national claims 
database. But it didnt  agree that the repairs  carried out by its contractor were unnecessary. 
It also agreed to cover  the leak from the washing machine as a separate  claim for an escape  
of water.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service.  Our investigator  didnt uphold it. He 
didnt think AXA had treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly.
As Mr and Mrs B didnt agree the matter has been  referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN54372582The first question I need to consider is whether the repairs carried out by AXAs supplier to 
the kitchen pipes were  unnecessary.  Its supplier said the pipes  were  made  of copper, they 
werent lagged  and were  encased  in the concrete floor. AXA said it was likely that the pipes  
had suffered some acid erosion from the concrete because they hadnt been lagged.  It 
thought that might have caused a slow leak from pinhole sized  holes. The photos  Ive seen 
support the above description.  Although there was a much  more serious loss of water  going 
on elsewhere in the house, I think its more likely than not that there were  also small leaks  in 
the kitchen pipes at the same time. So Im not persuaded that these repairs were  
unnecessary.
It appears not to be in dispute that the main reason  for the loss of water was the fault with 
the toilet cistern or that AXAs supplier made a poor job of retiling  Mr and Mrs Bs kitchen  
floor and caused other damage.  AXA has since agreed a cash  settlement with Mr and Mrs B 
to put its suppliers poor workmanship  right.  It also agreed that these works will be done as 
part of the original claim and then that claim will be treated  as though  it had never arisen. I 
think in so doing AXA treated Mr and Mrs B fairly and reasonably.
The issue  with the water loss arose not long before  Mr and Mrs B were expecting their first 
child. The new-born  baby spent three weeks in intensive care.  This would have been  a very 
stressful time for Mr and Mrs B. Im looking at the extent to which AXA made the situation 
worse by not finding the main cause  of their water  loss in its investigations. 
It seems  to me that Mr and Mrs Bs leak detection company used a variety  of methods which 
were more sophisticated than those used  by AXAs supplier. In particular  it used thermal 
imaging, trace gas, a dynamic pressure test and moisture mapping. I think its likely AXAs 
supplier relied too much  on its initial findings and failed to carry out a more  in-depth 
investigation which would have revealed  the problem with the toilet cistern.  The ongoing 
water loss from the toilet cistern wasnt actually  causing any damage  to Mr and Mrs Bs 
property. But the need for further  investigations could have been avoided  and caused  
inconvenience to Mr and Mrs B at a time when they had more  important concerns. Ill take 
this into consideration  when  looking at how much compensation to award Mr and Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs B say they had to live with a trench  in their utility room  covered over with 
boarding for six months due to delays on AXAs part. Having looked at a timeline of the 
claim I can see that AXA took about two weeks to consider the report  from Mr and Mrs Bs 
leak detection  company.  I think  it should have processed this more  quickly. Other than that 
though, I cant  see any significant delays on its part. It appears  that much  of the delay was 
caused because  AXA was waiting for Mr and Mrs Bs loss assessor to provide  quotes for the 
reinstatement work.  
AXA has acknowledged  the failings on its part in dealing with this claim and offered  £600 
compensation. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed by this. But, taking into 
account the stress and inconvenience  theyve suffered  as a result of AXAs  failings and the 
impact on them, I think  this sum was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN54372583my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 June  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5437258