K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained about the handling  of a chargeback by Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide). 
background
Mr G has a credit card with Nationwide.
Mr G says he allowed his daughter to use his card to book a hotel through a third party  
booking company. His daughter says the booking company cancelled the hotel booking. She 
says she complained to the booking company about  this and was offered a refund which 
was never  received. She says that the booking company reinstated  the booking  instead  
without telling her  and charged  her fathers  credit card even though she didnt stay in the 
hotel. She complained to the booking  company  again, but she says it didnt respond.  Mr G 
was unhappy  that the booking company had charged his card and asked Nationwide  to raise 
a chargeback. Mr G says he sent Nationwide all of the evidence it asked for.
Mr G contacted Nationwide  for an update when he didnt hear back  for several  weeks.  He 
says he was told that his chargeback had been  closed.  He complained to Nationwide saying 
it hadnt told him it was going to do this. Nationwide agreed  to reopen Mr Gs chargeback,  
asked him for more  information and then said that it was too late to raise a chargeback.  Mr G 
complained to Nationwide again  saying that hed given Nationwide all the information  it 
needed. He also said that he hadnt  been told about  the timescales involved.
Nationwide investigated  Mr Gs complaint and said that Mr G hadnt sent evidence showing 
that the booking company had cancelled the booking or the date the booking was cancelled. 
Nationwide also said that it was now too late to raise a chargeback. Nationwide did, 
however, offer Mr G £50 in compensation for closing his chargeback without  telling him.
Mr G was unhappy with Nationwides  response saying that it had only asked him for 
evidence that the booking  had been  cancelled which hed sent. He complained to us.
Our investigator said Nationwide had given Mr G the opportunity to provide  the information  it 
needed to progress the chargeback and they didnt think it had acted incorrectly. Our 
investigator also said £50 compensation was sufficient for not telling Mr G that the 
chargeback was closed.  Mr G disagreed and has asked me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Nationwide could have  raised a chargeback in this case if it could have shown that Mr G had 
paid for services that hadnt been  received.  That would have involved showing, amongst 
other things,  that Mr G had tried to resolve the problem with the booking company but failed, 
and that the booking company cancelled the booking and the date it had done so.
Ive listened to calls between Nationwide and Mr G. Having done  so, Im satisfied that 
Nationwide asked Mr G for evidence showing the date the booking was cancelled. The 
evidence that Mr G sent in  namely a screenshot of the booking on the app his daughter  
used  doesnt show the date the booking was cancelled.  More importantly, it doesnt show 
Ref: DRN50531442who cancelled the booking, simply that the booking was cancelled.  I dont think,  given the 
unsuccessful attempt  Mr Gs daughter made to contact the booking  company, that Mr G 
would have been able to get the booking  company  to send evidence that it had cancelled the 
booking or the date on which this had happened  assuming the booking company  did 
cancel the booking as Mr Gs daughter says. In other words, I dont think Mr G would have 
been able to send Nationwide the evidence it needed in order  to raise a successful 
chargeback. So I dont think it would have made a difference had Nationwide been clearer 
about the evidence it needed. I also dont think Nationwide acted  unfairly not raising a 
chargeback. I say that because we only expect banks to raise a chargeback  when theres a 
reasonable chance of success.  This one didnt have  a reasonable prospect of success.
Nationwide offered Mr G £50 in compensation for closing his chargeback  without writing  to 
him to let him know  it was going  to do this. I accept that this would have been  a surprise  to 
Mr G and that it would have been  annoying too. In other words, I accept that this had an 
impact on Mr G albeit  a small  one. In the circumstances, I think Nationwides  offer of £50 in 
compensation is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.
Jamie Sutherland  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5053144