K820x#14complaint
Mr A complained that Lloyds Bank Plc:
-didnt change his mortgage back from buy-to-let to a residential basis; and 
-instructed field agents to visit his property on multiple occasions, and harassed him 
with calls and letters about his arrears.
background
In 2007 Mr A applied  to Lloyds for the mortgage  on his current  property to be changed from 
residential to a buy-to-let  basis.  He planned  to buy a new property and rent out his current 
one. The new mortgage included money  for a deposit for the purchase of the new property.
The purchase of the new property fell through, and Mr A carried on living  in his original 
property. Theres a conflict  of evidence about  what happened.  Mr A said he asked to cancel 
the change on his current property from residential  to buy-to-let, but it didnt happen.  Lloyds 
contact notes dont  record that Mr A told the bank that the purchase  had fallen through  and 
that he was living in the original property on a residential basis.
Mr As mortgage went into arrears. The arrears built up over the years  and by late 2018 he 
was around £4,500 in arrears.
In 2018, Mr A complained to Lloyds because  an external field agent had hand-delivered a 
letter saying theyd  be doing a visit. He said he couldnt understand why Lloyds  thought the 
mortgage was buy-to-let when it was residential.
Lloyds final response  said that it had sent letters to Mr A on 3 September  and 
15 October 2018 about an external  field agents visit, and if Mr A hadnt received them, he 
should contact  his local postal service. It noted  that Mr As arrears currently  stood at 
£4,505.99, so it was part of the banks procedure to contact the customer to discuss  their 
financial situation. Lloyds  sent Mr A a copy of the buy-to-let  mortgage agreement which hed 
signed in 2007. But it paid Mr A £100,  which it said was for poor customer service.   
Mr A wasnt  satisfied and complained to this service. 
One of our ombudsmen considered Mr As complaint.  She explained that this service is 
bound by rules about  what we can and cant consider. She found that Mr A had complained  
too late for us to be able to consider his complaint about changing his mortgage from buy-to-
let to residential in 2007 
But she said that we could consider his complaint that Lloyds instructed field agents  to visit 
his property on multiple occasions, and harassed him with calls and letters about his arrears. 
So Mr As complaint was referred to an investigator  to look at this.
Mr A told us that hed had difficult family  circumstances. Hed lost his job following an 
accident at work in 2011, and a close relative had died shortly afterwards. And then another  
close relative had had major surgery and was disabled. Mr A said hed had a breakdown  as 
a result,  and was only slowly recovering.
The investigator reviewed  the contact notes. These  showed that a field agent had been sent 
out on 13 July 2015. There had been other  times when field agents  had been  instructed to 
Ref: DRN53534522visit Mr A about his arrears. These were in July 2016, February 2018, September  2018 and 
October 2018. But the records also showed  that Mr A had contacted the bank when hed had 
the letters telling him about  the proposed visits  and the bank had then cancelled the visits. 
So the records showed that a field agent had only actually gone  out once, on 13 July 2015.
The investigator said that although he couldnt  confirm the exact  number of calls and letters  
which Lloyds had sent Mr A, these  werent  intended to be threatening or harassing. He said 
that he could understand  the frustration  and stress  which  letters would have caused, 
especially given Mr As personal circumstances. But the bank was within its rights to contact 
Mr A to discuss  the arrears, and why the arrangements had been  broken.  He noted that 
Lloyds had paid Mr A £100,  which  he thought was fair and reasonable.
Mr A didnt agree. He said that the harassment  hed received  was way above any care of 
duty. The field agent visits had been to see whether he lived at the address, and he asked 
how many  times he had to inform  the bank that he lived there.  Hed told the banks 
Customer Priority Team he lived there,  but the information didnt  seem  to filter down to the 
correct department. And Mr A said the investigator hadnt taken his health  into consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im sorry to hear about  the difficult circumstances which  Mr A has suffered in the last 
ten years. I can understand its been a really  difficult time for him. 
As Ive set out above, another ombudsman has considered what parts of Mr As complaint 
this service can and cant look at. Were bound by rules which  are set out by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA), and these include time limits.  That decision was final.  It 
said that Mr A was too late when he brought his complaint about his mortgage being on a 
buy-to-let basis instead of a residential  basis. 
This means  that the only part of Mr As complaint which I can look at is his complaint that 
Lloyds instructed field agents to visit his property on multiple occasions, and harassed him 
with calls and letters about his arrears.
I dont have a complete  record  of evidence throughout  the whole of Mr As mortgage.  For 
example, I dont have  information from either  Lloyds  or Mr A about when phone calls were  
made. And Mr A hasnt given us details  of  the  dates  when he says a field agent came to 
visit. And  because it was a long time ago - Lloyds doesnt have contact notes going right 
back to the start of Mr As mortgage some 13 years ago. So there are gaps in the evidence I 
have. When evidence conflicts  or is missing, I make  my decision on the basis  of what  I think  
it more likely to have  happened.
The first documented  agent visit is from 2015, when  Lloyds  recorded a buy-to-let visit, to 
see whether Mr As property was tenanted. This was in the context of Mr As arrears,  which  
were starting to increase by that point. I think its more likely than not that it was at this time 
that an agent tried multiple times to visit Mr A, which he found unacceptable. 
The banks notes  about that visit record that Mr A and his family were living at the property. 
As Ive explained, I cant consider the issue of whether Mr As mortgage  should have been 
on a buy-to-let or residential basis. I note that the mortgage has always  been  on an interest-
Ref: DRN53534523only basis, not repayment. And Lloyds confirmed to us that after the initial fixed rate product 
ended, the interest rate has always been the banks standard variable rate. 
But it seems  likely that until the 2015  field agent visits, and for whatever reason, Lloyds 
hadnt got a record that there  had been  a change  from buy-to-let, and Mr A and his family 
were living at the property  themselves. One reason  I think  that, is that as part of the 2007 
mortgage, Mr A had been paid a sum which hed been going  to put towards  a deposit on the 
purchase that fell through. If Lloyds had had a record  of a change to residential in 2007,  it 
might perhaps have asked what had happened to that money.
So I think its likely that the 2015 visits were to see whether there was any tenancy income 
which might  help towards Mr As arrears.  Lloyds was entitled to assess  this, as part of 
looking at how to deal with the arrears.  
After 2015, Mr As mortgage  arrears continued to increase. Ive looked at the records of his 
account, which show that payment arrangements were set up, but that Mr A wasnt able to 
keep these. A field agent was instructed to visit in July 2016,  February  2018, September  
2018 and October  2018. Lenders  are entitled to contact borrowers in difficulty, and I can see 
that these were linked  to times when payment arrangements hadnt worked out. And Lloyds 
didnt send the agents when Mr A got in touch with the bank  when he received the letters  
telling him about  the proposed visits. So I dont agree that Lloyds was wrong to arrange  field 
visits. These were  as the letters set out  to discuss the arrears.  
I dont have records of the calls made to Mr A about  his arrears. Neither Lloyds nor Mr A has 
provided details  of times and dates of calls.  So I cant accurately assess whether too many 
calls were made. But lenders are entitled  to contact  borrowers about  their arrears.
I note that Lloyds paid Mr A £100  compensation in December 2018, which  it said was for 
poor  customer service. Lloyds hasnt said what this means,  or exactly what  it was for. But 
as Lloyds was entitled to contact Mr A about the arrears, I dont require it to pay Mr A more 
compensation.
Ive also considered whether or not Lloyds is taking sufficient account of Mr As 
circumstances. I appreciate that his situation has been very difficult, especially when  he 
faced successive crises in 2011  and 2012, followed by a longer-term  impact  on his own 
health. I can see that Lloyds referred  Mr A to its Customer Priority Team  at various points 
because of his circumstances. The records show that it put Mr A back in touch with this team 
in November 2018. So I consider that the bank did take account of Mr As circumstances, 
and I hope that he and Lloyds can reach  a better  situation for the future.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Ref: DRN53534524Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5353452