K820x#14complaint
Mr B says National  Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold  him a mortgage payment  
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr B took out an MPPI policy to cover  a mortgage in 2000. He paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint because:
I think NatWest  made Mr B aware that he had a choice about  buying the MPPI. He took 
out a mortgage in 1998. The MPPI was sold separately in 2000  by which time Mr B 
had already held a mortgage without MPPI over a year. So I think  he was aware  he had 
a choice about buying it. And I think he chose to take the MPPI  because he completed 
an application form specifically for it. 
NatWest didnt recommend the MPPI  to Mr B so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. Mr B says he had excellent sick pay through his work,  and an additional insurance 
policy which paid a monthly benefit  if he became disabled. Mr B was presumably  aware  
of the level of cover he already had, but appears to have decided to take the MPPI 
despite this. 
I think NatWest  couldve explained  the cost of the policy  better than it did. But even if it 
had, I think Mr B would still have bought it. He already had some cover  through  his 
employer and the other insurance  he held. So it seems he was keen to have a lot of 
cover in case he was unable to work. The MPPI  also provided  cover for if he became 
unemployed  which  his other  insurance didnt. So it could be that was important in his 
decision. 
Its possible that NatWest didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But 
Mr B doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr Bs comments.  But these points dont change my conclusion. Its 
unusual for someone  to have the level of sick pay and disability cover that Mr B says he had. 
But it seems  that he was aware of the cover  he already had, yet still chose to take the MPPI 
when it was offered.  While he now says he didnt need the MPPI, it seems  that at the time he 
bought it he thought he did  or he at least wanted it. I dont think that Mr B took that 
decision because of anything NatWest did wrong. So I dont think  the MPPI  was mis-sold to 
him.
Ref: DRN52247432my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5224743