K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited asked him to pay an additional 
premium in relation  to his motor insurance policies. 
 
background
In March 2019, Admiral  sent Mr G renewal documentation in relation to three  cars.  The 
policies renewed  at a total premium of £1,389.95. 
Shortly after renewal,  Mr G told Admiral  that, some  months earlier, hed been involved in an 
accident that wasnt his fault.  Admiral asked Mr G for an additional premium of £472.92,  so 
the total premium  for three cars was £1,862.87.  
Mr G says that its unfair that his premium increased because  of the mistake of another  
driver. He says that hes a safe driver of many years, so he doesnt agree that Admiral is 
taking any level of risk. Mr G is also concerned  that his protected  no claims bonus didnt 
prevent the increase in premium. He wants Admiral to reduce his premium.
In response to Mr Gs complaint, Admiral offered a period in which  Mr G could cancel the 
policies without cancellation fees,  so that he could find other cover. I understand that Mr G 
didnt cancel his policies with Admiral. 
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Admiral had 
treated Mr G unfairly. 
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator. He said that it wasnt fair for Admiral to charge more,  
as the accident wasnt  his fault. Mr G said that not all insurers would have charged more  in 
the circumstances that arose here.  
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  that Admiral  
treated Mr G unfairly. Ill explain why.
When calculating premiums, insurers take into consideration a very large  number of           
risk-rating factors. In other words, they assess the level of risk each policyholder poses and 
the likelihood of them  making  a claim in the future by looking at many  different factors.  Its 
not for me to tell Admiral what factors it should  take into account when assessing risk, nor 
how to go about those  assessments.  Different insurers  will have different views  on what  
presents a risk and the extent of that risk. Thats essentially a matter  of commercial 
judgement and not something with which we would usually  think  its fair to interfere.
Ref: DRN58661172One of the reasons why different insurers charge  different premiums for the same  risk is  
because insurers vary in the level of importance they give to different factors. In Mr Gs case, 
Admiral considers that theres a difference in risk between a driver whos  had a recent  non-
fault incident and one who hasnt.  As insurance is essentially an assessment of risk, I dont 
think theres anything  wrong  with Admiral considering whether or not certain  individuals fall 
into higher risk groupings and so wish to charge a higher premium to cover that risk.
Admiral has provided me with information to show how Mr Gs increased premium was 
calculated. That information is commercially sensitive, so I cant  share it with Mr G but Ive 
looked at it carefully.  Im satisfied that Admiral  treated  Mr G in the same way as it would 
treat other policyholders  in similar circumstances. So, I think it calculated the premium 
fairly and reasonably.
The increased premium  Admiral asked Mr G to pay wasnt because  hed made  a claim.
Mr Gs protected no claims discount isnt relevant  here. Protecting a no claims discount  
doesnt mean that Admiral cant assess the risk in the way it has and increase  the 
premium.  
In response to Mr Gs complaint, Admiral offered him a period in which he could cancel the 
policies without cancellation fees,  so that he could find other cover. I think that was fair. 
So, it was open  to Mr G to find cover elsewhere,  if Admirals terms werent acceptable  to 
him.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr G but, for the reasons  Ive explained,  my final decision is that I 
dont uphold his complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5866117