K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained about Ageas Insurance Limited,  their home  insurer. They  
had a leak at their home and whilst Ageas  settled  the claim and paid them  some  money  for 
living away  from home, they think it should  pay more.
background
There was a leak at Mr and Mrs Bs home and whilst they made a claim to Ageas, they 
subsequently had cause to complain  to this service  about Ageas  actions.  My ombudsman  
colleague issued  a final decision on that complaint in October 2018. He said Ageas should  
pay a total of £1,500 compensation as well as paying:
for alternative accommodation from the start of the work until all the decorating  work is 
finished and everything is installed. 
At this time Ageas had paid Mr and Mrs B £33,238.48 (net of the policy excess) for repairs  
to their home. In November 2018 it paid them £5,400 for alternative accommodation 
(theyd moved into a hotel) for 16 July 2018  to 31 August 2018  and £2,157.47  for removal  
and storage costs  for the period 16 July 2018  to 15 August  2018.  In July 2019  Ageas 
agreed to pay Mr and Mrs B £8,294.28 plus VAT so they could purchase replacement  
kitchen units and £10,663 to settle their contents  claim.
Meanwhile, following  Ageass settlement for alternative accommodation plus storage in 
November 2018,  Mr and Mrs B complained to this service because  Ageas hadnt paid 
them anything more.  They  felt theyd submitted all the relevant evidence  but Ageas had 
said the November  payment  had been  made with it only having seen invoices for storage. 
It seems  that whilst it noted internally that it would be bound  by this services previous 
decision, that it would have to pay alternative accommodation costs until the home was 
reinstated, it felt it reasonably needed to see invoices to evidence  costs incurred before 
making payment.
Ageas issued a final response to Mr and Mrs B on 2 May 2019. It confirmed that it was 
reviewing what it should pay them for alternative accommodation. It didnt mention any 
other costs  that might be outstanding.  Ageas said it was upholding Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint  which it logged as being delays in the duration of your claim. It apologised  
but didnt offer any compensation.
As mentioned above, it was in July 2019  when Ageas  and Mr and Mrs B exchanged further  
correspondence which confirmed the settlement for the kitchen units and contents items.
Mr and Mrs B also told us how disappointed they were that the claim was still unresolved. 
They said they had moved home but couldnt take their items back   these were still in 
storage and costs  were  being incurred. They said they were living in their bedrooms as 
work hadnt completed and their contractor had stopped work because  they couldnt pay 
him any more money. Whilst a lot of work had been done  including re-fitting  of the old 
and damaged kitchen as an interim measure until a new one could be bought and fitted   
the hard-floor  coverings were still in place, which were damp and mouldy underneath and 
needed replacing. They said they wanted Ageas to pay all of their hotel costs, storage 
costs, an amount to cover  their extra living costs and an amount for the cost of fitting  the 
new kitchen as well as the cost theyd incurred  for bringing the old kitchen back from 
storage.
Ref: DRN58101762Our investigator didnt  think we should  look at the issue of alternative accommodation, 
given this had already  been considered by an ombudsman who had issued a direction to 
Ageas which  was binding. But she felt we could consider Mr and Mrs Bs extra living and 
storage costs. She said Ageas  should pay these for 18 weeks. She also recommended  
that Ageas pay for fitting the new kitchen if it hadnt  done so already. She believed £250  
compensation had been  offered  by Ageas, so she didnt recommend that it pay more.
Mr and Mrs B said they wanted to know what this meant Ageas would now have to pay 
them. Ageas told us that its settlement  for hotel costs had included all costs  for living  away  
from home, but then said it would  pay £780  as a disturbance allowance but didnt explain 
the basis for that sum.  Ageas didnt offer any comment regarding storage costs.  It said it 
had already paid its limit of liability for the kitchen replacement.
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy and their complaint  came  to me for a decision to be 
made. I noted that Ageas  response about what it was prepared  to pay wasnt accepted as 
sufficient by Mr and Mrs B. Therefore, for this decision to equate  to a proper resolution of 
their complaint, I felt I needed to decide and set out what  I thought  Ageas should  pay. So 
I issued a provisional decision. 
my provisional findings
alternative accommodation
As our investigator explained, the outstanding dispute about what Ageas  should pay
Mr and Mrs B for the cost they incurred  to stay in the hotel is something that this service  
shouldnt become involved in. My ombudsman colleague said what  Ageas had to do in this 
respect and if Mr and Mrs B feel Ageas hasnt complied with that direction they will need to 
seek to enforce that decision  through the courts. But, if Ageas feels it hasnt  seen invoices 
for their stay in a hotel post 31 August  2018 (the date it has currently settled  until),  I would 
be happy to have our investigator forward copies to it of the invoices Mr and Mrs B have 
supplied to us. I hope the parties can reach a more suitable agreement on hotel costs such  
that lengthy and costly  court action  in respect of this already protracted claim and 
complaint can be avoided.
storage costs
Mr and Mrs B have  asked Ageas to pay their storage  costs.  Ageas has paid some  initial  
costs based on a quote Mr and Mrs B obtained in July 2018. The quote  said moving items 
to storage and the initial storage of them would cost £2,157.47 and Ageas paid that, but it 
wouldnt pay a refundable deposit detailed on the quote. Its also fair to say that whilst Ive 
no reason to think Mr and Mrs B delayed  in sending this quote  to Ageas, it was November 
before Ageas progressed this matter. Ageas claims handler, in an email  sent in
November 2018,  acknowledges that correspondence had been received but not added to 
the file, causing a delay.
It seems  as though Mr and Mrs B didnt have the funds to pay for the quote themselves 
during the period Ageas missed their email  contact. As far as I can see items were  not 
moved out of Mr and Mrs Bs home  until January 2019, when a different company was 
used for storage, along with another  company  for moving the items. Given  Ageas had 
delayed in putting them in funds for this I dont think that was unreasonable.  I dont doubt  
this caused the reinstatement work to be delayed. How much of a delay is unclear 
Ref: DRN58101763because Mr and Mrs B are no longer on good  terms with their contractor and they dont 
recall enough  from the time to advise as to what work was done when. Im not wholly  
surprised they are unclear as to what was happening with work  and when  reinstatement  
projects can be complex and Mr and Mrs B, as far as Im aware, had no reason  not to trust 
their contractor, so its not unreasonable to think they just let them get on with things.
Im mindful that if Ageas  contractor had been  handling this it likely would have  wanted  the 
belongings removed  from the home  before starting work. I dont often see insurance  claims 
of this nature progressing  without items  being  removed  and if they didnt need  removing 
for the work  to progress  then Ageas,  arguably,  wouldnt have  agreed  to pay for their 
storage in the first place. So Im prepared to say that Ageas unreasonably delayed  the 
claim between  July 2018 to November 2018  and Mr and Mrs B acted in a reasonably 
timely manner following  this to have their items  removed from their home in January 2019. 
The clock  for reinstatement  then fairly  starts running in January 2019.
disturbance allowance
This is an amount  that insurers often pay to policyholders  when they stay in a hotel. It is a 
compensatory amount designed  to pay towards extra  costs  the policyholder incurs as a 
result of living away from home in a hotel or similar  where the facilities are different to 
those available  at home. For example where the family cant  buy and cook food as normal, 
so spend extra on pre-packed/cooked food, and/or  eat out. An insurer wouldnt usually pay 
this when a family stays  in a hotel as part of a holiday, and I wouldnt usually find such  is 
unfair.
Im satisfied that Ageas hasnt accounted for these  types of costs  before. Its file shows its 
settlement for alternative accommodation  was based on the cost of the hotel  room/rooms 
only. No allowance  was included for other extra costs Mr and Mrs B might  incur. And our 
previous decision  didnt consider or comment on this aspect either.  Im satisfied Ageas 
should make  a payment in this respect  to Mr and Mrs B.
Often insurers will pay this at a rate of £10 per adult  and £5 per child a day. But each  
situation is taken  on its own merits. Looking at the age of Mr and Mrs Bs sons in 2018 (they 
were both teenagers),  I think  its reasonable to treat them as adults for the purpose of the 
allowance. So Ageas will have to pay Mr and Mrs B £40 a day as a disturbance allowance.
Ageas has settled for hotel costs for the period 16 July 2018 to 31 August 2018. Im 
satisfied it should  pay £40 a day to Mr and Mrs B for this period. Thats  46 days  at £40 a 
day  £1,840.
Ive also seen hotel  invoices from Mr and Mrs B for September 2018  through  to
26 October 2018. Im satisfied Ageas should  pay £40 a day to Mr and Mrs B for this period. 
Thats 56 days at £40 a day  £2,240.
Mr and Mrs B say they then moved back home in October 2018.  I havent seen that they 
werent able to cook or wash in their home at this time so Im not going  to extend the 
allowance over this period.  I know they went away after Christmas 2018 but Im satisfied 
this was a holiday. Whilst I know they moved  their belongings  into storage in early 
January 2019,  I havent seen consistent  and consecutive hotel costs being  incurred  in 
2019. If they can show me (in response  to this decision) that they moved  back  into hotels, 
when or shortly after their items went into storage, then Ageas  will have to pay them an 
allowance for the period of their stay at a rate of £40 a day.
Ref: DRN58101764when will Ageas have  to pay storage and disturbance allowance until?
I know Mr and Mrs B have  incurred storage costs well into 2019, even after they made 
their complaint to this service. And, as I said above,  they may have stayed in hotels during 
that time too. But I dont think I can reasonably make Ageas pay them  these costs through  
until their home is fully reinstated. Thats because I havent seen  that delays by Ageas  
caused the reinstatement of their home to become so protracted.
Ageas has said it would likely have taken up to three months to dry the home and then
four-six weeks to reinstate  it. Whilst weve given  Mr and Mrs B a chance  to challenge that 
by providing exact  detail  of the repair process  and/or comment from their contractor who 
was there  and managing the project, theyve been unable  to do so. Given the nature of at 
the damage (a leak from a washing machine), I dont think  Ageas estimation  appears to 
be unreasonable. In the absence of any other suggestion about what  the reasonable repair 
period should  have  been, Im prepared  to accept it. That means the repairs  should  have 
taken a total of 18 weeks.
Ive said above  that Ageas caused delays by paying the storage  costs late. I think its 
reasonable to say the 18 weeks reinstatement period should be said to start running from 
the point items were  moved to storage  in January 2019. That was 28 January  2019, 
meaning the 18-week reasonable repair period would  expire  on 2 June 2019. Thats the 
point Id say that Ageas liability for paying  Mr and Mrs B a disturbance allowance and for 
storage costs ends.
It cost Mr and Mrs B £864 to move  their items to storage and, according  to the overall  bill 
record from the storage  company, the total storage cost to the beginning of June 2019 was
£2,931.47. The total of the two being £3,795.47.  But Ageas has already  paid Mr and Mrs B
£2,157.47 for storage and removal, so it will now only have to pay them  £1,638 being the 
difference outstanding. It should add interest* to this sum from 31 March 2019  until 
settlement is made. The date Im saying it should pay interest  from is roughly half way 
through the period the charges were incurred. On this occasion I think its fair to set a
mid-point date and apply the interest to the total sum owed rather than the individual  
charges incurred because some  of the costs  incurred have, effectively, been pre-paid by 
virtue of Ageas  earlier payment.
I know Mr and Mrs B think Ageas should  pay beyond  that as their home still isnt 
reinstated, and their contractor has stopped work  because they wont  pay him anything  
more. But Ageas isnt responsible for that. Ageas paid them  over £30,000 in June 2018 for 
the reinstatement work. It was then tardy in handling  the accommodation costs. But I see 
that Mr and Mrs B were able to start making  regular payments  to the builder  and continued 
doing so even whilst also paying to live away from home. The initial  settlement didnt 
include the cost of replacing the kitchen  but it did cover removal  and re-fit of the old one, 
and that is what  Mr and Mrs Bs contractor did. So he didnt complete work Ageas hadnt 
paid for and, therefore, Mr and Mrs B couldnt pay him for.
I appreciate it is difficult juggling priorities during an on-going claim and repair work. 
However, if Mr and Mrs B were struggling  and prioritised storing items over keeping money 
earmarked for reinstatement work, I cant reasonably blame Ageas for that  the 
reinstatement work  should have taken priority.  And I note Ageas would have done this 
work for Mr and Mrs B but they asked to settle in cash so they could use their own 
contractor. Im satisfied that making Ageas liable for storage cost and a disturbance  
Ref: DRN58101765allowance (the latter on the proviso  set out above) until 2 June  2019  (inclusive)  is fair and 
reasonable.
kitchen
Ageas has paid towards replacing the kitchen units. Its paid for 100% of the cost of 
replacing damaged  units and for 50% of the cost of replacing undamaged units. Thats fair 
and in line with this services established  approach  for matching  but undamaged items.
But in terms  of a kitchen the cost of the matching  and non-matching  item themselves isnt 
the end of it. There is a cost for fitting the kitchen too.
Here Ageas  original scope, on which it based  its settlement, included a cost for re-fitting  
the old kitchen.  Had Ageas  acted more proactively on this claim then it might have been 
possible for Mr and Mrs B to purchase a new kitchen and have their contractor fit it. But it 
didnt. So Mr and Mrs Bs contractor fitted  the old one. This means  that Mr and Mrs B will 
have a cost for fitting the replacement kitchen. I think Ageas should reasonably pay for 
this.
In some cases, to determine the price  Ageas would have to pay, Id require the 
policyholder to provide an estimate.  And if the estimate included  VAT, Ageas would only 
have to pay the VAT element upon sight of an invoice. However, Ageas has been so tardy 
and handled  the rest of the claim so poorly,  as well as having left this particular matter 
unresolved for so long, I dont think its reasonable to leave things open in that way here.
Ive seen Ageas  original  scope from 2016.  Its fully broken down and costed.  It shows  the 
price that would be charged  for removing and refitting the kitchen units  and worktops. The 
total for the removing/refitting  work  is £3,440.49 (inclusive of £688.09  VAT). But its four 
years old so it will likely cost Mr and Mrs B more  than that now. In order  to draw this matter  
to a close, Im going to make Ageas pay this sum to them, plus interest*.
cost to move the old kitchen home
The old kitchen was placed in storage with everything else in January 2019. In March  
2019, when Mr and Mrs Bs contractor came  to re-fit it, it needed to be returned from 
storage. There was a cost incurred for this by Mr and Mrs B of £395. Ageas  said it paid for 
removal and re-fit as part of its initial settlement  so doesnt owe anything  more.
Whilst Ageas did pay for removal and re-fitting,  it wouldnt be usual for such  scoped costs 
to, without otherwise  mentioning it, include the cost to return  large bulky items from 
storage. This is usually  and reasonably understood to be the labour cost of taking the 
kitchen out and putting it back  in. Not least because, depending on the nature of the work 
the kitchen wont  necessarily have to have  been  stored off site. It seems it was here. I see 
no good reason  not to require Ageas to pay this sum to Mr and Mrs B, plus interest  from 
the invoice date of 27 March 2019.
compensation
Id normally  consider upset caused  by an insurer  only until the date of the final response  it 
issues. But Ive gone beyond that point  here.  My review commences from the point of our 
previous final decision  (in which my colleague  awarded £1,500 compensation) until Ageas 
made its offer regarding  the kitchen and contents  items on 4 July 2019. Ill explain.
Ref: DRN58101766I think that, following  our previous involvement, Ageas continued to handle  this claim 
badly.  I dont doubt this caused  distress and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs B and Im 
conscious that Ageas was well aware  how the continued upset would affect their sons, 
thus causing them more upset.
I think Ageas failure to handle the storage and disturbance  allowance  issues properly and 
in a timely manner also likely caused them financial stress. Ive found that Ageas was 
liable for these costs  through until the beginning of June 2019. And it follows  that it is 
responsible for upset  caused by financial issues to this point  too. So its reasonable for me 
to take that into account here.
Ageas offered settlement  on 4 July 2019  for the replacement kitchen and contents items. 
Ive considered Ageas offer regarding the kitchen  here and found  it was flawed. I note that 
in order to mitigate their situation, theyd had their old kitchen reinstated. I dont doubt  that 
doing that was upsetting for them.
Taking everything into account  Im prepared to say that Ageas should  pay a further  £500  
compensation. Ive seen  reference, on the small file Ages submitted to this service, to 
other complaints Mr and Mrs B have made and to some amounts of compensation having 
been paid. If, in response to this provisional  decision, Ageas can persuade  me that it has 
paid any part of this £500 already, in respect of the upset Ive said this amount covers , 
then it will only have to now pay any part of the £500 that it hasnt paid.
responses to my provisional  decision
Ageas did not reply.  Mr and Mrs B did.
Mr and Mrs B made various  comments regarding my background detail. They said they 
wanted detail  to be set out regarding the familys health issues.  They asked  that matters  
and Ageass conduct are considered right through into this year,  particularly because  
Ageas hadnt  paid them as promised to our investigator. 
Mr and Mrs B raised queries about  the accommodation costs. Regarding disturbance  costs  
they said how can it be right to make Ageas pay a small allowance  when they could show  
everything they spent  on fast-food.  They said £780  had been offered for laundry but this 
equated to a minimal  sum when stretched across  the period of disruption.  They  didnt 
consider their stays  abroad as holidays  not when home life was so disrupted and they 
had a chance to go and stay near/with relatives.  At the time the house  wasnt  habitable 
and even when  the old kitchen was put in, they had no dishwasher,  sink or worktops, the 
oven was in the hall and dishes had to be washed  in the cloakroom sink. Mr and Mrs B 
said theyd had to purchase a lot of stuff to move home with.
Mr and Mrs B said that Ageas failure  to make payments for the disturbance allowance and 
storage costs had a natural and significant knock-on effect to the works. Theyd been left 
out of pocket and trying  to make things right. They said they didnt understand how I could 
accept that Ageas should have paid them  money but hadnt whilst also concluding  it hadnt  
caused the work ot be delayed.
The £250  compensation  Ageas previously  offered,  Mr and Mrs B said, has never been 
paid. They asked  that dates were given  for Ageas to make payments by so there would be 
no further delay.
Ref: DRN58101767my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I note that Mr and Mrs B feel my background lacks detail  but it is a summary only. I am 
aware of the familys situation but will not add specific  detail of it here. That is because  
final decisions are published  so we have to be careful to keep personal details to a 
minimum. I explained provisionally the period  over which I was considering this complaint. 
I cant reasonably take it into this year.  In any event an insurer isnt bound  to make  any 
payment suggested  by an investigator even when  it agrees to it, not when the complainant  
asks for an ombudsman to make  a final decision.  
I cant make  any comment about the cost of alternative accommodation. As I explained 
provisionally, Im satisfied that issue should  not form part of my consideration because a 
previous ombudsman has already considered that matter and given a direction to Ageas.
I also explained provisionally that a disturbance  allowance is paid for extra  costs  a 
policyholder has for living somewhere like a hotel. This would be for things like laundry as 
well as food. Insurers in this sort of situation  are only liable for extra costs over and above 
those which  would usually  be incurred for eating and washing at home  which on top of 
the grocery bill would  include  some  of the costs  paid for utilities.  So by themselves bank 
statements showing payments being  made to fast food premises  dont evidence  what extra 
spending has occurred.  That is why a rate is used. 
Mr and Mrs B have  sent photos of their kitchen to us  but this appears to show the old 
kitchen having  been partially reinstated. Whilst they had a quote for work and storage in 
July 2018, I found that this likely didnt progress until late January 2019. And the old 
kitchen was moved back from storage in March 2019. So Im not persuade  that the kitchen 
was most likely in a relatively unusable state  in October 2018. Nor do I think its 
reasonable to say that Ageas should have  to pay them for items purchase  at this time  
they could have taken the items  from their boxes. If the items had been  damaged  by the 
leak, then that would be an issue for a contents  claim. I did indicate that if Mr and Mrs B 
showed me theyd  moved into hotel accommodation in early 2019, Id make a further 
award. They havent shown me this. So I wont make an additional award.
Ive acknowledged  that the work  was delayed in starting because  of Ageass delayed 
settlement payment for storage costs.  But I also noted provisionally that Mr and Mrs B 
were able to pay the builder even despite Ageas not having paid them  other amounts 
reasonably due, such as the disturbance allowance. The contractor received a lot of 
money according to the bank statements Mr and Mrs B provided   Im not persuaded that 
any lack of payment  caused the works to become protracted beyond  the beginning of 
June 2019. 
If the £250 offered previously hasnt been paid, it will now have to be. I cant  give a 
deadline for Ageas to make  payments  by. But if Mr and Mrs B accept my final decision,  
Ageas will be bound  to pay the awards Ive made.
Whilst Ive carefully considered Mr and Mr Bs responses, they havent caused  me to 
change my findings on this case as set out provisionally. And Ageas didnt reply  at all. 
Therefore, my provisional  findings  are now those of this, my final decision. 
Ref: DRN58101768 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs B:
£1,840 and £2,240 as a disturbance allowance based on the rates  and dates above. 
£1,638 being the difference owed for storage and removal  costs, plus interest* on this 
sum from 31 March 2019  until settlement is made.
£3,449.90 as a cost to fit a replacement kitchen  (which will involve removing the old 
units and worktops),  plus interest* from 16 September  2016,  the date of the original 
scope, until settlement is made.
£395 being the cost of bringing  the old kitchen back  to the property from storage, plus 
interest* from 27 March  2019,  the date this sum was paid by Mr and Mrs B, until 
settlement is made.
£500 compensation. I dont intend to award anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 November  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Ageas 
Insurance Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr 
and Mrs B, it should tell them how much its taken  off. It should  also give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing this if they ask 
for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5810176