K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the way Assurant General Insurance Limited handled his claim under 
his mobile phone insurance  policy.
background
Mr M lost his mobile phone and Assurant replaced  it. Unfortunately the replacement phone 
was faulty. But as Mr M reported  this while he was on holiday abroad Assurant couldnt 
replace it until he got home. There was then a further delay before the phone  was replaced.
Assurant accepted the original phone was faulty,  and that it made a mistake  in not arranging 
for an envelope for returning the phone to be waiting for Mr M on his return  from holiday. It 
offered him £25 compensation, but Mr M didnt  think this was enough. He said hed lost 
income because  hed been  without  a working  phone.
Our investigator thought Assurant had replaced the original phone reasonably quickly, and 
had taken fair steps to resolve the parts of the complaint it had upheld.  So he didnt  require it 
to do anything more.  
Mr M didnt  agree, and said hed taken his phone to the manufacturers  store  on the day 
Assurant had arranged  for his phone to be replaced, only to have to retrieve  it again for the 
doorstep swap. He said hed recently  had to make a new claim and Assurant had sent him a 
faulty phone  again.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  Assurant offered a 
reasonable settlement so I dont uphold  this complaint. Ill explain why. 
I think Assurant took reasonable steps to replace  the original phone, which  it sent out within  
three working days of receiving Mr Ms proof  of ownership and claim form. 
Unfortunately the phone was faulty, and Mr M reported the fault while  he was abroad. I think 
Assurant made a reasonable suggestion  for Mr M to visit the manufacturers  store  while on 
holiday, because  it couldnt replace the phone  until he returned home. I appreciate this was 
inconvenient for Mr M but I dont think Assurant could have done more. 
There was a delay  and some confusion when  Mr M returned home, and Assurant didnt 
arrange for the return of the faulty  phone when it said it would. It said sorry for this, arranged  
a doorstep swap  and offered Mr M £25 compensation. I think this was a fair response  to 
Mr Ms complaint for the inconvenience he was caused. I appreciate  hes said hes lost 
income, but hes not given evidence of that or that any loss was solely because he didnt 
have a working phone. I dont think I can fairly say that Assurant must do any more to 
resolve the complaint, and if he decides now to take its offer of £25 he can let Assurant or 
our investigator know. 
I am sorry  to hear Mr Ms comments about  the phone  he received under a new claim. I cant  
make any findings on that issue because weve not looked into it. But if Mr M isnt happy with 
any response hes received from Assurant  about  that claim he is entitled to bring that 
complaint to us. We look at each individual complaint on its own facts and merits. 
Ref: DRN59705232my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5970523