K820x#14complaint
Mrs M and her representative are unhappy  that she didnt receive  the benefit of an 
advertised promotion when using her American  Express Services Europe  Limited  card in 
listed retailers. 
background
Mrs M says she wasnt able to take advantage of American Express  Shop Small campaign 
when visiting multiple merchants who were visible on its online map. She says when  she 
attempted to use her American Express card the merchants confirmed they didnt accept it. 
She wants compensating for the lost benefit.
American Express said in its final response that it makes every effort to ensure its Shop 
Small online map is accurate. To participate retailers must have accepted  American Express 
for payment in the six months leading up to the promotion. The decision to accept American 
Express is made by the merchant. And American  Express isnt at fault if merchants  decide  to 
not accept its cards.  Payments were made to Mrs M where the schemes conditions were  
fulfilled. It hasnt made any error. Even  so its applied  a £25 credit to her account as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
American Express online map is made  before the promotion goes live and it cannot  
guarantee merchants  will accept  its cards. It also cannot accept liability if a merchant 
decides not to. As this is a decision made by the merchants it wouldnt be fair to ask 
American Express to compensate Mrs M as shed like.
When told that a merchant hadnt  accepted one of its cards American Express  
contacted the merchant and tried to resolve  the situation and provide  feedback.  It did 
so in the case of the merchants identified by Mrs M.
Mrs M benefitted  from Small  Shop promotion  credits in the sum of over £1,000. But 
she cant ask American Express to compensate Mrs M for the credits she says she 
wouldve received  at the additional merchants who didnt take her card. American 
Express credit of £25 to Mrs Ms account as a goodwill gesture is fair and 
reasonable.
Mrs Ms representative doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
American Express Small Shop campaign  paid out a £5 credit  for every qualifying transaction  
completed with Mrs Ms American Express card. But some  merchants listed  in the online 
promotion map declined to accept Mrs Ms card and she lost out on the promotional credits  
for around  a dozen transactions. 
Ref: DRN50470172That wouldve  been frustrating  and disappointing for Mrs M but it wasnt  American Express 
fault. It was up to each  individual  merchant  to decide if they wished  to accept American  
Express cards or not.
As these  transactions werent completed  on Mrs Ms American Express  card they werent  
qualifying transactions under the Small  Shop promotion. And as a result I dont think  I can 
fairly or reasonably require American  Express to pay her the promotional credits  for them, as 
shed like.
Overall, I dont  think I can fairly or reasonably ask American Express to do, credit or pay any 
more to Mrs M than its already done.  And I dont see any compelling reason to change the 
proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5047017