K820x#14complaint
Mr Ds unhappy that Nationwide  Building Society  only shows  the sort code and account  
number, not the name, of the payer  when an internal transfer is made between two 
accounts. Hed like it to change its policy and procedure.
background
Nationwide said in its final response that it was its policy not to provide an internal 
transfer payers name to the payee.  But this wasnt because of the Data  Protection Act 
as Mr D was told. It was sorry the level of service hed received wasnt  as good  as it 
shouldve been  and it was paying £50 compensation into his current  account.  
Nationwide subsequently said it wasnt going to change its policy  about the information 
provided on internal  transfers. But it was paying Mr D an additional £25 compensation 
for its delay  in responding to him.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
Nationwide has said its responsible for ensuring  a customers personal  data is 
kept safe and that it complies with the Data Protection Act. And as a result  it 
doesnt disclose  an individuals name  when  an internal transfer is made unless it 
has the individuals consent. 
It isnt our role to supervise, regulate  or discipline a business.  And we cant  
require it to change  its procedures  or improve the level of service  provided to 
customers. Thats the role of the regulator,  the Financial Conduct  Authority.  
Nationwides system gives the payer the option  of inputting a reference which it 
says will be what  is displayed on the recipients  statement. Its up to the payer to 
insert a reference and if one isnt there  thats  because the payer  hasnt entered 
one. Nationwide  says if Mr D wants to know the payer he can contact it and it will 
ask the payer to contact him. Thats  fair.
The compensation totalling £75 already  paid is fair and reasonable for the 
inconvenience and delay Mr Ds experienced.
Mr D remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  He says he doesnt 
understand why on internal transfers  Nationwide can only supply the payers  account  
number and sort code.  When  he makes  a payment from Nationwide to an outside 
account his name shows. Even internal payments with an added reference dont show it 
on the recipients account. Other banks payments into his Nationwide  account do show  
the payers name but dont show any specific reference the payer may have chosen to 
add. But internal payments from a Nationwide account dont show the payers  name or a 
reference they choose to add.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN56611142Mr D has provided detailed  submissions  to support his complaint.  Ive read and 
considered them all. But my findings are expressed  in considerably less detail. And they 
focus on what I think is the main issue.
I understand Mr Ds frustration at the limited information Nationwide shows  on 
statements when an internal transfer  is made. He would like more  information given 
particularly the payers  name. Nationwide has explained that it cannot do this as it has 
data protection  concerns.
Other banks may interpret their data protection obligations differently to Nationwide.  And 
different types  of payment  received  into Mr Ds Nationwide account may show  the 
payers fuller  details. Thats a matter  for the individual  businesses concerned.
Whatever the reasons are for Nationwides provision of limited information being  shown  
for internal transfers, the simple fact is that Mr D is asking us in this complaint to require 
it to change what it does  and reports when making internal transfers. 
But this service isnt a regulator.  We cant  fine or punish a business or require  it to 
change its practices and procedures. General issues about how the banking industry 
works are a matter for the Financial Conduct  Authority. And the way personal data is 
handled and used is overseen by The Information Commissioners  Office.
 
Nationwide has accepted its service couldve been better and its paid Mr D a total of 
£75 compensation  for this. Taking everything  into account, including  the level of awards 
we make,  I think thats fair. And I dont think I can reasonably ask Nationwide  to do 
anything differently or to pay any more.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5661114