K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policies.
background
This complaint is about mortgage PPI policies, with monthly-paid premiums, taken out 
between 2002  and 2008. At various  points the mortgage was extended or there was a re-
mortgage  at which point further PPI was sold. The parties to the mortgage changed at 
different points and included  each  of Mr F1, Mr F2, Mrs H and the late Mr H (together  the 
borrowers). Mr F1 is complaining in his own right and also on behalf  of the estate of the late 
Mr H. Between 2002 and 2006 only Mr F1 was covered by the PPI. From 2006, Mr F2 was 
also covered. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. The borrowers disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why:
The borrowers have  said it was made  very clear the mortgage would not be approved if 
they did not take out the insurance.  That may be right.  But theyre  having  to recall 
discussions from many years ago and it would not be fair for me to conclude that Lloyds 
acted wrongly in the way the borrowers  say, unless I had some supporting evidence. As I 
was of course not there, I cant be sure whether  the adviser was making a strong but 
reasonable recommendation, or unfairly pressuring them  to take PPI when they didnt  
want it. But theres nothing in the paperwork from the time to show that Lloyds said they 
had to have PPI. And I think the way the forms were set out suggests that PPI was 
offered as a choice.  
Lloyds  recommended  the PPI, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what  
Ive seen  of the borrowers circumstances at the relevant times. Being unable  to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at the 
same time as Mr F1 (and later Mr F2) received any employer sick pay, and potentially  for 
longer. It would have paid unemployment  benefits in addition  to any redundancy pay. 
And it would have  put off the time when they would have needed to fall back  on any 
savings or other help, such  as assistance from their fellow borrowers.  This would  have 
put them all in a more  secure position,  if Mr F1 or Mr F2 suffered long term sickness or 
unemployment. 
I think Lloyds could  have explained the cost of the policies better than it did. But even if it 
had, I dont think it would have affected  any decision to take PPI.
Ref: DRN59020792Its possible Lloyds didnt always clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. 
But its unlikely Mr F1 or Mr F2 would have been  affected by any of these, or otherwise 
that they made the recommendations unsuitable.  
Mr F1 says he thinks it was wrong  for the adjudicator to have taken into account  the 
circumstances of Mrs H and the late Mr H. I dont agree however. They  would also be legally 
liable for repaying  the mortgage,  but they may have had significant financial resources that 
would have made the PPI unnecessary  although  from what  Ive been told I dont think  Mr 
or Mrs H did. 
A mortgage is often  a big and long term commitment, secured on a home. So, as I have 
said, in most  circumstances a recommendation of PPI for a mortgage is reasonable, even 
where there  are some alternative  methods of payment. And in my view that was the situation 
here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint, for any of the PPI policies.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F1, Mrs H, and 
Mr F2 to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5902079