K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Credit Resource Solutions Ltd (CRS) have been  sending excessive 
communication about a debt which amounts to harassment. He also complains that the 
amount that was requested was incorrect.
background
Mr O had a debt with a third party company which was passed  to CRS to collect. CRS sent 
Mr O texts, emails  and letters  and made  automated calls to his phone requesting repayment. 
Mr O complains that this contact was excessive  and amounts to harassment. Further  he 
says that the amount requested by CRS was wrong and didnt take account of a repayment 
he had made.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He considered the 
contact that had been made by CRS was reasonable in the circumstances, especially since  
Mr O did not respond to any of the contact initially. He thought  that the error with the amount 
owing was because  the third party company had failed to tell CRS that a repayment had 
been made. He didnt  think that CRS had done anything wrong.
Mr O didnt agree and replied to say in summary  that the amount was wrong  and it wasnt 
relevant that it was because of the third party. He said that there were more  calls than the 
business had said and these were excessive  in the circumstances.
The matter  has been passed to me, an ombudsman to decide. This is the last stage in our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator for broadly similar  reasons.
It is important  to point out that this service doesnt  punish businesses for mistakes. I take Mr 
Os point that when CRS contacted him it was pursuing an incorrect  amount. But I dont 
agree that the reasons  for that are irrelevant. CRS was acting in good faith on information 
given by the third party  company. I dont think it is fair or reasonable for me to say that the 
complaint should  be upheld  on this basis. There was still a debt outstanding and once Mr O 
had raised his complaint CRS  took steps  to establish the correct position  with the third party 
company and the balance  was adjusted. There was still a debt outstanding as it had not 
been paid off in full and so I cant say that it was unreasonable for CRS to contact Mr O.
Mr O says that there were  more calls than the business has stated but he hasnt been able 
to provide any evidence of these. I have looked at the records  provided  by the business 
about the contact  made and CRS has clarified that automated calls were  made  in addition to 
the other forms of contact.  As Mr O initially didnt respond or engage I cant say that the 
contact was excessive.  There  was a debt outstanding  and so there  was a legitimate purpose 
to the contact. Looking at the contact I agree with the adjudicator  that it wasnt  excessive. I 
can understand why Mr O was frustrated  at the repeated  contact and I can appreciate  why 
he considers it amounts  to harassment  given  the nature of the calls, texts  and emails. But 
overall I dont think it is fair or reasonable to say that the contact was excessive in these 
Ref: DRN54264322circumstances, especially when there was a debt outstanding and Mr O wasnt responding to 
the contact.
I cant see that Mr O ever suggested that he was experiencing difficulty  and when he did ask 
for the contact to stop as he was making a complaint CRS  placed  a hold on the account.  I 
know that my decision will be a disappointment to Mr O but I cant  say that CRS have acted 
unfairly or unreasonably and so I dont  uphold his complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5426432