K820x#14complaint
Mr M, who has a residential property owners  (landlords)  insurance policy  with 
Covea Insurance  plc, has complained that due to delays and sub-standard  repair works 
carried out by them, he has suffered  a loss of rental income. Any reference  to Covea in this 
decision includes its agents.
background
Mr M owns a rental property. In 2017,  and while the property  was vacant, he became aware 
of a leak under the driveway of the property. He contacted Covea and repairs were 
completed in March 2018. Progress was delayed  for a number of reasons, however Mr M 
was paid compensation for the loss of rental income  and for the delays caused. 
In June 2018 Mr M became aware  of a second  leak at the property. This had caused  internal 
damage to the kitchen,  wooden floors and some  walls. Mr M says this second  leak is the 
result of poor workmanship during the first set of repairs. He also says that there have been 
unnecessary delays caused by Covea which has resulted in a loss of rental  income and 
required him to pay the council  tax. He has also said that once payment for the damage was 
agreed he was then forced to wait longer than required for the release of those funds.
Covea say that the majority of the delays were  down to Mr M, for example; Covea say that 
because Mr M wanted to consult his builders before organising access  to the premises  for 
them, they were only able to conduct  an external survey.  No leak was found during this 
survey. Unfortunately  on another occasion  they say that a member of Mr Ms family was 
seriously ill which meant that the matter couldnt be progressed as fast as they would have 
liked. Then they say a further delay was caused when the loss adjuster wrote to Mr M 
requesting estimates  from his builders explaining any delay would impact on the length of 
time the works would take. Mr Ms builders estimates didnt get to Covea until three weeks 
later. 
In respect of loss of rental  income  Covea say that because there wasnt a tenant in the 
property at the time of the leak, and because the delays in progressing  the repairs were 
caused by Mr M, they are not going to compensate him for this. They  have also told us that 
they will not be paying Mr M for the council tax he has incurred because their policy doesnt 
cover this. They do accept there  was a delay in paying Mr M his final settlement and have 
offered him £50 compensation for this.
Mr M didnt  agree with Covea and so asked our service to look into his complaint. After  
making his enquiries  our investigator thought Covea had been  responsible  for some  delay 
and that the compensation offered by Covea  was enough to put right the mistakes made by 
them. Mr M wasnt happy with this outcome and asked for the case  to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately Mr M has suffered two very similar events within  a very short  period  of time 
and I can see that this must have caused  him a lot of inconvenience, however I will not be 
asking Covea to do any more than they already  have; Ive set out my reasons for this below.
Ref: DRN53108282The first leak in 2017 was external. In July 2018, Covea conducted a second external survey  
of the house in the company of the Local Water Authority  (LWA).  Both organisations 
concluded that the leak was after the stop tap and under the house, it was an internal leak. 
The case  notes made at the time reflect these findings. In the absence of any other evidence 
to support Mr Ms claim that the two incidents are connected I find it unlikely  that they are.
The claims process took 16 weeks in total. I have read the case  file and identified  the events 
that caused the most significant delays. The first delay was just over 4 weeks  and arose 
while Mr M consulted with his builders. The second major delay lasted six weeks.  It is during  
this period that a member of Mr Ms family  fell seriously ill. I can see this wasnt a good  time 
for Mr M and understand that he would have had other things to worry about  at that time. 
Also during  this six week period I can see that Mr M and Covea spoke on many occasions. 
This was with a view to coming up with a solution regarding access, there was even 
consideration given to the installation of a key safe but this never happened.  To progress the 
claim Covea  needed  to get into the premises to conduct an internal survey,  make  an 
assessment of the damage and identify  what materials they needed to complete the repair. 
The next major delay  lasted three  weeks and happened because Covea were waiting for 
Mr M to supply  estimates from his own preferred builder.
Taking all these circumstances  into account  I cant hold Covea responsible  for the majority of 
the delays and I wont be asking them to pay Mr M any loss of rental  income. For the same 
reasons I wont be asking Covea to reimburse Mr M for the council tax costs he incurred.
The last delay occurred  between the final settlement being  agreed and it being paid. Covea 
explained this delay was due to an administrative  error for which  they were responsible. 
Covea have apologised for that delay and offered Mr M £50 compensation. I think that was a 
fair and reasonable offer in these circumstances.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
However - I am aware that Covea Insurance plc has made an offer to pay £50 compensation 
for the delay  in paying Mr M the final settlement. I conclude  that such  an offer is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Covea Insurance  plc should  pay 
Mr M the £50 it has already offered if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Ray Norman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5310828