K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Provident  Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) gave  him loans 
that he couldnt afford to repay.  He asks that it refunds interest  and charges and removes 
information about the loans from his credit file.
background
Mr M took out two instalment loans with Satsuma, one in April 2017 and the second in 
August 2017.  He says he had other short term loans,  defaults on his credit file and was in a 
debt management  plan.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She said Satsuma 
made proportionate  checks  before it offered the loans to Mr M. The information  it received 
suggested the loans were  affordable.  While Mr M had taken out loans with other  short term 
lenders, these had mostly been  settled  before  he borrowed from Satsuma. He didnt have 
short term loans outstanding when he took out the loans with Satsuma which would have 
suggested it needed to make  more checks.  
Mr M didnt  agree. He said it wasnt responsible for Satsuma to lend to him when he was in 
financial difficulties. He said he had 10 defaulted  accounts, a poor credit rating, a debt 
repayment plan and had been declined credit by other short term lenders. He said anyone 
looking at his credit file and bank statements would  see that further borrowing wasnt  
sustainable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
When Mr M applied for loan 1 Satsuma  asked him about his monthly income and 
expenditure. He said his monthly income  was £1,875 and his outgoings were £695 (including  
housing, financial commitments and other).  Satsuma added  £234 to Mr Ms stated 
expenditure to reflect  information from its credit check and internal models. This left him with 
disposable income of about £940.  
Loan 1 was repayable in 12 monthly instalments  of £116. I think  the information Satsuma 
received suggested  the loan repayments were  affordable. 
When Mr M applied for loan 2 he told Satsuma  his monthly income was £1,900 and his 
outgoings were  £570  (including  housing, financial commitments and other). Satsuma added 
about £756 to Mr Ms stated monthly outgoings  on credit  commitments. This left him with 
disposable income of about £575.
Loan 2 was repayable in 12 monthly instalments  of £132. Loan 1 was still outstanding and 
its not clear from the information Satsuma provided whether it included  the instalments  for 
loan 1 when it increased Mr Ms stated  credit commitments. Even  if it hadnt,  based on the 
information Satsuma  received,  Mr M would have had enough disposable income to meet the 
loan repayments  for both loans. 
Ref: DRN53018502Mr M says his credit file would have  shown short term loans, defaults and repayment 
arrangements. Satsuma says its credit  check showed no bankruptcy, county court  
judgements, debt management  plan or active accounts in arrears.  Its likely its credit check 
showed higher  credit  commitments than Mr M had stated as Satsuma took this into account 
when it increased  Mr Ms monthly  outgoings.
Mr M provided a copy of his credit  report.  This doesnt show any defaults when he applied  to 
Satsuma. And while he took out loans with short term lenders the amount outstanding when 
he borrowed  from Satsuma wouldnt have made the loan repayments unaffordable. I dont 
think the results of Satsumas credit  check would have alerted  it to a problem or the need for 
more checks.
I appreciate what Mr M has said about his circumstances at the time. But the evidence 
doesnt suggest that Satsuma was aware of his financial difficulties. 
I think, given Mr Ms stated income  and the amount of the instalments,  the checks made  by 
Satsuma were proportionate. The information it received suggested the loan repayments 
were affordable. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5301850