K821x#15complaint
Mrs H has complained on behalf of the estate of her late husband,  Mr H, that Mr H was mis-
sold a private medical insurance policy by Gallagher  Risk & Reward Limited.  Mrs H is in turn 
represented in her complaint by her son.
background
In 1993, Mr H was sold a private medical insurance policy by Gallagher. Mrs H was a 
beneficiary under the policy. The policy renewed each year.
In 2016, Mr H sadly died.
In 2017, Mrs H chose  not to renew the policy in her name only. She complained  that 
Gallagher had been  unable to provide  reports  to show the policy was suitable  for her and her 
husbands needs. She considered that the policy had become unsuitable as they had grown 
older and asked for a refund of premiums for at least the past five years.  She also objected  
that she had continued to receive correspondence  from the insurer  addressed  to her late 
husband even  after she had informed Gallagher of his passing  away.
Gallagher provided renewal documentation  for 2015 and 2016 but said it didnt  have 
paperwork from before this date. It noted  that Mrs H hadnt been specific  as to why she 
considered the policy  to be unsuitable  but it explained the general benefits of the policy 
which were available. It apologised that correspondence had been received addressed to 
Mrs Hs late husband and said Mrs H should send the insurer  a copy of her late husbands 
death certificate to ensure this didnt  happen  again.
Mrs H was unhappy at Gallaghers response. She referred her complaint to us. She said the 
policy was unsuitable  because she and her husband  lived in a remote  area and as they had 
got older they had become less and less able to get to a private  hospital to access 
treatment. It had also become increasingly  likely that their medical conditions would be 
regarded as chronic and therefore  excluded from cover.
While the complaint was under investigation, Gallagher sent a letter  addressed to Mr H.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. 
My findings  were as follows:
 
As the adjudicator  has explained, the original sale of the policy  in 1993 is outside of our 
jurisdiction because this activity wasnt regulated at that time. No information is available  
from the time of sale. However, I consider it likely that Mr H had wanted a private  medical 
insurance policy to provide cover for both him and Mrs H. I furthermore consider it likely that, 
given he continued  to renew  the policy for many years thereafter,  he considered the policy 
had, at least originally,  been suitable for his needs. Mr H made  a successful claim under the 
policy in 2010  and Mrs H did so in 2011, which suggests to me that the policy was still 
suitable for them at that time.
Gallagher wrote to Mr H shortly in advance of each renewal to confirm  that it was continuing  
to recommend the policy and to explain what the new annual premium  would  be. Mrs H 
considers that the policy became unsuitable sometime after 2011 and that Gallagher should 
have advised  Mr H of this. However, I think it was reasonable for Gallagher to assume that 
Mr Hs circumstances remained unchanged unless he notified  it otherwise. It may have 
Ref: DRN55274172shown good customer  service if Gallagher had arranged  to speak with or meet Mr H to offer 
to conduct a review  of his situation  but I dont think it was obliged to do this. I think  the onus 
was on Mr H to contact  Gallagher if he wanted such  a review.
Given that Mr H had apparently been  happy with the policy, I think it was reasonable for 
Gallagher to continue to recommend the renewal of the same policy each year.  The policy 
continued to provide the same broad cover  for private treatment  and changing to a different 
provider would have  risked Mr and Mrs H losing cover for any existing conditions.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs H lived some  distance from a private hospital and also that if 
they had needed treatment there was an increasing possibility this would be excluded from 
cover because it would either be on an emergency basis  or for a chronic condition.  I also 
recognise that no claims were made on the policy  after 2011. But Im still not persuaded that 
Mr and Mrs H reached  the stage sometime later where they would have been entirely unable 
to access the benefits of the policy. In any case, Mr H was made aware of the benefits and 
exclusions of the policy. It was up to him to decide  at each renewal whether the policy  still 
represented value  for money or whether,  for example, he should save  the cost of his 
premium and instead seek to privately fund any treatment which might be needed.
I recognise that Mr and Mrs Hs son, who is representing his mother in this complaint, feels 
that his parents were taken advantage of by Gallagher. But while Mr H was elderly,  I have no 
grounds for saying he was unable to make his own decisions. It is unfortunate that Mr H was 
unable to use the policy for treatment which he needed towards the end of his life. But I have 
explained why I dont think this necessarily means  the policy was unsuitable.
Mrs H has said the insurers medical  adviser  told her that the policy  was unsuitable.  
However, I havent heard the call recording where  this was apparently said and so dont 
know the context  of the comment. I therefore cant reasonably take this comment  into 
account.
I think Gallagher didnt  take action soon enough after learning  of Mr Hs death to ensure that 
no more correspondence  was sent to him. And it compounded matters by sending  a further 
letter addressed to him while  our investigation  was underway. Im satisfied these matters 
would have caused distress to Mrs H for which I think  Gallagher should pay her 
compensation of £300.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Mrs H, on behalf of her late husbands  estate, didnt accept my provisional decision. Her son, 
on her behalf, explained  why. He felt my decision didnt take account  of his fathers 
vulnerability due to his age. He suggested that his father wouldnt necessarily have fully 
understood any changes made to the policy and Gallagher should  have sought  engagement 
with him rather than simply inviting renewal  on the same basis  each year.  He thought  that 
changes to the policy in 2014  should have been a catalyst for Gallagher  to discuss the policy 
with his father to ensure it still remained suitable for his needs. He said the comments by the 
insurers medical adviser shouldnt be dismissed  out of hand and at the very least indicated 
the adviser thought the policy didnt  represent  good value for money. He outlined the various 
health problems  his father had suffered from in his later years, including  vascular dementia.
Gallagher accepted  my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN55274173my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
that this complaint should be upheld only in part.
I acknowledge that Mr H was elderly  but, while his son refers to him having  suffered from 
vascular dementia, I have seen no evidence that he was incapable of making  his own 
financial decisions. While changes might  have been  made to the policy each year I dont 
think these changes, even in 2014,  were so significant  that they altered its basic offering 
which was to provide  private medical cover  for non-emergency treatment of acute medical 
conditions. This was what Mr H had wanted  when  he originally took the policy out in 1993 
and, as Ive already explained, I think it was reasonable for Gallagher to continue  
recommending the policy  at each renewal. If Mr H decided that he no longer wanted the 
cover he was able to stop paying for it. I appreciate that his son thinks  Gallagher  should 
have engaged with Mr H but I still dont  think it was under an obligation to do so.
Mr Hs son refers to the comments by the insurers  medical  adviser. I dont dispute Mrs Hs 
account of what  the adviser said but, as I have explained, I dont know the context. It might 
well be that the adviser  considered the policy to be poor value for money given Mr Hs 
circumstances but, even if this were  her opinion, I cant  ignore  that Mr H had nonetheless 
made an informed decision to maintain the cover. 
In summary,  I understand Mr Hs sons concerns over whether his father  should have 
continued paying for his policy as long as he did but I think  he made  an informed decision to 
do so and I cant reasonably find Gallagher  at fault for that decision. However, I think  
Gallagher should pay compensation for the distress  caused  through its failure to inform the 
insurer and update its own records following Mr Hs death. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Gallagher  Risk & Reward Limited to pay Mrs H compensation of £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H on behalf  of 
the estate of Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5527417