K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the level of service  provided by Aviva  Insurance  Limited in regard to 
his motor insurance policy. He wants compensation.
background
Mr C took out a policy with Aviva  and it said it asked him several times for proof of his 
No Claims Discount (NCD). Aviva  said Mr C didnt provide  the proof and so it wrote to tell 
him that an additional  premium was due. It then wrote to say that if the additional premium 
wasnt paid by the 28 November 2017, it would cancel the policy.  Mr C said hed been  
abroad and he faxed his NCD confirmation to Aviva on 30 November 2017. But Aviva said it 
had already cancelled the policy. Mr C said that Avivas advisor was rude to him and called 
him a liar in a subsequent phone call.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Aviva 
had given Mr C fair notice that it needed the proof  of NCD before it removed the NCD  from 
his policy  and applied  an additional premium. He thought Aviva had given Mr C fair and 
reasonable notice to pay this or else it would  cancel the policy. So he thought Aviva had 
acted correctly. He also listened to the phone call in question and thought  Aviva  had done 
nothing wrong.
Mr C replied that his fax to Aviva  hadnt been read.  Hed tried to take out a new policy with 
Aviva but the premium  was too high because he said the NCD wasnt applied. He said hed 
explained his personal circumstances to Aviva, but it had shown no interest.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear of Mr Cs bereavement. I can understand that this must have been a 
frustrating and difficult time for him. I can see that Mr C had nine years NCD and hed faxed 
proof of this to Aviva. But he said it hadnt read it and so avoided  cancelling  his policy. 
Fortunately Mr C has since been able to obtain  an affordable policy  elsewhere.  But I can 
appreciate his upset  in the circumstances.
Like the investigator, Ive looked  at the steps Aviva took before it cancelled  Mr Cs policy to 
see if it has acted fairly  and reasonably. I can see that Mr C took out his policy  online to start 
on 6 August 2017. Aviva emailed him at the address  he provided  on 25 July 2017 to ask for 
proof of his NCD by 10 September 2017. This wasnt received and Aviva sent him three 
reminders before the due date. These warned Mr C that if proof wasnt  received, then his 
premium would be recalculated without the NCD.   
On 2 November  2017, Aviva  requested  the additional premium  from Mr C. It then wrote 
again to Mr C on 12 November 2017  giving him seven days  notice of cancellation if the 
premium wasnt  received by 28 November  2017. I can see that Mr C sent a fax with the NCD 
proof on 30 November  2017. But this was after the due date, and so I cant say Aviva  acted 
incorrectly in cancelling  the policy. 
Ref: DRN53815182Mr C said that he was out of the country  to stay with family following his bereavement. He 
said no one was at home  to answer  post or phone calls. He said that when he returned on 
29 November 2017, he noticed the NCD proof  had arrived from his broker and Aviva wanted  
to cancel his policy. 
But in his later call to Aviva,  Mr C explained that hed been out of the country since  early 
October. He said hed travelled a lot in July and August. I can appreciate  that Mr C didnt 
receive his proof of NCD from his broker before he left the country.  But I cant see that he 
responded to Avivas  several emails  to explain this. 
Mr C said he hadnt received any requests for the NCD  proof  from Aviva. But I think the 
emails were sent to the address Mr C later confirmed was correct. Mr C said hed checked 
his emails whilst abroad and there may have been problems with the emails. But I cant 
reasonably hold Aviva responsible for this. I think the emails  were clear and emphasised the 
importance of him contacting it to resolve  the matter  or pay the additional premium. 
Mr C said the advisor  had been rude in this call in relation to the fax hed sent. But I dont 
agree. I think  the advisor said that it didnt  look as if the NCD proof  was on file. She 
explained that the fax may have  gone elsewhere in the company. She said she couldnt 
reinstate the policy and explained why. She offered to provide a quote for a new policy over 
the telephone. But Mr C wasnt happy with this as this wouldnt have attracted the online 
discount. 
Mr C said Aviva should have had some compassion. But he also agreed that he hadnt told 
Aviva about  his bereavement or his travel  arrangements before the policy cancelled. I can 
understand Mr Cs frustration and annoyance at the time, but I didnt  hear the advisor speak  
rudely to Mr C. So I cant require Aviva to pay Mr C any compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5381518