K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about how Virgin Money  plc treated him when he experienced financial 
difficulties.
background
Mr C says he told Virgin in June 2018 that he was in financial difficulties and completed 
income and expenditure details with it. He says Virgin continued to charge him interest  and 
said it couldnt find the income and expenditure form or details of it. Mr C says in October 
2018 Virgin agreed to freeze interest but its actions have left him in a worse position and 
caused him stress.  He would like all charges  and interest refunded  from June 2018  when he 
first called it. And says if Virgin could  freeze  the interest without a form in October 2018 why 
couldnt it do that in the first place.
Virgin says it has no record of speaking  to Mr C in June 2018.  It says it tried to speak to Mr 
C on 21 July 2018 and 3 August 2018  but on both occasions Mr C said he didnt wish to 
speak to it as he had gone  through  income  and expenditure previously. Virgin accepts that it 
should have sent Mr C a form later on but didnt and has apologised and paid £50 as a 
gesture of goodwill. Virgin says it agreed  to freeze interest for two months from October  
2018 due to Mr C telling  it he would be in a position to repay the arrears.
Mr C brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator thought Virgin  had dealt fairly with it. 
The adjudicator having looked  at Virgins records didnt think there  was any record  of Mr C 
calling it in June  2018 and going  through income and expenditure. The adjudicator also 
listened to a call between the parties and thought Mr C had refused to go through  income 
and expenditure  again  as he said he had already done so. The adjudicator thought  Virgin 
had tried to speak to Mr C again  about this but without success  and thought Virgin had tried 
to help him. 
The adjudicator thought  Virgin had acted positively and sympathetically by waiving interest 
for two months and thought the gesture of goodwill payment was fair and reasonable  for not 
sending the form.
Mr C doesnt accept  that view and says its not his fault if Virgin  does not have a record of 
the call or the income and expenditure details. He says Virgin have  put him in a worse 
position than he was in and that other lenders  that he spoke to at the time treated him far 
better.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive considered the letter which  Mr C 
sent to Virgin earlier  this year. Having done  so Ive come to the same  overall  view as the 
adjudicator for largely the same reasons. I realise  that Mr C will be disappointed by my 
decision.
I appreciate that Mr C says he spoke  to Virgin in June 2018 and provided it with his income 
and expenditure  details.  But Ive looked through Virgins records and Im satisfied that there  
is no record of that call or that Mr C provided it with those details. I would have expected a 
record to have been kept in those circumstances, as I think  security details would have had 
to have been taken from Mr C which would have created  a data footprint on Virgins  systems 
and records. So I think on balance Mr C didnt provide the details to Virgin. And it may have 
Ref: DRN57634882been the case that he thought he had, as he was in the process of speaking  to a number of 
lenders at that time and providing income and expenditure details.
But in any event I can see that in July 2018 Virgin told Mr C that it needed details of his 
income and expenditure. Im satisfied that was shortly after Mr C says he gave those details  
in June 2018. And having listened to the call Im satisfied Mr C refused to provide those 
details and told Virgin that he wasnt going to call Virgin back as he said it was Virgins  fault.  
So Ive come to the conclusion  that Mr C should  reasonably have provided those details as 
without them, I dont  think Virgin could  help Mr C or provide any solutions for the difficulties 
he was in. I dont  think it would have been  difficult to provide those details  even if Mr C 
believed he had already provided them.
Ive also listened  to the call between the parties  in September 2018. And Im satisfied Mr C 
told Virgin he again wasnt  prepared to complete another  income  and expenditure form. I can 
see that Virgin agreed this time to freeze any account interest and charges as Mr C said he 
would be able to repay the arrears. So Im satisfied  Virgin tried to help Mr C on this occasion.  
But as the agreement came to an end without the arrears being paid, Virgin correctly 
continued to charge interest and any fees.
Banks and building societies should treat customers in financial difficulties positively  and 
sympathetically. But I dont think Virgin could have done any more  than it did to help Mr C in 
these circumstances  and without the information  it wanted Mr C to provide. Ive made clear 
that I think it unlikely  Mr C provided Virgin with the income and expenditure information in 
June 2018. But in any event I dont think it unreasonable  for Mr C to have provided  the 
information again in July 2018 even if it had already been provided.
There is no question here that Virgin should  have send Mr C a form which it didnt. Im 
satisfied Virgin has fairly apologised for that and paid what I think  is a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation of £50. Im satisfied that amount fairly reflects  the level of its 
mistake and the impact  it would have had.
Overall as Im satisfied that Virgin has tried to help Mr C I cant  fairly order  it to refund any 
charges or interest which I think have been applied in line with the account terms and 
conditions. I also think Mr C would have agreed to those account  terms and conditions  when 
the account was opened.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5763488