K820x#14complaint
Mrs W has complained that Barclays Bank  UK Plc (Barclays)  mis-sold her an 
Additions packaged bank account. She paid a monthly fee for the account  which  provided 
several benefits in return.
background
Mrs Ws account was opened  as a fee-free account  in July 1992.  Barclays  doesnt have a 
record of exactly when  she upgraded to the Additions account, as it was so long ago. So it 
has assumed that it was in May 1996,  as thats  when  it first started selling packaged bank 
accounts. Mrs W changed her account back to a fee-free account in July 2012, and closed it 
in September  2012.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Barclays mis-sold the Additions account to Mrs W 
and didnt recommend that Barclays should  pay her any compensation. Mrs W didnt agree 
so she asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mrs Ws complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mrs Ws complaint a lot of thought,  I dont think the Additions  account was mis-
sold to her. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mrs W was given  a fair choice when she upgraded her 
account.
Mrs W has explained that she asked  Barclays if she could  increase her overdraft and she 
was told the only way she could do so was by upgrading  her account.
From the earliest transactions  available  which are from the start of 1998  I can see that 
Mrs W was using her overdraft regularly. I dont know what her limit was, nor indeed  what  it 
was before this point,  when she says she asked to increase it.
Considering the way Mrs W used her account,  and her overdraft, I think shed have known 
she didnt have to upgrade her account. I do acknowledge  that Mrs W mayve  upgraded her 
account before the dates that Ive seen, but her account balance  didnt go excessively 
overdrawn, and she doesnt appear to have been  entirely reliant on her overdraft to go about 
her daily life. Ive also seen nothing to suggest that her account activity  mightve  been  
different before the transactions  Ive seen. So whilst  I accept that Mrs W asked to increase 
her overdraft at the same  time as upgrading her account, I think  its more  likely than not that 
she upgraded for the benefits  the Additions  account offered, in particular those related to the 
overdraft, rather than because it was the only way to have an increased  overdraft limit. 
Ref: DRN50307482I dont think that Barclays  recommended the packaged account to Mrs W so it didnt have to 
check if the account was suitable for her. But it still had to give her enough  information  about 
it. 
Like our adjudicator, I think that its likely  Mrs W was interested in at least  some of the 
benefits of the Additions account, and chose it because of these benefits. 
The main  benefit  of the Additions account  from the date it was launched  in 1996, until the 
latest date Mrs W couldve upgraded, was a fee-free overdraft facility.  Whilst Mrs W had a 
fee-free account  she was charged  an overdraft  usage fee of £5 per month, whenever she 
used her overdraft. The Additions account also cost £5 per month and meant the overdraft 
usage fee was waived.  As well as this, it included the first £100  of any arranged  overdraft 
interest-free, as well as various  other  insurance  benefits.
Having looked  at the way Mrs W used her account,  it looks as though she used her overdraft  
at some point during  every month of 1998.  I havent  been made aware  of anything that 
makes me think this is significantly different to how shed been  using  her overdraft before 
then, so I dont think  Mrs W lost out by paying  the £5 Additions accounts monthly fee, in 
place of the £5 overdraft usage  fee that shed have paid on her fee-free account. In fact, 
Mrs W wouldve  saved  on the interest she paid on the first £100 of her overdraft,  when she 
used it.
I understand that Mrs W may not have  wanted or used all the benefits of the Additions  
account. And shes highlighted that she didnt make use of, or make any claims on, the 
accounts benefits. But having  thought about whats most likely to have happened  in the 
absence of any other information, I think Barclays  told Mrs W about the cost and main  
benefits of the account and she chose to take it because at the time,  it appealed to her. And 
although with hindsight she might not feel like it was good value for money  to her, that 
doesnt mean Barclays mis-sold the account.
Its possible that Barclays didnt tell Mrs W everything it should have about the Additions 
account. But I havent seen enough  to make me think that Mrs W wouldnt still have taken 
the account even if Barclays  had told her more about it. 
I want to reassure Mrs W that Ive looked  at all the information I have about her complaint. 
And Ive thought about everything shes said. But having done so I dont think  Barclays  mis-
sold the packaged account  to her. So I dont think it owes her any money.
Ref: DRN50307483my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs W but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold her 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5030748