K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains Aviva Insurance  Limited failed to provide a premium rebate for her 
telematics motor insurance  policy.  
Miss M has been represented during  this complaint. For simplicity Ive referred to the actions 
of the representative as being those of Miss M. 
background
In February 2018  Miss M took out an Aviva motor  insurance policy.  It required her to have a 
telematics box fitted to her car to monitor how it was driven.  This recorded  four aspects of 
her driving behaviour.  These included acceleration and braking. The data for each was used 
to produce an overall driving score. The cost of the cover could be increased or reduced 
depending on Miss Ms driving scores.
In August  2018  Miss M complained that her acceleration score had been showing as 0 (the 
lowest possible score) since March 2018. She felt the box wasnt  recording this aspect of her 
driving correctly - particularly as she had good scores for the others. 
Aviva couldnt identify a problem  with the box. But it replaced it in November 2018. Aviva 
said there wasnt any significant change in her acceleration score  after that. So it felt there  
hadnt been a problem  with the original box. Miss M disagrees. She was given one premium  
rebate. But she feels  the incorrect data unfairly  denied her a further  one. She wants  to be 
paid that. She would also like compensation for time spent dealing  with this issue.
One of our Investigators  looked at the complaint.  He didnt feel there was a problem  with the 
data. He didnt  recommend  Aviva do anything differently. Miss M didnt accept his findings.  
So the complaint has come  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making Aviva pay 
any compensation or do anything differently. 
Miss M wants  Aviva to rebate some  of her premium. For me to make it do that Id need to 
think two things. Firstly there was probably  was a problem with the boxes, the data or the 
scoring. And, secondly, that without that problem Miss Ms overall  driving score probably  
would have been high enough  for her to receive  another rebate. But I havent  seen enough  
to make me think there  was a problem.
The Investigator provided an explanation  of how the data is used to produce scores. So I 
wont repeat  that in detail here.  My understanding is the box records a acceleration  event 
when a certain g-force level is exceeded. Each one has a negative  impact on the score  for 
acceleration. That score then feeds  into the overall driving score.   
Aviva says it checked the data but didnt  find any error or problem. Ive also looked  at the 
data. I havent  seen enough to make me think there  was anything  wrong  with it. From what  
Ive seen the acceleration data from the box corresponds with the score  awarded for the 
relevant day. The data shows accelerations events for many  journeys and on most days  the 
car was used. There are also many  journeys and some days without any acceleration 
Ref: DRN54797442events. So it seems the box was recording a mixture  of journeys with and without 
acceleration events. 
Miss M had a good score for braking. The data also shows some  braking events.  So that 
behaviour was also being recorded by the box. Thats  also scored based on the g-force 
reading. That makes me think its most likely the box was measuring g-force.    
The box was replaced. Miss M says the data produced after this showed the original box 
was recording acceleration incorrectly. I dont agree. After  the new box was installed there 
were a couple of days without acceleration  events.  But following that they continued to be 
recorded regularly.  It seems unlikely there was a problem with both boxes. 
Miss Ms provided  a video  of her car being  driven. She feels it shows  the box was recording 
acceleration incorrectly.  Miss M says the cars revs didnt exceed 2,000.  And she stayed 
below 30mph. But two acceleration events were  recorded for the journey. Aviva says there  
were two periods  where the g-force  was above  its threshold for an event. I accept the revs 
were kept at 2000  or below. But as explained  above there  were  journeys and days  where no 
acceleration events were  recorded. So it was possible to avoid them. And I cant  say from 
watching the video that those acceleration events or others were recorded against  Miss M 
unfairly. 
I accept its possible there  was a problem with the boxes, the data or the scoring.  But overall 
I havent seen  enough to make me think there probably was. So I cant  say Aviva treated 
Miss M unfairly  by not providing  a further rebate.   
 
Miss M wants  to be compensated for the time shes spent on this issue. But I dont agree 
there was a problem  with the data or scores. So I cant say Avivas  caused her any 
unnecessary distress or inconvenience.  That means  Im not going to make it pay her any 
compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Aviva Insurance Limited pay any compensation 
or do anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2019.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman Manager
 
Ref: DRN5479744