K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that a debt Cabot Credit  Management Group Limited (Cabot) are pursuing  
him for is unenforceable  and that theyve been  aggressive when chasing him for it.
Mr C has been represented by a third party  in this complaint but for ease  I will refer to Mr C 
throughout this decision.
background
Mr C took out a couple of credit cards with a company Ill call N in 2010. The debts  were  
sold to Cabot in 2017 and they are now pursuing him for those debts which they say hes 
defaulted on. 
But Mr C says, as theyve  failed to supply him with a copy  of the credit  agreements and a 
statement of the accounts, as is required by section 78 of the Consumer Credit Act, the 
debts arent  enforceable on him. He says that its clear, given the time thats elapsed since 
he asked for a copy of agreements, that its not possible for Cabot to provide the information 
and he therefore  says the debts are irredeemably unenforceable  and its unfair  to leave him 
in a state of limbo while Cabot sit on debts they cant enforce.
He also complains that Cabot:
have been aggressive in their correspondence and communication  with him and have  
not taken account  of his circumstances. 
are responsible for the credit being  irresponsibly provided to him
should remove or amend adverse data on his credit file pertaining  to these  debts 
Cabot didnt agree. They  said they were still waiting on the relevant documentation  from the 
original creditor and whilst they couldnt  currently enforce the debts it didnt mean  they 
werent owed.
So Mr C referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided his opinion.  He 
explained that this service  wasnt  able to determine  whether  a debt was enforceable  only a 
court could do that. But he noted that Mr C had continued to make  payments towards  the 
account when  Cabot took over its management and that Cabot had explained the current  
balances. So he was persuaded there was evidence the debts were Mr Cs and that Cabot  
were therefore being fair when pursuing him for payment. 
He explained  that Cabot  hadnt provided  the original credit and in those circumstances any 
complaint about  irresponsible lending  should  be referred to N, who had. And he said, as he 
was unable to decide whether the debt was enforceable,  he also couldnt  advise the credit  
reference agencies  to remove it from Mr Cs credit file as he couldnt establish whether an 
error had been  made.
He reviewed the correspondence  that had been sent to Mr C by Cabot but he didnt think 
there was evidence Cabot had been  aggressive or had harassed him and overall, he didnt 
think it would  be fair to ask Cabot  to take any further action.
But Mr C disagreed and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN52268602my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C but I agree with the investigators view. Please let me explain 
why.
The appropriate forum  to decide  technical  arguments as to whether a credit agreement  is 
enforceable is not the Financial Ombudsman  Service, but a court. But, as the investigator  
has explained, we are able to decide  whether Cabot is being fair in pursuing  Mr C for the 
debt.
Mr C made  a request  to Cabot under section 77/78 of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974). This 
legislation says that the creditor (in this case Cabot)  needs to supply the debtor (in this case 
Mr C) a copy  of the executed agreement.
But as Cabot has not been  able to provide this, the legislation says that until they can, the 
debt isnt enforceable. Cabot accepts that the debt cant currently  be enforced.
They argue that Mr C is still potentially liable so they should  be allowed to continue to hold 
the debt against him. But there  are implications for Mr C as his credit file may be damaged 
by the debt.
is Cabot being  fair in pursuing Mr C for the debt?
I think theres enough evidence here to suggest  on a balance of probabilities that the debt in 
question is Mr Cs. I say that because:
Mr C has been making payments to Cabot for this debt through a debt management 
company and I dont  think  that would be likely if it wasnt  his
Mr C accepts that he held credit cards  with N
Cabot have  been able to provide  balances  for the accounts they say Mr C is responsible 
for and were  originally  with N
So I think, given  the evidence Ive detailed above,  Cabot are being fair in pursuing  Mr C for 
the debts.
should reference to the debt be removed from the credit files?
As theres  currently no decision on whether the debts are enforceable I dont think  it would 
be fair for me to suggest any record of the debts  was removed or amended on Mr Cs credit 
file. That would only be fair once a decision was made about  whether the debt was Mr Cs 
and could therefore be enforced.
are Cabot responsible  for any irresponsible lending?
It was N who provided the credit  and I therefore  think its fair to suggest  that any complaint 
about irresponsible lending should  be made to them and not to Cabot.
was the correspondence aggressive?
Ref: DRN52268603Ive reviewed the correspondence  that Cabot sent to Mr C but I dont agree that it was 
aggressive. It appears to be factual  and not too frequent or rude. So I dont think  Ive seen 
evidence that Cabot have done anything wrong  here and overall I dont  think  they need to 
take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5226860