K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC applied an overdraft charge to his account even 
though hed cleared his overdrawn balance on the same day. He also has a number  of other 
concerns about  the poor service he received.
background
In summary  Mr S complains that:
Barclays applied a 0.75p overdraft charge although he cleared his overdrawn 
balance on the same day.
he wasnt told he had to clear  his overdraft balance by 6.30pm to avoid overdraft 
charges.
Barclays never replied to him in writing as hed requested. He was in hospital  
receiving treatment  during this time,  so it was difficult  for him to make  this transfer 
and speak with the bank by phone.
he received conflicting  information from different advisers through online banking.
he asked for his complaint to be logged in September 2018 and responded to in 
writing but he didnt receive a response until March 2019  after hed sent Barclays two 
chasing letters.
Barclays didnt refund the 0.75p charge as itd agreed in its final response letter.
Initially Barclays didnt uphold his complaint.  It said the charge was correctly applied 
because Mr S didnt clear his overdrawn balance before  the cut-off time. But as a gesture of 
goodwill it agreed to refund  the charge. When Mr S brought his complaint to our service,  
Barclays reviewed his complaint and the way itd been handled. On review it upheld his 
complaint because it didnt refund the 0.75p  charge as it said it would. Barclays also said it 
had let Mr S down so it offered £100.00 compensation in addition to refunding the 0.75p 
fee.
Mr S was unhappy with this outcome  and requested  £200.
When our investigator looked  at Mr Ss complaint he recommended  it should be upheld  
because Barclays admitted its mistake after the involvement of our service. The 
investigator realised Mr S wanted £200  but he thought Barclays offer to refund the 
overdraft fee together with £100  compensation for the level of service  was fair considering 
the low impact it had on Mr S.
The investigator thought the overdraft charge was correctly applied because  the terms and 
conditions explain that different cut off times apply to different transactions  and these 
should be checked in branch, over the phone or online. Barclays explained that the cut off 
time to clear overdraft balances had been  6.30pm for a number of years. This meant that 
although Mr S cleared  his overdrawn balance on the same day, this wasnt  received until 
after the cut off time.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view.  Ive summarised his concerns and the 
investigators response in italics below.
He says he didnt  receive  anything  to tell him that 6.30pm was the cut off time for clearing 
an overdrawn balance. If the money  he paid into his account didnt clear his overdraft  
then he asked if Barclays held his money elsewhere. After speaking  to Barclays  the 
Ref: DRN54080052investigator confirmed  that his funds hadnt  been  held elsewhere. He also thought  he 
might be in danger of being charged  twice  if he transferred from one account to another  if 
they were both overdrawn. The investigator explained that he could only look into what  
had actually happened and not what might have happened.
Mr S thinks  the amount  of compensation should  be greater because  his complaint has 
taken over nine months and due to his illness during this time it caused  unwarranted 
distress.
Mr S hasnt seen the terms  and conditions detailing the cut off time.  And hes says other 
banks have cut off times but they dont charge a fee if the deadline is missed. In response  
the investigator provided Mr S with an extract from the relevant part of the terms and 
conditions and he also explained that he couldnt  comment on the processes used by 
other banks.  He could  only comment on whether or not Barclays had acted in line with 
their terms  and conditions.
Mr S disagrees with the investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says he wasnt aware he needed to clear his overdrawn balance  by 6.30pm to avoid  an 
overdraft fee being  charged. Barclays provided a copy of the terms and conditions applicable 
to Mr Ss account. I agree these dont specifically state that any overdrawn balance  must be 
repaid by 6.30pm to avoid  interest  being charged.
However, the investigator has already  provided  an extract of the relevant wording and it 
does say: Different  types of payment instructionshave different cut-off times. You can find 
out the cut-off times by looking at our website  or asking us in branch or on the phone. So 
Im satisfied they make clear that Mr S can find this out by checking on the website, in 
branch or on the phone.
In the circumstances of this complaint  I can see that although Mr S didnt repay his 
overdrawn balance by the relevant cut-off time,  Barclays nevertheless  agreed  in its final 
response letter to refund the 0.75p overdraft fee. I appreciate  Barclays failed to pay this as it 
had agreed but Im satisfied that Barclays put Mr S into the position he would have been in 
had he cleared his overdrawn balance by the required  cut-off time. So Im satisfied  this is 
fair.
Mr S says other banks  dont charge if a payment isnt made  by the cut-off time. I appreciate 
his concerns but as the investigator has explained we cant comment on the practices of 
other banks  as the complaint here is against Barclays. And because this service doesnt 
regulate banks I cant require Barclays to change its cut-off  times  or the way it charges for 
use of an overdraft. Thats something the Financial  Conduct Authority would need to decide.
Barclays has already  made  an offer to refund  the 0.75p overdraft charge and to pay £100 
compensation for its poor service so I need to decide if this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances taking  into account the impact  this has had on Mr S.
Ref: DRN54080053I realise Barclays applied  an overdraft charge of 0.75p to Mr Ss account but Im not aware 
that Mr S has suffered any other  financial loss. This means I have  no basis  to require 
Barclays to increase the compensation  it has offered  for financial loss.
I realise Mr S would like £200 compensation because it took Barclays a long time to deal 
with his complaint  which  caused him unwarranted  distress due to his illness.  Unfortunately 
our rules  do not allow us to look at the way Barclays handled  his complaint because 
complaint handling isnt a regulated  activity that our powers allow me to look into. I 
appreciate it was a difficult time for Mr S due to his illness but I think  the £100 compensation 
offered by Barclays is fair and reasonable in the circumstances to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and to the extent it has not done so already I 
direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to refund to Mr S the 0.75p overdraft fee it charged and to pay 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S as a result of its poor 
service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5408005