K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy sold in 
January 2003.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for
this sale. So, to keep  things simple, in my decision Ill just refer to FICL as the PPI seller.
Ms C says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out on a store account in 2003.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Ms C owed on her store card.  The policy  would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month  if Ms C made a successful 
claim if she couldnt work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Cs case.  
Ive decided this PPI policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
The policy was taken  out by completing  an application form in store. I havent seen anything 
to suggest FICL assessed Ms Cs individual needs  to make sure it was right for her. As it 
didn't advise Ms C to take the policy it didn't have to check it was suitable  for her but it did 
have to make sure Ms C got the information  she needed to decide if it was something she 
wanted. 
As this policy was taken  out in store, I dont know for sure what was said to Ms C. I havent  
any evidence to show that Ms C was given clear information about the cost of the policy.  Its 
possible FICL may have  explained the amount she would pay for each pound she spent on 
the card, but I dont know if it explained that interest  would  be charged on those premiums if 
there was an outstanding  balance or that she would need to keep paying the premiums 
during a claim.
I think this would have  mattered to Ms C as she has told us that she would have received 
employee sick pay for at least six months  if she was too ill to work.  And from what I know  of 
Ms Cs employment circumstances this doesnt  appear unlikely. Ms C has also told us she 
had savings she could  have used equivalent to 12 months pay. Ms C hasnt provided any 
evidence for this but I dont find this surprising considering the sale was over 15 years  ago. I 
havent seen anything to undermine what Ms C has told us so think  Ms C could have met 
her store card repayments without the policy.
Ref: DRN54998562I am aware  that the benefit of the policy was relatively high - paying 15% of the outstanding 
balance every month  but so was the cost. And given what  Ms C has told us about her 
employee benefits and other financial means, I dont  think she would have thought  she had 
much need  for the PPI if she had fully understood the cost and benefits. 
I dont think Ms C would  have bought the policy if FICL had given her enough information 
about it. So I think she has lost out because of what FICL did wrong. 
Ive taken into account FICLs comments, including what it said about  having details of 
Ms Cs savings, but because of what Ive said, this doesnt change  my mind.  
putting things right
FICL should put Ms C in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Ms C would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms C owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms C made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy,  FICL  can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms C would have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Ms C would  have owed each month without  PPI  she 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms C paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Ms C would  
have owed FICL  something  on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year 
from then on.
D.FICL should tell Ms C what  its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Ms C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Ref: DRN54998563Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5499856