K821x#15Complaint
Mr S complains that FirstRand Bank Limited  refused to let him reject  a faulty car.
Background
In August  2018  Mr S acquired  a second  hand  car costing £15,047  funded by a hire purchase 
agreement and a deposit of £5,000. It was some  three years  old and had done 47,641 miles.
A couple of days after getting the car Mr S noticed a speaker  wasnt working and there  was 
condensation in a headlight. The dealer repaired the speaker, but said the condensation  was 
normal and cleared after a period of time. In September Mr S contacted  FirstRand  and said 
the car was juddering. He took it to a main dealer and it fixed  the problem at no cost.
Mr S said that the main  dealer had told him it that as it was summer it would be difficult  to 
demonstrate the condensation issue. In the autumn the car developed another  issue with an 
Adblue warning light coming  on. The car was inspected  by a main  dealer which  
recommended the light be replaced  and said the fault code system  identified a fault with the 
Adblue pump. Mr S asked to be allowed to reject  the car and FirstRand  arranged for an 
independent inspection.
The inspector concluded the light condensation was a cosmetic issue and he didnt think  the 
Adblue fault was likely to have  been present at the point of sale.  
Mr S brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who recommend it be upheld in part. She noted  the independent report  in 
regards to the fault relating to the Adblue delivery pump, and she concluded this was a 
serviceable item. She thought that had the issue been present or developing at point of sale,  
it would  have presented itself before  Mr S had completed nearly  4,000  miles. 
However, she disagreed  with the report as far as the light was concerned. She noted  that Mr 
S had raised his concerns  about  this within days of acquiring the car and so she thought it 
was likely to have been present at the point of sale.
She said Mr S had wanted to reject the car, but she didnt think this was the right answer. 
She suggested FirstRand pay for the replacement light from an approved  main  dealer and 
pay £75 compensation for the stress and inconvenience Mr S had suffered.
FirstRand didnt agree and said the light was a minor issue which  if present at the point of 
sale would  have been visible. It added that it had offered to pay for it to be repaired and it 
had asked Mr S to submit  an estimate  from a VAT registered dealer which he had failed to 
provide. However,  it wasnt  prepared  to pay for a main dealer  to make the repair.  It didnt 
think it had caused  Mr S any distress or inconvenience. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Ref: DRN53420462The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
FirstRand is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
It is clear to me that the issues first raised  by Mr S were quickly  resolved at no cost to him 
save for the headlight.  The Adblue pump fault arose after Mr S had driven the car for some  
4,000 miles and the independent inspector has concluded it was unlikely to have  been  
present at the point of sale of sale. As such I cannot  say that this was an inherent fault.
The other minor issues were all resolved and didnt amount  to sufficient to enable me to say 
the car should  be rejected. However,  I do consider the light was defective and this should 
have been repaired  at the outset.  I appreciate  FirstRand has offered to have it repaired by a 
VAT registered dealer and not by a main  dealer  and I think  that is a reasonable solution. 
As for the issue of compensation I agree with the investigator that although FirstRand has 
sought to assist Mr S the light should  have  been  repaired at the outset  and the delay has 
contributed to his distress  and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I direct FirstRand Bank  Limited 
pay for the cost of repairing/replacing  the headlight at a VAT registered garage  
subject to Mr S providing an estimate  up front.
pay Mr S £75 for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5342046