K820x#14complaint
Mr T and his mother complain that Nationwide  Building Society mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI) in connection with their mortgage. Although  this complaint is by a 
mother and son, I will refer to them as Mr and Mrs T in this decision for simplicity. 
background
In 1990 Mr and Mrs T took out a mortgage  with Nationwide Anglia  Building Society  later 
part of Nationwide   during a meeting  at one of its branches. At the same  time they took out 
PPI to cover Mrs Ts income and protect their mortgage in the event Mrs T couldnt work 
through accident, sickness or if she lost her job.
The policy cost £6 per month and provided a benefit  of £150 per month,  which covered most 
of Mr and Mrs Ts monthly mortgage  payment of £195 per month.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 24 months per claim.
Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage and the PPI policy ended in December 1995.
At the time of the sale Mr T was due to inherit  a substantial mount of money and Mrs T had 
substantial savings.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. The adjudicator  said the evidence 
showed that Mr and Mrs T chose to take out the PPI and there  was nothing to indicate  theyd 
lost out as a result.
Mr and Mrs T disagree so the complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Nationwide says that this was a non-advised sale, by which  it means that it didnt recommend 
the PPI to Mr and Mrs T personally  or advise  them  to take it. And based on this services  
knowledge of Nationwides  sales practices at the time, I think its more likely than not that the 
sale was non advised. This means Nationwide did not have to ensure that the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs T, but they did have to provide Mr and Mrs T with good enough 
information about the policy so they could make  an informed  decision about whether to have it.
This isnt an easy complaint to decide.  There is limited evidence  available  from the time of 
the sale, around 25 years ago. So, I must  carefully  weigh  up what  is available  to me when  
reaching my decision.
Ref: DRN57930582did Nationwide make  it clear to Mr and Mrs T  that they had a choice about  PPI?
Mr and Mrs T say Nationwide  discussed the PPI with them, and they told Nationwide  they 
didnt want it, but the PPI was given to them anyway. Mr and Mrs T say they hadnt  realised  
theyd been given the PPI until many years after the loan and PPI were closed.
The PPI policy was sold in June 1990. Both Nationwide and Mr and Mrs T say the policy  was 
sold in a branch.  I have  no application  forms or agreements for the loan or the PPI from the 
time.  I only have figures from Nationwide  about the dates,  cost and duration of the loan and 
the PPI. And there are no notes available from the meeting  to show what  was said.
I accept it is possible Nationwide didnt  give Mr and Mrs T a choice about taking PPI. I also 
accept it is possible Nationwide gave  them  the impression they had to take it out or just gave it 
to them  anyway. But it seems to me more likely  Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs T the opportunity  
to take out the policy or decline  it as part of their mortgage application, and that they chose to 
take it out, but have simply forgotten in the years that have now elapsed. I say this because, 
had they chosen not to purchase PPI, or had it been added to their account without either their 
knowledge or consent, I wouldve expected them to query or challenge this soon afterwards. 
I think they would have noticed  that the PPI cost made their monthly repayments shown on 
their statements £6 higher than the monthly  cost of the advance they would have received in 
the mortgage offer. Or later, I think they would have noticed they had PPI when contacted at 
the annual PPI policy renewal time or when  they received their annual  mortgage statement  
I have seen a sample  of the statement which shows it referred to the PPI.
This means  Im not persuaded (as I must  be to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint) it is more 
likely than not Nationwide presented the policy to Mr and Mrs T as compulsory or that it 
didnt tell them about the policy at all.
So I think that Mr and Mrs T chose to take out the PPI based on the information Nationwide 
provided to them.
did things  happen  as they should have done  were Mr and Mrs T properly  informed?
if not  have Mr and Mrs T lost out?
I dont have enough evidence to know what information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs T 
about the PPI. For example whether the policys  costs and benefits were  made  clear  to them 
and if they were told about  the significant  exclusions  and limitations  of cover.  I find it unlikely 
Mr and Mrs T took the cover  out without knowing anything about it, but I dont know if they 
received everything  they needed to know to allow them to make an informed decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done.  I accept Mr 
and Mrs T may not have  been  treated fairly and reasonably.
But I dont think Mr and Mrs T have lost out as a result. I say this because I find it unlikely 
that Mr and Mrs T would  have acted differently and not gone ahead  with the cover if 
Nationwide had done more. My reasons are as follows:
Mrs T was eligible  for the cover and all its benefits
Mrs T was employed and in good health at the time, so it doesnt appear she would 
have been affected  by any of the key exclusions  / limitations  of her cover  such  as 
existing medical condition exclusions or unusual  employment terms.
Ref: DRN57930583I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs T would have agreed to something without having  some  
understanding of the cost. And I think its unlikely they would have declined it solely on 
the basis of its cost had it been  made  clearer to them  because  at approximately  £6 per 
month, it appears  to have been affordable.
Mr and Mrs T have  argued that because  Mr T had an inheritance due and Mrs T had 
substantial savings and they both had some sick pay, that they didnt need the PPI. But it was 
for them to decide,  based on the information they were given, whether they wanted the PPI. I 
think the PPI would have been  useful to them as it paid out in addition to Mrs Ts sick pay and 
for longer. It also covered  her if she lost her job, meant they might  not have to use their 
inheritance or savings  and provided some  protection against losing the property theyd 
invested in. So they had reason to choose  to take the PPI, and I dont  think there was anything 
that Nationwide failed to tell them that would have caused them not to decide to purchase  it.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and Mr 
and Mrs T may not have  been  treated fairly and reasonably by Nationwide  in its dealings  
with them,  I find theyve  not lost out. This is because, on balance,  for the reasons Ive 
detailed above,  I think Mr and Mrs T would have been in the same  position if Nationwide had 
done more and properly informed them - I think they would have still taken out the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr and Mrs T have not lost out as a result of 
taking out PPI with their mortgage, so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5793058