K820x#14complaint
Mrs Os complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold to her by      
HFC Bank Limited. Mrs O says HFC has not properly compensated her for the mis-sale  of 
the policy.
background
Mrs O took out a loan with HFC in October  2005 the account number ended 0206. The loan 
was a type of revolving  credit which worked  in a similar way to a credit card.
At the same time Mrs O was sold a PPI policy to protect her repayments against being 
unable to work due to an accident, sickness or redundancy.
Mrs O complained to HFC about  the sale of the PPI policy. HFC has agreed to uphold       
Mrs Os complaint and has offered to pay her £43.90 compensation. 
Our adjudicator thought the offer was fair. Mrs O disagreed  with the adjudicators  findings so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
When a business  compensates a consumer for mis-sold PPI we expect it to put the 
consumer, as far as possible, in the position  theyd be in if the PPI hadnt  been sold.  On the 
type of account  held by Mrs O, wed expect it to reconstruct the consumers account  as if 
they hadnt taken out PPI. Wed then expect the business to compensate the consumer for 
the extra they paid because of the PPI. 
HFC has shown us all the transactions made on Mrs Os account while it was open. Mrs O 
didnt use the account very heavily and she was only charged a PPI premium on five 
occasions.
In total Mrs O was charged  £18.71 for PPI and HFC has offered to refund this. Its also 
worked out how much interest Mrs O was charged because  of the PPI and its offered to 
refund this too. And HFC has added compensatory interest at 8% simple  for the time shes  
been out of pocket. After tax is deducted  the amount HFC is offering is £43.90. So I think 
HFC has done what Id expect it to and has made  a fair offer.
I realise the offer may seem low to Mrs O but it takes into account that she only held the 
account for a short while  and was only charged £18.71 for the PPI. PPI compensation varies 
greatly depending on many factors. For example the type of account  it was attached to, how 
the premiums were paid,  the level of cover, how long the PPI was in force,  are all factors  that 
would affect the level of compensation required  to put a consumer in the position theyd be in 
if the PPI wasnt sold.
Taking everything into account  I think HFCs offer is fair and I wont direct it to do anything  
different.
Ref: DRN53171992my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and I dont direct HFC Bank Limited to do anything different.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5317199