K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Oakwood Homeloans Limited didnt treat them fairly when they 
were suffering from financial hardship.  Theyre also unhappy  with the level of charges  on the 
mortgage and the outstanding balance.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out this mortgage with Oakwood  in November 2006. They borrowed 
about £126,000 on an interest-only  basis over a 25-year term. The mortgage  has been 
arrears since it started,  and legal action was taken  in July 2007  which  led to a Suspended  
Possession Order being granted  in October  2007.
There have been  various complaints over the years. This one was answered by Oakwood in 
July 2018 and in its response it offered to reverse two mortgage  arrears fees of £50 each. It 
rejected the rest of the complaint.
Our investigator explained that she couldnt  look at all the fees on the mortgage  account 
because part of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint was out of time. In terms of the remainder she 
said one further  fee should be reversed, but didnt  think  the rest of the complaint should be 
upheld. 
Oakwood agreed to that, but Mr and Mrs M said theyd only consider accepting  it if the £150  
was paid to them, rather than just being reversed off the mortgage account.  Oakwood wasnt 
willing to do that as it said Mr and Mrs M hadnt paid the fees. As the sides  couldnt agree its 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ours is an informal  dispute resolution  
service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. If I dont  
comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach the right outcome.
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party. Were required to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable having assessed all of the available  evidence  from the parties.
As our investigator explained, under our rules we can only consider matters that happened 
in the last six years (unless we think the consumer could only reasonably have become 
aware they had cause  to complain in the last three years). As Mr and Mrs M would have 
been aware of them  at the time (by way of letters and statements),  this means  we cant  
consider any interest, fees or charges  incurred  before June 2012; six years  before 
Mr and Mrs M raised this complaint.
As for any fees applied after June 2012,  I agree  that the three fees already identified - two by 
Oakwood in its final response letter, and a further one by our investigator  - should be 
reversed. But I dont  think Oakwood needs  to go any further  than that. Im satisfied the 
remaining fees were  reasonable in the circumstances. I say this because they were charged  
in accordance with the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage account and were 
Ref: DRN53613492based on the conduct of that account. Mr and Mrs M have been in arrears for much of the 
time theyve  held the mortgage, and various  payment arrangements were  broken.
Clearly, the mortgage  was in arrears, so Oakwood was entitled  to take steps to recover the 
money owed to it. Contacting Mr and Mrs M to discuss the level of arrears on the account,  
and to ask how they intended to get the account up to date,  are legitimate actions that 
Oakwood was entitled to take. Ive looked  at the level of contact  on the account and I cant 
say that Oakwood  treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly  or harassed them   when doing so. 
Oakwood has an obligation to keep Mr and Mrs M informed about the status of their account, 
so I cant say it did anything wrong when it issued  arrears/default letters to them.
Mr and Mrs M have  said they want the fees refund paid to them directly, rather  than just 
being reversed  off the mortgage account. Whilst I understand why theyd want that its not 
something Id award as Mr and Mrs M havent paid that extra  £150 to their mortgage (as 
theyre in arrears) so it would be unreasonable to tell Oakwood  to refund money  they 
havent paid. Instead each of the three fees should be reversed off the mortgage account as 
at the date they were incurred, thus cancelling out any interest that would have been 
charged on them.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ms concern that the amount they owe on the mortgage has 
increased. Thats because they have an interest-only mortgage, and havent made all the 
contractual monthly repayments on time.
The mortgage had accumulated arrears  over a prolonged  period. As interest  is constantly  
being charged this means its not as simple as making up the missed  payments, theres  also 
the extra interest incurred for every day each payment is overdue. Thats not to say 
Oakwood has charged interest  on interest here, its just a simple  fact that for each delayed 
payment extra interest will be charged on the unpaid amount for every day it is late.
We dont provide an auditing service  or carry out a forensic analysis of mortgage  records. 
But Ive looked  at the transaction  history and theres  nothing on there  that appears unusual  
or incorrect. Of course, its open  to Mr and Mrs M to instruct an independent qualified 
professional to audit  their account. But that would have  to be at their expense  though  if 
errors were found to their detriment, they could complain about that and their costs in 
discovering the errors could be taken into account in putting matters right. But as things 
stand, Im not persuaded that Oakwood  has mis-managed their account.
Wed expect a lender  to look at offering help to consumers going through a temporary 
problem, especially in situations where  it can be seen their situation is likely to improve.  The 
difficulty here is that Mr and Mrs Ms difficulty in getting on top of their arrears was anything 
but temporary. Theres no doubt  theyve gone through  very difficult  times, and continue to do 
so. The pressure to make their mortgage payments against such  a backdrop  must have 
been immense for Mr and Mrs M, and Im not unsympathetic towards them  in that regard. 
But my impartiality means  I must  also have  regard for Oakwoods  point  of view. 
Everything has a context. Mr and Mrs M dont think Oakwood has treated them fairly. But 
from Oakwoods side, Mr and Mrs M owed it money  and for many  years they hadnt met all 
their contractual repayments. Having considered everything it seems Oakwood showed  
patience and leniency towards Mr and Mrs M for a number of years;  it isnt obliged to do so 
indefinitely.
Ref: DRN53613493Having considered everything  Im satisfied the offer to reverse the three mortgage arrears  
fees is fair, and I make no further  order or award of compensation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  only insofar as I order Oakwood Homeloans Limited to reverse  the 
three mortgage arrears  fees incurred on:
31 October  2013,
31 March 2014, and
31 May 2018.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion on the merits of it. Under the rules  
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject 
my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5361349