K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr O says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax), mis-sold him the PPI. 
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Halifax in the rest of my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Os case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr O says it wasnt emphasised that PPI was optional. Ive seen a copy  of Mr Os signed 
credit card application.  And on it I can see a printed x next to where it says Credit  Card 
Repayment Insurance. As the sale took place  in one of Halifaxs branches, I think  its 
most likely a detailed  discussion took place. And I think  Halifax most likely made it clear 
that Mr O didnt  have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr O so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  which includes what  hes told us 
about his employer sick pay at the time  I think that it was. For example he wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had 
a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr O about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he most likely chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr O has said - including  what hes said about feeling 
pressured to buy PPI. But Mr O hasnt given much detail about what  made him feel 
pressured. 
For me to uphold his complaint on this point  I would have to find that its more likely than not 
that Halifax acted  in this way. Having looked  at all the available information carefully, I simply 
dont have compelling evidence to say that an advisor put any unfair pressure on Mr O.
Mr O also says his family and friends  wouldve helped him if needed. But support from 
others cant be guaranteed  after all their circumstances  can change. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr O paid for it. But Halifax  has already  offered to give Mr O back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Ref: DRN51884972I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr O. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5188497