K820x#14complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim she made  
under her buildings  insurance policy. 
background
In October  2018, Mrs K contacted Ageas  to report a claim for damage under her buildings 
insurance policy. 
Mrs K reported that damage had occurred to the front of her property as a result of a vehicle 
collision. Mrs K said plant  pots were  also damaged  when the vehicle entered her driveway  
and collided with her property. 
Mrs K said she heard  a loud bang,  and saw a vehicle driving away  from her property.  Ageas 
said when Mrs K reported the claim she told it she didnt  see the collision take place. 
Ageas instructed a claims handling  company who visited  the property. And in their initial 
report the surveyor stated  the damage  was caused by a vehicle hitting Mrs Ks property.  A 
follow up appointment was arranged by the claims handling company with a contractor who 
attended Mrs Ks property on 12 October 2018.  The report from this visit considered  the 
damage Mrs K was claiming for wasnt consistent with a vehicle collision. 
Ageas said there was a delay between it obtaining the second report  and informing  Mrs K of 
the decision to decline the claim, on 26 November 2018. Mrs K had contacted Ageas in 
between these dates  asking for updates  as she was due to go into hospital  and wanted 
things resolved. 
Ageas said its decision  to decline the claim was based on the contractors professional  
opinion that the damage  present wasnt consistent with a vehicle collision, and had occurred 
over a longer  period of time. Ageas said it does recognise it couldve kept Mrs K more 
updated and offered  to pay her £50 for the trouble  and upset caused. 
Mrs K disagreed with Ageas decision and asked  for it to deploy a third professional to obtain 
another opinion.  But Ageas declined this and said Mrs K could employ her own independent 
tradesman, and it would  review additional reports. So Mrs K asked our service  to review  her 
complaint. 
Our investigator looked into things and didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint. She said while she 
didnt dispute  Mrs Ks version  of events, she wasnt persuaded the damage was caused  by a 
vehicle collision. She felt it had more  than likely occurred over a period of time. She did 
agree Mrs K should  be compensated  for not being kept updated,  but felt £50 was adequate 
in the circumstances. 
Mrs K got back in touch  with our service in April 2019 and expressed her disagreement  with 
our investigators findings. As Mrs K maintains that the damage  was caused by a vehicle 
collision, the case  has been passed to me to decide.   
Ref: DRN50338812my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im in agreement with 
our investigators findings and for broadly the same reasons. I appreciate this will disappoint 
Mrs K so I will now explain why. 
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Ks policy state  Ageas  will pay claims where  your buildings  
are hit by moving  or falling objects. For example,  wed cover  you if your buildings  were hit by 
an aircraft, car or falling tree.  But it wont  pay out on claims  if the damage is due to general 
wear and tear, poor design or workmanship. And having reviewed all of the information on 
file, on balance I dont  think  I could fairly  conclude  the damage at Mrs Ks property is solely 
due to a vehicle collision.  
The report  by the first claims surveyor that attended Mrs Ks property stated the damage was 
caused by a vehicle collision. But I agree with our investigators opinion  that theres  a lack of 
rationale to support this. And the claims handling company have told Ageas the report was 
based on information given by Mrs K.  
Im more persuaded  by the second  opinion from the contractor  which  states a number of 
factors which include  (extracts taken from the report available): 
There are a number of cracks that have been  repaired  previously; this indicated that 
there have been issues  with the render before. 
On closer inspection we found that there is no clear impact point, usually we would  
expect to find a crumple  zone  or an area of indentation  to indicate exactly  where  
the property was hit, all that can be seen  here is a number of cracks  (some repaired, 
some more  recent spidering  away from the bay window.
The report  which  the above points were extracted from also suggests  the cracks  present 
appear to be related  to the fitting of the bay window, which the contractor didnt think was an 
original feature. I also note Ageas points out that no scuff  or scratch marks are present on 
the window; the only damage present is on the inside of the window that Ageas has said is 
consistent to an installation issue with the bay window  mentioned  by the contractor. 
On balance and taking everything into account  I cant agree that the damage is due to a 
vehicle collision. While I dont dispute Mrs Ks version of events, I couldnt reasonably 
require Ageas to pay the claim under the policy as Im more persuaded there are pre-
existing issues present relating to wear and tear  which isnt covered under her policy. 
I do agree  there were delays and Mrs K had to chase up Ageas to receive updates about her 
claim. I also note Mrs K was due to attend  hospital  at some point during the time her claim 
was ongoing.  So I can appreciate it wouldve been frustrating for her not being  kept updated. 
However, I agree £50 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances so I wont  be asking Ageas 
to do anything further here.  
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN50338813Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5033881