K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains the terms of a fixed-sum loan agreement  financed by Santander Consumer 
(UK) Plc were  misrepresented. He wants Santander  to amend the agreement to match  the 
terms he says he was promised. And he wants compensation  for the loss hes suffered. 
background
Mr M tells us in May 2016 he acquired a motor vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as Q. In 
order to finance  the deal he says Q offered to arrange a fixed-sum  loan agreement, through 
Santander, at an interest  rate of 3% with repayments over four years. Mr M says he wasnt  
provided with any paperwork at the time of the deal and later found out he was being 
charged interest at 8.45% per year over five years.
Santander told us the explanation document which wouldve been provided to Mr M before 
he signed the finance agreement had set out the terms - namely  monthly payments of 
£399.51 over 60 months. It said the fixed-sum loan agreement - which Mr M had signed - 
contained these  terms and had not been  altered. And it said no proposal had been  put 
forward for a shorter term.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said Mr M had 
signed the finance agreement and this had been in the same  terms as the pre-contract 
information. She didnt  think  thered been  any misrepresentation.
Mr M didnt  agree and said hed not been  treated  fairly. As its not been possible to resolve  
this complaint an ombudsman has been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M seems to have experienced a number of problems  surrounding  the acquisition of this 
vehicle - and Im sorry hes had to encounter  such difficulties. And I can see hes raised 
other issues in complaints  addressed  to both Santander and the Financial Conduct 
Authority. So I need to clarify Im only dealing with the issues surrounding  the terms of the 
agreement - not the quality of the vehicle itself. 
Im also aware Mr M has made reference to another application made  to Santander  for 
finance in respect  of this vehicle. Its my understanding that this application was made  - and 
declined - just before  the fixed-sum loan - which is the subject of this complaint - was 
granted. 
As that application  was apparently made  to a part of the Santander business which  operates 
as a separate legal  entity to Santander Consumer (UK) Plc - to which this complaint relates - 
Im not able to deal with any issues arising from that application.
As Mr M is alleging the terms of the finance agreement  were misrepresented  I should  
explain our approach to such complaints. A misrepresentation is a false  statement of fact 
which induces a customer to act upon  it.
Ref: DRN59622762And whilst I dont apply the law - directly  - I do take it into account. Under present legislation 
- as the supplier of the finance under the fixed-sum loan agreement  - Santander  is equally 
responsible (with Q) for any misrepresentation made by Q in relation to the terms of the 
agreement.
In trying to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell us, and we look to 
documentary and other evidence to help us reach a decision. This is in line with our fair and 
reasonable remit. And where evidence is unclear or incomplete - as some  of it is here - I 
have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say I decide  what  is the 
most likely explanation to account for whats happened.
The documentary evidence Ive seen in the form of the pre-contract information and the 
finance agreement  both set out the terms of the loan as being at 8.45% per year interest 
over five years. Whilst Mr M says he was told by Q that the interest rate would  be 3% and 
over four years - that is not borne out by the document he signed.  
Mr M has said he didnt think  he had enough  time to consider those areas of the contract 
over which he had doubts or was unsure. But I dont think it is unreasonable  to expect that if 
such uncertainties existed they were raised at the time or very soon afterwards.
And I can see that all the relevant terms of the agreement about which Mr M complains were 
to be found on one page of the agreement - immediately above his electronic signature.  The 
information on this page included the cash price of the vehicle;  the cost of credit and total 
sum repayable; the rate of interest; the rate of monthly  repayment  and the duration  of the 
agreement. Its hard to see how things could be set out any clearer. And hes been  charged -
and has been  paying - in accordance with these details.
I think its probable that Mr M misunderstood what was said about  the terms of the 
agreement - and didnt check as closely as he might  now wish.  I understand the loan he 
originally applied for - and which was declined - was advertised at 3%. So it may be he has 
assumed a similar rate would apply to a loan being  offered by a business  operated  by the 
same parent company. But I cant say theres  been any misrepresentation by Q as Mr M has 
clearly signed and indicated his acceptance of the agreement  in the specified terms.
And whilst Mr M has said he didnt  receive  a copy of the agreement  until this service became 
involved - I dont think that alters the position.  I havent seen  any persuasive evidence  that 
he raised this as a concern at the time. And as Ive already said the relevant  terms were all 
clearly set out on the page of the agreement which he signed.
In order to assist Mr M, Ill also mention briefly another issue which  he raised later during the 
enquiry into his complaint. But Im not making any findings of fact on this issue as Santander 
hasnt had the chance to respond.  This relates  to the way in which the interest  is calculated  - 
not the rate itself. And it would be open to Mr M to make a separate  complaint to Santander 
about this aspect.
Ref: DRN59622763Whilst Ive seen some calculations provided by Mr M - Im not able to say if these are 
correct. I simply  comment that the manner  in which interest is calculated on many financial 
agreements can be complex. And interest  is not necessarily evenly spread throughout an 
agreement. So whilst  monthly payments might be set at the same  level - that does not mean 
the amount of interest  and capital  repaid from each payment is equal. The proportion of 
interest paid from monthly payments nearer the start of an agreement is likely  to be much  
higher than towards the end. This is because the outstanding capital sum on which the 
interest is paid is at its highest nearer the start of an agreement.
Whilst I know it will come as a disappointment  to Mr M, I do not think  Santander has done  
anything wrong  regarding this agreement and its entitled to rely upon the terms and 
conditions set out. So I shant be asking it to do anything  else. Therefore, Im not upholding 
this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5962276