K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Mrs O have complained about issues that arose when they took out a joint life 
annuity with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva). Mr C says that Aviva contributed to 
delays in starting the pension. And he is unhappy with the way in which it dealt with a 
request for information. He also complains that he has lost future pension  payments  as 
these have been adjusted to cover  commission paid to the third party that arranged  the 
annuity. 
background
Mr Cs 65th birthday  was in January 2018.  He and Mrs O signed a joint annuity application on 
the 15th of that month. The third party firm arranging the annuity sent it to Aviva, but it went 
missing. A new application was sent and received in February 2018.
The pension provider sent the money to Aviva  on 28 February  2018  and the annuity  was set 
up on 7 March 2018.
The third party firm agreed  to pay redress for the delay in setting up the annuity. It wrote  to 
Aviva asking for information  it needed.  Aviva didnt  respond at first. After the third party firm 
contacted Aviva again, Aviva said that it had no record of the policy.  After  realising its error, 
it then provided the requested information.   
Mr C complained about the delays to his annuity and that Aviva hadnt answered  a request 
for information. Aviva said it hadnt  received the first application. But it accepted that it could 
have dealt with the information request better. It paid Mr C and Mrs O £150 compensation 
for this.
It was subsequently established  that Avivas response to the third party firm had not been 
received, so it was sent again.
Mr C wasnt happy with this outcome so he referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service along with his complaint against the third party firm. 
An adjudicator considered  the complaint and thought that Avivas compensation payment of 
£150 was fair. However, as Mr C and Mrs O were unhappy with how their complaint against  
the third party  provider had been  dealt with they asked  for both complaints to be referred  to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.  
For the sake of clarity Im aware  that Mr C and Mrs O have another complaint  against the 
other business, which is being looked at separately. 
So what  Im considering here is whether  Aviva  failed to provide some information  when  
asked and whether  its offer of compensation  for that error is fair. And whether Aviva caused 
Mr C to lose pension income  by using money  from his fund to pay commission  to the third 
party.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I find I agree with the 
adjudicators assessment  of events and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN56249212I can see that Mr C feels  very strongly about this matter and also doesnt believe his 
complaint has been fully investigated. And I have some sympathy for the position Mr C found  
himself in when his joint annuity with Mrs O wasnt set up. But I think the compensation 
Aviva has paid for its part in the matter is fair and reasonable and Ill explain why.
Aviva has said it didnt  receive the first annuity application from the third party  provider. But it 
did receive the replacement that was sent and the annuity was then set up within two weeks 
of that. So I cant  safely say Aviva should  have set up the annuity earlier if theres no 
evidence it received the application. Ive seen how the third party  provider has paid redress 
for the overall  delay  which I understand Mr C has accepted  caused by the lost 
application. 
In order to carry out its redress calculation the third party provider  needed to obtain some 
information from Aviva. I can see it requested this information in a letter  dated  
15 March 2018.  However,  although  I can see it was received by Aviva  on 20 March 2018, 
Aviva didnt respond to it until 3 May 2018 and then it said it couldnt  identify the policy in 
question. It provided  a further corrected response one week  later. 
And I can see how this would have caused  Mr C and Mrs O some degree of inconvenience 
because during this time they had to wait for the redress relating to the delay in setting up 
the annuity to be worked out (and paid to them).  And I think the initial  incorrect information 
Aviva provided about the policy would also have caused some distress during this period. I 
know that Mr C was annoyed Aviva hadnt  looked into the matter  further  to identify  he had a 
policy with it.
But Aviva has acknowledged  that its service could  have  been better. Its accepted  that it 
should have responded  to the third party request for information sooner and shouldnt have 
sent out the letter of 3 May 2018 in which it suggested the policy in question  didnt exist. And 
Aviva has paid Mr C and Mrs O £150 for the inconvenience these errors caused.  
In the circumstances of this complaint  I think that payment was fair and reasonably  reflects  
the impact this had on Mr C and Mrs O. The third party  has paid redress  for any loss caused  
by the delay in setting  up the annuity so Im not going to ask Aviva to do anything more.
Mr C has also complained  that Aviva didnt  keep him updated about his annuity prior to it 
being set up. But Aviva says, and I accept, that it wouldnt have been able to update  anyone  
before it received the money  from the third party as it wouldnt have known when the plan 
might be set up. And it has explained it would have  updated  the adviser he used  the third 
party  in the first instance anyway. 
Mr C has also complained  about  the payment of commission Aviva  made  to the third party.  
He says the third party told him it didnt usually charge for that type of transaction. But Ive 
seen that when the third party sent Mr C and Mrs Os application to Aviva it completed  the 
section to confirm  it had arranged the sale  on a non-advised basis.  
This meant that Aviva  had to pay the third party commission for the work it had done. And I 
note it confirmed this to Mr C in the illustration it provided on 7 March  2018 when it stated 
For arranging your plan, we will make one commission  payment to PRUDENTIAL  
DISTRIBUTION LTD of £1,519.82 immediately. It's been accounted for in the annuity rate 
used.
Ref: DRN56249213So I dont  think Aviva has done anything wrong here as it was obliged to make  the 
commission payment to the third party and made Mr C aware of what  it was doing. Indeed 
Mr C says it was when  he received this information  that he raised  the issue of commission  
payments with both parties.
my final decision
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has said it paid Mr C and Mrs O £150 to resolve this 
complaint. And I think thats a fair and reasonable offer in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Aviva should  pay Mr C and Mrs O £150  if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 September 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5624921