K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that West Wales Financial Services Limited (trading as J M Wealth) did not 
complete his pension transfer. Mr D says he had to pay around £1,800 more in fees to 
another financial adviser for the transfer than West Wales FS would have charged him.
Mr D also says that West Wales FS did not explain that J M Wealth was a trading style it 
used. Mr D says he would  have  used another IFA if he had known this.
In order to resolve this matter Mr D wants West Wales FS to pay him £1,800 towards the 
cost of the pension transfer advice he received from another IFA business.
background
In September  2017 Mr D discussed transferring his occupational pension to a personal 
pension with an adviser at West Wales  FS. Mr D decided to go ahead with the transfer.
Mr D says he feels he was given incorrect information by his financial adviser. He says he 
told his adviser that he wanted to use an IFA that did everything in house. Despite this Mr 
D says his adviser did not explain  that J M Wealth was a trading style of West Wales  FS.
The pension transfer did not go ahead as West Wales  FS agreed with the industry regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  that it would cancel its permission to advise on 
pension transfers.  This meant that West  Wales FS was not permitted to continue  working on 
ongoing pension  transfers, including Mr Ds transfer.
West Wales FS did not charge Mr D for the work  it had done  in relation to his pension 
transfer.
It appears that Mr D then approached another IFA and his pension  transfer  did proceed. 
Mr D says the IFA he used charged  more  that West Wales FS would have charged him. He 
complained to West Wales FS and said he felt it should pay the difference in the fees.
West Wales FS didnt  uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said it hadnt charged Mr D for the work it 
had carried out. And it said it didnt  think  it was fair for it to have to contribute towards  the 
fees charged by another IFA.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with West Wales FSs response.  He said it hadnt explained that his 
pension transfer  might not go ahead at the outset. He also said that he had only found out 
just before Christmas 2017 that it wouldnt be able to finalise his pension transfer and he 
then had to find another  IFA at short notice to carry out the transfer.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He explained 
that JM Wealth was a trading style of West Wales FS, but this did not mean that the 
businesses were two separate entities. He explained that it isnt unusual for limited  
companies to use trading  names. In view of this he said he that he was satisfied that West 
Wales FS hadnt  involved  another entity when advising Mr D on his pension  transfer.
Our investigator also looked at the progress  West Wales  FS had made in relation  to Mr Ds 
pension transfer.  He said that he thought it had handled the transfer efficiently. He said the 
transfer was not completed before it agreed  not to carry out any more pension  transfer 
business as the transfer  value had not been paid by Mr Ds company pension scheme.
Ref: DRN54146482He said that although he appreciated this had caused Mr D problems, West Wales FS was 
entitled to cancel its permission to advise  on pension  transfers.
He said he was satisfied  that West Wales FS had taken  reasonable steps to notify  Mr D 
promptly that it would not be able to finalise his transfer once it no longer had the necessary 
permission to advise  on pension transfers.
In particular, he noted that it had written to Mr D on 18 December 2017 explaining that it 
would not be able to progress his pension transfer any further. Mr D said he didnt receive  
this letter.  But our investigator explained that, based on the information and evidence  he had 
seen, he was satisfied  that it had been  sent.  He said he couldnt reasonably hold West 
Wales FS responsible for any failings by the postal service. 
He also noted  that on 17 December 2017 Mr Ds adviser had said, in response to an email  
from Mr D asking for an update on his pension transfer:
tomorrow I will find out what the progress is for existing  clients like yourself already 
applying for the transfer. It might be a case  of needing to find another adviser. 
In addition he said Mr Ds adviser had also tried to help by directing Mr D to other  IFAs who 
could advise on pension  transfers. 
Mr D wasnt satisfied with our investigators view and asked for his complaint  to be 
determined by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached  the same  view as our investigator,  and for much the same 
reasons. Ill explain  why.
Mr D says West Wales  FS should  contribute towards the adviser fees he paid for his pension 
transfer. I am sympathetic to Mr Ds position but I cant  reasonably require it to do so. 
I havent seen  anything to show that West Wales FS delayed  Mr Ds pension transfer. It 
appears that the transfer was not completed promptly because  there  was a delay in Mr Ds 
company pension scheme paying  the transfer value. This delay wasnt  something  West 
Wales FS had any control over.
It is unfortunate that due to this delay  Mr Ds transfer  wasnt completed by mid December 
2017 when West  Wales FS agreed, in conjunction with the industry regulator the FCA, not to 
continue offering advice on pension transfers.
As West  Wales FS no longer held the necessary permission to carry out transfer business, it 
couldnt complete  on-going pension transfers. It wrote to all affected clients  on 18 December 
2017 to say:
As a result of discussions between our regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (the 
"FCA") and us, we have  stopped processing the transfer of your [name of pension  scheme]  
Ref: DRN54146483benefits to a personal pension. These  benefits  will therefore remain with the [name of 
company pension scheme].
We have voluntarily applied to the FCA for certain restrictions to be imposed on the way that 
we carry out our business.  We cannot give any further advice on the transfer of [name of 
company pension scheme] benefits.
As you are one of our clients affected  by this restriction,  we wish to make  sure you are 
aware of it, and that you may have to take action  as a result. We are therefore writing to you 
now to alert you to the fact that, if you still wish to consider the transfer  of your [name of 
company pension scheme] benefits,  you will need to make  alternative arrangements  by 
finding a new regulated  pensions adviser. We will not charge you for any of our work  
undertaken.
I appreciate that Mr D has said he did not receive  this letter.  But as our investigator noted, 
his adviser had contacted him on 17 December  2017 and said Mr D might need  to find a 
new IFA if he still wanted to go ahead with the transfer.
I can see that Mr D still wanted to go ahead with a pension transfer and approached another 
IFA. But I dont think West Wales FS should  be required to contribute toward the fees 
charged by that IFA. I have reached  this view as West  Wales  FS was entitled to reach  an 
agreement with the regulator to stop arranging pension transfers  and this hadnt been 
envisaged when  the process started.
Furthermore, it didnt charge any fee for the work undertaken up to that point.  Therefore,  
whilst its unfortunate that additional delays might have been incurred as a result of it 
terminating the process, and Mr D had to pay a different  fee, it wouldnt be fair to hold it 
responsible for this. And I also dont  think  West  Wales FS was responsible for the delay in 
transferring Mr Ds pension up to that point. It appears that the delay was with Mr Ds 
company pension scheme administrator.
Once West Wales FS knew it would not be able to continue dealing  with Mr Ds transfer it 
contacted him promptly to let him know it could  not progress it further. I note West Wales FS 
also provided Mr D with a copy of the work  it had done on his transfer so that he could pass 
this onto a new adviser  if he wanted  to.
summary
The business Mr D approached after West Wales FS terminated  the transfer process 
charged a higher fee that West Wales FS had agreed with Mr D, but I dont think  it would be 
fair to expect  West Wales  FS to pay the difference. It dealt with Mr Ds transfer  promptly and 
I cant reasonably hold it responsible for the delay caused by Mr Ds pension scheme 
administrator. Likewise West Wales FS was entitled to stop offering advice on pension 
transfers and to cancel its permission to do so.
my final decision
I appreciate that Mr D will be disappointed with this outcome   but my decision is that I do 
not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Ref: DRN54146484Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5414648