K821x#15complaint
Ms L says MYJAR Limited (MYJAR) irresponsibly lent to her. Ms L says the loans were 
unaffordable and caused her to borrow more which resulted in her financial position  
becoming worse. 
background
This complaint is about six short-term loans MYJAR provided to Ms L between 
December 2015  and July 2017.  Ms Ls borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Repayment
1 12/12/2015 22/12/2015   1 £150.00 £162.00
2 23/12/2015 01/02/2016   3 £600.00 £317.67
3 25/03/2016 31/03/2016   1 £150.00 £157.20
4 12/04/2016 29/04/2016   1 £200.00 £227.20
5 03/05/2016 30/06/2016   3 £300.00 £146.33
6 01/07/2016 Outstanding 12 £800.00 £120.98
Our adjudicator partially upheld Ms Ls complaint and thought loans five and six shouldnt 
have been given. Ms Ls pattern of borrowing suggested there was a significant risk Ms L 
would have been unable to sustainably meet  her loan repayments. 
MYJAR disagreed. It said it had conducted appropriate affordability checks  before  it lent to 
Ms L and based  on those  checks her borrowing was approved.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me to decide in my role as 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms L 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN57642052the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Ms L could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Neither party has made any comments about loans  one to four not being upheld.  And 
because there doesnt  appear to be an outstanding dispute about  these loans,  I wont  be 
making a finding  on these  loans in this decision.  But I have thought about these loans in the 
overall context of Ms Ls lending relationship. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ls complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan loans five and six would most 
likely have suggested to MYJAR that Ms L:
did look like she was beginning to struggle to manage her finances.  I say this 
because by loan five for the majority of loans Ms L had applied  for further 
borrowing in quick succession after the previous one was repaid. After loan one 
was repaid on 22 December 2015  Ms L borrowed again on the following day and 
for a much  larger amount. There was a gap of just under two months  after loan 
two was repaid  but Ms L reborrowed again  within two weeks after loan three was 
repaid, less than a week after loan four was repaid  and only one day after loan 
five was repaid.  This pattern of borrowing would suggest that MYJAR  should 
have started to consider whether Ms L was able to sustainably make  her 
repayments. 
I also note that Ms L repaid loans two and five early. This could have been a sign 
that Ms L had overcome  whatever the financial shortfall which happened that had 
caused her to borrow in the first place. But I see in both instances the next 
amount borrowed  was higher than for the previous loan. Loan  two was for £600 
compared to the previous borrowing of £150 and loan six was for £800  compared 
to the amount borrowed for loan five of £300.  So, while  early  repayment of a loan 
Ref: DRN57642053can be an indication that a consumer is managing financially, it could equally  be 
the case that Ms L was reborrowing larger amounts to finance her previous 
borrowing. Thereby remaining in debt for larger amounts, and for longer. 
After the significantly  larger  amount borrowed  in loan two, from loan three  
where the borrowing had reduced  to £150  the amount  lent steadily increased 
each time  loan four increased to £200,  loan five to £300 and loan six more  than 
doubling to £800.  And by loan five, Ms L had taken  five loans in as many months. 
So again,  I think this indicates that Ms L was struggling with her finances which is 
evidenced by her inability to keep  up with her repayments for loan six. 
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loans five and six and 
MYJAR should put things right.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
If the outstanding balance  due on Ms Ls sixth loan has been transferred to a third party 
MYJAR should buy the loan back if it can. If MYJAR cant  buy the loan back  than it needs to 
work with the third party to make sure the following is achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Ms L towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments made by Ms L which  were 
considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Ms L originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made  by Ms L as though  they had been repayments  
of the principal on all outstanding loans.  
If this results  in Ms L having made overpayments then you should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. 
MYJAR should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step 
E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus  should  be paid to Ms L. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then MYJAR  should try to agree an affordable  repayment  plan 
with Ms L. 
E) Remove any adverse information  recorded on Ms Ls credit file in relation to loans 
five and six.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Ms L a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
Ref: DRN57642054For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Ls complaint. MYJAR Limited. 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5764205