K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr S took out the PPI in August 2002 at the same time as he arranged the credit card in 
branch.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr S says the PPI was added to the credit card account without his knowledge or consent.  
The credit card application form has a separate section for insurance.  There  is a pre-printed  
cross in the box to request  PPI. From what we know of BoSs sales  processes at the time,  I 
think there would  have been  a discussion about PPI and that the cross would only have 
been entered in the box if Mr S said that he wanted the policy. The relevant section of the 
application form also has the option to select another insurance product, but the box next to 
that has been left blank  to decline it. If, as Mr S has said, the adviser automatically added 
the PPI to his account, I might have expected him to end up with all of the available 
insurance options.
The sale happened a long time ago, so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Ss recollection  of the 
sale has faded. Ive thought very carefully about  what Mr S has said,  but looking  at the 
evidence, I think it is more  likely that the optional nature  of the policy was explained. It 
seems to me that Mr S probably  decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he 
no longer remembers  doing so.
BoS advised Mr S to buy the policy. Therefore in recommending the PPI to Mr S it needed to 
ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Ss circumstances at the time,  it 
was suitable for him.
Mr S wouldnt have  received any sick pay from his employer. And he hasnt mentioned 
having any savings  to fall back on. Hes said his partner  would have  helped  financially. But 
other people  cant  always  be relied  upon  as their circumstances  can change.  So I think  that 
Mr S had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it if he was unable to work 
due to accident, sickness or unemployment. Mr S says he had a life insurance  policy. But 
that would  only have paid out upon his death,  so it didnt provide the same sort of cover as 
the PPI policy  did.
 
BoS also needed to provide Mr S with enough  information for him to make  an informed 
choice about whether  or not the PPI was right for him. Its possible that BoS didnt provide as 
Ref: DRN58283382much information as it should have about  the policy, particularly about the things  that it didnt 
cover. But Mr S wasnt affected  by any of those things. As I think that Mr S had an interest in 
the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused him to 
change his mind.
This means  that I dont think that the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt 
have to refund everything Mr S paid for it. But Bank of Scotland  plc has already offered to 
give Mr S back  some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more.
Bank of Scotland plc will make arrangements to pay Mr S now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5828338