K821x#15complaint
Mr J says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender,  (PDL),  irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about ten short term loans  PDL provided to Mr J between  
July 2012 and May 2016. Loans 1 to 5 were  repayable by one repayment, Loans 6 and 7 by 
six monthly repayments, Loans 8 and 9 by three  monthly repayments and Loan 10 by 12 
monthly repayments. All the loans have  been repaid. Mr Js borrowing history is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date
Loan amount 
Highest monthly 
repayment amount  
1. 3/7/12 26/3/13 £100  £130
2. 16/4/13 26/4/13 £200  £230
3. 12/7/13 26/7/13 £250  £325
4. 11/8/13 26/9/13 £100  £130
5. 12/2/14 21/5/14 £190 £218.50
6. 15/4/15 29/9/15 £550 £254.46
7. 30/9/15 21/10/15 £350 £126
8. 7/12/15 23/2/16 £300 £193.60
9. 27/2/16 13/5/16 £250 £124.66
10. 18/5/16 15/3/17 £1,000 £209.33
PDL in its final response letter said that it believed some further assessments could have 
been conducted prior to Loans 2 to 4. So it partially upheld  the complaint and offered to 
refund the interest paid by Mr J on Loans 2 to 4.
Mr J rejected this offer. 
our adjudicators view
Ref: DRN54115992Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Js complaint in part and thought Loans  2 to 5 and Loan 10 
shouldnt have been given. He noted that Mr J had deferred Loan 1 on nine occasions and 
that PDL should have  reasonably suspected that Mr J was experiencing financial difficulties. 
He said that the pattern of lending  showed  that Loans 2 to 5 were unsustainable. And by 
Loan 10, the adjudicator  said that the overall pattern of borrowing  suggested  that Mr J was 
persistently reliant  on short term loans.
PDL responded by offering to settle Loans 1 to 5 by refunding interest and charges, paying 
8% on the refunds from the date of payment to the date of settlement and removing any 
adverse information  on Mr Js credit file with regard to those loans. But it asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman with regard to Loan 10. It said that the checks  it 
had carried out before Loan 10 were proportionate  to the loan amount  considering  the 
highest repayment was 9% of Mr Js net monthly  income. The results of its checks showed 
no evidence of financial difficulties and Mr J had told PDL that his financial situation was 
quite good and that this would be the last type of short  term loan he needed.  Mr J had also 
told PDL that he wasnt in financial difficulties and wasnt reliant on short  term loans. Hed 
told PDL that the loan was to fix his car. PDL also said that it was arguable that a pattern 
was beginning  to emerge which might suggest  that Mr J was struggling  to pay his loans 
sustainably.  
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr J 
and to PDL on 5 February 2020.  I summarise my findings:
I noted that it appeared that PDL had agreed to settle Loans 1 to 5 as it had asked for an 
ombudsman to review  this complaint only in respect of Loan 10. So I said that I wouldnt 
investigate Loans  1 to 5 but would include the redress  offered by PDL in my award.  
When PDL first lent to Mr J the regulator was the Office  of Fair Trading (OFT). For 
Loans 1 to 5 the OFTs  relevant guidance  included its guidance on irresponsible lending 
(ILG). From 1 April 2014 onwards the regulator  was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  
and relevant regulations and guidance  included  its Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  
The ILG and CONC contained similar guidance for lenders  about  responsible  lending.
I said that PDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr J 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that PDL should fairly and reasonably  have done  
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN54115993There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that PDL was required to establish  whether Mr J could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the ILG and later CONC defined  sustainable  as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments,  
while meeting  other reasonable  commitments, as well as without having to borrow  to meet 
the repayments. And it followed  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably if they 
were unlikely to be able to make  their repayments  without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Js complaint.
I could see that there were two chains of lending  in this complaint. One had started  at Loan 1 
and the other had started at Loan  6 because of a significant gap between  Loans 5 and 6. So 
I thought it was reasonable for PDL to have  treated  Mr J as a new customer  from Loan 6 and 
I would have expected PDL to carry out lower  checks at the start of this lending chain.
Before Loans  6 to 10, PDL had made a number of checks  before it lent to Mr J. It had asked 
him for details of his income  and expenditure. PDL had said that Mr Js declared monthly 
income was £1,719 before Loan 6, £2,255 before Loans 7 to 9 and £2,267 before Loan 10. 
Mr J had said that his expenditure was between £1,283 and £1,897 for Loans 6 to 10.
PDL had also checked Mr Js credit file before agreeing to the loans. PDL had provided us 
with a very brief summary of its credit  checks which had shown a credit  score,  that he hadnt  
been made bankrupt and wasnt in an individual voluntary arrangement in the previous three 
years. I didnt think that the results  of these checks should have caused additional concerns 
to PDL.
Id seen Mr Js credit report  and noted that hed had a number of short term loans.  Id also 
noted that hed had a defaulted account in January 2015, just three months before Loan 6. 
But I was aware that when a lender carried out a credit search,  the information it saw didnt 
usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit search would and it wasnt  
necessarily up to date. A lender might  only see a small  portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. I was also aware that not all payday  and short  
term lenders reported to the same credit  reference  agencies. So, Mr Js other short  term 
loans and his defaulted account might not have  been identified  by PDLs  credit check. So, 
this might have explained  any differences between the information  provided by PDLs  credit 
check and Mr Js actual situation.
Id thought that the checks PDL had made  before agreeing Loans 6 to 9 were proportionate. 
I could see that the repayments that Mr J needed  to make were relatively modest compared 
to the income  that hed declared  to PDL. The highest repayment  on these loans was 
£254.46 on Loan 6. And overall  I didnt  think the repayment amounts were so large that it 
was obvious they wouldve caused  Mr J financial difficulty.
Ref: DRN54115994So given Mr Js repayment  amounts for Loans 6 to 9 and what was apparent  about  his 
circumstances at the time, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for PDL to have asked 
him for the amount of information that would have been needed  to show  the lending was 
unsustainable.  
And at this stage there wasnt anything in the information Mr J provided or the information 
PDL shouldve been aware  of, which meant  it wouldve  been  proportionate to start verifying 
what he was saying.  So I didnt think PDL was wrong to give Loans 6 to 9 to Mr J.
Mr J had repaid Loan 9 on the due date.  But just five days later he took out Loan  10. This 
was the third time since  Loan 7 that Mr J had taken out a loan very shortly after the 
repayment of his previous loan. The loan amount had increased  substantially to £1,000 and 
the loan was to be repaid over twelve months.  So Mr J was committing  to repaying the loan 
for a far longer  period than any of his previous loans. I thought all this might have caused  
PDL some concerns about Mr Js finances.
Id appreciated  that PDL had asked  Mr J for his income and expenditure including  other 
loans, as well as information about  his other  loans and the purpose of this loan. But Loan  10 
was Mr Js fifth loan in eleven months  and I thought by the time of Loan 10, PDL should 
have been concerned that Mr J might have become reliant on its lending. He wasnt  showing 
any signs of getting  to grips with his borrowing. And by the time of Loan  10 I didnt think it 
was reasonable  for PDL to base its assessment on the information  provided by Mr J without 
taking steps to independently  check what hed declared. So I thought it might have been 
proportionate at this time for PDL to have independently reviewed  the true state  of Mr Js 
finances. As far as I could  see PDL didnt do this. 
So I needed  to think about what PDL wouldve seen  if it had carried  out proportionate  
checks. Had it made these, it was likely  that PDL wouldve  learnt that Mr J had five 
outstanding short term loans with other lenders  totalling over £1,900 and hed also needed to 
pay around £500 for two long term loans each  month. I could see these on Mr Js credit  
report. Id thought that the number and amount of Mr Js outstanding short term loans 
showed that Mr J was having  serious problems managing  his money and that PDLs  loan 
wasnt likely to be sustainable.  So I thought it was wrong for PDL to give Loan 10 to Mr J. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr J or PDL my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  PDL to put things right as 
shown below. 
putting things right  what PDL needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr J paid on Loans 1 to 5 and 10;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on the refunds  from the date they were paid to the 
date of settlement*;
remove all adverse  entries about  Loans 1 to 5 and 10 from Mr Js credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. PDL must  give Mr J 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. 
Mr J responded to my provisional decision to say he had nothing  further  to add.
Ref: DRN54115995PDL responded to say that it disagreed with the assessment. It said that by Loan 10, 
considering the pattern of lending, there  were  no significant concerns. Although 
Loans 6 to 10 were  taken  out in relative  succession there was a gap of over a month 
between Loans  7 and 8. This showed that Mr J wasnt dependent on the product, nor was he 
using the loan to substitute his monthly income.
PDL also said that although a pattern  was beginning to emerge, which  might  suggest Mr J 
was beginning  to show evidence of reliance, this alone wouldnt warrant  this service to 
recommend a refund of the loan. 
It said that it had carried  out further checks to determine if the loan was affordable. It had 
asked Mr J some questions including questions about his financial situation, whether he was 
in financial difficulty and whether he considered himself dependent  on short term loans. 
The lender  also said that the highest  repayment  that Mr J was due to repay  on Loan 10 was 
only for 10% of his net monthly income  which was a small amount in comparison to his 
declared net monthly income.
Overall PDL said that it had acted  fairly  by relying on the results  of the checks carried  out 
and they were proportionate to the loan amount. Given Mr Js circumstances and the size of 
the repayments it didnt act unreasonably  by providing Loan 10.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
I have considered PDLs  comments  about  Loan 10. 
As I stated above PDL needed  to carry out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr J could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. It may be reasonable  early  on to rely on what  the 
consumer has said or to rely on assumptions  about  their circumstances but it might not be 
reasonable to do so in all circumstances.  When Mr J applied for Loan  10 I think that PDL 
should have done more  than it did. The loan amount had increased substantially from 
before, and Mr J was now committing to making the loan repayments over a lengthy period. 
And by then, Mr J had taken out five loans with PDL in around  eleven months with gaps of 
less than five days  between repayment and taking out a new loan for three of those loans. In 
view of this and with regard to PDLs  reference to the gap before Loan 8 of around seven 
weeks, I dont think it was reasonable  for PDL to consider that gap in lending  as an 
indication that Mr J wasnt dependent on its loans.
I also note that PDL had asked Mr J some  questions about his finances. But by the time of 
Loan 10, I think that PDL might have questioned why a person with an apparent  high level of 
disposable income was coming  back to it for a short term loan for the fifth time in around  
eleven months with barely any gap between most of the loans. And I also think the pattern  of 
Mr Js borrowing was such that it wasnt reasonable for PDL to rely on the information he 
had provided in response to those conversations. So I think  that PDL should have sought 
more assurances about Mr Js finances as stated above. I dont think the checks  PDL made 
Ref: DRN54115996were sufficient by the time of Loan 10 to give a good enough picture of what was actually 
going on in Mr Js financial situation.
I think proportionate checks here wouldve meant that PDL took steps to verify the 
information Mr J provided about  his financial situation. Im satisfied that proportionate  checks 
before Loan 10 would have shown five outstanding short term loans with other lenders 
totalling over £1,900.  Mr J was committed to repaying these at the same  time as he was 
repaying Loan 10. I think it should have been clear to PDL that Mr J was facing serious  
problems managing his money  and unlikely to be able to repay  Loan 10 in a sustainable 
manner. 
I also note that PDL said that the highest  repayment that Mr J was due to repay on Loan 10 
was only 10% of his net monthly income  which was a small amount in comparison to his 
declared net monthly income. But I dont think that the fact that Mr J used 10% of his net 
monthly income to make the repayments and appeared to have sufficient disposable income 
showed that the repayments were sustainable. And I think PDL will (or ought  to) know  from 
previous decisions  (as well as whats set out on our website) that there  are cases where this 
service considers the overall lending pattern and not just the affordability of each loan.  And 
there will be times when the pattern of lending alone is enough to indicate that a consumer is 
likely to be in financial difficulty  or would otherwise be harmed should relending continue.
So, I remain  of the view that PDL shouldnt have  given  Loan 10 to Mr J. And considering 
everything, I think that the redress I set out in my provisional decision is fair.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order PDL Finance Limited,  trading  as Mr Lender, to:-
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr J paid on Loans 1 to 5 and 10;
2.Pay interest of 8% simple a year on the refunds  from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement*; and
3.Remove all adverse entries  about Loans 1 to 5 and 10 from Mr Js credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. PDL must  give Mr J 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5411599