K820x#14complaint
Mr A says Nationwide Building Society  (NBS) mis-sold him two payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policies.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr A bought two PPI policies in in 1998 and again in 2000 at the same time as taking out a 
loan. Each  time he applied for the loan and PPI policy  in-branch.  
For the 1998 loan - the policys one-off upfront premium of £1310 was paid in advance by 
being added to the loan (a single premium) where  it attracted interest  over the term of the 
loan. The loan was repayable over a 72-month  term and the policy  term matched that of the 
loan. The monthly loan repayment  was £120.44  with the PPI costing an additional £26.29 
making the total monthly repayment £146.73.
For the 2000 loan - the policys one-off upfront premium was £1831.85. The loan was 
repayable over an 84-month  term and the policy term matched that of the loan. The monthly 
loan repayment  was £128.87  with the PPI costing  an additional £31.48 making  the total 
monthly repayment £160.35.
The policies provided cover for Mr A for disability, unemployment and life  subject  to the 
exclusions and limitations. They offered  to repay  Mr As monthly loan repayment for up to 24 
months (1998 policy)  and the remaining  term (2000 policy) in the event of a successful 
disability claim. Both would pay out for 12 months  in the event of unemployment.  And for a 
life claim both policies  would repay  the outstanding loan balance in full.
On both occasions, Mr A was employed in a supervisory  / managerial role at a utility 
company. He has told us he was entitled to at least six months sick pay and some  
redundancy pay. He has also said he had some savings he could have used  to meet  his 
repayment on his loan should  he be unable to work.  Finally Mr A has said he was in good 
health at the time of both sales.  
NBS has sent us screenshots to show that the 2000 top-up loan repaid the 1998 loan and it 
then ended in 2006.
Mr As representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr As representative says:
NBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. 
In those circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance  for businesses 
on handling  PPI complaints under DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed Mr A wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr As representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN57978832The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NBS should  have told 
Mr A about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NBS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr A and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr A received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr As. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As complaint
The sales  took place  in 1998  and February 2000 before the General Insurance  Standards  
Council (GISC)  published its code of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general 
insurance products  like this became regulated in January 2005. 
So, the GISC code,  the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and 
insurance conduct rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent  applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN57978833There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like NBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr As case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so NBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr As complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint (for both sales),  are:
-If NBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr A with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether NBS gave Mr A sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information  to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN57978834-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr A, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr A suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr A and NBS,  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr As complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr A know  he had a choice?
NBS had to make it clear  that the PPI policies were optional. 
For both loans NBS has provided copies of Mr As applications and subsequent credit 
agreements. Looking at the loan applications I can see that for the 1998  loan, Mr A was 
asked to indicate Yes or No if he wanted PPI by ticking the relevant box and signing to 
confirm his choice.  And Mr A ticked the Yes  box. The 2000 loan application was broadly 
similar in its format  Mr A ticked the Yes box to agree to take out PPI but he didnt have  to 
sign separately this time. If Mr A didnt want PPI, he couldve ticked  the equally prominent 
No box on the applications  either  time.
Looking at both credit agreements Mr A was asked to sign following the approval of his 
loans, these described the PPI as optional setting out the cost of the cover separately from 
the principle loan.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mr A knew  the policies were 
optional and he agreed to take them out without undue pressure. 
did NBS provide advice?
NBS says it didnt  provide  advice during either  sale. Mr A hasnt said either way. Looking  at 
what happened when  NBS sold Mr A the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice on 
either occasion  Ive not seen anything which  leads  me to think  that NBS considered Mr As 
circumstances and recommended  the cover to him.
This means  NBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr A. Instead, it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable Mr A to make an informed choice 
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that on each occasion Mr A was given a broad 
description of what the policy was intended  to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  his 
payments if he was unable to work  through accident, sickness  and unemployment.)  I have 
reached this conclusion because the loan applications described the cover this way. I also 
think its unlikely Mr A would have taken out the policies without any sense of what they 
were. I think  Mr A understood cost of the policies  the PPI premium,  the interest added  to 
the premium, the total cost and the monthly cost - as this information was, in my view, 
sufficiently clear on the loan agreement Mr A signed for each loan.  
Ref: DRN57978835But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  NBS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr 
A agreed  to take out both policies. 
So I dont  think on either occasion NBS gave  Mr A sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy, 
including drawing his attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr As representative has raised a number  
of general points with regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  
in PPI sales. It suggests these points  apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr As. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr As representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr A about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr As representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr A has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that NBS ought to have done  either. 
What effect did NBSs shortcomings  have on Mr A? To what extent  did Mr A suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that NBS didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold the policies to Mr A. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr A 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr A 
would have still taken  out the policies, had NBS done things  properly. 
Mr A says he would  not have taken them out and believes I should  presume  this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As these  were non-advised sales, each time Mr A had to weigh up in his own mind the cost 
of the policy  against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
Ref: DRN57978836As Ive found above, Mr A chose to take each  policy  out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
both decisions based on incomplete information. So what Mr A thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got either time. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration 
when determining if Mr A has suffered any loss or detriment. 
As Ive already  said, the information Mr A was given  each time about  the cost was clear. But 
the information about other aspects of each policy, such as the limitations and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
Im not persuaded NBS made clear exactly what Mr A would get back  in return  in the event 
he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr As expectations about what each 
policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his loan payments) 
were significantly  different to what each  policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr A thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought on each occasion were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any physical or mental  condition  that Mr A 
knew about or ought to have known about  on the start date and which  occurred again  
within 12 months of the start date of the policy; and
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr A 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr A pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  on each 
occasion that the policy wasnt as good  as he thought and he might  have decided not to 
proceed. The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in each 
sale, might  have dissuaded some consumers in slightly  different circumstances from Mr A 
from taking out the policies.  
But, the evidence  about Mr As circumstances  at the time of each sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits each time 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved useful to 
him should the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen  any evidence to 
suggest he wouldve  been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr A didnt have any 
pre-existing medical conditions at the time of either sale and he was in permanent  
employment. So, I still think  he had some good  reasons  to take the policies out.
Neither policy excluded  back or mental health  conditions or placed any additional restrictions 
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr A would have 
expected to make a disability claim on each policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim on either policy, Mr A needed to be unable to do any work as 
certified by a doctor. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what  he would have 
expected to make a claim. After  all, the loan application forms said the policy provides cover 
in the event that I am unable to work  due to involuntary unemployment, accident, sickness  
or death. 
Ref: DRN57978837Each policy did provide  a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled early. So as Mr A discovered in 
2000 when he repaid  his first loan early,  the policies provided flexibility if Mr A decided  to 
repay either loan early  and cancel the policy covering it.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr A would  still have taken out the policies. They was sufficiently close  to what  its 
likely he thought he was getting in 1998 and again in 2000 and provided benefits that would 
help him manage  the consequences  were  Mr A made redundant, or unable  to work through 
disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr A would have  taken 
out both policies in any event notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mr As representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr A would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr As 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr A 
found himself in as result  of the sales was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr A believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr A in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out either  policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI in 1998 and 2000 had he been  given  clear,  fair and not misleading  information 
about the policy he was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in 
those circumstances,  to conclude NBS should pay Mr A compensation, as that would  put 
him in a better  position  than he would  have been  in if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Ref: DRN57978838Im also aware that Mr A thinks NBS misrepresented the terms of each policy in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
NBSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why NBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  NBS gave Mr A, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1998 and 2000 when  providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr As representative says a court might take if it were 
to find NBS negligently misrepresented the contracts to Mr A and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that NBS had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr A in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5797883