K820x#14complaint and background
Mr C says HSBC Bank Plc (trading as first direct)  mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. He applied for a credit card by post in 2001 and took out PPI at the 
same time. It gave him accident, sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should  be upheld as the bank failed to make clear the PPI 
was optional. HSBC  disagreed, saying  the copy of the application form Mr C would have 
completed clearly shows the optional  nature  of the policy. So the complaint was passed to 
me.  
In my provisional decision (which forms part of this final decision)  I set out why I was not 
planning to uphold the complaint. I asked Mr C and HSBC to let me have any more  
information by 3 January 2019  before I made a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and what we know  about how 
HSBC sold PPI at the time.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Mr C responded to my provisional decision and said he had no further information to provide. 
HSBC didnt respond. 
So it follows  I have no reason to change the findings  or outcome  I set out in my provisional 
decision.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN55389562copy of provisional decision
complaint 
Mr C says HSBC  Bank  plc (trading as first direct) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr C applied for a credit  card by post in 2001 and took out PPI at the same time.  It gave him accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld  as the bank  failed to make clear  the PPI was 
optional. HSBC disagreed,  saying the copy of the application form Mr C would have completed clearly 
shows the optional  nature of the policy. So the complaint was passed to me.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), Ive based 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities  so, on what I think  is most likely  given the available 
evidence and what we know about how HSBC sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed it here. 
Im currently  not planning to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
did HSBC make  clear the PPI was optional, and did Mr C agree to buy it? 
Mr C told us he didnt decide to take out the insurance, but he hasnt been able to give us much detail  
about the sale. This is understandable  given how long ago it was. And HSBC hasnt got Mr Cs 
application form any more.  Again, this isnt surprising or unreasonable as the sale was over 17 years 
ago. 
It has provided a copy of the application  form it says Mr C would  have completed to apply for his 
credit card. This file copy dates from just a few months prior to Mr Cs sale.  And Ive seen no evidence  
to suggest he used a different type of application form, so I think  its fair to rely on it here. 
In the PPI section the form gave the options to tick a box to select  cover or to tick a box confirming  
you didnt require cover. These were set out with equal prominence. So, overall,  I think its most likely 
Mr C indicated  that he wanted  PPI when  he applied  for his credit card.  And Im satisfied its most likely  
the bank had made  clear he had the choice not to take it.
the other aspects of the sale
Ive also reviewed the other aspects of the sale to make sure Mr C hasnt lost out because  of any 
other problems. I dont  think he has and I say this because:
Mr C was eligible for the cover given  his circumstances and its terms and conditions
HSBC didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt  have to check  if it was right for him. It 
was up to Mr C to decide bearing in mind his other ways to make his credit card repayments if 
he was sick or lost his job.
Ref: DRN55389563Its possible  the information HSBC gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. However, it seems he wouldnt have  been  affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations. And the policy was competitively  priced  and apparently affordable.  So I think it 
unlikely Mr C wouldve  made a different decision  if better information had been provided. On 
balance I think he would still have  taken out the policy.
It follows I currently dont think Mr C has lost out because of any problems with the sale.  
my provisional  decision
Im currently  not planning to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5538956