K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc wont refund payments he says that he didnt make from 
his bank account.
background
Mr M disputes multiple payments totalling over £7,500 made  online from his bank account 
over the period from December 2017  to March 2018. Transfers  were made from his ISA to 
his current account  and then payments made to third party accounts. Mr M says he was out 
of the country  from 4 February to 4 March 2018. And that he noticed what had happened 
when a mortgage payment from his current account  was returned unpaid  on 3 April 2018 
and he received a letter  about  this.
TSB said it wouldnt  refund the money and said that there was no evidence that Mr Ms 
security details had been  discovered  by someone else.  It had made  verification calls to his 
genuine mobile number when a new payee  was set up on 8 January 2018. Mr M had also 
made genuine payments during the period. There was a record of a log in to his online on 25 
February 2018 account from the country  where  he had shown he was staying.  The two 
beneficiaries of the money, who had accounts at TSB, claimed  to know  Mr M. And TSB had 
looked at the online  access of the beneficiaries and none of that corresponded with the IP 
addresses or device  details used to access Mr Ms accounts.
Mr M who is represented in this complaint by his son had told our investigator that he hadnt 
lost his mobile phone or given his security  details or card to anyone. Mr M said he didnt  
have or use online banking as his English wasnt very good. But he had been to a branch 
before he went away and the balances had been written down for him. He didnt notice the 
payments that had been made by then. His son said that Mr M did have online banking but 
the security details had been secure.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He couldnt  see how 
someone else was able to carry out these payments without Mr Ms consent.  Mr M had said 
he was alone  on the trip abroad so there  was no explanation of how someone else could  
have logged on then.  No money had been transferred from his account  on that date and    
Mr M had the opportunity  to realise  what had been  happening. 
Mr M didnt  agree. He maintained he didnt have  online banking and didnt understand how 
someone could  log in from abroad. He questioned why TSB didnt  contact him about  what 
was happening.  And why if he wasnt genuine  in his claim  hed continue  to pursue this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2009 and 2017 in considering  
this complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised  if it was consented  to. So 
its not enough for it to be authenticated say with a password and security  code. And if these 
payments werent  authorised Mr M wouldnt generally be responsible  for them.
Ref: DRN52825292So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at his complaint:
-What is the most likely explanation of how these payments  were  made?
-Did Mr M authorise the payments on the account, including by allowing someone else to 
use the account?
Ive seen the online banking logs relating to these payments.  Im satisfied from the available  
evidence that these were  authenticated. The issue is whether Mr M consented to them.
The payments started before Mr M has shown  he went abroad and continued after he 
returned. He used his debit card for genuine transactions on 19 December  2017  and 2 
February 2018 (which  showed on his statement on 5 February 2018). Hes said he went to a 
branch and someone wrote down his balances  for him. So Im struggling to see that he 
wouldnt have noticed payments being  made  that he says he hadnt  authorised.
Hes also said he didnt have online banking. Thats not consistent with the log on to his 
account being made from an IP address abroad on 25 February 2018. Hes said he was by 
himself. If by some coincidence an unknown  third party had been  able to have free access  to 
his account abroad  then Id also need to think  it likely that person wouldnt make any 
payments. The next payment out after that didnt come until Mr M had returned  from his trip. 
To use online banking  would have needed  security information about  him and theres  no 
evidence to show that someone  else acting  without his authority would have been able to 
access this.
TSB has also shown that to set up a new payee or a device automated  calls would have 
been made to Mr Ms phone number. And hed had been required to input a code hed been  
given. He would then have received confirmation  that the payment had been set up.
I cant resolve what the beneficiaries have said about knowing Mr M and indicating  that 
these were genuine payments. The evidence doesnt show  that they had access to Mr Ms 
account themselves.  The pattern of payments is also inconsistent with that of a fraudster. 
There was over £7,500  in the savings account. And this wasnt all removed as quickly  as 
possible but took place over several  months. The time when Mr M was away would have 
been a clear opportunity for all the money  to be taken. And there  would be a risk for any 
fraudster of Mr M finding out what had happened. But the account statement shows there  
was still over £2,000  when he got back. And this wasnt all removed for a further 10 days  
after that.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened but Im thinking about what  is most likely. 
Taking into account what Ive said about the way the payments were made and the pattern 
of the payments I dont think that the most likely  explanation is that they were made without 
Mr Ms consent. Having made  that finding  I dont  need to resolve exactly  who made  the 
payments and why. Thats  because my focus here is on deciding whether  TSB should refund 
them or should have done anything more to prevent them happening and Im afraid I dont 
have a basis to come to that conclusion.
Ref: DRN52825293my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5282529