K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC mis-sold him a single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy which he took out in January 1997 in connection with a 
three year personal loan.  The PPI was sold during a meeting. And Ive been told the loan 
ended in 1999.  
background
Mr G complained to this Service. He told us he took out a loan on 27 January 1997. Mr G 
said he was told he had to have PPI to get the loan;  he adds he would  not have taken it if he 
had been given the choice. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld.  Mr G disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.  
He added several points including: there was nothing in the credit  agreement which said PPI 
was optional; the loan agreement said if he cancelled the PPI, then the loan would also be 
cancelled.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint. I know this will disappoint  him, so Ill set out my 
reasons below.  
Mr G said he was told he had to buy the PPI to get the loan. So I first looked to see if the 
policy was presented to him as a separate  and optional  product. 
Barclays told us it didnt  have Mr Gs original  documents from his personal  loan and PPI - Im 
not surprised by this as the sale is quite old. Barclays sent in a sample loan agreement and 
Mr G kindly  sent us his actual loan agreement which matches the sample  agreement  from 
Barclays. Barclays also sent us a sample  of the PPI application form which it says was in 
circulation in January  1997. I noted the loan application referred to a winter offer which  
expired on 31 January  1997, so I think its likely the loan agreement  and the loan application 
Ive seen were the type of forms which Mr G would have seen around 27 January when he 
bought the loan and the PPI. 
I can see on the loan application that there  is a section  headed:  Barclayloan  Protection 
(please tick one box only)  . Below  that, it offers two tick boxes, either: Please arrange  
Barclayloan Protection  on my behalf  or I do not require Barclayloan  Protection. So I 
think it probably was clear to Mr G that PPI was an optional product on his loan application.  I 
can reasonably  assume he ticked the PPI box as he then received a loan agreement with 
insurance attached.  I accept his loan agreement said that if he cancelled  the PPI, then the 
whole loan agreement  would be cancelled. However, I think this means  the loan would have 
been reassessed and Barclays would have  sent him a new loan agreement  without 
insurance. 
Ref: DRN54079032Both parties  agree this was an advised sale so I will continue on that basis.  For such sales,  
Barclays wouldve had to recommend a policy which was suitable for Mr G. Having looked at 
Mr Gs  circumstances at the time of the sale, I do think  the policy was suitable because  he 
was eligible for the cover,  I havent seen any evidence it wasnt  affordable for him, and he 
didnt seem to be affected by any of the things  not covered by the policy (the exclusions). 
Mr G said he would  get sick pay from his employer but had no savings. So I think the PPI 
would have given  him a useful benefit  which could cover his loan repayments  if he made a 
successful claim  if he was sick or had an accident.  
Barclays also had to make sure Mr G got information which  was clear,  fair and not 
misleading. So I looked at the main PPI policy features  which Mr G may have seen at the 
time of or shortly after the sale. It isnt clear how or if any of the key features were  explained  
or highlighted to him. But I dont think this wouldve been enough to change  his decision to 
buy the policy because  I dont think he was affected  by the main exclusions. 
I saw Mr Gs loan agreement. I saw it set out the PPI premium, the interest payable on it and 
the monthly amount hed have to pay. And as he probably signed the credit  agreement,  I 
think he probably saw these figures and was aware of the PPI cost. So I dont  think any 
further information about it wouldve stopped him from buying it.
Taking everything into account,  I think the PPI was optional and that Mr G chose to have  it 
added to his account. I think it was probably  suitable for him and I think he was probably  
given enough  information which was clear,  fair and not misleading. Im not going to uphold  
this complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5407903