K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out on a credit card account that started in 1996. 
Lloyds couldnt  confirm how or exactly  when  PPI was sold to Mr M. But its clear  he had it on 
his account so it mustve  been added either when Mr M took out his credit card or some time 
after. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagrees with our adjudicators view. 
Mr M says he took out the PPI during a meeting at the bank  and hes unhappy that he was 
charged for PPI when  he didnt benefit.  Hes asked for a review so this complaint comes to 
me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
The original  paperwork from the sale is no longer  available. And it wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect Mr M to be able to remember everything as it happened so long ago. So I cant  know  
exactly what the bank  mightve said to Mr M when he took out PPI. 
Lloyds has provided  an example  of a credit card application. But I dont know  if this is like the 
form Mr M wouldve filled in as its not known exactly when he took out his card  and its 
unclear how he took out the PPI. So Im not relying  on this.
I have to look at everything  thats available and decide what  I think is most likely. 
It looks to me as if Mr M couldve benefitted  from having PPI if hed needed to claim. So, on 
balance, I think its more  likely that Mr M decided he wanted to have the benefits PPI offered 
and Lloyds added PPI to his account  at his request. 
Lloyds said that in fairness to Mr M it would treat this as an advised sale. This means  it not 
only had to give him important policy information in a clear way. It also had to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommended  was suitable for Mr M.
Mr M told us he wouldve had less than 3 months full sick pay from his employer. PPI 
wouldve covered  him for accident or sickness for longer - up to 12 months per claim. And it 
wouldve also paid out in the event  Mr M lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work.  
I've taken into account that Mr M mentioned having some  other  means he couldve  
depended on if he wasnt able to work.  But I dont  know if Mr M would've always  had other 
means he could rely on to pay his credit card bills if he wasnt  able to work. So I think PPI 
was suitable for him.  
Ref: DRN51041232Mr M was eligible for the cover. There were  some things the policy didnt cover.  But it 
doesnt look as if this wouldve affected Mr M. So I dont think that having more  information 
about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve put Mr M off taking out PPI.
Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what  the policy  would cost,  or what 
it might  pay out if Mr M made a claim.  But Mr M chose to take out the policy   so it looks  like 
he wanted this type of cover. It seems  to have been  affordable for him. Mr M couldve 
cancelled the policy at any time if his circumstances changed or he no longer wanted to pay 
for it.
Taking everything into account,  I havent seen enough to persuade me that its likely  Mr M 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance, 
I think hed still have  taken out the policy. This means Mr M hasnt lost out as a result  of 
anything that Lloyds may have done  wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things  
right.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5104123