K821x#15complaint
Mr S is bringing this complaint on behalf  of the estate of his late mother, Mrs S, about a 
boiler and heating insurance  policy  provided by British Gas Insurance Limited.  
The parties will see that Ive changed  the respondent from British  Gas Services Limited to 
British Gas Insurance Limited. This is because we have no jurisdiction over British  Gas 
Services Limited for a complaint about the handling  of the insurance policy;  its only an 
insurance intermediary,  not an insurer. 
This is an important legal technicality but it does not affect the outcome of the case and as 
British Gas Services Limited responded to the complaint on behalf of British  Gas Insurance  
Limited, theres no need for it to review the matter  again or issue  a further final response.
background
Mrs S held the policy a British Gas for some time in her sole name. She passed  away on 22 
April 2017 but the direct debits were still taken from her account and the policy  automatically 
renewed in August 2017 and also in August  2018. 
Mr S says he wasnt aware of the policy, or the payments until November 2018. Mr S 
contacted British Gas then to ask that the policy be cancelled and the premiums paid since 
his mother died to be refunded.  
British Gas said it would cancel the policy and told Mr S it would  refund the premiums.  
However, the policy wasnt cancelled and I understand another  three direct debit payments 
were taken. Mr S complained about this in January 2019. The policy  was then cancelled  and  
British Gas refunded  the premiums taken after November 2018 but told Mr S it would not 
refund any premiums paid before it was made aware that Mrs S had passed away.  
After Mr S complained, British Gas agreed  to refund the premiums taken since  the most  
recent renewal date (i.e. August 2018)  as a goodwill gesture but no more. It also offered £60 
compensation for the error made  in not cancelling the policy in November 2018 and added 
interest (around £11) to the refund.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and considered that British Gas should  
refund the premiums  taken since Mrs Ss death  in April 2017. The investigator said the  
property was unoccupied since then and no claims had been made on the policy.   
British Gas doesnt accept the investigators assessment. It says that it is only obliged  to 
refund payments made  after it is notified  of a policyholders death or in extreme 
circumstances which would not apply in this case (such as where  the property is no longer 
owned). It says it sent out annual service  reminders  and renewal notices to the property over 
this period of time, which would have made Mr S aware that the policy was in force. 
British Gas also says that although the property was unoccupied, it would have attended to 
any claim. And a claim was possible as home insurers  insist on the central heating  being  left 
on a minimum  temperature  to avoid pipes bursting and had the heating failed, it would have 
attended. 
Ref: DRN57744342Mr S has accepted the investigators assessment although he thins  that some additional 
compensation should be paid to him for the distress and inconvenience  caused to him by 
British Gas. 
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the matter, it has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S had contracted with British Gas to provide a years cover  in August 2016. The policy 
was then automatically renewed  in 2017  and 2018.  British Gas wasnt  aware  at the time that 
Mrs S had passed away and so I do not criticise it for doing so. However,  each of these 
annual policies was a new and separate contract  and a contract cannot be formed  with a 
deceased party. In my opinion, no valid contract  existed  from August 2017 onwards and 
therefore the premiums  from then onwards  need  to be refunded to Mrs Ss estate. 
Even if this isnt correct  and there  were  a valid contract,  I consider it would be fair and 
reasonable to refund  those premiums,  and the premiums from Mrs Ss death  in April 2017. 
I have no reason to doubt what Mr S has said  that he wasnt  aware  of the policy until 
November 2018.  If he had been he probably  would have arranged  the annual  service of the 
boiler but this wasnt done since April 2016.  British Gas says the property would still have 
been covered  and it would have responded to any claim made in that period. No claim was 
made and it would have been  entitled to refuse a claim, unless  the policy was transferred 
into Mr Ss name. I accept that documents relating to the policy were sent to Mrs Ss 
property but for whatever reason these were  overlooked by Mr S, as were  the direct  debits. 
Mr S says his mothers death  was unexpected  and there was a lot to sort out and post may 
have gone missing. I dont  therefore  criticise British Gas for taking the premiums as normal 
but I do think it is plausible that this went unnoticed  by Mr S.    
Overall therefore I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for all the premiums taken 
since Mrs S death in April 2017  to be refunded.  
I accept that Mr S was caused unnecessary and avoidable distress  and inconvenience by 
British Gass stance  on this matter. However,  as he is not the policyholder and therefore  
does not have a direct contractual  relationship  with British Gas, I am unable to award him 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience. He is eligible  to bring this compliant only 
as a representative of his mothers estate.  As such,  I can only make an award in relation  to 
any loss to his mothers  estate. I can understand his dissatisfaction  with this but I simply 
dont have the power to make an award for any additional compensation to him. I also dont 
have the power  to make British Gas change  its practices or the way it deals with such  
matters in the future but we do publish our decisions and hope that businesses  learn  from 
them.  
Ref: DRN57744343my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited and require it to refund the 
premiums paid since Mrs Ss death in April 2017  (and which have not already  been 
refunded) together  with interest at 8% simple per annum  from the date of each payment to 
the date of reimbursement.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S on behalf  of 
the estate to accept  or reject my decision before  6 April 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5774434