K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about poor customer service  from Santander UK Plc in June 2018 
when he was in the process  of redeeming his mortgage. To settle the complaint Mr W says 
he wants Santander to resolve  the deeds and pay compensation for his wasted time.
background
Mr W had a mortgage with Santander which he wanted to pay off in June 2018. Generally 
redemption of a mortgage is a straightforward matter, but in this case there were delays 
which caused Mr W frustration and inconvenience.
I will not set out the full details of everything that happened  the investigator  gave  a timeline 
of events in a detailed letter dated 15 May 2019, and both Mr W and Santander have a copy  
of that letter.
But briefly,  there were administrative delays in the mortgage account being  closed after 
Mr W had paid the funds  into Santander. Mr W had to chase Santander to sort the matter  
out.
The mortgage account was eventually redeemed on 20 June 2018 and Santanders charge 
was removed at the Land  Registry. 
Mr W complained  about the delays and poor customer service. He also said hes not 
received the deeds nor any confirmation the mortgage has been redeemed.
Santander acknowledged its customer service had fallen short  on this occasion. It has 
offered compensation of £200  for this. Mr W didnt think this was satisfactory  and so he 
brought his complaint to us.
An investigator looked at the complaint. She agreed Santanders customer service  was poor 
but thought the £200 offered was fair and reasonable. She also explained to Mr W that 
Santander didnt  hold any paper deeds  and that it had discharged the charge electronically.
Mr W didnt accept the investigators findings.  He said that Santander should have sent him 
confirmation that the mortgage was paid off by recorded delivery. Because he didnt receive 
the letter before he had to leave for a trip abroad, he was caused additional expense  and 
wasted time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I apologise for the length of time its taken for Mr Ws complaint  to be referred to an 
ombudsman. Demand for our service is high and unfortunately this means that people have 
to wait longer  than we would like for a decision on their cases.
I confirm Ive read everything  Mr W and Santander  have sent. Ive also listened to the 
available call recordings. From these I can see that Santander didnt provide Mr W with the 
service he should  have received. Im glad to see Santander has acknowledged this.
Ref: DRN50710352Because Santander has accepted its service  was poor, I dont need to go through  everything 
thats happened because the factual issues arent  in dispute. The only issue is the level of 
compensation that Mr W should be paid.
I think the problem  arose  because  this was a flexible offset mortgage and so when  Mr W 
paid the money  to redeem the mortgage,  it was credited to the savings pot rather than the 
mortgage account. This led to the delay  in the account being redeemed as it wasnt  apparent 
where the funds  were  when Santanders  agents  spoke to Mr W about the redemption.
Santander (correctly, in my opinion)  agreed  to waive the additional interest accrued between 
payment of the money and closing  of the account. 
Santander confirmed  in a letter to Mr W dated 31 July 2018 that the account  had been 
redeemed on 20 June  2018. Mr W says this letter should have been  sent by recorded 
delivery, but I find no reason why that should have happened.
On 2 July 2018 Santander  also confirmed to solicitors acting for Mr W that the mortgage had 
been redeemed  and that it had taken steps to remove its charge at the Land Registry. Mr W 
says he didnt receive a copy  of that letter and that the solicitors  are no longer in business. 
But they were in business at the time and if they didnt update Mr W, thats not something  for 
which I can hold Santander  responsible.
Santander didnt  hold the paper deeds  to the property   those were sent to Mr W in 2010 
when there  was a change  of party. The only thing Santander needed to do was to remove its 
charge electronically  at the Land  Registry, which it did.
I note that during a telephone conversation  with Santander on 7 June 2018 Mr W was 
informed of this. And in a call with Santander  on 19 June 2019  Mr W acknowledged hed 
received the paper deeds when the title to the property was transferred into his sole name. 
So there is nothing  that needs  to be resolved in relation to the title deeds.
Its not disputed  by Santander  that Mr W was caused trouble and upset by its handling of the 
redemption. Im satisfied that he is entitled  to be compensated  for this. Taking everything 
into account, Im satisfied that a payment of £200  is proportionate, fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this case. This means that Im not going  to order Santander to do 
anything further.
Santander had sent Mr W a cheque for £200 in August 2018.  That cheque  will by now have 
expired. So if Mr W decides he wants to accept my decision (and the compensation of 
£200), Santander  will need to reissue the cheque.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  insofar as Im satisfied that the 
compensation of £200 already offered  by Santander UK Plc is fair and reasonable. I simply 
leave it to Mr W to decide  if he wants to accept this in full and final settlement of his 
complaint. I make no other order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Ref: DRN50710353Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5071035