K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains about Lloyds Bank  Plc. She says she was given incorrect information about 
her Flexible Life Assurance Plan in a 2011  financial review meeting.
Mrs H has been helped  by her daughter, Ms L, in raising this complaint.
background
Ms L complained to Lloyds in October 2018  about  the information  they provided  at a 2011  
financial review meeting she attended with her mother. She says she was told there  wasnt  
anything to be gained  from her mother cancelling her Flexible Life Assurance Plan.  But had it 
been explained that the plan had a cash in value then she wouldve encouraged her mother  to 
have taken up that option at the time. Ms L says this wouldve  allowed her mother to benefit 
from the money as well as relieving  her of the financial burden of future premium costs.
Lloyds didnt uphold  the complaint. They said their adviser discussed the plan as part of the 
review concerning Mrs Hs inheritance tax.  And that Mrs H wished  to retain the plan even 
though it was explained to her that her estate wouldnt  have any inheritance  tax liability.  So 
the adviser obtained the details of the plan from the provider, including its cash  in value, and 
confirmed them to Mrs H in a follow up call. They said they were  satisfied their adviser 
understood the plan and that theyd found  no evidence to show incorrect information was 
given in the meeting.
The complaint was referred  to our service.  Our investigator looked in to the matter but he 
didnt think Lloyds had to do anything further. He explained hed taken Ms Ls recollection  of 
the meeting in to account but he also had to consider the documentary evidence available.  
And he said there wasnt anything to show the adviser told her that the plan didnt have a 
cash in value. He also said that the plan documentation, including  the key features and 
annual statements, explained  the policy could be cashed in. So he thought  Mrs H shouldve 
been aware of this option.
Mrs H disagreed and so the matter was passed to me to review.
Before I explain my findings on this matter  Id like to clarify that Ill only be looking at the 
matter of whether  the adviser  gave incorrect information at the 2011 meeting. And so I wont 
be looking  at any concerns about the suitability of the plan for Mrs Hs circumstances. And 
so if she, or Ms L, have  concerns about  this then they will need  to raise this to Lloyds before 
our service  can consider  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to firstly acknowledge  Ms Ls disappointment with whats happened. I appreciate she 
feels very strongly about the matter and that she is unhappy with the amount her mother has 
paid in premiums since  the 2011 meeting. But what I have to consider  here is whether I think 
Lloyds has done  something wrong.  And, while I know this isnt the outcome Mrs H or Ms L 
were hoping for, I dont  think  I can fairly conclude that they have. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN52331532Ms L has provided her recollection of what was discussed with the adviser. But I wasnt  
present at the meeting  and there  arent any detailed records to confirm  what was discussed 
either. I therefore cant be certain  what the adviser  said and so, I must  make my decision on 
what I think is most likely  to have happened in the circumstances. 
Mrs H had a whole of life plan. This type of plan provided a lump  sum pay out in the event of 
her passing  but it also built up a cash  value  from a part of the premium being invested.  
These types of plans  are quite common and so I think its reasonable to assume  the adviser 
understood how it worked. This is supported by an email the adviser sent a colleague shortly 
after the meeting  which  sets out follow up actions. It says:
Lodge letter of authority re [firm] Whole of life plan and get details sent to our office 
re surrender value,  next premium  review and if plan is written  in trust. Update records 
with info and advise  client
So I think the adviser knew there was a cash in value if surrendered early. And that this was 
a material piece of information to obtain for updating and advising Mrs H on. So, on balance,  
I dont think the adviser wouldve hidden the option  to cash  in the plan at the May 2011  
meeting or in the follow up call.
Ive also taken in to account that the key features document explained the option of cashing  in 
the plan and that the provider sent yearly statements setting out its value. A file note from 2008 
also shows Mrs H was going  to contact the plan provider to find out what the cash  in value was 
at that time. So I think Mrs H ought to have been  aware of the option to cash  in the plan at the 
2011 meeting.  And had she asked the Lloyds adviser about this either at this meeting or later, 
then I think they wouldve  advised her accordingly. I cant see that this happened.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs H and Ms L.  But  based  on the information 
available to me, Im not persuaded the adviser gave incorrect information  at the 2011 meeting.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5233153