K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that Charter Court Financial  Services  Ltd T/A Charter Savings Bank 
took too long to open his one year fixed rate bond causing him to lose out on interest.  
background
Mr G phoned Charter Savings Bank and requested a 12 month fixed  rate bond at 2.01%.  As 
he does not have a computer he asked  for a postal application. Charter Savings  Bank  sent a 
postal application  form out to Mr G for him to fill out and send back.  
Mr G phoned Charter Savings Bank a few days later and was told they didnt have his 
application yet. They asked him to call back at the end of the following week. Mr G called 
back that same day as he feared his application had been lost. He asked Charter  Savings 
Bank to send him another,  which they did. 
Mr G filled out and sent back the second application. When he called Charter Savings Bank 
a few days later they told him that they now had his first application but there  was a problem 
with the sort code  of his nominated account. Mr G says that they didnt complete an 
electronic check on his nominated account.  
Charter Savings Bank say that they were not able to open  the fixed  rate bond as Mr G had 
written a seven digit sort code on his application and had not ticked the box to confirm  that 
he had read and understood the section about the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS).  
Mr G says that Charter Savings Bank delayed his second application as they stated that the 
second nominated  account did not have a sort code  or account number and was not able to 
accept electronic transfers.  Mr G says this is wrong and that Charter  Savings Bank again 
didnt complete an electronic check on his nominated account. 
Charter Savings Bank state that they were unable  to open the fixed  rate bond using Mr Gs 
second application, as the sort code  for the nominated account did not match the name  of 
the bank. 
Mr G says that he had to open  up a new current account with another bank before Charter 
Savings Bank would open his fixed rate bond.
Charter Savings Bank sent Mr G a third application pack. By then the rate had risen to 
2.03%. Mr G filled out the third application form. There were  no errors on this application and 
the bond was opened in Mr Gs name.  
Mr G complained to Charter Savings Bank  and they did not uphold his complaint. They  said 
they followed the correct procedures within relevant timescales and that the delays were 
caused by information provided by Mr G. Mr G brought a complaint to our service.  
Mr G is unhappy that he has lost six weeks interest  on a deposit of £20,000 at an interest 
rate of 2.03%, so hed like to be paid this. Mr G would also like to be compensated for the 
two registered  letters, stamps  and at least six phone calls that he used to communicate with 
Charter Savings Bank. 
Ref: DRN55525922An investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint  and did not uphold  it. The investigator  
considered what  had caused  the delay in opening Mr Gs fixed rate bond and considered the 
delay was due to Mr G providing incorrect information on his first and second application 
forms. The investigator found that when Mr G completed his third application correctly 
Charter Savings Bank opened his fixed rate bond within  five days.  
Mr G was not happy with the investigators  view and his complaint was passed to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having reviewed the evidence, listened to the phone  calls between Mr G and Charter 
Savings Bank and considered the accounts  of them both, I agree with the investigators 
findings and I dont uphold this complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr G but Im not going to ask Charter Savings Bank to do anything more.  Ill explain why. 
Mr G phoned Charter Savings Bank and asked to set up a one year 2.01% fixed rate bond.  
As Mr G does  not have  a computer Charter Savings Bank agreed to a postal application.  
Mr G phoned Charter Savings Bank nine days later. He was told that they had not received 
his application  yet. They asked him to phone back at the end of the following week. 
Mr G called Charter Savings Bank  again that same  day. He told them  that he believed his 
application had gone missing. Mr G didnt want to wait until the following week  and asked 
that a second  application  pack  be sent to him, which it was. 
Six days later Mr G phoned Charter Savings Bank again. They told him that they had 
received his first application but had not been  able to set up the bond as Mr G hadnt ticked  
the box to say he had read and understood the section  about the FSCS and had given  a sort 
code with seven  digits instead of six. There was an extra 0 added to the sort code. Having 
seen the form, Im satisfied this was the case.  
Charter Savings Bank told Mr G that they would return his first application form and that he 
needed to tick the FSCS box, amend the sort code  and sign to confirm  that he had made the 
changes. Mr G phoned Charter Savings Bank  12 days later and was told that they had his 
second application form. Charter Savings Bank  told him that there  was also a problem with 
the second application. They said the sort code  did not match  the name of the bank hed 
given. The sort code was for a different building society. Having seen  the form, Im satisfied 
this was the case. 
Mr G said that he had to open up a new current account with another  bank before Charter  
Savings Bank would open his fixed rate bond.  Having  listened to the calls I am satisfied that 
this decision was Mr Gs and Charter Savings Bank made no request for him to do so. 
Ref: DRN55525923They told Mr G that the interest rate had now risen  to 2.03%  so Mr G chose  to apply for a 
new bond with the higher interest  rate.
Mr G completed  his third application  correctly  and once it was received by Charter Savings 
Bank they open  his fixed rate bond  within five days. 
Im satisfied that Charter Savings Bank has not caused the delays in opening Mr Gs fixed  
rate bond.  Unfortunately  the information  provided  on the first two forms wasnt  right,  so they 
couldnt proceed. They explained this to Mr G. And when he provided the information  on the 
third form the bond was opened quickly. I know it must have been frustrating for Mr G, but 
Im satisfied Charter Savings Bank acted reasonably.  So Im not asking  them to do anything. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Anthony Coyne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5552592