K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that CashEuroNet UK LLC trading as Quick  Quid (Quick Quid or 
the lender) disclosed some of his personal  information to a third party and didnt deal fairly 
with him when he complained about this. 
background
Mr B received an email  from Quick Quid which led him to believe the lender had disclosed 
some of his personal  information to a third party. He feels this was a breach of the Data  
Protection Act (DPA). He also complains  that his customer record with Quick Quid  is now 
inaccurate. And, furthermore, he feels his complaint to the lender was not dealt with 
seriously and he didnt receive  the level of customer support he should  have.  
Quick Quid doesnt  agree that Mr Bs personal information was shared with a third party  or 
that there  is anything further it needs to do to resolve the matter.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mr Bs complaint  be upheld. They found that it wasnt 
likely his personal information had been shared  and didnt feel his subsequent experience 
with Quick Quid warranted any financial compensation. 
Mr B accepted that there  wasnt  a DPA breach but still feels  a goodwill payment is 
warranted for Quick  Quids  management of his account and how it handled  his complaint. So 
he did not agree with our adjudication and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
I wont look into whether or not there has been a DPA breach. This is a matter  best left to the 
Information Commissioners Office  (ICO) should Mr B wish to pursue this further. But I will 
consider the other points Mr B has raised,  namely that:
Quick  Quid made an error in allocating incoming  funds to his account.
This error  led to inaccuracies in his customer  record with the lender.
There were  shortfalls in service from the lender for which he should  be compensated. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  that this will be disappointing 
for Mr B but, having done so, I am not upholding his complaint.
Mr B told us that he received an email from Quick  Quid which  showed  that he was now 
entered into the lenders system as being  in credit  counselling status.  Quick  Quid  said
In June  2018,  we received a payment from a debt management company [X]. The debt 
management company  sent a payment of £13.76 with the incorrect  customer  number, which 
resulted in the payment  being credited to Mr [B]'s account. When Mr [B] contacted  us to 
advise that he received  an email in error, we arranged for Mr [B]'s account to be updated 
and the payment to be credited to the correct account.
Quick Quid also said that at no time was any of Mr Bs information given to this debt 
management company  and it had simply allocated the payment based on the accompanying 
information it had received.  As mentioned, Mr B has accepted this point but is still of the view 
that the lender did something  wrong in making this payment allocation which  he says has led 
Ref: DRN58423742to incorrect actions and incorrect notes being  left on my account. Mr B is unable to show  us 
that his account  record  contains incorrect information and Quick Quid hasnt provided his 
account records. So Ive come to my conclusion on this point based  on what  I think  most 
likely to have happened.
Quick Quid has accepted that the payment from the debt management company was 
allocated to the incorrect account,  in other  words  to Mr Bs. The lender explained that it 
rectified this when Mr B informed it of the error and updated Mr Bs account  to reflect this. 
Having listened  to what both parties  have to say on this point, I cant  say that Quick Quid  did 
something wrong here that impacted adversely on Mr B or continues to do so.
Mr B is unhappy with the service he received from Quick Quid  following his complaint. He 
explained that he had to chase Quick Quid for a response to his emails and that he wasnt  
contacted when the lender stated  that it would do this. Ive reviewed the email 
communications between  Quick Quid and Mr B and I can see that this was indeed the case  
 Mr B needed to chase  a number of times for an update on his complaint, by email and 
telephone. 
However, I can also see from the email communications that Quick  Quid provided  a 
response to Mr Bs complaint about  a month  after he raised the matter,  which  is well within 
the time limit for a final response as set out by the regulator.1  And so, while Mr B needed to 
be proactive in finding out about the progress of his complaint, I cant  say that Quick  Quid 
breached the regulatory rules or that Mr B has lost out financially in some way because  of 
this.
I have considered what Mr B has said in relation  to a goodwill payment to compensate  for 
his dissatisfaction  with his whole experience with Quick Quid2. I acknowledge Mr Bs 
strength of feeling  on this matter - he says that his complaint to Quick  Quid wasnt taken  
seriously and he felt ignored.  I can appreciate  that his experience with Quick Quid caused 
him some discomfort and was stressful for him. 
But in order for me to make an award  I need to decide that the impact of Quick Quids  
actions has been  more than a minor inconvenience or upset. I have borne in mind that 
Quick Quid rectified its error  speedily and I cant see that the error had any lasting 
consequences. Furthermore, Quick Quid issued Mr B with a final response to his complaint 
in a timely manner. So, in this instance,  I dont  feel a financial award would be a 
proportionate reflection  of the impact  of its actions. And it follows  that I am not asking 
Quick Quid to make a goodwill payment to Mr B.
1 The Financial Conduct Authoritys Dispute  Resolution  Rule DISP  1.6.2 stipulates that a final 
response to a complaint needs to be sent by the end of eight weeks after its receipt.
2 Our approach to making this type of award is set out on our website https://www.financial-
ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical_notes/distress-and-inconvenience.htm
Ref: DRN58423743my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and make no award against 
CashEuroNet UK LLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5842374