K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) failed to make direct 
debit payments on their behalf.
background
Mr and Mrs P make  regular direct debit payments to a school  for their daughters tuition.  
Due to fraud  concerns, Mr P cancelled the direct debit in January 2018  and made manual 
payments. But after the account issues were resolved, there were problems reinstating the 
direct debit. Payments were returned  unpaid in April, May, June, October and 
November 2018.  
Mr and Mrs P complained in October 2018.  They  explained that the situation with their direct 
debits being returned had caused their daughters school to raise concerns over how 
payments were made.  Halifax dealt with the issue over the phone  and paid them £158 on 
2 October 2018. But the problems persisted and Mr and Mrs P went  back to Halifax.  
Halifax responded again on 17 January 2019 and said the problem was caused by the way 
the direct  debits had been set up. Halifax said it had deleted  the direct  debit  mandates  and 
asked Mr and Mrs P to contact the school to set them  up again. Halifax paid another  £75 to 
apologise. 
But the problems  making payments continued with further direct debit payments not being 
collected. 
Mr and Mrs P referred their complaint to our service. During the investigation Halifax  
relooked at the problems  Mr and Mrs P had experienced. In June 2019 Halifax  advised  that 
some systems issues had been overlooked  which meant the problem hadnt been fixed. 
The case  handler  said they had taken the necessary steps to resolve the situation and that 
the original direct debit  instruction should be useable. Halifax offered a further £50 to 
apologise. 
The investigator asked  Halifax to increase the compensation  offered to £200. Halifax 
accepted but Mr and Mrs P didnt think an additional  £200  was fair. As a result,  the complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that the problems with the direct  debit continued for far longer than they should 
have. It was only in June 2019,  around  ten months after the complaint was first raised and 
more than a year after the issue  first started, that Halifax found the cause of the continued  
problem. Im pleased  Halifax has now taken steps  to fix the systems  issues  and understand 
there should be no further problems making  the direct debit payments. 
I need to decide whether the settlement  recommended  by the investigator  is a fair way to 
resolve this complaint. Halifax  has paid a total of £233 to date and has agreed  to increase its 
offer by a further £200, taking the total award  to £433. 
Ref: DRN51995272I can see that this situation  went on for a long time and agree that Halifax  missed  
opportunities to resolve it sooner. In addition, I dont doubt that having payments returned to 
their childs school was embarrassing and stressful for Mr and Mrs P. But I note they were  
able to make  the payments up via other methods. 
Ive carefully considered  everything Mr and Mrs P have told us about the impact of the 
issues on them. Whilst I note everything  Mr and Mrs P say, I think the proposed  settlement 
does reflect the impact of Halifaxs  errors on them and is fair in all the circumstances. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Bank  of Scotland  plc to pay 
Mr and Mrs P an additional £200 taking the total award to £433.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 September 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5199527