K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a regular  payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover her hire purchase account.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 19 June 2019, a copy extract of which  is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was proposing not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision. Neither FICL or Mrs M have  given any further information.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows  that I do 
not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint against  Financial  Insurance  
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN53065612copy extract of provisional decision
background
Mrs M opened  a hire purchase account  in 2001. At the same time she took out a PPI policy 
to cover her loan repayments. The policy  cost £2.34 a month and a successful claim on the 
policy wouldve covered  Mrs Ms loan repayments  if she was unable  to work due to accident  
or sickness or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator thought Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld because  at the time she took 
out the policy she suffered from a pre-existing medical condition (PEMC). Our adjudicator 
didnt think FICL had made it clear that Mrs M wouldnt  be able to claim on the policy  for 
PEMCs and thought  if she had understood this she wouldnt have taken the policy.
FICL disagreed. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Im currently  minded not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
The PPI was applied  for in store when  Mrs M opened a hire purchase account. FICL have 
given us a copy  of the original hire purchase  agreement. I can see that there is a separate  
section that deals with PPI. Within the section  it gives  the cost of PPI and says ONLY SIGN 
IF YOU WANT COVER.
I can see that Mrs M has signed to take PPI. If Mrs M didnt want  to take out PPI she 
couldve left this section  clear. Because she signed within the PPI section rather  than leaving 
it clear,  I think its likely Mrs M knew she had a choice  about taking out PPI. And I think she 
signed within the section because she wanted  the cover.
I dont think Mrs M was advised to take the cover. What this means  is that FICL didnt 
recommend PPI to Mrs M, they just gave  her information about PPI. This information needed 
to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI.
FICL say that sufficient  information wouldve been provided at the point of sale to allow Mrs 
M to make an informed choice on whether to add PPI to her account. But I cant  say whether 
this information  was good enough. That being said even if FICL did give all the information  
Mrs M needed  to make  an informed choice  on taking  out the policy,  I think  she wouldve still 
taken the policy because at the time of sale:
She was eligible for the PPI.
Ref: DRN53065613Mrs M has told us she suffered from a PEMC and the policy  excluded  claims  for this. 
But Mrs M has also told us her condition was controlled with medication and I havent 
been given any information to suggest  her condition  affected  her day to day living or 
caused her to have  time off work. So I dont think this exclusion wouldve stopped her 
from taking the policy.  And it doesnt look like she wouldve been  caught by any of 
the other main  exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which  couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mrs M says she was entitled to sick pay and had savings she 
could use to make her repayments  if she was unable to work  or lost her job. But the 
policy wouldve paid out on top of any savings  or work  benefits and for potentially 
longer. So I dont think knowing this information  wouldve changed her mind about 
taking the policy  and I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit  for her in 
her circumstances.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs M (the total of the 
premiums she paid amounted to just £21 for the duration of the policy)  and if she no 
longer wanted  the policy she was able to cancel  it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs M on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to her.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is I currently do not intend on upholding Mrs Ms complaint against 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5306561