K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr B complain  that Nationwide Building  Society will not refund money which  they 
say an automated teller  machine (ATM)  failed  to dispense.
background
Mrs and Mr B say they used their card at a Nationwide branch ATM on 1 April 2018 at 13:17  
pm. They say they wanted to withdraw £100,  which the machine failed to dispense. They say 
they werent presented with any money  or a receipt for that transaction. So, they attempted 
to make the £100  withdrawal again one minute  later. On this occasion they say £100 was 
dispensed by the ATM. They  say when they checked  their monthly statement they noticed  
that both withdrawals had debited  their account.  
When Mrs and Mr B complained to Nationwide  about the failed first transaction  in May 2018 
it didnt uphold their complaint.  After it investigated, Nationwide said the information it 
received showed  the money had been dispensed successfully  and that there were no errors 
or discrepancies found. So it wouldnt refund the £100 Mrs and Mr B said they didnt receive.
Being dissatisfied with this, Mrs and Mr B brought their complaint to us. Our adjudicator 
empathised with them but didnt  think Nationwide had done anything  wrong.  Mrs and Mr B 
disagreed and asked for the matter  to be referred to an ombudsman .
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Whilst I sympathise with Mrs and Mr Bs situation, 
having considered everything they and Nationwide have said, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. I understand  that Mrs and Mr B 
will be disappointed with my conclusions  so Ill explain  why I dont uphold this complaint.
Nationwide said the records from the ATM  show  it dispensed both £100 transactions. And it 
also said, having reconciled the money left in the machine with how much  had been loaded 
in and dispensed, the ATM balanced.  This balance check  was undertaken by an external 
security company who wouldve also counted and loaded the money into the ATM. 
Im satisfied that had there been  additional funds within  the ATM when it was checked,  this 
would show that there  was an imbalance. And because the ATM was balanced, and an 
additional £100 wasnt found, this would indicate  that all of the funds that were requested 
from the machine  had been dispensed by it. 
Nationwide provided  us with part of the daily terminal detail transaction log. This is a record of 
the ATM activity on the date Mrs and Mr B withdrew their money and shows  some of the 
transactions completed on the ATM.  It shows a few transactions successfully completed  before 
Mrs and Mr B came  to use the ATM, the withdrawal  they dispute,  the withdrawal they completed 
successfully and a few other transactions that were  completed successfully afterwards. 
Ref: DRN53832292As our adjudicator told Mrs and Mr B, these records show a £100 withdrawal being  
completed at 13:17pm using Mrs and Mr Bs card followed by another £100  withdrawal at 
13:18pm, again using the same card. They  also show that the ATM was successfully used 7 
minutes prior to these withdrawals and 18 minutes after. Nationwide also say there were no 
other claims  made  that the ATM  hadnt dispensed  money around  the date in question or until 
the end of May 2018. This suggests that there  were  a large number of successful 
transactions after Mrs and Mr B made their withdrawal. Theres also evidence  that there 
were a large  number of successful transactions before Mrs and Mr B used the ATM. 
Nationwide also said that having checked  the ATM used by Mrs and Mr B it couldnt detect 
any problems with it  such  as evidence of any money falling into the purge bin, being stuck 
within the machine  or retracted. So, this also supports what Nationwide  say here in that both 
withdrawals were dispensed by the ATM. 
Where there is a disagreement about  what happened,  as there is here,  I have to base my 
decision on what I think is more likely to have happened in the circumstances, on balance  of 
the evidence available. Ive given careful  consideration to what  is being  said here. But based  
on the evidence  Ive seen, I think its more likely than not, on balance, that the ATM did 
dispense £100  cash to Mrs and Mr B on both occasions and I havent  seen anything 
contradicting this. So it follows that Nationwide  was entitled to debit their account  with £200.
I understand Mrs and Mr B feel very strongly  about the issues  raised in this complaint. But 
for the reasons stated  above, I think that Nationwide has responded to this complaint fairly 
and reasonably and I wont be asking it to do anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5383229