K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  shouldnt  have given  him a 
loan. He says his personal circumstances meant  that it was inappropriate  the bank acted 
irresponsibly when it granted him the loan.
background
Mr W says he contacted  RBS in January 2018 to ask if it would  increase  his overdraft from 
£250 to £500. Mr W told us:
he was in a financial predicament at this time as hed heavily overspent and was 
trying to take steps to sort out his finances.
he had a medical condition that RBS knew about but it aggressively sold him a loan 
of around £7,000  which has added  to his difficulties and made a bad situation worse.
the loan was unaffordable and instead  of repaying his other debts, he simply spent  
the money. He says he should never have been given this loan and he wants  the 
loan and the accrued interest  writing  off.
RBS rejected this complaint. It says Mr W contacted it to see if he could increase his 
overdraft. As part of its affordability checks, it established that Mr W had outstanding debts 
on several credit cards  and a couple  of loans  and it offered him the opportunity  to 
consolidate his debts at a lower rate of interest.  It says he also agreed to increase his loan 
application by a further £250 so that he no longer  needed  an overdraft. RBS says Mr W 
passed its affordability criteria and it was able to offer him a loan of £7,650  over 26 months.
The bank disputes that Mr W simply spent the money without repaying his debts  it says 
just after the approved loan was paid into Mr Ws account, he made four large payments; 
three to his credit card accounts  and a fourth  to another financial business with which  he 
says he had a debt.
RBS says it didnt  know  about Mr Ws medical  condition, but as soon as he told the bank in 
April 2018, it placed his account  on hold so that no debt recovery action would be taken and 
it gave him contact details  for a free debt advisory  service. It also refunded the interest  that 
had been charged to the loan from the time Mr W made it aware of his personal 
circumstances.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
didnt think the bank had done anything wrong  when  it approved the loan for Mr W and he 
thought the bank had done what it needed  to do when it was made aware  of Mr Ws health.
Mr W disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says he doesnt  feel the bank 
tended to its duty of care when it gave  him the loan because he doesnt have the capacity to 
be able to make sound decisions  in relation to finance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same
conclusions as the investigator, and for much the same reasons.
Ref: DRN56577132Mr W says that RBS shouldnt have lent him the money because  of his personal  
circumstances and he says he told the bank about  them. But he says the bank pressured 
him into taking out the loan. RBS says that Mr W met its affordability criteria and it didnt 
know about his health condition when  it offered  him the loan. So Ive considered  this very 
carefully.
Ive been able to listen to a recording of the telephone  conversation between Mr W and an 
RBS representative  from the time when Mr W first contacted the bank to enquire about 
increasing his overdraft. 
Im satisfied that he initially enquired about  increasing his overdraft by a further  £250.  But Im 
also satisfied that it was right for the bank to enquire about any other debts Mr W had. And 
when he explained  he had outstanding  credit  card balances and some loans attracting very 
high rates of interest, it wasnt wrong  for RBS to ask Mr W if he had considered  taking out a 
loan and whether  that was  something that would help you.
Mr W confirmed  he was interested in a loan and confirmed which  of his debts hed be 
interested in consolidating   he didnt want to include  one of his personal loans in any 
potential debt consolidation exercise. The banks representative asked him if hed like to 
repay his overdraft as part of the loan application,  and Mr W agreed to increasing  his loan 
application by a further £250 in order to accomplish  this. So taking  everything  into account, 
Im satisfied that the bank didnt pressure Mr W into taking out the loan.
The RBS representative  then completed affordability checks to see whether  the bank would 
lend to Mr W; how much it could  offer him and over what period. Mr W confirmed he was 
unemployed due to a long term health problem  but he confirmed his income and the source  
of his income and the bank representative told him which of his benefits could be used to 
support his loan application. RBS confirmed that it would be able to offer Mr W a loan of 
£7,650 over a term of 26 months with a monthly  repayment of just under £360.  Mr W 
seemed happy  with this  he told the bank representative how much  hell be saving each 
month.
Ive also noted  that in lending to Mr W, RBS wasnt actually lending him new money; the 
entire loan was to consolidate existing debts and reduce his overall monthly payments. So, 
in the circumstances, I dont think that RBS wouldve thought  this loan was unaffordable or 
unsuitable for him. I note Mr Ws health  condition wasnt  discussed  any further and I wouldnt 
expect a bank  to discriminate in this way and refuse to lend to him because of that. So I 
dont think it did anything  wrong when it lent Mr W the money.
Ive considered Mr Ws comments  that the bank shouldve  paid off his debts directly rather 
than giving him access to the loan funds because he says he simply spent the money.  But 
Ive also taken note of the fact that once  the loan was credited to Mr Ws account,  he did use 
most of it to repay his credit card debts, so if he then went  on to use his credit cards again 
that isnt something  I can hold RBS responsible for.
In April 2018, Mr W contacted RBS and explained  he was in financial difficulty and he 
provided more details about his medical condition and how it was affecting him. It was at this 
time that the bank put a hold on his account  to stop any debt recovery action being taken 
and it gave him contact  details for a free debt advisory service.  It also refunded some of the 
interest that had been charged to the loan.
Ref: DRN56577133Banks are expected  to act positively and sympathetically when dealing  with customers in 
financial hardship, but taking into account  the steps that RBS has taken, Im happy  it has 
done this. And I dont  think  that it needs  to do anything more.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think this complaint should be upheld.  I know  this isnt 
the decision that Mr W wants  and I know hell be disappointed by it, but I hope he 
understand the reason  Ive reached  this conclusion.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5657713