K821x#15complaint
Mr F has complained Nationwide Building Society unfairly declined his claim under section 
75 Consumer Credit  Act (CCA) 1974.
background
While Mr F and his wife were on holiday he agreed to buy an in perpetuity  one week stay 
every two years at the resort. Mr F says hed made clear in the discussions that they didnt 
feel theyd be returning to that particular  resort so would want to be able to exchange he 
week for other accommodation elsewhere.  He says the representative assured him this 
would be possible and that the alternative accommodation would be four star or above. He 
says he was also told he could book up to 4 years  in advance and that if they didnt want to 
exchange weeks, he could buy additional weeks at a maximum of £199 per week.  
Mr F says he agreed to go ahead on that basis. He paid the deposit of £2,022.09 on his 
Nationwide credit card, with the balance and management  fees to be paid by instalments.
But he says when he got home  and logged in, he found there  was limited accommodation 
available and that much  of the alternative  accommodation wasnt of the standard  theyd  
been led to believe. And when he looked at buying  other weeks,  this was all significantly 
more than £199 per week. He found he couldnt book specific accommodation four years in 
advance as hed been told but could only request a booking and that would then depend on 
what was available  nearer  the time.
Mr F feels he was given  misleading information by the representative. He says he tried to 
resolve it with the company but without success.  Hes now cancelled the contract and any 
future payments but now wants Nationwide to refund  the deposit under s75 CCA.
Nationwide disagreed and said it didnt feel thered been misrepresentation or a breach of 
contract so s75 didnt apply. It said there was nothing to show  Mr F hadnt received what 
hed agreed to buy, based on the terms and conditions of the contract hed signed. And for 
the same  reason it didnt agree thered been  misrepresentation.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Fs complaint. He said Mr Fs recollection of what theyd been told 
at the presentation was supported by the email from the representative afterwards. For that 
reason he accepted, on balance, that the representative had indicated  the alternative  
accommodation would be four star or above  and that Mr F would be able to book up to four 
years in advance.  A search of the available accommodation  had shown that wasnt  the case 
and he felt the representative  should  have made this clear.
Hed reviewed the contract but this had to be considered along  with the assurances given by 
the representative at the meeting and after. He felt Mr F had been induced  to enter into the 
contract on the strength of these  assurances  and if the assurances werent accurate, then 
they were misleading.  Given this, he considered  thered  been  misrepresentation and that 
Nationwide should  refund Mr F his deposit of £2,022.09 in full.
Nationwide disagreed and said in summary:
Hotel ratings vary across  the world so it didnt agree an assurance of a particular 
rating could count as a statement  of fact or law or amount to misrepresentation. 
Ref: DRN55874872There would have  been a wider range of accommodation  if Mr F had made a specific 
request rather than a generalised availability search
Mr F could have  made a booking  request  at any time as although as a standard  
member the recommended time was up to two years in advance, this was only a 
recommendation. It didnt agree thered been  misrepresentation  on this. It asked for 
the complaint  to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided to uphold  Mr 
Fs complaint as Ill now explain.
In this case Mr F bought  the accommodation week using his Nationwide  credit card so hes 
brought his complaint under s75 CCA 1974. This provides that, where a consumer 
purchases an item using  a credit card, it may be possible, subject to certain conditions, for 
the consumer  to recover that money from the credit card provider if it can be shown theres 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
debtor-creditor-supplier  chain  to an agreement and
a clear breach  of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
Nationwide hasnt disputed the debtor-creditor-supplier chain so the only issue  is whether 
there was misrepresentation or a breach of contract.
Its clear Mr F and Nationwide have a very different view on this point  and its not for me to 
resolve that dispute as only a court can do that. My role here is to decide  if Nationwide  has 
provided a fair and reasonable  response to Mr Fs claim and if I decide it hasnt, then I can 
ask it to take steps to put matters right. 
Its also clear  that theres limited information on some points. Wheres theres no information 
on any particular point  Ive made  my decision  on the balance of probabilities,  in other  words  
whats more likely than not to have happened.
Ive seen what Mr F has said about  why he and his wife didnt want  to come back  to this 
particular resort and that any purchase  would essentially be used to exchange for other 
accommodation elsewhere. As such the quality and availability of that alternative  
accommodation was important.
Theres no record of what was said at the presentation  but Im satisfied these points were 
key to Mr Fs decision whether to go ahead because he emailed the representative 
afterwards for confirmation.  The representative  replied  to say:
As promised, a summary of membership my friends   You will have a prepaid week  
every 2nd year in a sleep  2 studio suite for perpetuity (2 this year)  - which accrue . and 
can be transferred elsewhere,  and year-round  you can buy 199 pound sterling (can't find the 
currency symbol)  bonus weeks worldwide withas they are posted - thousands every 
week; very cheap weekly stays for 4 and 5 star suite style accommodations around  the world  
Ref: DRN55874873(averaging per week what you would  usually be paying per night elsewise for the good 
standards we give you on our inexpensive  resorts).  ..You  can also buy weeks directly 
from our resort and elsewhere too as rentals  (for a management fee each  time). Remember 
you can book up to 4 years in advance if you ever wish to go somewhere like the Olympics 
or World Cup!!....
Reading this I can understand  why Mr F understood thered be a large pool of available  
accommodation, most of which was four and five star, and which could be booked in 
advance. If this hadnt been the case  I dont consider Mr F would have been willing to go 
ahead. And for that reason I think this information  needs to be taken  into account in 
considering whether theres been  misrepresentation.
Ive seen Nationwide says hotel ratings  vary so its not possible to define  precisely  what  is 
four or five standard accommodation.  To some degree I agree as standards do vary but I 
think its clear  Mr F was expecting accommodation of a similar  or higher standard  to the one 
hed bought. And the fact the representative stressed the quality of the accommodation 
suggests he also understood  this to be the case. In this case  I consider Mr F was given an 
unrealistic expectation  of the accommodation  options available. It would have been more  
accurate if the representative had said, as the website did, that there was a wide range of 
accommodation of varying standards, some  of which was four or five star but I cant see that 
he did. Instead the information  provided  was almost  entirely positive and didnt explain any 
of the possible  limits on what could be booked, or when. For that reason it seems to me this 
was misleading.
Ive seen that Mr F signed the contract and the contract doesnt  give these specific  
assurances. But I dont  think  its fair or reasonable to read the contract  in isolation and 
without taking into account the assurances  the representative gave Mr F. Its clear  Mr F 
placed great weight  on what hed been told by the rep in deciding  whether to go ahead so 
its only reasonable to take this into account  in considering what  happened.
In the circumstances I consider there  was misrepresentation about the product and its 
benefits. For that reason I think its only fair Nationwide should put matters right and should  
now refund  Mr F the deposit of £2,022.09.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to 
refund £2,022.09 to Mr F.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5587487