K822xcomplaint
Miss J complains  that a car she has been financing through an agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS), trading as Audi Finance, is not of 
satisfactory quality.
background 
Miss J took receipt of a new car in May 2016.  She financed  the deal through  a hire purchase  
agreement with VWFS. The first payment was due in June 2016 and there were to be 47 
additional monthly payments.
Miss J had problems with the car. In May 2017  the car lost all power and was at the 
dealership being repaired for a month. The dealership replaced  the battery and identified a 
faulty fuse. 
In November 2018 Miss J took the car to a dealership again.  The dealership identified 
another faulty battery which was replaced but subsequently Miss J has experienced further 
electrical faults.
She complained to VWFS but they initially rejected her complaint and she therefore  
contacted this service.  Our adjudicator thought there  was evidence the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality  and VWFS eventually accepted his view.  They  agreed  to allow  Miss J 
to reject the car and they said they would terminate her finance agreement. They  explained 
that the deposit consisted purely  of dealer and finance company contributions so there was 
nothing to return to Miss J. But they agreed to pay her the adjudicators suggested 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  of £250.
VWFS explained that Miss J would still be subject to excess mileage charges on the car as it 
seemed she had travelled more than she was allowed under the contract. They also 
explained that the contract allowed them to charge for any refurbishment if the car was 
returned to them in an unsatisfactory condition.
The adjudicator thought  this was reasonable but Miss J didnt accept VWFSs offer.  She 
thought £250 compensation was too little given the issues  shed  experienced and she said it 
wasnt fair for her to have to pay excess mileage. She explained  there would be a 
considerable cost if she did and she said shed  been  waiting for a long time for a decision. 
She therefore asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Miss J so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN55400462board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss J acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
I dont think theres any dispute about whether this car was of a satisfactory standard.  VWFS 
have accepted the adjudicators view that it wasnt  and for the avoidance of any doubt I 
would explain that I agree.  This was a brand  new vehicle and I think  a reasonable person 
would expect it not to experience so many  electrical faults. It wasnt sufficiently durable and I 
think VWFS are therefore right to accept its rejection.
But that doesnt mean Miss J isnt bound by the other terms in the finance agreement. 
Excess mileage was always  due if she travelled  more than 5,000 miles per year and 
refurbishment charges  are due if the car is not kept in a good  condition, commensurate with 
age and mileage.  I dont accept the excess mileage charges or any refurbishment  charges 
are unfair. 
VWFS have  explained that no deposit was paid by Miss J and shes  not disputed that.  So  
Im satisfied that there is no deposit to refund in these  circumstances.
 
I understand Miss Js frustration with the issues shes experienced but I dont  think  the 
compensation award the adjudicator suggested is too low. It seems in line with other  awards 
this service has made and I think,  considering the issues  that have been demonstrated, its 
sufficient in the circumstances.
Its clear however; that theres been a delay in getting these issues resolved and to be fair to 
Miss J I would expect VWFS to settle  this dispute in line with my directions, quickly. Im 
therefore including a direction that Miss J should not have to pay any further finance 
instalments towards  her agreement from the date of this decision.
Whilst I agree with the adjudicators suggested  redress Ive not been persuaded to modify it 
in light of Miss Js further comments.
Ref: DRN55400463my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to:
terminate Miss Js finance agreement with nothing more  to pay from the date of this 
decision, except  for excess mileage  and any refurbishment charges;
collect the car at no cost to Miss J;
remove any adverse reports that may have been  made  to Miss Js credit file as a 
result of these issues;
pay Miss J £250 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5540046