K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about the service he received from Gain Credit LLC (GC) (trading as 
Drafty) in relation to his credit account.
background
Mr A says he wanted to change the debit card used to make payments to his account, but he 
says GCs system thought  it was a credit  card and wouldnt accept it. He says he was 
concerned this would cause  payment delays  which  would result in additional charges and 
late payment markers being recorded  on his credit file. And he says he continued making  his 
contractual payments but he continued  receiving payment  reminders by phone,  text 
message and email.  
Mr A also says he suffers from a medical condition  that he made GC aware of and he says 
the unwanted contact he received made this worse and caused  him stress and anxiety. So, 
Mr A says he wants GC to apologise  for whats happened,  clear his account,  remove  all 
references to it from his credit record and compensate him for the distress  hes been  
caused.
GC says Mr A first mentioned his medical  condition to it on 25 December 2017.  It says it 
tried to contact him on his registered contact number to discuss the matter  however it was 
unable to establish connection. It says it had sent him an email  to explain that, due to system 
constraint, it was unable  to update  his new debit card details towards his Drafty account. 
And it says it provided him with alternative modes of payment.  
Our adjudicator thought Mr As complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.  
Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions. He said many  of the people contacting 
him on behalf of GC had no idea why they were calling and were chasing a payment GC 
knew had already been made long after it had cleared with GCs bank. He said it isnt a 
matter of inconvenience but severe  detriment to his health that it sent him undue 
communications. And he said GC applies daily compound interest to its accounts,  so any 
delay in it processing a payment because of its failure to keep its payment system updated 
has a considerable knock  on effect.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr As complaint and Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr As frustration at discovering he couldnt  use his new debit card to make 
account payments  to GC. But its explained that its internal systems wouldnt allow the 
particular type of card to be added for payment purposes.  And the information Ive seen 
indicates it made Mr A aware of the alternative payment options open to him and of the extra  
time they would take to credit his account. I also understand GC explained to Mr A that as a 
result, he would continue to receive  payment reminders even though hed made  a payment. 
Ref: DRN54042462I see GC also offered to change Mr As payment date to accommodate  the additional time 
needed for a payment to reach his account. It said it would remove  any additional  interest he 
was charged as a result  of this issue. And it confirmed it hadnt  recorded any late payment 
markers on his credit  file as a result of this matter. I think this was reasonable and it means I 
cant uphold these aspects of Mr As complaint.
I appreciate it will have  been annoying  for Mr A to continue receiving payment reminders 
when he knew hed already made a payment. But I see GC advised him to ignore the 
reminders in these circumstances. And I havent seen anything leading  me to conclude the 
tone or content  of its communications with Mr A was inappropriate. Im also satisfied GC 
responded appropriately when it became  aware  of Mr As medical  condition.
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Mr As complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint against  Gain Credit LLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5404246