K821x#15complaint
Mr G says Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading at the time of sale as Egg) mis-sold  him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in December 2007.  The policy was 
added to Mr Gs credit card account  after he applied for the card by completing  an 
application online.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Egg disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.  
As Mr G applied  for the PPI policy online,  I dont  think Egg gave him advice to have the 
policy. So it didnt need to ensure that the policy was suitable for him. It did need to provide 
him with clear enough information so that he could make an informed decision.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint  because  the information  it gave him about the 
exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions wasnt as clear  as it should have been. I say 
this because the terms that applied to his situation  were not specifically mentioned  or 
brought to his attention  when he was completing his application online. 
I think this would have  mattered to Mr G because he had a medical  condition  which  the 
policy would not have covered and he has told our service that he had to take time off work 
for it. So he might not have been  able to claim on the policy  in all the circumstances he had 
expected and I think he would have had considered  this if he had been provided with clearer 
information about it. Egg mentions a scrolling  text box that Mr G could  have found  the terms 
that were relevant to his condition. But I dont  think this is as clear as it could have  been.     
Mr G would have had to scroll  down to find the right term and it wouldnt have been  
highlighted to him. 
I think Mr G has lost out as a result of Egg's failings in this case,  because  I dont think he 
would have taken  out the policy  if hed been properly informed.
So I uphold Mr Gs complaint and Egg need  to put things right.
fair compensation
Mr G should be put back in the position he would have been  in now if he had taken out the 
credit card without the PPI policy. 
A.Egg should find out how much  Mr G would  have owed when he closed his credit card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
Ref: DRN55462192So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Egg should then refund  the difference between what Mr G owed when  he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Egg can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.Egg should add simple interest  on the difference between  what  Mr G would have owed  
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Egg works out what Mr G would have owed each month without PPI  Mr G 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance Egg should also pay simple  interest  on the 
extra Mr G paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest until the point when Mr G 
wouldve owed Egg something  on his credit  card. The interest rate should  be 8% a 
year.
D.Egg should tell Mr G what its done  to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Mr G to take off tax from this interest. Egg must give     
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
I require Barclays Bank  Plc to pay Mr G compensation in accordance with the calculation of 
redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5546219