K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when she took out a store card.
Its been agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep  things  simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
background
Mrs J took out the PPI in store at the same time she applied  for her store card in 2003.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mrs J owed  on her store card.  The policy  would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Mrs J couldnt  work because 
she had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job until her unemployment or her disability 
ended or the outstanding amount was repaid.
Initially our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld  because it looked as though  
Mrs J had a pre-existing medical  condition at the time she took out the PPI. But after 
receiving more information following some further  requests, he told Mrs J that he didnt  think  
the complaint  should be upheld as she didnt have  a pre-existing medical condition in 2003 
when she took out the cover. Mrs J disagreed with this view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mrs Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Js complaint. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment 
to Mrs J and Ill explain  my reasons  why.
The first thing Ive thought  about  was whether Mrs J was given a fair choice about  taking  out 
the PPI. She has told us that she didnt know about the policy.  FICL  has been able to 
provide me with a copy of the credit agreement Mrs J signed when she took out the store  
card and the PPI. On it theres a section which is headed protecting your account  and Mrs J 
has signed this part of the form showing she wanted  it. She could have left it blank if she 
didnt want to take out the PPI. I can also see from the completed form that other  optional  
features were deleted. And I think the PPI would  have appeared on her store  card 
statements so if she didnt  know she had it she could have questioned it at any point - I 
havent seen that she has done so. Overall, it looks as though  Mrs J made her choice to 
have the PPI so I think its more  likely  she wanted to take out the cover knowing she could 
decline it if she didnt want it even  if its understandable if she cant remember  doing so now 
after so long.
I dont think its likely  FICL advised Mrs J to buy the PPI. That meant it didnt have to make 
sure it was suitable for her circumstances. But it still had to give her enough clear 
information so she could decide  for herself whether  or not she wanted the policy.
Ref: DRN53638532Its possible the information FICL  gave Mrs J about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. Mrs J says she doesnt remember discussing the PPI when she took the store  card. 
But even if FICL had given her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have made 
a difference. I still think she would  have taken out the policy.
I say this because  she was eligible for the cover and doesnt  appear to have been affected 
by any of the main things the policy  didnt  cover, such as unusual employment 
circumstances. 
Our adjudicator initially upheld  this complaint because  it looked like Mrs J had suffered with a 
pre-existing medical condition when she took out the PPI in 2003 which  would not have been 
covered by the policy. But on receiving  further  information from Mrs J she told us that her 
medical condition  wasnt diagnosed until 2007,  some years after she had taken out the PPI. 
So I dont  think she would  have  been  affected by any of the exclusions set out in the terms 
and conditions of the policy about pre-existing medical conditions.
Mrs J has told us she would have received between three and six months sick pay from her 
employer if she was off work and she says her husband could have helped if things went 
wrong. As the PPI wasnt recommended to her, FICL didnt need to check her circumstances  
to make sure it was suitable.  Even  so, the PPI would  have paid out on top of any sick pay 
she received and likely for longer than her sick pay would  have  lasted. And although I 
appreciate her husband would have wanted to help, this type of help isnt always guaranteed  
as and when she might have needed  it and for so long. Circumstances can change  and 
Mrs J was the person  responsible for the balance on the store card so I still think the PPI 
could have been useful if things went wrong.
Overall, when taking everything  into consideration, I think  its likely Mrs J chose the cover.  
So it looks  like she wanted this type of insurance.  I think the policy  could have been useful if 
something went wrong and I dont  think Mrs J would  have been put off taking it out even with 
better or clearer information.  So I dont think Mrs J has lost out as a result of anything  FICL 
may have  done  wrong and I dont uphold  this complaint.
I am sorry  to hear about Mrs Js circumstances but if she wishes  to see if she can make any 
back-dated claim for any time off work when she had the policy it would  be open for her to 
contact FICL in the first instance.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5363853