K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs W bought the policy  in June 20004 at the same  time as taking out a loan. She applied  
for the loan and PPI policy during a meeting. 
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £194.43  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over an 18-month  term and the policy term matched that of the loan. The monthly 
loan repayment  was £92.88 with the PPI costing an additional £12.04  making the total 
monthly repayment £104.92.
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs W for accident,  sickness and unemployment. It also 
offered life cover and accidental permanent total disability cover. Each  element of cover was 
subject to its exclusions and limitations. The policy offered to repay Mrs Ws monthly loan 
repayment for up to 12 months for unemployment  and to the end of the term for accident or 
sickness.  
At the time,  Mrs W was employed as a Practice Manager. She has told us she was not 
entitled to any sick pay, but she had some savings  she could rely on should  she be unable to 
work. Mrs W has said she was in overall  good  health at the time of sale, but she had a 
broken arm and a cut to her leg before the sale took place.  
Lloyds has sent us confirmation to show that the loan account closed in 2004. 
Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ws representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mrs W wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ws 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mrs W about the poor value;
 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs W and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
Ref: DRN52898162Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws complaint
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN52898163The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Ws case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mrs Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mrs W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs W suffered  loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs W  and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs W know  she had a choice?
Mrs W had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ref: DRN52898164Lloyds and Mrs W both agree the sale took place during a meeting. I cant say for certain 
what the discussions between Mrs W and the adviser involved.  But Lloyds has been able to 
provide some paperwork that was completed at the time. I have considered this paperwork 
alongside Mrs Ws comments and what we know in general about  how this type of PPI was 
sold. 
Lloyds has provided  the credit  agreement that was completed at the time. This agreement 
sets out the details of the loan and there  is a separate column for the Optional Loan 
Protection Insurance. This column  details the cost of the PPI and the monthly  repayment  
due. There is also a section within the agreement with the term Optional Loan Protection  
Insurance and it has a Yes and a No box next to it. On Mrs Ws form the Yes box has 
been selected and the option for the premium  to be advanced has also been  selected. 
This agreement indicates Mrs W and the adviser  had a discussion about the PPI and it 
clearly sets out that the cover  has been included. The agreement has also been  signed by 
Mrs W, and I wouldve  expected her to query anything  within  it before doing so. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mrs W knew  the policy was optional  
and she agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.  
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it provided advice to Mrs W. Mrs W says she wasnt  given any advice. Ive 
looked at the complaint on the basis that Lloyds did give Mrs W advice as this holds Lloyds 
to a higher standard.  As an advised sale Lloyds had to advise Mrs W with reasonable care 
and skill, in particular  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs W. It seems  Mrs W cant remember specific details about  the sale 
and there  is no record of what the adviser discussed in relation to the policy.  This is 
unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser likely had some limited 
information about Mrs Ws financial circumstances,  but there is no specific  evidence  to show 
the adviser took steps to establish whether Mrs W would have been caught by the significant  
exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  did not fully meet her needs. 
For example, there is nothing to suggest Lloyds  considered whether Mrs W had any pre-
existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs W given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs W, I do think  its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Ref: DRN52898165-Mrs W had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mrs Ws ability to continue to 
meet her loan repayments would have been put under strain if she was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for the savings Mrs W says she had.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs W. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs W. There 
was nothing about Mrs Ws employment  or occupation  which  would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mrs W has told us 
about an injury she had in 1988 which resulted  in a broken arm and a cut. Ive 
thought about this in light of the policy  terms. It seems this injury  was a one-off 
incident and Mrs W also hasnt told us about any long term impact  these injuries  had 
on her and her ability to work. So I dont think these injuries made  the policy 
unsuitable for Mrs W.  There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental 
health or back problems.
-Although a pro-rata refund  would not have been  paid if Mrs W cancelled the policy  
early, the loan term was relatively short and there is nothing  to suggest (at the time) 
that Mrs W had plans  to repay  the loan early. The purpose of the loan was not debt 
consolidation or anything else which might suggest a need to repay the loan early,  or 
that this was likely to happen.
 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mrs W sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs W was given a broad  description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs W was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because the credit agreement that was completed at the time included some  
details about the cost of the PPI.  I think its unlikely Mrs W would have taken out the policy 
without any sense of what the policy was. And I think Mrs W knew  that the single premium 
being added to the loan was £194.43 and the monthly cost for the PPI was £12.04 as this 
information was, in my view, sufficiently clear on the loan agreement Mrs W signed.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, sufficient information about  the cost  for 
example the loan agreement does not show the total cost of the policy over the term of the 
loan, including  interest - or about  the exclusions or limitations before Mrs W agreed to take 
out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs W Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mrs W. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mrs W all of the information  she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ref: DRN52898166Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ws representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs W has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
What effect did Lloyds shortcomings  have on Mrs W? To what extent  did Mrs W 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mrs W. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs W 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs W 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs W, I have found that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs W has suffered  loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mrs W would  have acted differently, or whether Mrs W would have taken out the policy  in 
any event.
Mrs W says she wouldnt  have taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
Ref: DRN52898167return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs W had some interest  in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her loan payments in the event she was unable  to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ws circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs W knew she was borrowing the money to 
pay for the policy and that it would cost £12.04 a month, it doesnt appear Lloyds told her the 
total cost of the policy over the loan term including the interest. 
Having said that, given the loan was relatively small  and interest  would only accrue  over 18 
months, and the interest would not have made the policy cost significantly more than Mrs W 
realised, I dont think it likely the missing  cost information would have affected Mrs Ws 
decision to buy the policy in her circumstances. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs W would have found the cost unacceptable  if she had been 
given all of the cost information during the meeting in which she agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mrs W would get back in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mrs Ws expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
loan repayment) were  significantly  different to what the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs W thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and related conditions that 
Mrs W knew about or ought reasonably to have known about before  the start date of 
the policy. However, the policy  would provide cover if the policyholder had been 
symptom free and not consulted a doctor in the 24 months before a claim is made.   
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs W 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy did not provide a pro-rata  refund if Mrs W repaid the loan early and the 
policy was cancelled,  so it wouldve been more expensive for Mrs W to have  done  
so; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr W be unable to 
do her own job or any other  job she could  do bearing in mind  her knowledge or 
training.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs W pause for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude the policy  wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs W from taking out the policy. 
Ref: DRN52898168But the evidence  about Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mrs W says she had a medical  
condition when the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt have  provided  cover had she 
needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think better information about  this 
exclusion would have  put her off agreeing to it. I say this because the injuries Mrs W has 
referred to occurred many years  before the sale and appear to have been  one-off incidents. 
Mrs W also hasnt  told us of any time off she had off work in the intervening years or of any 
long term impact these injuries had on her. The policy also may have  covered  Mrs W for any 
issues she had relating to these  injuries if she had been symptom free and not seen a doctor 
in the 24 months  before  a claim. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. Mrs W also didnt  likely  need,  and theres  no evidence to suggest  she 
intended, to repay the loan early. So, I still think she had some  good reasons to take the 
policy out. 
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs W would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mrs W had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do her job or any 
other job which in the insurers  view she might reasonably be qualified for, it might have 
played into her thinking  about  what she would do. And I accept it may have given her pause 
for thought  although given Mrs Ws circumstances, on balance,  I still think she would have 
been interested in taking out the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs W would still have  taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  were  Mrs W made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs W 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs W would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN52898169Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs W 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs W in the position she would have  been  in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mrs W compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ws representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find Lloyds had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt 
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs W in a better position than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Ref: DRN528981610my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2021.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5289816