K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains National Westminster Bank Plc closed his account in error and then 
provided him with poor service when  he complained.   He is helped  in his complaint by Mrs D 
 but for ease,  I will refer to all submissions  as if made by Mr D.
background 
Towards the end of 2017, Mr D had difficulty in accessing the money in his account  twice.   
On both occasions, his existing balance  had been  transferred  into an account  belonging to 
his parents  and on the second occasion,  the account was closed.
When Mr D complained to NatWest, it was initially suggested that the transfer  had been  
made by a fraudster.   It subsequently admitted that there was a bank error and that the 
money should not have been transferred and the account should not have been closed.
For the delay  in sending out a new debit card to Mr D and for the issues caused by its error, 
NatWest offered Mr D £150.   But Mr D was not happy with that offer and brought  his 
complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator thought NatWest could  have done more to help Mr D  and she suggested 
increasing the award for compensation by another £100.  NatWest agreed but Mr D did not.  
The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I think the 
offer of £250 in full and final settlement is a fair and reasonable one.
The adjudicator has set out the complaint and NatWests response in great detail.  I do not 
propose to rehearse  those comments  here  but what  I do say is that I can understand Mr 
Ds frustrations.  The initial response here must have been very distressing because  he 
clearly thought that there had been  some fraudulent access to his accounts.
I am pleased  to see that this wasnt the case and that an internal  error was to blame  and 
also that he was quickly refunded the money  which had been transferred out.
As the adjudicator says  no financial loss was caused and the time it took NatWest  to 
realise its mistake was relatively short.
In those circumstances, I think the offer of £250  is a fair one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
National Westminster Bank Plc should  pay Mr D £250 in total for the inconvenience caused  
in bringing this complaint.
Ref: DRN58092642Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5809264