K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002 when Mr and Mrs B were arranging  a new mortgage.
Northern Rock appears to have originally been responsible for the sale but a firm called 
NRAM Limited is now responsible, so Ill mainly refer to NRAM. 
background
Im really  sorry  that this complaint has taken  so long to come  before me. There are a few 
reasons for this. It seems an adviser or agent  from another company may have been 
involved in originally meeting with Mr and Mrs B so we needed to determine who actually 
sold the PPI. There has also been  a legal  case,  about commission, that has been  going 
through the courts and we needed to asses whether this had any impact on this complaint.
However, one of our adjudicators has already looked into the complaint a while ago and told 
Mr and Mrs B that it shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs B have asked  for an ombudsmans  
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
These events took place  around mid-2002 and so its probably not surprising if we dont still 
have access to everything from the sale. For example, we dont have  anything  which  
categorically shows Mr and Mrs B consented to the PPI.
Nevertheless, businesses  arent  required to keep  records indefinitely  and we do have access  
to other  relevant  information. Mr and Mrs Bs main point of complaint is that the PPI was 
added without their consent and at no point was it discussed. Im sure this might be their 
honest and genuine recollection now, but Im afraid  there are quite a few things  which make 
me think that PPI was discussed and that they probably agreed to take it out.
The most obvious of these is that a claim was made  on the policy  for unemployment in 
2004/05. Clearly, if Mr and Mrs B were never aware of the PPI policy, they wouldnt have 
known they could make such  a claim.  So I think their claim demonstrates a knowledge of 
what the policy was for and that losing an income would allow them  to make  a successful 
claim to help pay their mortgage  for a few months.
I also see Mr and Mrs B were provided with a formal Offer letter about the money  they 
wanted to borrow.  I think Mr and Mrs B would have known  this was an important document 
and that they would have  wanted to read it quite carefully. 
There was a section  on the Offer about PPI and it said As you have chosen to take our 
accident, sickness and unemployment insurance  (Payment Protection), the first 6 months 
Ref: DRN51654212premiums are free. At the end of that period, premiums  must be paid direct to the insurers 
and will not be collected within  your monthly repayments. 
I think this explanation was prominent  and it would have been  clear enough that theyd 
asked for the PPI. It also shows that they would have been  asked to set up and sign a 
separate direct debit  mandate to have the PPI premiums transferred from their bank account 
to pay for the PPI policy after the free 6 month period came to an end.
I also note the third-party insurance company have sent us copies of its records relating to 
Mr and Mrs B and this shows they contacted it on four occasions between 2002 and 2005  to 
discuss certain aspects of the PPI.
So I think these things  show  its more  likely  they did know  they had the policy. I think they 
would have been sent a policy  schedule by the insurer and all this strongly implies that PPI 
was discussed  and that Mr and Mrs B agreed to take it out.
Because of the lack of information, its not clear  if the policy was recommended  to Mr and 
Mrs B as part of an advised sale. If it was then NRAM had a higher duty towards them 
because it needed  to ensure the cover  was suitable  for their financial situation. I think the 
cover was suitable for them.  
This is because it looks to me as if they were both eligible for the PPI and not caught by any 
of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  types of policy. I dont think  the cost of the 
cover was substantially  different from similar policies being marketed at the time.
Mr and Mrs B may well have already enjoyed some protection from sickness  through their 
jobs but I think this would have been quite moderate. Their  mortgage, on the other hand, 
was secured against their home,  so I can at least understand  how a policy like this could 
have been of use. Not being able to meet mortgage repayments can have serious  
consequences and policies like this are there to help in financially difficult times. It could 
have paid out a monthly  sum in the event of a successful claim.  
NRAM also had to make sure the information  it provided was clear, fair and not misleading. I 
cant say whether Mr and Mrs B were  told everything about  the policy or that NRAM did 
everything right. But overall, I think they would  have had access to information which 
showed the cost together with a brief description of the cover.
Taking all this into account, I think it shows there was most likely a sales  process which Mr 
and Mrs B engaged  in. 
Finally, I mentioned a legal case which affected  whether - or how much - commission or 
profit sharing  should be refunded to consumers like Mr and Mrs B. Unfortunately, we now 
know the level of commission  here was less than 50% of the premiums cost.  Im afraid this 
means their case isnt affected by the new rules  and they arent  due any money back.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont  direct  NRAM Limited 
to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2019.
Ref: DRN51654213Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5165421