K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs J are represented by a Claims Management Company (the CMC), which  has 
made a complaint on their behalf.  In summary, Mr and Mrs J say Shawbrook  Bank  Limited 
(Shawbrook), as the provider of a loan used to fund the installation  of a solar panel system 
on their home, is responsible for misrepresentations made by the salesperson from the solar  
panel business which sold the solar  panel system to them.
Background
Mr and Mrs J had a solar  panel system fitted to their home  in August 2014. This happened 
after they had been visited by a salesperson  from a solar panel business  and, during  that 
visit, had agreed to have  the system  installed,  with the cost being covered by a loan 
provided by Shawbrook. Mr and Mrs J signed  an installation agreement  for the solar panel 
system and a loan agreement with Shawbrook on 12 August 2014. The loan was to be 
repaid in monthly instalments of £88.18, over 15 years. 
In October  2017 Mr and Mrs J moved home.  They have continued making monthly  loan 
repayments for the solar system but did not move the system to their new property.  
The complaint was made by the CMC  in April 2016.  In short,  the CMC said the system had 
been misrepresented  to Mr and Mrs J as entirely  self-financing. In its response  to the 
complaint, Shawbrook did not accept  the solar  panel system was misrepresented.  In brief, it 
said the costs and returns had been clearly explained, and the system had not been 
described as entirely self-financing.
Our investigator asked  Mr J for his recollections  of the sale of the system  to him and Mrs J 
and, having considered these alongside  the rest of the available evidence, concluded that a 
misrepresentation had been made  by the solar panel business. I reached the same overall 
conclusion in my first and second provisional decisions on this complaint, although for 
different reasons. I explained that, under the relevant legislation, Shawbrook was jointly  
liable for the misrepresentation. And it was therefore fair to ask it to compensate Mr and Mrs 
J. I set out how I thought  fair compensation should  be calculated.  
Shawbrook did not initially accept my provisional decisions. However, it later made an offer 
to settle this complaint, on the basis it accepted errors had been made in the quotes 
provided to Mr and Mrs J by the solar  panel  business. It highlighted that its view was the 
errors were unique to the circumstances of this complaint. 
The settlement  offer was based on putting  Mr and Mrs J in the position they would be, had 
the system being  self-funding over a 15 year period (the same term as the loan Mr and Mrs J 
took), and calculated using  the standard assumptions used by Shawbrook  to calculate 
redress in solar panel system complaints.  The result  of the calculation was that £2,668.84 of 
overpayments had been made  by Mr and Mrs J. Shawbrook offered to pay Mr and Mrs J this 
sum, plus £200 for the trouble and upset  that had been caused. 
Our investigator put this offer to the CMC. When doing so, she explained  the offer was 
consistent with the fair compensation I had set out in my second provisional decision. 
Shawbrook provided  four options as to how the overpayments could be used  these  too 
were consistent with what I had set out in my second provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN55244562The CMC told us Mr and Mrs J did not wish to accept Shawbrooks offer. It said:  
The approach  to calculating the offer is unfair,  as Mr and Mrs J sold the property on 
which the solar system  was installed in 2017 so they will not receive 15 years of 
benefits. 
There was no uplift on the sale price of their home to account for the solar panels.  
Mr J was told the solar panels would pay for themselves over a seven year period.  
Because I have  accepted there was a misrepresentation,  I must  also accept Mr J 
was told the system  would pay for itself within seven years. 
The CMC said the offer Shawbrook had made would put Mr and Mrs J at a financial 
disadvantage, and it asked that I consider the financial outlay Mr and Mrs J will have made  
against the actual benefits they have received from the solar system (given they have  moved 
house), and review  my second  provisional  decision accordingly.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come  to the 
conclusion that it is fair and reasonable that Shawbrook should  pay compensation to Mr and 
Mrs J. Consequently,  the dispute now is essentially about fair compensation. So I will focus  
only on the question  of fair compensation here.  
The main  point made by the CMC on this point  relates to Mr and Mrs Js house  move  the 
CMC says it is not fair for the calculation of compensation to make allowance for assumed 
returns from the solar system  after 2017,  when Mr and Mrs J moved,  leaving the solar 
system behind. The CMC says allowance should instead only be made for the actual returns 
Mr and Mrs J received  from the system, whilst  they owned the property in question. 
However, Mr J has told us he had not anticipated  moving when the solar system  was sold to 
him and Mrs J. And the salesperson did explain  the panels could be moved  but this wasnt 
discussed in detail, because no move was planned at the time.  
Also, to confirm, I am satisfied there was no misrepresentation made to Mr and Mrs J on this 
point.  
In these circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to ask Shawbrook  to calculate 
compensation by making allowance only for the actual returns  Mr and Mrs J received  whilst 
they owned the property  in question. The fact Mr and Mrs J independently  chose to move a 
few years after the sale of the solar system, not to take the solar system with them,  and 
therefore receive no further return from the system is not something  it would  be fair to ask 
Shawbrook to take into account  in the circumstances. 
The other point  made  by the CMC is that Mr J was told the solar panels would pay for 
themselves over a seven  year period, so compensation  should  be paid on that basis  (rather 
than being based on the solar system being  self-funding over the full 15 year term of the 
loan). 
Ref: DRN55244563I have carefully considered this point, but remain of the view that fair compensation would be 
to make the solar panel system self-funding  over the 15 year term of the loan. Making  Mr 
and Mrs Js solar  panel  system  self-funding over the term of the loan will ensure that they do 
not suffer a financial  loss due to the actions of the solar panel  business which  Ive found 
Shawbrook should  be responsible for. 
To confirm, by making the system self-funding over the 15 year term of the loan, it is likely 
that Mr and Mrs Js monthly loan payments would have been  lower than what they have 
been paying, resulting in a monthly overpayment.  And as Mr and Mrs J have been deprived 
of the monthly  overpayment, I would expect  Shawbrook  to add 8% simple  interest  a year 
from the date the overpayment  was made  until the date of settlement. 
I also remain of the view the fairest outcome would be to allow Mr and Mrs J to choose  from 
the below  options as to how they would like their overpayments to be used:
1.any overpayments and associated  interest are used to reduce  the outstanding balance  of 
the loan and Mr and Mrs J continue to pay their current monthly  loan repayment  resulting 
in their loan term ending early,
2.any overpayments and associated  interest are used to reduce  the outstanding balance  of 
the loan and Mr and Mrs J pay a new, lower monthly loan repayment until the end of the 
loan term,
3.any overpayments and associated  interest are returned  to Mr and Mrs J and they 
continue to pay their current monthly loan repayment resulting in their loan term ending 
early, or;
4.any overpayments and associated  interest are returned  to Mr and Mrs J and they pay a 
new, lower monthly  loan repayment  until the end of the loan term.
If Mr and Mrs J accept my decision, they should indicate on the acceptance  form which of 
the above four options they would like to accept.
When calculating the expected income and savings to Mr and Mrs J over the term of the 
loan I expect Shawbrook  to use all available electricity and FIT statements. 
I remain satisfied that £200 should  be awarded  for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited  should:
(a)Estimate the potential savings and income  to Mr and Mrs J from the panels over the 
fifteen years of the loan term. 
(b)Rework the loan so they pay no more than this. Where possible, Shawbrook  should 
use Mr and Mrs Js electricity bills and FIT statements to do this.
(c)Add 8% simple interest*  to any overpayment made from the date the overpayment 
was made until the date of settlement. 
Ref: DRN55244564(d)Allow Mr and Mrs J to decide how theyd like their overpayments  and associated  
interest to be used, using  the four potions described above. 
(e)Pay Mr and Mrs J £200 for the trouble and upset  caused.
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs J how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr and Mrs J a certificate showing  this, if they ask for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2021.
John Pattinson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5524456