K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Shop Direct  Finance Company Ltds (SD) courier damaged his home 
when they collected a faulty item that he wanted  to return. 
background 
Mr M purchased a treadmill from SD. Within a few days  he realised it was faulty, and SD 
agreed to collect the item. However,  during  the collection, damage occurred to Mr Ms door.
SD initially engaged with Mr M regarding fixing the damage, but with little progress, partly  
caused by Mr M not providing SD with evidence of the damage as theyd requested.  The 
lack of progress  prompted Mr M to bring  his complaint to us. But SD said they believed his 
complaint was something we couldnt  consider. However, an ombudsman here issued a 
decision confirming this was a dispute  we could look at - concluding that the supply  and 
collection of the item forms  part of the same transaction financed by SD.
One of our investigators  then upheld Mr Ms complaint.  He agreed SD were  right to refuse 
the claim without Mr M providing  evidence  of the damage caused. But our investigator did 
provide photos  that Mr M subsequently  provided when issuing his view concluding it was 
likely the couriers who collected the item caused  the damage in question.  Our investigator 
also said SD was wrong to suggest Mr Ms landlord  should pay for any damage via their own 
property insurance  policy.  And our investigator concluded by saying Mr M should  obtain two 
quotes for the repair work, and SD should then choose which one of these to pay for. Our 
investigator also said SD should  pay £150  compensation to Mr M for the inconvenience  
experienced as a result of this matter.
SD responded, and reserved comment until Mr M provided them  with two quotes for the 
required work, together with a letter from the landlord confirming he is aware of the damage. 
SD also raised a point  regarding the age and condition of the door, saying any replacement  
would not be provided on a new for old basis.
Mr M wasnt happy the investigator hadnt  considered awarding a sum to cover  the 
increased heating  costs he said hed incurred as a result of having  a faulty door.  Our 
investigator said hed only consider  this if Mr M could supply evidence that the door wouldnt 
close, and wed need to see an engineers report supporting this. Mr M didnt supply an 
engineers report,  but he did provide two quotes for the door replacement.  Mr M also 
provided a letter from the letting agent, essentially confirming they were aware of the 
damage and hadnt  been involved  in any repairs to the damaged area. These documents 
were supplied to SD, who advised us they were being considered.  Nothing  further  has been 
received from SD, and so the case  has been  passed to me to issue  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the conclusions reached  by 
our investigator, and for the same reasons.
Our investigator considered some conflicting  information that wed been provided  with. SD 
provided testimony from the courier  taken some weeks after the event  - saying they didnt 
damage the door, but at the same time have no recollection of the delivery.  Our investigator 
compared this with the testimony of Mr M  whod raised the complaint with SD within  a 
Ref: DRN59363292matter of days and had remained consistent  throughout  regarding  what  had happened. He 
concluded that Mr Ms testimony  appeared the most persuasive. Mr Ms complaint was 
timely and eventually supported by pictures of the damage.
I agree  with our investigator, and for the same reasons.  Im satisfied, on balance that its 
more likely than not SDs  courier did cause damage  to one of Mr Ms doors,  and accordingly 
SD are responsible,  in principle, for the costs  of fixing the damage.
Im aware Mr M has recently vacated  the property, but he remains liable to the landlord for 
the costs necessary to fix the damage  caused during his tenancy. Ive also been  advised by 
Mr M that his deposit was used to cover his final rent payment, and so his landlord doesnt 
retain funds  to cover the cost of the repairs needed. 
So instead,  I think the fair outcome here is for Mr M to obtain two written quotes for the 
required repairs and provide these to SD. SD must  then choose which quote to accept,  and 
pay the funds  to Mr M so he can engage and pay the chosen  contractor.  And to ensure  this 
matter is resolved in a timely manner, I think SD must decide which contractor to use within  
seven days of receiving  both quotes. And pay the necessary funds to Mr M within a further 
seven days.
I also want to address SDs request that Mr M provide evidence that his landlord  was aware 
of the damage. Ive seen  a letter from Mr Ms letting agent, provided  after our investigators  
view was issued  and which  was provided to SD  which confirms  the landlord  hadnt 
arranged any repair work. Im satisfied, given  this and the above, the landlord is aware.
I also need to address  Mr Ms point about increased heating costs  caused by the damaged 
door. Mr M tells us hed experienced heating  bills that increased by about £1,500 per year as 
a result of the damage. I havent seen anything to support Mr Ms view in this regard   
nothing to prove the door was incapable of closing, and if so nothing to show this alone  
caused an increased monthly  heating bill by that amount.  Accordingly,  I dont think  SD need  
to make any payment  to Mr M in relation to his increased heating  costs.
Finally, our investigator said SD should pay Mr M compensation of £150 in respect  of the 
distress and inconvenience hes experienced as a result of the damage caused  to the door,  
and his subsequent communications with SD. I agree  this amount is a fair reflection  of the 
inconvenience experienced  by Mr M.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I uphold this complaint, and require Shop Direct Finance 
Company Ltd to do the following:
-SD must  pay to repair the damage  caused by their courier  to one of the doors  at Mr Ms 
previous rented property
-Upon receipt of two new written  quotes  from Mr M, SD must choose which quote to 
accept within seven  days of receipt
-And in respect  of the quote chosen,  SD must pay the required amount to Mr M  within a 
further seven  days   allowing him to engage and pay for the chosen contractor.
-Pay £150 compensation to Mr M for distress  and inconvenience. 
Ref: DRN59363293Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2020.
Mark Evans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5936329