K822xcomplaint
Miss R is unhappy with the handling  of a claim under her home  emergency  insurance policy  
with Aviva Insurance Limited.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter earlier this month,  part of which is copied 
below: 
It is not in dispute  that Aviva  caused  damage  to Miss Rs property while  dealing  with a claim 
under her home emergency  insurance  policy. Miss R had made a claim in early  March 2018, 
as there  was a problem  with her hot water. Aviva attended and carried out some work to the 
expansion tank upstairs. Miss R says the engineer  was rude at the time. When  he left, she 
noticed a mark  on her carpet. However, around two weeks later, Miss R came  home  to find 
her house  flooded. Water was flooding  down the stairs and through the ceiling. This was 
coming from the a hot water pipe, which had been  wrenched apart  as the expansion tank 
had fallen to the floor and disconnected  from one the connecting water pipes. 
Miss R says she had to turn off all the electrics and the mains stop tap. She and her family  
and their dog had to stay with family  that night, and her son had to sleep on the floor. Miss R 
also had to put their cat into a cattery. The house  was uninhabitable as the electrics had to 
dry out and there was no water  supply.   
The electricity and water was reconnected a few days  later but this was after further stress 
as the electrician called the night before to cancel the appointment and then said he could 
come at 1pm, she had to reschedule the plumber to come after the electrician, as he needed 
electricity supply to ensure the boiler was working. This all resulted in Miss R having to stay 
with family  for five days  and she also had to make  a claim under  her home insurance policy  
for repair of the damage. 
They had to remove carpets and move  possessions to prevent further damage and had to 
live with dehumidifiers and dryers  working non-stop. 
Miss R also says she has medical conditions and her house is adapted for her use. While  
she was able to stay with other family  members,  this caused  her significant difficulties. 
Aviva accepted responsibility for this and has paid Miss R £500 compensation and has also 
reimbursed the excess she had to pay her home  insurer and also the increase in premiums 
when that policy renewed. In addition, Aviva also sent Miss R a sweet hamper and covered 
the cost for the boarding of her cat.
Miss R is not satisfied that this is enough  to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her. She also says that her home insurance premiums are likely to 
be higher for the next few years as a result of the claim she was forced to make. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. She didnt  recommend  that it be upheld as 
she considered  that the payments already  made  are reasonable. 
Miss R doesnt accept the adjudicators  assessment, so the matter  has been  passed to me. 
Ref: DRN53120792my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Miss Rs disappointment  with the handling of her claim. She had taken out 
the policy with Aviva to provide assistance  to her in situations such  as the one she found 
herself in. Instead  Aviva  caused damage to her home. 
Aviva accepts that this should never  have  happened  and I am pleased to note that it made 
the offers in relation to the financial losses she incurred and the arrangements  that it did. 
However, having considered all the circumstances I consider  that the compensation offered 
should be increased. 
Miss R and her family had to deal with a significant  flood in their home; had to live elsewhere 
for five days  and then when they did move back home had to endure extensive repairs and 
all the appointments  and inconvenience that entails.  None  of this would have happened at 
all, if Aviva had not caused it. 
Overall therefore I consider that the sum of £850 is more appropriate and in line with awards 
made in other cases. This also takes account of any further premium increases that are 
solely due to having had to make  the home insurance claim.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require Aviva  Insurance Limited to pay Miss R £850  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by its handling of her claim. 
responses to my provisional  decision  
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
evidence they want considered. 
Both Miss R and Aviva have responded and both have confirmed they accept my provisional 
decision and have  nothing  further to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that no new information has been  provided,  I remain of the opinion  that the total sum 
of £850 is appropriate compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience  caused to 
Miss R and her family by Avivas mishandling of her home emergency claim. 
Ref: DRN53120793my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Miss R £850 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by its handling of her claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 February  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5312079