K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited turned down a claim made  under his 
private medical insurance policy. 
background
In April 2017, Mr I took out a private medical  insurance policy  which included a moratorium.  
That meant there was no cover for treatment  of medical problems Mr I had had in the 
previous five years, until hed been  a member for two years and had been trouble-free  from 
the condition for 12 consecutive  months. 
In April 2018, Mr I made  a claim under the policy.  He wanted to see a specialist about a 
recurring cough hed been experiencing. AXA turned  down that claim,  as Mr I had been  
experiencing his recurring cough  before taking out the policy.  It therefore  thought  the claim 
fell under the moratorium. Mr I brought a complaint to this service about  AXAs  decision. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He thought it had been  
reasonable for AXA to turn down the claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy explains  that AXA calls conditions its members were  aware  of when they joined 
pre-existing conditions. Thats defined as:
any disease, illness or injury that:
you have received medication,  advice or treatment for in the five years  before the 
start of your cover, or
you have experienced symptoms of in the five years before the start of your cover 
whether or not the condition was diagnosed.
The policy goes on to explain that cover for pre-existing conditions  depends  on the 
underwriting terms the member joined on. Mr I joined on moratorium terms. The policy  says 
that means:
you wont have cover for treatment of medical  problems you had in the five years  before  you 
joined us until:
youve been  a member for two years  in a row, and
youve had a period  of 12 consecutive months since you joined that have been 
trouble-free from that condition.
I therefore need to consider whether it was reasonable  for AXA to say that Mr Is recurring 
cough was a medical problem (or pre-existing condition) in the five years  before the policy  
started. 
On 28 March 2018, Mr Is GP referred him to a specialist. In that referral letter, the GP 
explained hed reported a recurrent cough  for the last two years. She then said We saw him 
last year and bloods and chest x-ray were normal and spirometry  was also normal.
Ref: DRN51318052The GP doesnt give the dates that Mr I had the above investigations for his cough, but I see 
from AXAs notes that Mr I confirmed  to AXA he had the chest  x-ray before  the policy 
started. 
Mr I says he wasnt diagnosed with a condition, and the investigations he had under the 
NHS took place to check there wasnt a condition  to be treated. 
Whilst I appreciate the investigations arranged by Mr Is GP were found to be normal,  it was 
still the case that he was having symptoms in the five years before the policy started. On the 
face of it, that means the cough (or the reason  for the cough) would be considered  a pre-
existing condition. 
As Mr I points  out, this service generally  says it isnt reasonable for an insurer rely on the 
pre-existing condition clause if someone  has only experienced some undiagnosed or minor 
generalised symptoms  when  taking  out the policy. 
However, we consider  each case on its own merits and will take into account a number of 
different factors, including whether or not the consumer had undergone tests for their 
symptoms. Well also consider the connection  between the pre-existing condition and the 
condition that gave rise to the claim, and crucially whether a consumer could reasonably be 
expected to have been aware they may need to make a claim because of their symptoms.  
Here, Mr I had experienced a cough  which I appreciate could  be considered a minor 
symptom. However, this had already been  recurring  for around a year when he took out the 
policy, which could indicate something  more serious. Hed had some investigations, but 
these didnt reveal anything. Therefore, there  was no known explanation for his recurring 
cough when the policy started. 
Taking this into account, I think  Mr I was aware he may need to make  a claim because of his 
symptoms. His symptoms  were ongoing and a cause hadnt been  found to explain why he 
had a recurring cough. If his symptoms continued  or worsened (as is the case) then I think  
its reasonable to say he would have known hed need further investigations. 
Also, I think that if AXA had carried out full underwriting  when Mr I applied for the policy,  its 
unlikely it would have  provided cover for Mr Is recurrent cough.
Consequently, I think it was reasonable for AXA to treat Mr Is recurring cough as a pre-
existing condition and therefore decline his claim as it fell within  the moratorium.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5131805