K821x#15complaint
Mrs L complains  about the way The Baxendale Insurance Company has handled her transit  
and storage insurance claim. 
background
Mrs L took out a transit  and storage insurance  policy through  her removal company in 
January 2018.  She was moving out of her home, placing her belongings in storage for a 
short while and then moving into her new home in or around July 2018. 
When the removal company delivered her belongings  to her new home,  Mrs L discovered  
that some  of her items had been damaged. She claimed under the policy  shed taken out. 
Specifically there was damage to her leather sofa,  welsh dresser,  an electric  piano, some 
crockery and a lampshade.  
Baxendales agents accepted the claim on its behalf  and asked Mrs L to provide  written 
repair estimates for the dresser,  piano and sofa and replacement costs for the crockery. 
About a month  after the claim was notified Mrs L told Baxendale she was trying  to find 
someone who would quote to repair the piano but would welcome some help in doing so. 
She asked  Baxendale to help find someone  to repair the welsh dresser  and said the lamp  
and the crockery would cost a total of £30 to replace. Mrs L sent Baxendale a copy of the 
email shed received  from the store that had supplied  the sofa. It said:
Unfortunately we will be unable to offer a quote to repair the furniture due to the furniture  no 
longer being mademeaning we will be unable to source  the materials  needed to repair  any 
damage caused.
A day or so later, Mrs L told Baxendale that the recommended piano  repairer  shed found 
needed the piano delivered to him and charged  to assess  the damage. Baxendale replied to 
say that repairer  specialised  in repairing the electronics and as the damage  was to the 
casing she should  forward a written repair estimate from a local restorer. Baxendale also 
provided Mrs L with the details of a furniture restorer  for the welsh dresser and authorised 
the call out charge for the visit at the start of September 2018. 
The restorer  sent its report to Baxendale at the end of September 2018.  It said it could 
restore the dresser for £150 plus VAT but couldnt restore  the cosmetic damage  to the piano 
because the casing was a veneer. It said the piano  was no longer in production  but a second  
hand one could be purchased for about  £350.
A few days  later Baxendale told Mrs L that having received the repairers  quote,  it had 
passed her claim onto the insurance  claim handler.  Two weeks  later the claim handler  
contacted Mrs L to say shed reviewed the claim and needed  to know the type of upholstery 
on the sofa and a photograph of it. She also wanted  the contact details of the engineer Mrs L 
had spoken to about the piano. Upon  receipt  of a photograph a few days later the claims 
handler asked  Mrs L to get a written quotation  from a leather restorer to repair  the sofa 
damage. 
Mrs L replied to say she no longer had the sofa and that shed already provided details about 
the piano engineer. She said Baxendale shouldve  asked her to get a quote for the sofa at 
the same  time it asked  for the quotes  for the dresser and keyboard.  She said shed assumed 
it didnt require anything  further from her in relation to the sofa. 
Ref: DRN56746872Mrs L told Baxendales agent that shed contacted this service  to complain about the delay in 
the claim being settled  and about how it was being handled. She told the agent that although 
the sofa was no longer in her home  it didnt mean  she didnt own it  she said shed put it in 
storage. She said she didnt want to incur the cost of getting  a repair estimate  but would do 
so if Baxendale  paid.  She told the agent  she wanted a final response letter from Baxendale. 
She said she was unhappy that she was being asked for information about the sofa thatd 
already been provided. She also complained that the person handling her claim at 
Baxendale didnt respond properly to her emails.
The agent  said in reply that shed  discussed the claim with Baxendale and that a settlement 
offer would be sent out shortly. She said shed forwarded Mrs Ls complaint to Baxendales 
general manager. 
In the meantime, Baxendale said that as Mrs L no longer had the sofa, it had no option but to 
offer cash  compensation for the damage sustained as a repair was now impossible. It said 
the offer would be calculated at a percentage of the insured value taking into the account the 
amount of damage  sustained. 
About a week later  having obtained  a repair quote based on the photographs  submitted - 
Baxendale sent Mrs L its settlement offer. It offered Mrs L £657.60 made up as follows:  
£147.60 for the sofa scuffing
£300 for the damage to the piano casing  which equated to 50% of the insured value
£180 to repair the dresser (based on estimate  obtained)
£30 for the lampshade and crockery
Mrs L replied to say she wanted  an assurance that the repair  would be a 100% match for the 
sofa. She also wanted to know how the repairer could quote for the repairs having never 
seen the sofa.  Baxendale said the repairer  was very confident it would match otherwise it 
wouldnt have quoted. It said that Mrs L could  obtain her own written quotation based on a 
physical inspection for its consideration if she wanted to. Mrs L then asked what the situation 
would be if the repair didnt match. She said shed  told Baxendale already that the supplier 
said the damage couldnt be repaired or replaced  to match the undamaged  parts. 
Baxendale said that its restorer didnt believe the repair would be substandard. It also said 
the retailer hadnt said the sofa couldnt be repaired only that it couldnt quote to do so 
because it had gone out of production. Baxendale said that if, after the repair, the match 
wasnt satisfactory Mrs L should submit evidence  to that effect and her claim would be 
reviewed. Mrs L then asked if the repair didnt match would  Baxendale replace  the whole 
sofa. Baxendale said Mrs L would have to demonstrate what the issue with the repair  was 
and it would then review the claim.  No decision would be taken before that point. It said that 
the procedure  was irrelevant anyway as shed advised 6 weeks previously that she no longer 
had the sofa. 
Mrs L remained unhappy with Baxendales response.  So she asked again if it would replace 
the sofa if the repair was unsatisfactory. Baxendale replied to say that it would offer further 
cash settlement for the loss of appearance. And it said again that this was irrelevant  
because Mrs L had said she no longer had the sofa.  
About six weeks later,  having spoken  to this service  a couple of times, Mrs L contacted us to 
say shed not received Baxendales final response to her complaint. She said her complaint 
Ref: DRN56746873was that Baxendale had asked for more information  about the sofa after a long gap. She 
said she still had the sofa but it was stored somewhere inconvenient to get a repair  quote.  
She said she wanted Baxendale to replace the sofa if the repair  didnt match.  She thought it 
should pay the replacement cost of £2,600.
We notified Baxendale that a complaint had been  received. It said no final response had 
been issued because Mrs L has ceased  contact  with its agent. It maintained  that the sofa 
could be repaired.  Baxendale  said, as wed now told it Mrs L still had the sofa,  if she wasnt  
happy with the existing  repair quote she herself  could arrange for a restorer to physically 
inspect the damage  and provide a repair quote. But it remained confident  that the sofa could 
be successfully repaired for £147.60  so it didnt  agree to pay Mrs L £2,600  to replace it. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ls complaint.  He made the following findings: 
Baxendale neednt pay to replace the sofa but as shed been without settlement for 
some time and thered been delays it should pay her compensation of £150. He 
thought it should  arrange for the restorer that had provided the quote to attend to 
conduct a physical inspection of the sofa and if it was unable to do so it should 
instruct a different restorer to do so. 
That Baxendale should pay £600  for the damaged piano because  it was a total loss.
Neither Baxendale nor Mrs L agreed with our investigators findings. Baxendale said thered 
been no delays,  that any inconvenience Mrs L had experienced was a result of her choosing 
to place the sofa in storage, that it would like the address where  it is stored and that the 
piano was not a total loss as defined  by the policy terms. It said the piano could be replaced 
with a second hand one for £360.
Mrs L said the piano was worth  £850-£900. She said she still didnt know what would 
happen if she agreed to the repair and it then didnt match.  She said if it didnt  it should  be 
replaced. She said that she needed  a guarantee from Baxendale that that was what  it would 
do. Mrs L said it wasnt fair that Baxendale hadnt yet paid her for the items  not in dispute. 
Our investigator said it was only fair that Baxendale be given the opportunity  to carry out the 
repair and this service  couldnt  consider a complaint about something that might go wrong in 
the future.  
The complaint was passed  to me and I issued a provisional decision on it at the start of 
October 2019. I made the following provisional  findings: 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
the policy terms
Clause 12 of the policy terms says that to assist with the claim the policyholder  will be asked  
to provide information reasonably required to substantiate  a claim. It also says only 
information relevant  to the claim will be sought which includes evidence to support the 
amount claimed,  written estimates, receipts,  damage reports and photographs. It also says 
that it may be necessary to make  the damaged goods available for inspection.  Finally it says 
that in taking out the policy, the policyholder  agrees to provide information if it is requested 
and that failure  to co-operate may delay  the claim. 
Ref: DRN56746874Clause 11 says, Do not repair  or dispose  of any Goods that are damaged without the 
written approval of [Baxendale].  
Clause 16 sets out the Basis for settlement. It says the choice about how a claim is settled 
is Baxendales. It says it can choose to settle by one of several options. These  are:
Pay You a cash  settlement  for the cost of repairs
Arrange for repairs
Pay You a cash  settlement  to reflect the damage and any loss of appearance
Replace the Goods  with an item of similar quality if the Goods  are a Total Loss
Pay You a cash  settlement  for the Goods subject to the Claim so You can replace 
them with item(s)  of a similar quality  if the Goods are a Total Loss
Clause 16 further  goes on to explain what its repair and replacement/total loss obligations 
are. It says where goods  can be economically repaired they wont  be considered to be a total 
loss and a new replacement cannot be claimed. It says if goods  cant  be economically 
repaired they will be considered to be a total loss and Baxendale can then choose  one of 
two options to indemnify the policyholder. Either pay cash  based on the full replacement cost 
of an item of similar quality or, if an equivalent  replacement isnt available pay the nearest 
cash equivalent or current market value of the item at the point of damage.  
The policy defines  Total  Loss as damaged beyond repair,  damaged beyond economic 
repair, or damaged  to such an extent that the Goods cannot fulfil their original function.
These are the relevant  terms against which Baxendale  is obliged to consider Mrs Ls 
complaint. 
the sofa
Mrs L claimed for scuffing  to her sofa. As per the policy terms Baxendales agents asked 
Mrs L to provide a repair estimate for the sofa.  Mrs L went  to the supplier. The supplier said 
it couldnt repair it because it had gone  out of production and was unable  to secure the 
necessary materials. Mrs L forwarded this information  to Baxendale in August 2018.  
It wasnt until mid-October 2018 that Baxendales claim  handler (to who the claim had been 
referred following  receipt of the repairers  report into the piano and dresser)  asked  Mrs L 
about the upholstery and to provide some photographs. It also repeated  its request from 
earlier in the year that she provide  a repair estimate. 
I dont think that was an unreasonable request for Baxendale to make at this point. Itd 
originally asked Mrs L to provide a repair estimate but shed  only sent it an email  from the 
retailer stating it was unable to repair it. Mrs L thinks it was unreasonable for Baxendale not 
to have requested  the information sooner. But the policy terms are clear that Mrs L has to 
provide reasonably requested information.  Shed been asked to provide a repair  estimate in 
July/August but hadnt done  so. I dont think it was unreasonable  for Baxendale to request 
information about the damage again when  it was reviewing the claim as a whole in October. 
Its unclear, given that Mrs L has since said she retained the sofa,  why she told Baxendale at 
this point that she no longer had it. The fact that she did so then underpinned  the email 
exchanges about the sofa that followed.  Mrs L said Baxendale shouldve asked her to get a 
repair estimate when  it asked her to get them for the dresser and the piano. But Baxendale 
Ref: DRN56746875had already asked  her to do so when she first made  the claim. As she didnt provide one, it 
wasnt unreasonable for it to ask again. 
Not unreasonably, having been told she no longer had the sofa, Baxendales offer to settle 
the claim for the damage had to be based on the photographs Mrs L sent in. As set out 
above, Baxendale has a number of options  it can choose under the policy terms when it 
comes to settling a claim.  It has chosen to pay Mrs L a cash settlement for the cost of the 
repairs. It is of the view that the damage  can be repaired. The policy terms state that where 
goods can be economically repaired they wont be considered to be a total loss and a new 
replacement cannot  be claimed.
So I think that Baxendale has settled  this part of Mrs Ls claim fairly  and in line with the 
policy terms and conditions. I appreciate that she thinks an effective repair  cant be made 
and she wont get a 100% match so Baxendale should settle the claim by paying her £2,600  
which is what itd cost to replace  the sofa.  Im unable to agree. Where  the damaged item can 
be economically repaired, the policy terms dont  allow for a new replacement to be claimed. 
Mrs L has also said she wants a guarantee from Baxendale that the repair will be a 100% 
match and if it isnt that it will pay her to replace it. But Baxendale isnt settling the claim by 
offering to undertake a repair. Its offered to cash settle for the cost of the repair. If Mrs L 
then arranges  the repair by a suitably qualified repairer and it is not of an acceptable  
standard, Baxendale has said it will reconsider  this part of her claim. That is a reasonable 
stance. While Mrs L wants a guarantee about what Baxendale will decide  to do if the repair 
isnt satisfactory, that isnt reasonable. Its only fair that Baxendale should be allowed to 
assess the situation if it arises and, if appropriate,  make an appropriate settlement based on 
the circumstances as they are at the time.
As I think  that Baxendales offer (made on 2 November 2018) to settle  this element of the 
claim is reasonable and in line with the policy terms, I cant fairly require it to do any more.
the piano
Mrs L was asked, when  taking out the insurance,  to list items worth  more than £500 and to 
give their values. She said the piano was worth  £600. 
Whilst I understand the piano still works, I cant ignore that Baxendales repairer said the 
damaged piano casing  couldnt be repaired. The repairer said an equivalent second hand 
model would  cost about £350. Baxendale offered Mrs L £300 in settlement as cash 
compensation for the loss of appearance. 
I think the damage to the piano meets the policy definition for a total  loss in that it is, 
according to Baxendales restorer, beyond repair. According to the policy terms, in such  
circumstances, Baxendale can choose  either  to settle by cash  based  on the full replacement  
cost of an item of similar quality or, if an equivalent replacement isnt available  pay the 
nearest cash equivalent  or current market value of the item at the point of damage.
A reasonable interpretation of that policy term is that in the event something  is a total loss 
Baxendale must cash settle for the full replacement cost of an item of similar quality. Only if 
an equivalent replacement isnt available can it pay a cash equivalent or the current  market 
value. 
Ref: DRN56746876Mrs L says the electric piano  model  has been discontinued. Whilst I accept that to be the 
case, I dont doubt  there is a current equivalent from the same manufacturer on the market.  
I dont think that Baxendale has fairly  settled  this aspect of Mrs Ls claim in line with the 
policy terms. Whilst the piano may still work  the casing  is beyond repair,  as reported by its 
own restorer. That being  the case,  I think it reasonably  needs  to be considered  to be a total 
loss and settled  accordingly. To date it has offered cash compensation  for loss of 
appearance. But thats not an option where an item is a total loss, as defined  by the policy  
terms. 
Subject to any comments I may receive  in response this provisional  decision, Im minded to 
make Baxendale cash settle based on the full replacement cost of a similar quality model.  In 
response to this provisional decision,  Id welcome  evidence from both parties about the 
damaged model,  the current equivalent  and its retail cost. 
other items
I dont propose to comment on the other  items that formed  part of the claim as settlement for 
them has been  agreed. I can see that Baxendale sent Mrs L a settlement form for them  
earlier this year. 
delays and claim handling
Mrs L first submitted  her claim in mid-July 2018. An offer of settlement was made on 
2 November 2018, In the intervening period  Baxendale and Mrs L were  in frequent contact. It 
took a little time to arrange  for the repairer to attend  and assess  the damage to the piano 
and dresser but not an unreasonable amount. 
By their very nature,  all insurance claims attract a level of inconvenience. Thats to be 
expected. But this service only awards compensation when an insurers actions during the 
claims process have made  an already inconvenient and stressful situation  worse. I dont 
think Baxendale can be said to have done  so here. It was Mrs L who took the decision to 
place the sofa in storage  far from where  she lives. Baxendale wasnt  consulted. Any 
inconvenience in trying to arrange  a repair that Mrs L experiences as a result of doing  so 
isnt due to Baxendale. 
And I cant ignore  that Mrs L told Baxendale she no longer had the sofa and that doing so 
underscored the correspondence between them  that followed. So I dont think, in the 
circumstances, that I can reasonably require Baxendale  to pay Mrs L any compensation. 
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part and require 
Baxendale Insurance Company Limited to cash settle for the damaged  piano  based on the 
full replacement cost of similar quality  model.
Mrs L replied to my provisional  decision and made  the following comments:  
That she bought  her piano  for around  £800 years ago from a reputable  supplier. Shed 
contacted them  again and asked  them  to provide details of the nearest current 
equivalent model on the market  which it did. The supplier  told her the current model  has 
Ref: DRN56746877the same  features as her damaged one and would be considered  to be the equivalent 
replacement.
She provided a link to the equivalent  replacement model  from the supplier where shed 
bought the now damaged piano. It is available for £949.
She thought  I didnt  believe  she had retained the sofa but she did and it was in a rental 
property she has which is where the repair can be done. She said she did tell Baxendale 
she no longer had it but did clarify  a few days later that shed moved  it to storage.
The repair for the sofa can be done at her rental  property;
The main part of her complaint  is that her claim  was badly handled  which she didnt think 
had been fully addressed. She reiterated what had happened  with the claim and feels 
some compensation is due for the poor customer service  and unreasonable  delays she 
experienced. 
Baxendale replied  to my provisional  decision and made the following comments:
That it agreed with me that the settlement for the sofa should  be based  on the cost of 
repair.
That the point  of purchasing an identical second hand piano  had been  to swop the 
casing from the damaged one. A second  hand one remained available  on a second hand  
website for £300 but if I wished to write off the piano at the insured value of £600  it would  
do so. 
Having reviewed what both parties had said in response to my provisional decision I asked 
our investigator to write  to them  before I issued my final decision  about the policy limit for 
the piano. The investigator explained  that having  considered both of their comments about  
the piano I remained minded to require Baxendale to cash  settle for it based on the full 
replacement cost which, as listed by Mrs L on the Acceptance  Form, was £600. He said that 
whilst Id considered  Mrs Ls evidence about the current cost of replacing the piano, 
unfortunately thats not what she insured it for when she took the policy  out. Our investigator 
said that I couldnt fairly ignore the policy limits. 
Mrs L responded to our investigator to say that shed had no idea when  she took the policy 
out what a new piano would cost and that shed  thought prices would come down as 
technology advanced. She said shed  obviously been mistaken and both Baxendale and I 
had taken advantage of her which was unkind and unfair of both of us. 
Baxendale provided no further comment.  
The complaint was returned  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the sofa
I have always accepted that Mrs L retained the sofa.  What  I said in my provisional  decision 
was that it was unclear to me why, at one point, she told Baxendale she no longer had it. I 
accept she did go on to tell Baxendale that she had retained it and it was in her rental 
property. 
Ref: DRN56746878Baxendale has said it will cash  settle this part of Mrs Ls claim based  on the cost of repairing 
the damage caused during the removal. Its decision to cash  settle is in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. It isnt going to carry out the repair itself nor is it required to under the 
policy terms. I set out in my provisional decision the relevant terms relating to claims 
settlement and cash settling based  on the cost of the repair is one of the options Baxendale 
can choose. For the reasons I gave in my provisional findings I think  Baxendales offer 
(made on 2 November 2018) to cash  settle this element  of Mrs Ls claim is fair and in line 
with the policy terms. Nothing that was said by either party  in response to those findings has 
caused me to change  my mind. 
the piano
The full replacement value of the piano,  as listed by Mrs L on the removers acceptance 
form, is £600. The form says Step  3:value your goods for insuranceList any individual 
items exceeding £500. Mrs L had written in the box for items exceeding £500 see sep [sic] 
sheet. There is a list on a separate sheet of items valued over £500 one of which  is a 
keyboard £600. On the final page  of the acceptance form it says,  When  you sign the 
Acceptance Form and select the insurance and waiver options or insert  a value for 
insurance, you are confirming that youhave ensured that the values you are insuring  
represent the full value  of your goods.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought the damage the piano had sustained  
met the policy definition  for a total loss and what the corresponding claims settlement 
conditions were in such circumstances.  I explained  why I thought  Baxendale hadnt  fairly 
settled this aspect  of Mrs Ls claim and that (subject to any comments  I may receive in 
response to my provisional  decision) I was minded to require Baxendale cash settle  based  
on the full replacement cost of a similar quality model. I said Id welcome evidence  from both 
parties about the damaged model, current equivalent and its market  cost. 
Mrs L provided evidence  that an equivalent  model  cost £949. Baxendale said it would agree 
to write the piano off at its fully insured value of £600 despite  a second hand one being  
available for £300.
The full extent of Baxendales liability for the piano under the policy  is £600. So whilst Ive 
noted Mrs L has provided evidence that the current equivalent model retails at £949, Im 
afraid I cant reasonably  make Baxendale pay her that amount. I can only fairly require it to 
comply with the policy limit which, unfortunately for Mrs L, is £600.   
delays and customer service
I carried out a full review  of the file associated  with this claim prior to issuing my provisional 
decision. This included assessing the calls made  and emails sent between the parties. The 
comments within my provisional findings  relating to delays and claims handling  were  made  
having taken all the circumstances of the complaint into account. I appreciate  that Mrs L 
feels strongly that she received poor customer  service and experienced delays in the 
handling of her claim and I appreciate that, for her, this is the main  part of her complaint to 
this service. 
But when considering whether to award compensation I have to have regard to this services 
approach to such awards. And having done  so, for the reasons I gave in my provisional 
findings, I cant reasonably require Baxendale to pay Mrs L any compensation. I appreciate  
Ref: DRN56746879this will come as a disappointment to Mrs L. But whilst Ive thought  about  what  she said in 
response to my provisional  decision, it hasnt caused me to change my mind.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Baxendale Insurance 
Company Limited  to cash settle for the damaged piano based on it being a total loss (£600) 
in line with the policy limits. It should  also pay Mrs L the cash settlement for the damaged  
sofa (£147.60).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5674687