K821x#15complaint
Ms M says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny)  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about five high-cost short term credit loans that Sunny  provided to Ms M 
between June 2016 and December 2016.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Ms complaint and thought  that she shouldnt have been provided 
with loans four and five. Sunny disagreed.  So the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Ms M could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Ms M, I think  that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Ms M was unlikely to have been  able to make her payments  in a 
sustainable manner  when it provided loans  four and five. 
I say this because  by this stage, Ms M already had a history of taking new loans shortly after 
repaying previous  ones.  And Ms M had two existing  loans  with Sunny as well as an 
additional short-term  loan with another lender. Im not persuaded  that the loan payments 
Ref: DRN51472912being less than 3% of Ms Ms income  or the fact that Ms M didnt say that she was having 
financial difficulty means that loans four and five were sustainable.
Ms M had to pay interest  and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt  have provided her with. 
So I think that she lost out and Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms M paid on loans four and five;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
all adverse information about loans  four and five should be removed from Ms Ms 
credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Ms M a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Ms complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Ms M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5147291