1.Plevin v Paragon Personal  Finance  Limited  [2014] UKSC  61                                                                                                                        complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that West Bromwich  Building Society received a high level of 
commission for selling them a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy in 
connection to their joint mortgage  in 1991.
background
Mr and Mrs B complained about the mis-sale of their PPI policy previously and this Service  
dealt with that complaint in February 2019   we decided  we could not look at the complaint.
In 2018, in light of the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1, Mr and Mrs B complained  to 
West Bromwich  Building Society  about  the commission it received from selling them  the PPI 
policy. When West Bromwich Building  Society  rejected  the complaint, they referred it to our 
Service
In February 2019,  our adjudicator explained to Mr and Mrs B that because  their mortgage 
had been redeemed before 2008, the rules and guidance about commission didnt apply to 
them. So West Bromwich Building  Society  wouldnt be refunding any of the commission  they 
paid.
Mr and Mrs B wanted to know the amount  of commission it charged on this PPI sale. Our 
adjudicator asked West Bromwich Building Society for this information  but it declined  to give 
it as the rules and guidance about  commission did not apply to Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the commission  complaint 
to be looked at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I know this will disappoint  Mr and Mrs B, and Ill 
explain why. 
Firstly, I should explain  that Im not looking at any issues  relating to the sale of the PPI that 
were dealt with by my colleague in February  2019. So my decision will focus solely  on the 
complaint Mr and Mrs B made about  the level of commission  West Bromwich Building 
Society received  from the sale of the PPI policy.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Ref: DRN56422942But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
West Bromwich  Building Society  has given  me information that shows Mr and Mrs Bs  
mortgage was taken out in 1991 and ended  in 2006. So based  on what  Ive said above, I 
dont think the unfair  relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court 
judgment, or the rules  and guidance  made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of 
commission apply here.
So West Bromwich Building Society doesnt need  to refund any of the commission  Mr and 
Mrs B paid for the PPI they had with their mortgage.  
We have asked for the information Mr and Mrs B required, but as the rules  and guidance  
about commission did not apply to this case,  we could not take this particular  request  any 
further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5642294