K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about the service he received from Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
when he made a claim on his motor  insurance policy.
background
Mr G says his car was hit by a third party vehicle  and because of this he put in a claim to 
Admiral for the damage to his car.
Mr G was initially told by Admiral that the third party vehicle was uninsured. And this would 
mean he would lose his no claims discount (NCD). Mr G has told us that he spent a 
considerable amount of time chasing up his claim  with Admiral and the police. Around a 
month later, it came to light that Admiral had recorded the wrong registration number for the 
third party vehicle. And that the third party vehicle  was in fact insured. This caused delays to 
the claim being processed.
Mr G has said that when  he went to make a complaint  about  how his claim had been  
handled, he also experienced difficulties.  And wasnt happy with the service  he received 
from the claims handler.
Admiral investigated  Mr Gs concerns  and agreed that it hadnt handled his claim 
appropriately. It recognised that it had made mistakes which caused delays and that this was 
likely to have added  to Mr Gs distress. Because of this, Admiral agreed to waive the excess 
for the claim Mr G had put in  this would have normally  been £450. And it offered him £200 
for the distress and inconvenience.
Admiral also investigated  Mr Gs concerns about  the service  he received when he went  to 
make a complaint.  It agreed that the case handler could have been better  in that she could 
have included the complaints departments number when Mr G said he wanted to make a 
claim. But other than this, Admiral felt that the case handler had been  helpful.
Mr G wasnt happy with the level of compensation Admiral had offered him. He thought that 
he should get more given  the impact the errors  had had on him. He says the errors caused 
him much stress and he had to drive  around in a damaged car while the claim was being 
dealt with.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Gs complaint. She agreed that Admiral didnt handle  the 
claim appropriately and that the mistakes caused  delays   and Mr G suffered  distress as a 
result of this. She acknowledged that Mr G wanted  his complaint to be handled differently, 
but thought Admirals case handler  hadnt  deliberately put barriers in the way of Mr G raising 
a complaint.
Mr G didnt agree with our investigator,  but didnt give any reason as to why. Because 
neither party  agrees  on a fair way to resolve this complaint, it has been passed  to me to 
make a final decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr G, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN51307992Both parties  agree that Admiral could have done  much better in its handling of Mr Gs claim 
and that the errors it made caused  delays in the claim  being  processed  which in turn 
caused Mr G distress  and inconvenience.  Because both parties  agree  on these points, I 
dont need to make a finding on what Admiral may have done wrong. But I do need to 
consider whether Admiral has done  enough to compensate Mr G for this. And I think it has.
Mr G said he spent a lot of time trying  to resolve things with Admiral  and the police. He spent 
around a month thinking that the third party driver was uninsured, which inevitably meant  
Mr G was concerned about what would happen with his claim and the impact  this could have 
on his NCD. I have  no doubt that this error  caused Mr G much stress. But Admiral has also 
recognised this by waiving  the excess fee of £450 - it has also paid him £200 on top of this. 
The claim was eventually  settled as non-fault and his no claims discount hasnt been 
impacted. Mr G says he had to drive  around  in a damaged car  and I can appreciate  that 
this isnt by any means ideal. But I have  seen the report that Admiral sent to us to show  that 
the car was still driveable. So taking everything into account, Im not going to ask Admiral to 
do anything more here as I think the level of compensation  it has already offered is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr G had concerns with the way his complaint was dealt with and felt as though  the 
complaints handler  at Admiral was putting  barriers in the way of him making a complaint. I 
havent seen anything that makes  me think this happened. I can see the complaint handler 
sent Mr G an email  with the contact  details of the complaints department so Mr G could get 
in touch with them. I can see the complaints department contact number  was missing from 
the email, but I dont  think this has had much, if any, impact  on how long it took for Admiral  
to look into this complaint.  Or that this has inconvenienced Mr G considerably.  Admiral  has 
apologised for the complaint departments contact number not being included  in the email it 
sent to Mr G. And I think this is a fair way to resolve  this part of Mr Gs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5130799