K821x#15Complaint
Mr F complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Bank) has failed  to honour a claim he 
brought under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA).
Background
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Fs complaint on 6 August  2021, a copy of which is 
attached to and forms a part of this final decision.  In very brief summary, in my provisional 
decision I said I was not minded  to uphold Mr Fs complaint because:
It appeared possible that R, the company he had a dispute  with, had in fact arranged 
for the disposal of his timeshare as agreed, or that alternatively  he had made it 
impossible for R to fulfil its contract  with him by disposing of the timeshare himself. 
So it was difficult for me to say there had been  a breach of contract by R for which 
Tesco Bank would have been  liable  under  section 75.
I was unable to conclude R had misrepresented to him that it was an agent of 
another company, or that it had told him it would dispose of his timeshare when it had 
no intention of doing so. I thought there was a general lack of evidence to support 
these points.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision and provide any more evidence  
they would  like me to consider. Neither has done so, and so the case has been  returned to 
me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party to the complaint  has made any further submissions following my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the findings I made in that document.  It 
follows that I dont  think Tesco  Bank  treated Mr F unfairly or unreasonably in declining  the 
claim he brought under section 75 of the CCA.
My final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2021.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN51788742COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr F complains Tesco  Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Bank) has failed to honour a claim  he brought 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974  (CCA).
Background
Mr F and Mrs F had a timeshare-like arrangement with a company I will call C. Some  time in early 
2016, another  company  I will call R rang Mr F, apparently with an offer to get him out of his 
timeshare with C, and to include him in a legal  action against C with a view to obtaining  a refund for 
the money he had paid for the timeshare.
In April 2016  Mr F met with representatives  of R during which he says they told him they could  claim 
back the money he had paid for his timeshare with C. He also says R put him under pressure to sign 
up for their services,  which he ended up doing, paying £950 on his Tesco Bank credit card on 9 April 
2016 as a deposit. He paid a further £5,605.78 by bank transfer on 16 April 2016.  
Mr F says R never fulfilled its promises to him. It didnt reply to his later attempts at communication, 
and failed to get him out of his timeshare or claim  his money back. He contacted  a company  R had 
said it was an authorised agent of, and says he was told by this company that they did not work with 
R.
Around October 2017, Mr F made a claim  to Tesco  Bank under  section 75 of the CCA, including  a 
copy of paperwork with R. The bank asked him to provide some evidence  that he still owned his 
timeshare with C, and Mr F sent them some emails from C dated to August and November 2016 
which appeared to confirm he no longer owned the timeshare because he had asked to cancel it.
Tesco Bank  did not accept Mr Fs section 75 claim.  The bank felt there wasnt enough evidence R 
had breached  its contract with Mr F, or had misrepresented something to him. It sent him a final 
response letter in April 2018, explaining he could refer his complaint to this service.
Dissatisfied with this response,  Mr F brought his case to this service  for an independent  review. One 
of our investigators looked into the complaint. She thought it should be upheld. She analysed  the 
contract with R and noted it had implied  they would be arranging the disposal of the timeshare and 
preparation of legal action,  and that there  would  be no refund if the disposal was unsuccessful. 
However, she felt there was no evidence R had done anything at all, and there was evidence online 
that companies like R had charged an advance fee and not delivered the service  promised. She felt 
Mr Fs account  that he had heard nothing from R since paying them   was plausible. She didnt 
think it was relevant that Mr F had cancelled his timeshare directly with C, because R wouldnt have 
done this anyway.  She recommended the bank provide Mr F with a full refund  of what he had paid.
Tesco Bank  disagreed.  It said there wasnt evidence to substantiate the conclusion that R wouldnt 
have provided the services  had Mr F not cancelled the timeshare himself. It noted there had been 
only six months between Mr F signing the contract with R, and cancelling the timeshare himself.  The 
contract had not contained any expected timescale, and it didnt  feel enough of a chance  had been  
given to R to do what it said it would do. It didnt think it was reasonable to base  the conclusion  on 
negative commentary online  about other companies.
Ultimately, no agreement could  be reached the case has now been  passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide provisionally whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN51788743Section 75 of the CCA allows consumers a degree of protection when they pay for goods or services 
on a credit card, so long as certain technical conditions are met. If these conditions are met then a 
consumer can hold their credit card company  liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation on 
the part of the supplier  of those goods or services. A breach of contract  occurs where  the supplier 
fails to do something it was meant  to have done under the contract. A misrepresentation occurs 
where a false  statement of fact is made  to someone, and this causes them to take an action which is 
to their disadvantage.
Whether or not Mr Fs claim meets the technical conditions for section 75 to apply hasnt been 
disputed in this case. Nevertheless, I have considered this question myself.  
One of the conditions  is that the service Mr F purchased  has to have been priced at more than £100  
and no more than £30,000.  He also needs to have used his Tesco Bank card to pay the company  he 
entered a contract  with. Mr Fs claim clearly meets the first condition as the services  he purchased 
were priced squarely within the correct  range.  I think there is more of a question over whether his 
claim meets the second condition, because although Mr F paid R, the wording of the contract  in 
places suggests R was just an agent of another company (meaning he might have been entering a 
contract with that other  company, and not R). However, my analysis  is that the contract Mr F had was 
with R, so this second condition  has been  met as well.
The contract
In order  to establish  whether or not R breached its contract with Mr F, or made a misrepresentation to 
him, Ive considered the contract itself carefully, alongside  the other available  evidence.  The contract 
between Mr F and R essentially said that R would:
Arrange for the disposal of Mr Fs timeshare with C, paying any costs involved in transferring 
the timeshare out of his name.
Defend any action brought by C against Mr F in respect of unpaid  management  fees arising  
after 9 April 2016, and paying any costs involved.
Give assistance and guidance in respect of any other legal dispute Mr F had with C.
Not refund any money paid towards the contract unless it had failed in its obligations above.
The contract didnt commit R to a particular  timescale for making good on its promises above.  In the 
absence of an agreed  timescale the relevant  legislation  implies a term into a contract  for services, that 
the services in question will be completed within a reasonable  time. So if R failed to do any of the 
above within a reasonable time, then this would have been a breach of contract.
The contract also committed  Mr F to various obligations, including:
Signing a power of attorney in favour of a legal representative,  where necessary.
Sending the title deeds  and certificates relating to his timeshare to an address  in Spain within  
21 days.
Notifying R of any legal action taken against him by C, by writing to the same  Spanish 
address.
A separately signed page to the contract stated that if Mr F decided not to go ahead  with the disposal 
of the timeshare then he would not receive a refund.  It appears  Mr F was also given a power of 
attorney document  to complete, as a copy was included  with the paperwork he sent the bank.  
However, this is not signed.  
Mr F says R had promised to include him in a class  action  lawsuit against  C in order to claim back the 
money he had paid for his timeshare. However,  this doesnt appear in the contract  or any of the other 
paperwork Mr F signed. It does say assistance and guidance would be given in respect of any legal  
dispute Mr F had with C, but this is vague  and I dont think it really committed R to much.  It would  be 
difficult to interpret it as meaning R would include Mr F in a lawsuit against C.
Ref: DRN51788744Did R breach its contract with Mr F?
Having established  what R was meant to do under its contract with Mr F, Ive gone on to consider 
whether R failed to fulfil its obligations, therefore being in breach of contract and meaning Tesco Bank 
would have been liable to him under section 75.
Mr F says R did nothing at all, and also failed to respond to his attempts to communicate. He says the 
other company mentioned  on the contract told him they had nothing to do with R. I agree there is no 
positive evidence from R of it having taken any action.  If it failed  to take positive action to dispose of 
Mr Fs timeshare  within  a reasonable time, then this would be a breach of contract for which Tesco 
Bank would  be liable.
A difficulty I have here is that it appears Mr Fs timeshare  was disposed of about  6 months after he 
entered his contract  with R. Its not entirely clear what the background  was to this, but the emails Mr F 
has provided  from C suggest he simply contacted C himself and they were  happy to cancel his 
timeshare. One email  dated  17 August 2016 and sent to Mr and Mrs F said:  We write to confirm that 
your application to cease membershiphas now been processed. A later email dated  1 November 
2016 and sent to Mrs F confirmed that this meant they would not receive  any further invoices (for 
ongoing maintenance/membership fees).
At the bottom  of the emails  Mr F sent us, there  is another  email from Mrs F to a separate entity which 
appears to have been  advising on how to dispose of the timeshare with C. Based  on the email 
address, it seems these advisers  may have  been  lawyers, or at least held themselves out to be. Its 
not clear what  role they played, or whether they were linked with R in any way. If they were  linked  with 
R, then its possible R had in fact arranged  for the disposal of the timeshare and was not in breach 
of contract. If they were not linked with R then unfortunately I have to conclude that Mr F made  it 
impossible for R to perform  its contract with him, by cancelling the timeshare himself. 
Weve asked  Mr F to comment on this aspect of the background  to his complaint  but he hasnt replied, 
so I dont know what links, if any, the advisers  who helped him dispose of the timeshare had with R.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I am in a position to be able to say, on the balance  of 
probabilities, that R breached its contract with Mr F.
Did R misrepresent something  to Mr F?
As I mentioned earlier  in this decision, a misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  causes 
someone to take an action  which is to their disadvantage. In the present context,  a misrepresentation  
could be a false statement made by R to Mr F, and which caused him to sign the contract  and pay 
over the money when he wouldnt have done so otherwise.
Our investigator concluded, in effect,  that R never had any intention  of carrying out the services  it said 
it was committing  to in the contract. In other words, it misrepresented that it intended  to hold up its 
side of the bargain. Our investigator based this conclusion on Mr Fs recollection that R had failed to 
respond to his attempts to communicate, and on evidence that companies similar to R had failed  to 
deliver on the services theyd agreed to provide.
Im unable to reach  the same conclusion as our investigator on this point.  In order for me to be able to 
say that R had no intention of ever delivering the services it had promised, I would  need more robust 
evidence than what is currently available. Firstly, I dont know if R failed to communicate with Mr F 
after hed entered the contract; as I mentioned  above it seems  some unidentified advisers helped  
him exit his timeshare a few months later,  and I dont know what relationship they had with R. I think 
there is too much uncertainty on this point. 
Ref: DRN51788745But even if I was satisfied  that R had become unresponsive immediately  after Mr F signed the 
contract and transferred the money, it is difficult for me to say that this was more likely  to have been 
because they had no intention of providing the agreed services. There are other possibilities  for 
example that they went out of business. I also cannot attach much weight to the evidence discovered  
by our investigator that other companies (not R) had failed to deliver services of a similar nature. I 
dont see how it follows that because some other companies unconnected with this complaint may not 
have done what they were  supposed  to do, that R had no intention of delivering the services it had 
contracted with Mr F for.
Finally, I note Mr F says that a company  which  R stated it was an agent of, later told him that R was 
not one of its authorised agents. Mr F hasnt said that Rs status as an agent of this other company 
was one of the things which caused him to enter the contract, so I think  its possible he would have  
gone ahead anyway. But Im not convinced in any event that R wasnt an agent of, or working with, 
this other company. Mr F has said the other company  told him this, but Ive not seen anything  from 
the company in writing  to confirm its position.  I dont  think there is strong enough evidence for me to 
be able to say R falsely represented its relationship  with the other company.
Ultimately Im unable  to conclude R caused  Mr F to enter into a contract  with it by misrepresenting 
something to him about  its intentions, or about its relationship with another  company.
My provisional decision
As I have been unable to find that R breached its contract with Mr F or misrepresented  something to 
him, it follows that I dont find Tesco Bank was liable  to him under section 75 of the CCA, and I 
therefore dont think it was wrong of the bank  to decline his claim.
This means  I currently do not intend to uphold Mr Fs complaint. I now invite both parties  to the case 
to give me any further evidence  or arguments they would  like me to consider,
by 27 August 2021. I will then review the case again before making a final decision.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5178874