K821x#15complaint
Miss E complains  that a car that was supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement  with 
Santander Consumer  (UK) plc, trading as Santander Consumer Finance, wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality.
background
A new car was supplied  to Miss E under a conditional sale agreement with Santander  
Consumer Finance that she electronically  signed in November 2018. She noticed oil leaking 
from the car about  four weeks later so she returned  the car to the dealer. It replaced a 
cracked crankshaft  under warranty  but the car was with the dealer for about seven weeks.  
During that time Miss E contacted  Santander Consumer Finance and said that she wanted 
to reject the car. She wasnt satisfied  with its response so complained  to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She didnt think that 
Miss E wouldve agreed to the car being repaired with the intention of keeping it if shed 
known the issue  was so significant. And she said that engine failure is a significant issue  and 
for it to happen within one month  of buying a new car would raise concerns with any 
reasonable person. So she thought  that Miss Es concerns about the car were justified and 
her decision  to reject it was reasonable. So she recommended that Santander Consumer  
Finance should  allow  Miss E to reject the car  and that it should  collect  it, cancel the 
agreement and refund  Miss Es deposit  (with  interest).
Santander Consumer  Finance has asked  for this complaint to be considered  by an 
ombudsman. It says,  in summary,  that:
Miss E requested a repair of the car in December 2018 and didnt exercise her right 
of early rejection;
the repair was to an internal part of the engine which had been mis-manufactured  
and was not evident before delivery;
she was provided  with a courtesy  car until her car was repaired;
it had one opportunity  to repair  the car which it duly carried out; and
a repair  is deemed complete once the retailer returns the goods to the consumer as 
now conforming to the contract.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from the evidence that there  was an issue with the car within  30 days  of it being  
supplied to Miss E. I understand  the repair order  which  was signed by Miss E in December 
2018  to say that the dealer was going  to investigate the leak and that it was possibly  the 
air-conditioning. Miss E authorised the repair but its also clear that a much  more significant 
repair of the car was required as the oil was leaking from a cracked crankshaft. Miss E 
contacted Santander Consumer Finance in January 2019 about rejecting the car  and that 
was before shed  been told that a replacement crankshaft was required.
Had she been told that a replacement crankshaft was required, I consider it to be more likely  
than not that she wouldnt  have authorised the repair and wouldve asked  to reject the car. 
Miss E became aware of the oil leak and returned  the car to the dealer within  30 days of it 
Ref: DRN58156602being supplied  to her. And she asked  to reject the car before the repair had been completed 
and before shed  been  told about the cause of the oil leak.
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these  circumstances  for Miss E to reject the 
car. So I find that Santander  Consumer Finance should end the conditional  sale agreement 
and collect the car from Miss E. Santander Consumer Finance has confirmed  that Miss E 
paid a deposit of £7,350 for the car - and I find that it should refund that deposit to Miss E 
with interest. But Miss E has been  able to use the car: she says that its now been driven for 
3,939 miles; and she was provided with a courtesy car for the period of nearly seven weeks 
when her car was being repaired;  so Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for 
me to require Santander Consumer Finance to refund to Miss E any of the monthly  
payments that shes made under the agreement. Santander Consumer Finance can keep 
them as payment for the use that Miss E has had from the car.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Miss Es complaint. And I order  Santander 
Consumer (UK) plc, trading as Santander  Consumer  Finance, to:
1.End the conditional  sale agreement  and arrange  for the car to be collected  from 
Miss E  both at no cost to her.
2.Refund to Miss E the deposit of £7,350 that she paid for the car. 
3.Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Santander  Consumer Finance to deduct tax from the 
interest payment  referred to at 3 above. Santander  Consumer  Finance  must give Miss E a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted  if she asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2019.  
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5815660