K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs K says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think RBS made it clear that Mrs K didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose  to 
take it. I say this because Ive been  given a copy  of the application form Mrs K signed 
at the time. To get the policy a box had to be ticked and Mrs K had a choice  about  
doing that or not. I note the box is ticked and Mrs K has signed the form. So I think  
Mrs K should have understood she had agreed  to the policy  and that it was 
something she could  have declined. 
Ive noted  that the application contains the words , We strongly recommend you take 
out this cover. But Ive seen no evidence of a tailored recommendation being made 
in this case. So I think it most likely  that RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs K, so 
it didnt have to check if it was right for her, but it did have  to make sure Mrs K got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her.   
Its possible the information RBS gave Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been  such as details of how much the policy  would cost.  But she chose 
to take out the PPI, so it looks  like she wanted  this type of cover. Based on what Ive 
seen of her circumstances at the time it seems she was eligible for the policy  and it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI 
cover. Ive considered that Mrs Ks sick pay was good initially  but that it dropped 
significantly after six months.  And Mrs K told us she had no other  means she could 
have relied on in that instance, or if she lost her job. This policy  could have paid out 
for up to 12 months if Mrs K was too ill to work for a long time, or if Mrs K lost her job. 
So, I think the policy would have been  useful to her if something went  wrong.  So I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI and its cost would have put her off taking 
out the cover. 
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
But RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K, if it hasnt already done so, 
because: 
When the policy was sold, RBS expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs K about that. 
Because RBS didnt  tell Mrs K, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN56586002To put that right, RBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
RBS has to pay back to Mrs K any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. RBS should also pay back to Mrs K any extra interest Mrs K paid 
because of that.
RBS should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mrs K the difference between 
what Mrs K owes and what he wouldve  owed  if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. RBS should also pay Mrs K 8%* simple  interest  if Mrs 
K paid off her credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs K can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs K any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium,  if it hasnt already done so. If 
it has already done so, I make no further award  against The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc in 
this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5658600