K820x#14complaint
Mr Ks complaint is that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) credited his account  without notifying him 
first. 
background
In December 2018 Lloyds credited Mr Ks account  with two payments  of £7.25 and £2.89.  
It did so because it had realised that a large group of customers  hadnt received letters 
notifying them of offers on their accounts, which Lloyds had been obliged  to send. These two 
payments were therefore rectification for Lloyds mistake. 
Lloyds didnt send  letters advising  of the credits, because it had decided  on proportionality 
grounds that for all customers who received less than £25 it would  be sufficient to include an 
explanatory note on their statement,  and to be able to answer their query if they called in. 
When Mr K saw the credits to his account,  he became worried that it had perhaps  been 
accessed by fraudsters. He said he was so concerned he called Lloyds numerous times, 
spending hours trying to speak with someone. He eventually did, and subsequently made a 
complaint.
Lloyds responded to the complaint explaining why it had made the credits;  why thered  been 
no pre-warning; and apologising  for the time and cost of Mr Ks phone  calls. It also refunded 
£12 in call costs. It felt this was enough  to resolve  matters.
But Mr K didnt agree, and brought his complaint to this service. He said he was very 
distressed and worried when he saw his account had been accessed, and this stress 
exacerbated his existing  anxiety. He said he expected financial compensation for this.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and came to the view that Lloyds had already taken fair 
and reasonable steps to put things right with Mr K.
Mr K still disagreed. He said he didnt  think it was fair that a large bank  like Lloyds could  take 
action like this on customers accounts,  without letting them know  first. He asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think our investigator  reached the right conclusion that Lloyds has already  
done enough to resolve Mr Ks complaint.
I know this will be a disappointment  for Mr K, but I hope I can explain why I think  this is the 
fairest outcome  for both parties. 
The facts  of what happened,  and why, with the credits made to Mr Ks account arent in 
dispute. Two small payments were made into the account by Lloyds, as a rectification for 
failing to keep  some of its customers  up to date. 
Mr K was worried  when he saw these credits, for understandable reasons. So he called 
Lloyds, and unfortunately wasnt  able to speak with somebody and receive an explanation 
Ref: DRN52142402quickly. Instead, he says he spent long time on the phone, and that all of this made his 
existing condition of anxiety worse. 
While Im sorry he had this experience,  I dont  think Lloyds  needs to do any more  than it 
already has. Its explained, and apologised, and paid him £12 in call costs. 
Lloyds didnt act with malice or recklessness at any point. Indeed, it did a proportionality 
check when deciding whether to mail of its affected customers, and decided  that for sums 
less than £25 this wasnt necessary. I agree that this was a fair and responsible decision, 
and its one that Lloyds was entitled to make  at its own commercial discretion. 
Its unfortunate that Mr K was made upset, and had a poor experience calling Lloyds for an 
explanation. But I dont think Lloyds planned, or anticipated, the detrimental  effect  the credits  
would have on him. I therefore  dont think a compensation payment  would  be appropriate. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Lloyds has responded sufficiently to the complaint, and that to ask 
it to pay compensation  wouldnt be fair and reasonable.  So I wont  be upholding the 
complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5214240