K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
PPI was added to Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage account  in 2000, when they took out their 
mortgage. Mr S only was covered under the policy.
Mr and Mrs S took out a further mortgage advance in 2004, at the same  time additional PPI 
cover was added.  Again,  only Mr S was covered under the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
view. They  said, in summary, they didnt need or want PPI as their sick pay through  work 
provided enough cover. They said the policies werent suitable for their needs. They also 
said they were not given  clear information because  they were led to believe PPI was 
mandatory and were not told they could opt out. They  said although a signature was needed  
on the paperwork to take out PPI, it was not made  clear that PPI was optional. 
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened   based on whats available.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
2000 policy
I cant know what was discussed between Mr and Mrs S and Lloyds at the time they took out 
the PPI. Ive seen  the paperwork Mr and Mrs S completed to apply for the mortgage. They 
selected the box to take PPI. There was an equally prominent box to decline PPI. Ive also 
seen their mortgage offer, PPI wasnt mentioned on there. So, having  PPI clearly wasnt a 
condition of the mortgage. Ive seen the separate  PPI application  they completed and 
signed. The form was headed Payment Protection Plus Proposal  Form. The box selecting 
100% cover for Mr S was selected. Ive also seen the letter  Mr and Mrs S were  then sent by 
the bank enclosing their insurance  schedule and confirming theyd taken PPI.
All of these things lead me to believe that its more likely that Mr and Mrs S discussed PPI, 
that it was made clear  to them that they didnt have to take PPI and that they then went on to 
take it. I can understand why they may not remember  it this way now after so much time.
Lloyds accepts it recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs S. So, as well as giving them  
information that was clear,  fair and not misleading about the policy,  it also had to consider 
whether the policy  was suitable for their needs. 
Ref: DRN54659772Mr S only was covered  under the policy. But, as this was a joint mortgage Ive taken into 
account Mrs Ss circumstances too when deciding if the policy  was suitable for their needs  
and they were given  enough clear information.
The PPI didnt appear unsuitable for Mr and Mrs S looking  at their circumstances at the time. 
Ill explain  why.
Mr S was eligible for the policy  and it appeared affordable. Mrs S was working too, but it 
doesnt look inappropriate that the cover was in Mr Ss name only.
Mr S was eligible to get sick pay through work. He said he wouldve got six months  worth  at 
full pay and six months worth at half pay. The PPI wouldve  paid out on top of Mr Ss sick 
pay, and for up to 12 months per successful claim.  Given that their home was at risk, I think  
PPI couldve provided them  with a useful benefit. Repeat claims were  possible under the 
policy, so it gave them long term protection for their mortgage. 
Mrs S said she wouldve got some sick pay through work too, if she wasnt  able to work. This 
was again six months  worth at full pay and six months at half. The policy wouldve allowed 
them to use her benefits to meet their other  household expenses. So, I cant see that their 
other resources made the policy inappropriate for them.
I cant see that Mr S was affected by any of the main things that wouldve made it more 
difficult for him to make a successful claim. So, I think having better information about  these  
things wouldnt have  changed their mind about  taking out the policy. 
Looked at overall, I find PPI couldve been  useful if Mr and Mrs S had needed to make a 
claim. I cant  see that their other resources made the policy inappropriate for them.
Its possible there may have been some shortcomings in the way this policy  was sold.  I think  
Mr and Mrs S couldve been given clearer information about  the costs  of the policy,  for 
example. But given the cost of the policy per month,  and that the PPI covered their mortgage  
repayments in full, I dont think this wouldve put them off taking PPI out. I think, 
Mr and Mrs S likely still wouldve decided to buy the policy if theyd been better advised and 
informed as it gave  them useful protection in their particular  situation. I dont think better 
advice or information  wouldve stopped them buying PPI.
So, I cant see that Mr and Mrs S have lost out because of anything  that the bank mightve 
done wrong.
2004 policy
Mr and Mrs S took out a further mortgage advance in 2004. Again, I cant  know what  was 
discussed between  the bank and Mr and Mrs S at the time. But, I havent  heard anything to 
make me think they were misled about  having to take out PPI. They completed a separate 
application to apply for PPI in much the same way they did in 2000.  It was clear from the 
paperwork that PPI was optional. On the home loan application, they selected the box to say 
they wanted PPI. I think it likely PPI was discussed, as although this was a joint mortgage, 
again they opted to take out cover in Mr Ss name  only. I think  it more  likely they decided to 
take out the policy, knowing they didnt have to.
Ref: DRN54659773Also, in 2002,  Mr and Mrs S took out a further advance and did not take PPI to cover their 
repayments. So, I think it wouldve been  clear to them that PPI was an optional extra when 
they took out this policy in 2004.
This policy was again recommended to Mr and Mrs S. Mr and Mrs S were both working and 
eligible to get sick pay. Their circumstances  were largely the same as they were  in 2000. 
For largely the same reasons as given above,  I think PPI was suitable for their needs.  Mr S 
was eligible to take out the extra cover. He appeared  to be able to continue to benefit  from 
everything the policy offered. The extra cost appeared affordable. Even  if there were 
shortcomings in the way PPI was sold, I dont think Mr and Mrs S have lost out as a result  of 
anything that the bank  mightve done  wrong.  So Lloyds doesnt need to do anything  to put 
things right.
I have taken into account everything that Mr and Mrs S have said, but this doesnt  change 
my view.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 June  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5465977