K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained with the help of his representative  Mrs W - that Zurich Insurance 
PLCs agent (an insurance broker) cancelled his car insurance policy  because  he didnt set 
up a driving app. 
background
Mr W took out a car insurance policy with Zurich, through a broker,  which started  on 9 
February 2019. Under the terms of the policy he had to download an app onto his mobile 
and pair this with the Bluetooth on his car or a pairing device supplied by the broker.  Mr W 
called the broker  on 9 February to say he couldnt  log into the app and the adviser  said hed 
reset the login details for him. Mrs W called on 14 February to say Mr W didnt have 
Bluetooth in his car and about  the other information  the broker had asked  Mr W to provide 
through the app. She was told he should  order the pairing  device  on the app, which  Mr W 
could then use instead of Bluetooth.  Mr W ordered the device and Zurich have said it was 
dispatched on 18 February. Mrs W has said Mr W didnt get this until 23 February, by which 
time hed gone  away on holiday.  And by the time he came back  on 1 March his policy  had 
been cancelled  with effect from 27 February. Zurich recorded the cancellation as if Mr W had 
cancelled the policy, so it wont have an adverse effect on any further policies  he takes out. 
Mrs W doesnt think Zurich allowed enough time for Mr W to do everything required. And she 
feels hes been charged far too much for only a short  time on cover. The premium  hes been 
charged is based on short period rates, which state  there is a charge of 35% for cancellation 
in the first month, plus various fees.  Mr W told the broker  when  he called on 1 March that he 
hadnt received  the pairing device by the time he went on holiday on 22 February  and that 
hed actually tried to order it again  on this date. Mrs W later confirmed  it had arrived  on 23 
February. 
The broker  handled  the complaint on behalf  of Zurich. And it said it had given Mr W the 
appropriate warnings  and didnt think it had done anything  wrong  in cancelling his policy.  
Mrs W asked  us to consider Mr Ws complaint  and one of our investigators did this. She said 
she agreed the broker hadnt  given  Mr W enough time to get the app working. She 
recommended Zurich recalculate the premium on a pro rata basis and just charge this, as 
well as paying £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Zurich wouldnt agree to the investigators recommendation. It explained that it still felt Mr W 
had been given ample opportunity to do what was required for the policy to continue. So, the 
case was referred to me for a decision.
I reviewed the complaint  and ultimately  said to Zurich  that because  it couldnt prove the 
pairing device arrived before Mr W went on holiday, it should charge a pro rata premium  for 
the period on cover,  plus fees. 
Zurich doesnt  agree. Its said it has proved  the pairing device was despatched on           18 
February and Mr W was told by email 20 February  his policy would  be cancelled on       27 
February if he hadnt paired it with the app on his mobile phone  by this date. In view of this 
and the fact that the policy terms are clear  on the charge if the policy  is cancelled  in the first 
month, it thinks  what it has charged  Mr W is fair. 
Ref: DRN54105052my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it. 
The main  reasons why Ive decided to uphold are that I dont think Mr W got the pairing 
device he needed  to pair with the app on his mobile  phone before he went  on holiday 
without his car. And, because he only really made use of the full cover available under the 
policy for a short period.  
Ive spoken to Mrs W and shes confirmed the pairing device arrived on Saturday                
23 February. She says she recalls  putting  it in the car on 25 February.  And Im satisfied -
based on her testimony - this is when it arrived. Ive got an email from the campsite Mr W 
stayed at for his holiday from 22 February to 1 March, so Im satisfied he was on holiday in 
this period. Im also satisfied from everything he and Mrs W have  said on this complaint that 
he left his car at home. 
Zurich has proved it sent the pairing device  on 18 February and that Mr W didnt request 
another one on 22 February, as hes suggested.  It cant prove when the device  arrived,  as 
the postal tracking  service  it used didnt work properly  and failed to record the delivery date. 
But, Zurich  has said if it arrived after Mr W had gone  on holiday, this was outside its control. I 
accept this, but  as Ive said  I do think it arrived after Mr W left for his holiday. And the 
delay in it arriving was also outside Mr Ws control. It meant he couldnt pair it with his phone  
until he got back from holiday  on 1 March. Im not concerned about the fact Mr W didnt 
order a further  device on 22 February, as hes suggested, as its possible he thought  hed 
ordered one, but didnt  follow the process properly  on the app. 
This means  Mr Ws only mistake was not reading  the cancellation email properly that he 
received on 20 February, saying his policy would be cancelled on 27 February if he hadnt 
paired his mobile phone  with the pairing device by this point. I accept if hed read this 
properly he could then have called and asked for an extension to pair the device with his 
phone. But  as a result of this mistake   and despite the fact the main reason he didnt pair 
the device was the fact it arrived much later than it should have done,  Mr W has been  
charged £606.83, based on an annual  premium of £1,533.81. This is when he only actually 
had the policy for 19 days and was only using his car for 13 of these days.  I think this is an 
excessive and punitive charge in the circumstances. I appreciate the policy terms state that 
35% of the premium  is payable if the policy is cancelled in the first month. But, I dont think  
Mr W having to pay such a large amount would be fair and reasonable, bearing in mind the 
fact it wasnt his fault the postal service messed  up and then circumstances led to him not 
being able to pair the app on his mobile
 
I think Mr W should just be charged pro rata (proportionately) for the time he had the policy, 
which was 9 February to 27 February  ie 19 days, plus the set-up fee and cancellation fee. 
Zurich waived the cancellation fee, but if the charge for the actual time the policy  was in 
force is going to be pro rata, I think its fair for Mr W to pay the cancellation fee. Therefore, I 
calculate the amount due to be as follows:
 
Premium £79.84
Set-up fee £35
Cancellation fee £35
Total due £149.84
 
Ref: DRN54105053Mr W has actually  paid £363.76,  so I think the fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint 
is for him to get a refund  of £213.92.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and Zurich Insurance PLC must 
provide him with a refund of £213.92. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5410505