K822xcomplaint
Mr W has complained about what American Express Services Europe Limited has done  to 
put things right following his complaint about  payment protection insurance.
background 
In May 1995, Mr W applied for an American Express credit  card.  At the same time he bought 
a PPI policy. The cost of the PPI was charged to the account   so hed repay this cost with 
interest in line with the cards terms and conditions.
Mr W thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Following the involvement of our service, American  Express agreed to put Mr W in the 
financial position hed be in if he hadnt bought the policy.  It worked  out it needed to pay him 
£10,483.44  and it sent him this amount by cheque.
Mr W did his own calculations and thought he should be paid over £71,000. He also wants  
compensation for distress,  inconvenience, pain and suffering and damage to reputation.
I issued my provisional decision about this complaint on 25 October  2019.  The provisional 
decision is attached  and forms part of this final decision. My provisional  decision sets out the 
background to this complaint and explains why I thought American  Express  had offered fair 
compensation for mis-selling  PPI.
I said Id consider any further comments I received  before 25 November 2019.  Neither  Mr W 
or American  Express have sent me anything further  to consider. Ive looked at the complaint 
again.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr W nor American Express have sent me anything further to consider, I reach 
the same  findings  for the same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, and in my provisional  decision, I think American Express Services 
Europe Limited have  offered fair compensation for mis-selling PPI. I direct American Express  
Services Europe Limited to pay this to Mr W if it hasnt already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN50510082copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr W has complained about what American  Express Services Europe Limited has done to put things 
right following his complaint  about payment protection insurance.
background
In May 1995,  Mr W applied for an American Express credit card. At the same time he bought a PPI 
policy. The cost of the PPI was charged to the account  so hed repay this cost with interest in line 
with the cards terms and conditions.
Mr W thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Following the involvement  of our service,  American Express agreed to put Mr W in the financial 
position hed be in if he hadnt bought the policy. It worked out it needed  to pay him £10,483.44  and 
it sent him this amount  by cheque.
Mr W did his own calculations and thought he should be paid over £71,000. He also wants 
compensation for distress, inconvenience,  pain and suffering  and damage to reputation.
An adjudicator looked at Mr Ws complaint and thought that American Expresss offer was fair. Mr W 
didnt agree  with the adjudicator. The complaint  has been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
As American Express  has agreed  the PPI was mis-sold Ive just looked at whether  what  theyre 
offering to put things right is fair.
has American Express worked out the extra Mr W paid because of the PPI correctly?
Where I decide  or a business agrees  that a complaint about the sale of PPI should be upheld,  Id 
expect the business to put the consumer as far as practically possible in the position theyd be in if 
they hadnt  bought the policy.
The PPI was charged  to the account each month the policy was active. Mr W was charged interest on 
the extra  he was charged. His balance was higher than it should have  been  and this means he had 
to pay more  to repay what he owed. So Mr W needs  to get back  the extra he paid, as well as any PPI 
balances that are still on his account.
American Express sent us details showing  how it worked  out the offer. From May 1995 until July 
1998, American Express doesnt have full records showing how Mr W used the card  and so its 
used the information it does have to make  assumptions about  how much  Mr W would  have paid for 
PPI. It does have records showing what Mr W spent on the account from July 1998 onwards. Its used 
this to work out how much  it charged Mr W for the PPI. It has also worked out how much extra interest 
it charged because of the extra that was on the account. And whenever Mr Ws payments would have 
cleared the account  if he hadnt  had PPI  American Express refunds the extra  Mr W had to pay, 
together with simple interest to compensate him for the time hes been out of pocket.
In total, American Express has worked  out it charged Mr W £4,946.49 in premiums  and an extra  
£924.17 in interest on those premiums. It has also refunded £64 in fees.  And its worked out the 
simple interest,  after tax, is £4,262.72.  As Mr W had previously got back a refund of some of the 
commission and profit share hed paid  and so had already got some of the premiums back   
Ref: DRN50510083American Express deducted this from the offer.  In total it worked out it needed  to pay Mr W 
£10,483.44.
Mr W worked out his own figures, and reached a higher figure. I understand what Mr W has done.  But 
his approach  assumes  the cost of the PPI sat on the card, and accrued compound interest, even 
during periods when in reality his balance was a lot less than this or hed repaid the account  in full  
and so wasnt  charged  this much interest. He also adds simple interest from the start date of the card, 
when he hadnt actually lost out because of the PPI until he made higher payments to the card.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the approach  of American Express  fairly reflects  the extra 
Mr W was charged because  of the PPI.
I note Mr W has mentioned  some inconsistencies in what American Express  has told him. He was told 
at first hed only paid £3,178.78 for the PPI. I see this is the figure I reach if I add together all premiums  
from August 2001 onwards. Im satisfied that during the period American Express  has data, it charged 
Mr W £3,941.46 for the PPI  and its assumed he was charged a further £1,005.03 during the period it 
doesnt have information. Its worked  out these  extra  premiums based on how Mr W used  the card 
during the period when data is available.
I note Mr W has said there are other  inconsistencies in the information American Express  has told 
him. But Im satisfied  that these dont make a difference to whether the compensation  American 
Express has worked  out is fair.
compensation for pain, upset, distress and depression
Mr W also thinks he should  get more compensation because of the non-financial impact the sale of 
the PPI had on him. He says that he wasnt able to claim on the policy when he needed  it  and this 
caused extreme distress,  anxiety and long term depression.
Ive first thought about what Mr W says happened. He says he was a partner  of a firm which ceased 
trading. He was unemployed, and contacted American Express to see if he could claim on the policy. 
But he says he was told he could not.
Mr W says that following  this American  Express pursued him for debt. He says that this worsened his 
mental health considerably,  and would  have  been  avoidable if the PPI had helped him when  he 
needed it.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr W. I dont doubt that hes been in a very difficult situation, and I 
recognise that this has had a real impact on his ongoing health.
To make a further award, Id need to be satisfied  that what happened  to Mr W was caused by 
something American Express  did wrong.
American Express agrees that it mis-sold  PPI. But the cost of the PPI was only a small  part of Mr Ws 
balance each  month. I think  its likely  Mr W managed his spending  month by month,  and so I think  
that if Mr W hadnt been sold PPI its most likely he would  have ended up in a very similar overall  
position.
Mr W also says that American Express gave him incorrect information  and this meant he couldnt 
claim on the policy when he needed to. Ive thought about this. 
Its not clear what Mr W asked American  Express in September  2011. Because of the time thats 
passed, American  Express hasnt  got a recording of the call. And as Mr W didnt submit a claim to the 
insurer, there isnt any paperwork showing what happened either.
Ref: DRN50510084But Mr W has sent us letters he sent American  Express around this time.  The letter in September 
didnt say that Mr W was unemployed  the letter instead refers to a downturn of work which meant 
his income had reduced  and he mentioned  a contract he hoped  to secure  in January  2012.
I recognise that Mr W says he was unemployed  after his business partner left  and so the 
partnership was dissolved   but hes also said that when this happened the partnership  had no debts. 
The PPI would cover  unemployment,  but only where  this was caused by the financial insolvency  of 
the business. And Mr W needed to stop trading and let the Inland Revenue know. He also needed  to 
have claimed  unemployment  benefit.
Taken together, its not clear  that Mr W told American Express he was unemployed when he 
contacted it in September 2011  and I think its possible that his circumstances meant he wouldnt 
have been covered by the policy at that point. Im not satisfied that any information American Express 
gave Mr W was wrong.
Im also mindful  that the documents Mr W has sent us show that along  with the £7,500 he owed 
American Express he also owed around £100,000 to his other creditors  and his household income 
was less than hed need just to repay his mortgage. Indeed, Mr W says his home  was later 
repossessed. He ended up offering to pay his creditors  £1 a month, as he said thats all he could 
afford. So while I recognise  that this would have been a very stressful  time for Mr W, Im not 
persuaded this was caused  solely by the sale of PPI or what happened when he contacted  American 
Express about  his PPI. And Im not persuaded making  a claim on this PPI would have substantially 
changed Mr Ws position.
If Mr W wants to see if the insurer  will consider a backdated claim he should contact them. Weve  also 
told Mr W he may make  a separate complaint  to American Express if hes unhappy that they didnt 
respond sympathetically when he was in financial  difficulties.
my provisional  decision
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think American Express Services  Europe Limited  has offered fair 
compensation for mis-selling PPI.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5051008