K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out to cover  a mortgage in April 2005. Mr S says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax 
(Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this. And I know  Mr S says he didnt  
agree to the policy,  so he didnt know he had it.
From what  Ive seen, Mr S took his mortgage around June 2004. At that time, he didnt take 
PPI. But Ive seen  a document to suggest  that Mr S discussed the PPI policy with Halifax in 
April 2005  and he signed a quote that Halifax produced. I dont know  the exact date the 
PPI started, but I think it would have been  on or after April 2005, when he talked  about  it with 
Halifax. As this was almost a year after 
Mr Ss mortgage started, I cant agree that the policy was added without his knowledge  when 
he took the mortgage out.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr S so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover. 
I also understand that Mr S says he had cover  through work. Mr S hasnt  given any details of 
that cover, although hes explained  that hed have been entitled to sick pay. But I still think  
the policy couldve been useful to him  has itd have covered his mortgage repayment of 
around £446 if he was too unwell to work, or if he lost his job, leaving any other cover he had 
in place free for other financial commitments.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But I think its more  likely than not that he chose  to take it out  so it looks  like he 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been  useful for him if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information about the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said  including what  hes said about the fact he 
didnt make a claim when he lost his partner because he didnt  know  about the policy.  But 
from what Mr S has said about these circumstances, I dont think  the policy wouldve 
covered him for that in any case  as it covered Mr S only for accident, sickness,  
unemployment, critical illness and death.  So Im afraid  this doesnt change  my decision in 
this case.
Ref: DRN53036242This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr S paid for it. But as weve already told Mr S, Halifax has already offered to give him back  
some of the cost of the PPI. 
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr S, now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5303624