K820x#14Complaint
Mrs M has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont  refund cash withdrawals from her 
savings account,  which she says she didnt make.
Mrs M has authorised Miss K, a local community adviser, to represent her.
Background
I recently issued my provisional  conclusions setting out the events leading  up to this 
complaint, and how I thought best to resolve it. Ive attached a copy  of my provisional 
decision, which forms part of this final decision.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions.
Barclays didnt respond.
Mrs M disagreed with my provisional decision. She and Miss K believe that this service  is 
biased in favour of the bank. They say there  are still too many inconsistencies in Barclays 
evidence for its version to be credible.  In particular: 
Mrs M said she raised a complaint with the bank in August 2017. So why is Barclays  
saying she raised it on 11th September? Moreover, how could Barclays send a reply 
dated 12 September if she raised  a complaint on 11 September? 
Why would she order a new PIN in August 2017  if she had already ordered a new 
card and PIN in July?
Why have I excused  every mistake by the bank as a clerical or genuine error rather 
than treat it as fraudulent behaviour?
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I have seriously considered Mrs Ms comments but Im afraid  there are no new reasons  for 
me to reach a different  conclusion. I am very sorry she feels that my decision is biased in 
favour of Barclays. I assure  her that I have  looked  at her complaint objectively and 
impartially but, ultimately, I have to base my decision on the evidence,  which  is available.
In short,  Barclays is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction.  The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017  (the PSRs  
2017). So my primary concern is to come  to a view about whether I think Mrs M authorised 
the cash withdrawals. 
Mrs M says she didnt  make the two cash withdrawals in branch on 5 and 11 July 2017 for 
£1,000 and £4,000  respectively.  She believes she is the victim of an internal fraud at the 
bank. However, I consider  that its more likely than not that she, or someone she knows, 
made the cash withdrawals. In coming to that view, Ive taken into account the following 
evidence:
Ref: DRN57063522The person  who attended the branch on 5 and 11 July knew that Mrs M had an 
account with Barclays. They also knew enough  information about her, including  her 
mothers maiden name, to enable the cashier  to locate the account.
The signatures on the withdrawal slips are a close match for Mrs Ms actual 
signature.
A new debit card and PIN for the current account  were ordered in branch on 5 July. 
Barclays records show that they were posted  to Mrs Ms home address. Barclays 
has confirmed that it is possible for the cashier to order  a new card and PIN via its 
internal systems. However, debit cards  are despatched from a central office,  not by 
the branch or cashier. And both card and PIN are sent out automatically  to the 
address on file.
The new debit card and PIN were  used in branch on 11 July 2017,  when the second  
disputed transaction  took place. 
Barclays produced  evidence showing that Mrs Ms passport number was printed on 
the withdrawal slip for £1,000. I accept there is a discrepancy in the numbers but I 
consider this was most likely a clerical error because of the similarities in the digits:-
othe number  on the withdrawal slip ends 678. 
othe passport  number  at the top of the passport ends  268. 
othe passport  number  at the bottom  of the passport ends 2687.
The savings account was inactive for two years. Its an odd coincidence for someone  
inside the bank to make  two cash withdrawals within weeks  of a genuine one.
If this were an internal  fraud, then it had to be a conspiracy involving two or more 
staff members.  There were two cashiers  and the replacement  card was sent from a 
different location.  The fraudsters would  have needed to tamper  with the data on the 
electronic systems  in order to fabricate documents, e.g. the withdrawal slips and the 
despatch details for the card and PIN. I thought the risk of being  caught was 
seriously high and outweighed any financial gain. 
Barclays said there have been no other complaints of internal fraud.
I appreciate Miss Ks observations on the dates for when Ms M first raised a complaint. 
However, Mrs M originally told this service  she didnt  raise a complaint in August. I 
understand that she now remembers  doing  so. And I understand why Miss K has asked why 
Mrs M would  order a new PIN within weeks of receiving a new one. She might,  of course  
had forgotten  or lost it. 
I agree  these are inconsistencies in the evidence. However, they are far outweighed by the 
stronger evidence of the signatures, the replacement card number and PIN and the fact that 
the person knew  information about the account, which  only Mrs M would know.  
And as I said in my provisional decision,  I think the banks errors  point  to incompetence 
rather than fraud.
On balance, I consider  that Mrs M authorised the transactions. I cant  rule out the possibility 
that someone she knew made the transactions. I have to base my decision on the evidence  
Ref: DRN57063523that has been shared with me.  Im afraid I have to conclude it was she who made  the cash 
withdrawals.
Based on the evidence,  I think its fair and reasonable for Barclays to refuse a refund of the 
disputed transactions.
My final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN57063524Copy of Provisional  Decision 
Complaint
Mrs M has complained that Barclays  Bank Plc wont refund cash withdrawals from her savings 
account, which she says she didnt make.
Mrs M has authorised  Miss K, a local community adviser, to represent her.
Background
Mrs M held two accounts  with Barclays: a current account and a savings account.
She opened the current  account  in August  2012.  In December 2014, her current account received a 
credit of £11,384.49  from her late husbands estate.
On 9 March 2015, she attended her local Barclays  branch and made cash  withdrawal of £2,500. At 
the same time, she opened  a savings  account and transferred £10,000 from her current  account  to 
her savings account.
There were  no further transactions on the accounts until July and August 2017,  apart from interest 
payments on her savings account.
On 10 August 2017, Mrs M went into her local branch and withdrew £5,000 in cash  from her savings 
account. At the same  time, she requested  a new PIN for her current  account  debit card. She visited 
her local branch again on 11 September 2017 to make cash withdrawal from her savings account.  
She found out the balance was £5,000 less than she expected. She questioned this. The cashier told 
her it was because there had been two cash withdrawals in branch on 5 July 2017 and 11 July 2017  
for £1,000 and £4,000 respectively.
Mrs M told Barclays she didnt make these withdrawals.
Below is a table of the relevant transactions in the savings  account and other activities.
Date Transaction Time Credit Debit Balance
9 March 2015 Savings account 
opened
9 March 2015 Transfer from 
current account £10,000 
2015 to Dec 
2016Interest £10,055.06
5 July 2017 Request in 
branch for a 
new debit card 
for the current 
account.
Card ordered  
and despatched.
Cash withdrawal 
in branch.14:03
14:04 £1,000 (disputed)
11 July 2017 Cash withdrawal 
in branch.14:09 £4,000 (disputed)
10 August 2017 Cash withdrawal £5,000 
Ref: DRN57063525in branch & 
request for a 
new PIN for 
debit card.(genuine)
11 September 
2017Attempted cash 
withdrawal in 
branch. Insufficient funds. C raises 
complaint.£58.31
11 October 
2017C requests 
statements for 
savings account
16 October 
2017C raises second 
complaint of 
fraud.
How did the transactions happen?
Both the disputed cash withdrawals were made in person at the same local branch.
5 July cash withdrawal
Barclays audit records for the cash  withdrawal  on 5 July show that the cashier asked the person for 
their surname, initials and postcode  before  locating Mrs Ms accounts. He then asked the person  two 
security questions: residential status and mobile  phone  number.  The person couldnt answer the 
mobile phone question. The cashier then asked the person for their mothers maiden name (Mrs Ms 
mother). This question was answered correctly.
The same  records  show the cashier also checked a passport. The withdrawal slip has a number 
printed on the bottom. Barclays says this is the passport  number and it matched  the passport number 
for Mrs M.
The person also ordered  a replacement debit card and PIN before making the cash  withdrawal.  The 
previous card is recorded  as damaged. The new PIN and card were despatched  on 5 July and 6 July 
respectively. Both were  posted to Mrs Ms address on file. We hold the same address for Mrs M.
The person also signed the withdrawal  slip as Mrs M.
11 July cash withdrawal
Barclays audit records for 11 July show that the identity and verification checks  were  successful but 
they dont record whether the cashier asked the person any security  questions. The records state the 
person was known to user.
The words known  to me are printed on the withdrawal slip.
The person also signed the withdrawal  slip as Mrs M.
What Mrs M told us
Miss K told us Mrs M visited her local branch in August  2017 to make a cash withdrawal. She had not 
been there since 2015.  On this visit, she learned  her remaining balance  was £5,000 less than 
expected. Mrs M queried  the shortfall and Barclays provided her with copies  of the banks own 
receipts for the July transactions. The bank staff also provided her with copies of the account  
statements. (Barclays said all this happened in September).
She raised a complaint in branch on 11 September 2017. She said she doesnt know why she didnt 
raise a complaint in August.
Ref: DRN57063526Mrs M said she didnt make the two cash withdrawals in July. She said she lives alone. She keeps her 
debit card with her at all times and no one has access to her banking or other personal  information.
She wants Barclays to refund the money.
Barclays response
Barclays sent Mrs M its final response letter on 12 September 2017. It simply said, During our 
conversation today, we discussed the details of your complaint and agreed an outcome that you were 
satisfied with.  
The letter told her if she had any further questions, it would review her complaint  again.
The letter doesnt say what  was agreed and neither  party has told us the outcome  of the first
complaint.
Mrs M raised  her complaint  again  on 16 October 2017.  Barclays investigated  her complaint and 
concluded that she had authorised the two cash withdrawals. It said:
there was a match between the signature on the withdrawal slips and her signature,
which it holds on its file
the passport  number, which is printed on one of the withdrawal slips, matched  her
passport number  which it holds  on its file
one of the withdrawal  slips records that Mrs M was known to staff
she ordered a new PIN when she visited the branch  on 10 August
CCTV footage showed Mrs M in the branch on the days in question.
Mrs M wasnt happy with the banks response so she brought her complaint to this service.
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
She looked at the withdrawal  slips and thought the signatures were a good match for the signature on 
the banks files.
She also saw that the passport number was printed on the slip for the £1,000 withdrawal.
She noted that Mrs M lived alone and concluded there was no plausible explanation  for how an 
unknown third party  would  have her passport. And she observed that, according  to the banks notes, 
the receipt for the £4,000 was in Mrs Ms passport when she attended the branch in September and 
complained.
Based on this evidence, our adjudicator  concluded  it was more likely  than not that Mrs M had made 
the disputed cash withdrawals.
Mrs Ms response  to the view
Mrs M wasnt happy with our adjudicators view.  She maintains she didnt  make the cash withdrawals 
in July.
Miss K pointed out that the passport number  on the withdrawal  slip is wrong  and that the receipts  
were the banks own copies, which  it gave Mrs M when  she went into branch in August, and not the 
originals.
Mrs M and Miss K also visited the local branch on 28 November. They  asked to see the CCTV  
footage. The staff told them it was no longer available. As a result of that meeting, they now consider 
that Mrs M is the victim of an internal fraud at the bank.
This case has now come  to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
Ref: DRN57063527My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account:  relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  
what I consider  to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Relevant considerations
The disputed transactions took place  in July 2017, so of particular relevance to my decision about  
what is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this complaint,  are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2009 (the PSRs 2009) which apply to payments like those made  from Mrs Ms account.
The regulations explain that a payment  out of someones  account can only be authorised if the payer  
has consented to it. The payment service  provider  must show the payment was authenticated. This 
means it must  show it was verified  by its procedures, including its personalised security features.
Under the regulations, Mrs M is the payer and Barclays is the payment service  provider.
Whether a payment has been authorised or not is important because account  holders will be liable for 
payments theyve authorised  and, banks will be liable for unauthorised payments. But accountholders 
can become  liable for unauthorised payments when  they havent met certain  obligations. These 
obligations are set out in Regulation 57 of PSRs  2009.
Did Mrs M authorise  the disputed cash withdrawals?
Generally, unless the payment transaction is authorised then Barclays has no authority to debit the 
customers account. So Ive gone on to consider whether these disputed cash  withdrawals were 
authorised or not.
For me to be satisfied that these payments were authorised,  I first need to determine  whether  they 
were authenticated.
Authentication is the procedure, which  allows the bank to verify the identity of its customer, or the 
validity of the use of a specific payment instrument, including the use of the customers personalised  
security credentials. This can be done in a number  of ways (e.g. chip and PIN, card number, CVV and 
expiry date etc.).
According to Barclays audit notes, the cashier  asked the person  making the cash  withdrawals for 
proof of identity. It said the person provided a passport and answers to security questions on the first 
visit. On the second visit, the person provided  a debit  card, proving they were the accountholder. The 
person also signed the withdrawal slips.  Barclays was satisfied with the identity evidence.
Mrs M believes staff fabricated this evidence.  I will consider this allegation later in my decision.  But for 
the purposes of the regulations, Im satisfied Barclays can show it followed its procedures  for 
authenticating the cash withdrawals.
As Im satisfied that the payments were authenticated, I then need to determine whether Mrs M 
consented to the payments  being  made. The regulations say a payment out of someones  account 
can only be authorised if the payer has consented to it. In other words, the two cash withdrawals can 
only be authorised if Mrs M consented to them  either by making the transactions  herself or allowing 
someone else to make them.
Did Mrs M consent to the cash withdrawals  on 5 and 11 July 2017?
Mrs M says she didnt make  the cash withdrawals or even  visit the branch in July. She believes the 
staff removed  the money from her account. Based on what she and the bank say there are only two 
possible explanations:
Ref: DRN57063528Mrs M made  the cash withdrawals; or
this was an internal  fraud.
However, and for the sake of completeness, I must approach this complaint  from all possible angles. 
So, I have also considered the following scenarios:
an unknown third party  made the cash withdrawals
someone close to Mrs M made the cash withdrawals without Mrs Ms consent
someone close to Mrs M made the cash withdrawals with Mrs Ms consent.
The amount of information  needed for the two transactions makes it highly  unlikely that a stranger 
would do this. So, I can very quickly  rule out the possibility that an unknown third party  made the cash 
withdrawals. Someone close  to Mrs M  for example, a family member might have access  to her 
banking details and could have made the cash withdrawals  either  with, or without, her consent. 
However, shes told us she lives alone and no one has access to her banking details so this too 
seems unlikely.  This leaves Mrs M or, as she alleges, a staff member.
I will explain why I have narrowed down the options  to Mrs M or the bank by going  through  each piece 
of relevant evidence.
IDV questions
The person who attended the branch on 5 and 11 July knew that Mrs M had an account with 
Barclays. They also knew enough information about her to enable the cashier to locate the account. 
But this type of information   surname, initials and postcode - is relatively easy  to obtain, especially  in 
cases of identity fraud. However, only Mrs M, or someone close to her, would  know the answers to 
the security questions, especially her mothers maiden name. I cant  see any credible  explanation for 
how an unknown  third party would know this information. 
New debit  card and PIN
Mrs M said she didnt order the new card and PIN. And she didnt  receive them.  Even if a third party  
ordered a new card and PIN, they would have needed to intercept her post twice to get the card and 
PIN.
I note that Barclays  asked  Mrs M the question, Has there been any interception  of post/does  the 
customer have a shared mailbox?  Barclays recorded a Yes against this question. So there might 
have been an opportunity for a third party to intercept Mrs Ms post. However, it still doesnt explain 
how a stranger would know the answers to the security  questions or even where  she banked. 
Moreover, it doesnt explain how they had her passport? Mrs M maintains that no one else knew her 
banking information.  And she hasnt  mentioned  losing her passport.
So again, I believe I can rule out fraud by an unknown third party.
I think  its plausible that someone close to Mrs M, or living with her, might have access to this 
information. But shes told us she lives alone and no one else has access to her banking details. In 
which case, the most obvious person who would order  a new debit card and PIN is Mrs M.
I have taken into account that Miss K said Mrs M didnt need a new debit card because  she still had 
the previous one with her. Miss K sent us a copy of that card. I see the expiry date on that card is 
08/15, which means it was out of date by two years anyway.
I think  its more  likely  that Mrs M ordered a new card knowing that the card she had in her possession 
had expired.
According to Barclays notes, she also requested a new PIN on 10 August 2017 when she made the 
genuine cash  withdrawal in branch. If the only card she had was the expired one, then I query why 
she would order a new PIN but not a new card.
Ref: DRN57063529Signature on the withdrawal slips
There is a cash withdrawal  slip for each disputed cash withdrawal. I have seen copies of the 
withdrawal slips. I understand they are the banks  copies and not the originals,  which are normally 
given to the customer.
Each withdrawal slip bears a signature for Mrs M. Barclays said it compared  the signatures on the 
slips with the signature  it holds on file for Mrs M and they match.
Ive looked at the signature on the slips and the one held by the bank. They look similar  but the 
signature is itself a simple  one. The most I can say is that the signatures are a good match  for the one 
held on file.
Again, I think  its unlikely  a stranger would  know Mrs Ms signature  but someone close to her might 
and could forge it.
Passport number
As mentioned  above, the withdrawal slip for £1,000 has a number printed on the bottom. Barclays 
says this is a passport number. The number ends 678.
Barclays and our adjudicator  said that the passport number on the slip matched Mrs Ms passport 
number, which the bank kept in its file.
However, as Miss K correctly  observed, there is a discrepancy. The passport number  ends
268. She says this discrepancy is proof of internal fraud. 
I have thought  seriously about this. However,  I think this was a genuine clerical  error. I say this 
because Ive looked at the passport number  at the bottom of Mrs Ms passport,  and not the top. It has 
an extra digit.  The last four numbers are 2687. It looks to me as if the cashier  typed in the number  7 
in the wrong  place. I dont know why the bottom number was used but I know its a number that 
contains additional personal details and so it might  be relied upon for greater accuracy.
In the light of this evidence, I consider  its more likely than not that this was a typing error.
Miss K said the manager  at the local branch said they wouldnt have access to the passport number 
on file. However,  I accept  that if this were  an internal fraud then they might, and they couldve entered 
this number. But I dont think this is what happened. I think  this is a genuine error.
Known to me
Another contested piece of evidence is the withdrawal  slip for the £4,000.  The words known to me 
are printed on the slip under the identity and verification check, proving the cashier  was satisfied with 
the persons identity.
Barclays fraud notes also record that the branch manager confirmed the customer is known.
Miss K told Barclays that the staff wouldnt have known Mrs M. Between  9 March  2015 and 10 August 
2017 she didnt attend the local branch. This is borne out by her statements,  which show she didnt  
make any transactions  on the two accounts during  this period. And according  to the transaction 
audits, different cashiers served the person in branch on 5 and 11 July. So, I understand  why Miss K 
has questioned how and why the cashier staff would say she was known to them. I agree. I dont 
believe the staff knew Mrs M.
Barclays subsequently explained that the person  who attended the branch on 11 July produced a 
debit card for the current account. It said it accepted this as proof of identity and that is why it made a 
note known to me. It says the card proves the person  had an account  at Barclays. And this is what  
known to me means.
Ref: DRN570635210Barclays produced  a voucher for a cancelled  debit  card transaction in branch on 11 July. It also said a 
PINsentry card reader was used. This would have required the person  to enter a PIN. It said it gave 
Mrs M a copy  of the voucher.
Ive seen a copy of the voucher. It shows the card number. It is the same number  for the new debit 
card, which was ordered on 5 July. Barclays said the cashier cancelled the transaction  when she 
realised the transaction  related to the savings account.
Im not impressed  by Barclays varying accounts  for the phrase known to me. Any ordinary person  
would interpret this as meaning that the staff knew Mrs M personally or at least  by sight. Thats what 
the fraud notes suggest. I dont believe they did know her.
However, the voucher shows the person produced  the new debit card, which  was posted to Mrs Ms 
address. The person  also entered the correct PIN into the PINsentry card reader  before the cashier 
cancelled the transaction. If this evidence is genuine, then it was either Mrs M who was in branch  on 
11 July, or someone  she knows, who had access to her card and details.
Is this internal fraud?
Mrs M and Miss K allege that this is an internal fraud.
Barclays told us there have  been no investigations into the local branch. In other words, there have 
been no other complaints  of internal fraud. I can see why Mrs M might think this is a self-serving 
statement  something the bank would  say. So, I have gone on to consider whether  the evidence 
points to internal fraud.
The transactions seemed  to be out of character for Mrs M. According to the bank statements, Mrs Ms 
accounts had been dormant for two years. There had been no transactions. No purchases in stores  or 
online, no cash withdrawals,  no direct debits or standing  orders and no transfers between  the 
accounts or from other banks. Then, suddenly, there were  two cash  withdrawals from the savings 
account, within one week, for a total of £5,000.
I agree that Barclays  handling of the complaint didnt  help to dispel any fears  of internal fraud. It didnt  
keep the CCTV footage. And its not clear if the person  who viewed it worked at the local branch. For 
these reasons, Ive ignored this evidence.
Ive also read Miss Ks comments about the meeting she and Mrs M attended with the manager at the 
local branch.  Miss K believes it was set up to show that staff knew Mrs M  to support the known to 
me statement. Barclays havent commented on that meeting, but I can see why Miss K and Mrs M 
might suspect internal  fraud.
Some senior staff might  have had access to Mrs Ms personal details, including her passport number 
and her signature. And as this was a dormant  account, an internal fraudster  might think  no one would 
notice immediately  if money went missing.
However, looking at the documentary evidence, I think this would have been an elaborate fraud for 
little reward.  The evidence, which is computer generated, comprises: 
withdrawal slips
debit  card voucher
card and PIN audit
order for new card and PIN
audit  records for each  transaction showing  cashiers, data entry  and codes
contact notes.
Mrs M alleges that all the evidence is fabricated. If this were  correct, then it would  have involved more  
than one person and possibly several people in different departments.  The audit records  show that 
two different cashiers carried out the transactions in July. It could have been one person, who 
Ref: DRN570635211tampered with the audit records. But naming another colleague  would have been extremely risky.  I 
think its highly unlikely a lone staff member would take that risk.
I understand the replacement card and PIN would  have been despatched  from another site, not the 
local branch.  So, if this were  an internal fraud, then this means  a conspiracy, involving several staff 
members, to defraud a customer  of £5,000.  I appreciate  this is a lot of money  to Mrs M but its a small 
reward for two or more  people.  The financial  benefit to the fraudsters wouldnt be enough  to outweigh 
the very high risk of being  caught.
And there were errors: the passport number and the cancelled  direct debit transaction. This could be 
just clumsiness  but again it increased the risk of being caught.
As I said, the two disputed transactions seemed out of character. And I might have been more 
suspicious were it not for the fact that Mrs M did make a genuine cash withdrawal for £5,000 in 
August and attempted a second in September. And she has made  a cash withdrawal  of £2,500 in the 
past, albeit once  in 2015. She hasnt told us anything about her circumstances, but she must have 
had a reason  for withdrawing that money at that time.
Also, I think its an odd coincidence that after two years, someone inside the bank should decide to 
make two cash withdrawals within  weeks  of a genuine one.
Ultimately, I have to make a decision based  on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
case. In reaching  that decision, I must balance  Miss Ms evidence against the evidence  provided by 
the bank, taking  into account the advantageous position it has over an individual customer. Having 
done so, I consider the bank has provided credible explanations for its errors and the ambiguities in 
the evidence. And I think the errors and staff conduct point to incompetence  rather  than fraud.
This means  the only persons who could  have made these transactions were Mrs M or someone close 
to her, who might have had access to her personal  information. The person  who attended  the local 
branch on 11 July had the new debit  card.  The banks records show it was posted  to her home 
address. It makes sense  that Mrs M would have ordered a new card as she was carrying around an 
expired one.
Mrs M told us no one else lives with her. So, I can only conclude that she was in branch  on 11 July 
with the new debit card. In which case, I think I can also conclude that she was in the branch on 5 
July with her passport and she ordered the new card and PIN.
Based on the evidence,  Im afraid  I consider  that Mrs M authorised the two cash  withdrawals but 
forgot that she had done so. I dont believe this was an internal fraud or fraud by an unknown third 
party. I cant  rule out the possibility that someone she knew made the transactions  with her consent,  
but that still means she authorised them.
In these circumstances, Im afraid I dont think it would  be fair and reasonable to ask Barclays to 
refund the two cash withdrawals.
I am very sorry to send disappointing news and especially  after such  a lengthy delay. I would like to 
reassure Mrs M that Ive seriously considered  all the evidence and what shes said but unfortunately 
there isnt any direct  or compelling evidence of internal fraud  at the bank.  I am very grateful for her 
patience while we looked into her case.
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I am not upholding this complaint and I wont be asking Barclays Bank 
Plc to refund Mrs M.
Ref: DRN5706352