K820x#14complaint
Mrs E has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a packaged bank 
account which it called the Additions  Plus Account (APA).
background
Mrs E took out a fee free account with Barclays in 1998.
She upgraded to an Additions account with a monthly  fee in August 2000.
Mrs E then further upgraded to an APA with a monthly fee in October 2003.
Mr J complained about the sale of both the fee paying accounts to Barclays.  Barclays upheld  
her complaint about the Additions  account sale and returned her fees to her with appropriate  
interest.
However Barclays did not uphold her complaint  about the APA, So Mrs E has referred  it to 
this service.
Our adjudicator looked at Mrs Es complaint  about  the APA and didnt think  it was mis-sold. 
Mrs E disagrees so the case  has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs Es complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Es complaint and Ill explain why.
I've started by thinking  about whether Mrs E was aware the APA was optional and whether 
she was given a clear choice in taking  the account.
Mrs E says she was told by Barclays she needed to upgrade her account to get the overdraft 
she wanted and that the benefits of the account  were of no use to her.
Whilst I dont doubt  Mrs Es honest recollections,  I think after the years  that have elapsed,  
Mrs Es memory is mistaken.  She had previously  had a fee free bank account and a fee 
paying account with an overdraft with Barclays. I think  its more likely than not that she 
wouldve been aware at the time of sale that fee free accounts with overdraft facilities and 
fee paying accounts with overdraft facilities were easily available to her from Barclays and 
other banks  and financial businesses. I say this because such  accounts were widely 
advertised. And Mrs E had used  her overdraft many times  before  the APA sale so I think  its 
more likely than not that she would have  looked  into what  was available  to minimise her 
costs. The amount of any overdraft she could get wouldve been determined  by her 
creditworthiness and not the product she was buying. And if she had taken the APA and 
then decided she was unhappy with it she could have  cancelled her account  at any time and 
changed to a fee free one but she didnt and she kept it for many years.
Ref: DRN57124242So I think Mrs E was aware in October 2003  she had a choice and chose to take out the 
APA.
Barclays says that it didnt recommend the APA or advise Mrs E to take it, but Mrs E says it 
did. Ive decided to look at this complaint as an advised sale as it is to Mrs Es advantage 
and doesnt affect the outcome of my decision. So, Barclays needed to provide Mrs E with 
sufficient information  about the APA to make an informed choice. And in recommending the 
APA, it also needed to take adequate steps to ensure that the APA was a reasonable fit for 
Mrs Es circumstances.
The APA was sold to Mrs E in a telephone conversation.  I think  its more  likely than not that 
Barclays explained the product extensively  to her as it was trying to sell it to her.
The APA benefits  included  worldwide  travel insurance, green flag car breakdown service, 
card protection, extended warranty, purchase  protection, and a £250 fee free overdraft  
facility. I dont know what was said at the time of the sale, but I think  the APA was suitable 
for Mrs E. I say this because she says she travelled abroad, had a car and she had used a 
substantial overdraft on her existing account.  And from what Mrs E has said about  her 
personal circumstances at the time she took out the account, there was nothing  that would  
stop her taking advantage of any the APAs  benefits.
Barclays has provided evidence that Mrs E travelled  into Europe before and after the sale.  
And Mrs E used and benefited from the fee free overdraft straight away  and for a number  of 
years. Mrs E was not required to register for the travel insurance or breakdown cover,  so she 
was covered from the day of sale. Mrs E did register for mobile  phone  insurance when this 
was added as a benefit later, and she made  a claim on the policy.
Mrs E says she had alternative provision  for the travel insurance and the car breakdown 
service and she didnt  use all the benefits.  But this doesnt make  the recommendation 
unsuitable. It would have been for her to decide if she wanted  the account  and then make  
arrangements to use the benefits as she wished.
So in my view, Mrs E knew she had a choice about  the APA and decided to take it. And the 
APA was suitable  for Mrs E, and there  was no information that she wasnt  given that would 
have put her off buying it.
So I dont  think she has lost out as result of anything Barclays  may have done wrong. 
Ref: DRN57124243my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5712424