K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has not offered a fair amount to cover 
costs related to a claim she made  under her buildings  insurance policy.
background
In August  2014  Mrs D made a claim under her UKI buildings  insurance  following water 
damage to her home.  She said the work  was complex, and shed had surgery around this 
time. And this impacted  her ability to make arrangements  and provide information  to UKI. 
UKI reviewed the damage in September 2014 and gave a quote for the repairs.
In December 2014 Mrs D said she wanted  to complete necessary works on her boiler before 
proceeding with the claim.
UKI then asked Mrs D to provide quotes  and invoices for the repair works. And following a 
receipt of invoices in December  2017  UKI agreed to pay £1,604.31 to cover  the cost of 
redecoration and repairs. UKI later increased its offer to £2,024.31 to cover  an invoice that 
had been missed. But Mrs D said this still wasnt enough as shed paid £3,027.97 in total to 
have everything completed. So she complained to UKI saying the offer it made was too low.
UKI said it had based its offer on its own schedule of works. It said Mrs Ds invoices were  
excessive for the work required.  And it said throughout the life of the claim itd asked Mrs D 
for quotes to review,  but these  were never  provided. UKI said Mrs D had the works carried 
out without its approval. So, in line with its policy, it would only pay a maximum of what the 
works wouldve cost using its own contractors.
Mrs D disagreed  saying shed struggled  to find suitable tradespeople, and UKI hadnt 
offered any support with this. So she brought her complaint to our service and one of our 
investigators looked into her concerns. 
The investigator upheld  the complaint, saying he felt Mrs D wasnt  given the opportunity  to 
use UKIs contractors as she shouldve under the policy. So he said it wasnt fair for UKI to 
rely on the discounted costs that it wouldve been  charged by its own contractors.
UKI disagreed and said Mrs D had put her own claim  on hold for some time as she wanted  
the work  completed  on her boiler  first before carrying out the other  works. UKI said once it 
did receive invoices  around three years later, the works had already been completed.  
Because UKI disagreed  the complaint was passed  to me for an ombudsmans  decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 July 2019 explaining why I didnt intend to uphold the 
complaint. Ive summarised this decision below.
Mrs Ds claim for water damage  to her home was accepted by UKI and isnt in 
dispute. So I had to consider whether UKI has acted fairly when settling the claim.
Under the heading The Basis of Settling Buildings Claims  the policy says UKI can 
either:
oa) manage and pay the costs of repairing or rebuilding the damaged  part 
using our own suppliers; or
ob) pay the cost of repairing  or rebuilding the damaged  part using any other 
suppliers; or
Ref: DRN57229232oc) make a cash payment which will not be more than a) above.
I said this means its at UKIs discretion how to settle a claim. And it can either  
choose to carry  out the work  using  its own suppliers, other  suppliers,  or cash settle 
the claim to the value  of its own contractors carrying out the necessary  works. And 
that this isnt uncommon with these types  of insurance policies.
Under Mrs Ds policy  it says when making a claim the policyholder must give  us 
any information and evidence relevant to your claim that we ask for, including proof 
of ownership or value  of the lost or damaged item and written estimates for repair.
It goes on to say if the policyholder doesnt  do this and prejudice  our position we 
may reject or be unable  to deal with your claim or be unable  to pay your claim in full.
To understand  what happened since the damage occurred I read UKIs contact notes 
with Mrs D and listened to a number of telephone  calls from 2014  onwards. UKI sent 
an expert to Mrs Ds home in September  2014 who reviewed the damage and gave a 
quote for the necessary  works.  At this time Mrs D said she wanted to complete  works 
on her boiler before  continuing with the rest of the works. So I thought  it was 
reasonable that UKI was unable to instruct its own contractors at this time.
Mrs D said she would  obtain quotes for the works, and it seems UKI then chased  for 
these quotes over the following months and years.  During  a number of these calls 
UKIs representatives clearly said theyre  awaiting quotes and checked Mrs D had an 
address to send  them  to. And from what Id seen  and heard Mrs D agreed  to send 
the quotes. So I was satisfied UKIs representatives were clear in communicating  
what steps needed to be taken by Mrs D.
Based  on the calls and notes  it appeared there  were often gaps of at least several 
months between contact. And on a number of occasions due to the lack of contact 
UKI closed the claim. I thought this was reasonable given the number of times it 
chased Mrs D for quotes and nothing was received. And I wouldnt expect UKI to 
keep a claim open indefinitely.
In March 2017 Mrs D contacted  UKI to say some of the works had been completed,  
so she would send  on the invoices and quotes for remaining works. But UKI then 
received invoices in December  2017  for the full works.
I said I could appreciate over the time since  the damage occurred Mrs D had been 
unwell and had surgery. And I think UKI showed understanding  and patience  by re-
opening the claim when it was contacted.
Mrs D said it took some time to obtain quotes  from relevant tradespeople which led to 
the delay. And I could  understand they may not be immediately available.  But in this 
case it seemed Mrs D only provided UKI with invoices and not quotes for it to review. 
This isnt in line with the policy terms  as UKI wasnt given  the written estimates for 
repair  nor was this what was agreed with UKIs representatives on the phone.
UKI has said the work was excessive and it wouldnt  increase the value beyond its 
initial quote. Had Mrs D provided quotes  its possible either alternative contractors 
may have been found or UKI couldve discussed  the extent of the works with the 
relevant tradesperson.  But UKI wasnt given this option.
Ref: DRN57229233Overall I was satisfied UKI initially offered its own services but these were declined  by 
Mrs D. I thought UKI was clear she would need to provide quotes  for the works,  but this 
didnt happen.  So I didnt think it would be fair to ask UKI to pay for works it didnt have sight 
of and where the work charged appears  to be excessive and beyond what UKI would have 
paid. And I wasnt satisfied UKI was responsible for any delay or poor communication such  
that Mrs D paid more  than was appropriate.
I explained I would consider any further evidence before issuing my final decision. UKI had 
nothing further  to add. Mrs D disagreed and said she didnt  think UKI had made the 
significance of receiving  these quotes clear  during the calls. And she said the prices and 
invoices provided  were accurate of all the relevant costs she paid.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about Mrs Ds most  recent comments. But Im satisfied  Ive already 
considered what  I need  to fairly  decide this case and that I set this out in detail  in my 
provisional decision, so I havent changed my mind. 
I can appreciate Mrs D feels the significance of the quotes wasnt made clear to her in the 
telephone calls. But I cant ignore what was agreed in the calls Ive listened  to. And while  I 
dont doubt that Mrs D has given UKI the actual  costs she paid,  this doesnt extend UKIs  
liability under  the terms of the policy for the reasons Ive given.
my final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5722923