K821x#15complaint
P  a limited company   is unhappy  with Lloyds Bank  PLCs  decision to not refund 
£16,553.88 lost to fraud. 
The bank has declined to reimburse P as it says the transactions were only able to happen  
as a result  of Ps staff acting with gross negligence.
P is represented by a member of staff who Ill refer to as Mrs P. 
background
Mrs P is an employee of P and is authorised to carry out transactions  on the company 
accounts. She was genuinely attempting to make payments on 5 February 2018 but was 
having problems  logging in to online banking.
Mrs P didnt know at the time, but the problems she was encountering were the result of 
fraudsters having  installing  malware  on the company computer. They were then 
manipulating what she was seeing  on screen and obtaining the information  she was typing in 
to the various  web pages that had been  designed  to look like genuine Lloyds online banking 
pages.
During this process  Mrs P was using the card reader supplied by the bank to try and log in. 
She was being  instructed to do so through the fraudsters manipulation of what  she was 
seeing on screen. Its also part of the normal process she goes through. But at one point she 
was asked to press  the respond button on her card reader. That isnt what  normally 
happens as that button is for the setting up of new payees. Mrs P didnt realise this at the 
time and was following the on-screen  instructions as they were presented to her.
Mrs P was still unable to log in. She received a text from the bank asking if shed set up a 
new payee. It asked  her to contact  the bank if she hadnt. Mrs P tried to call but the number 
wouldnt connect.
Mrs P was able to successfully log in a short time later. She saw that two payments had left 
the account. She hadnt set them up and they hadnt  been  authorised  by anyone  at P. she 
contacted the bank  to report the transactions as fraudulent.
Lloyds considered the fraud claim but declined to refund.  It accepted P had been the victim 
of a malware attack and that the transactions were  unauthorised. The reason for not 
refunding was on the basis Mrs P had been  grossly negligent in pressing the respond 
button on the card reader.  Lloyds said a similar incident had occurred in May 2017 and so it 
had educated  P on how to protect its accounts. Lloyds said the failure to heed  its advice 
meant P had been grossly  negligent.
Lloyds contacted the bank  where the receiving account was held in an attempt to recover  the 
funds. But most had been withdrawn.  I understand a small portion was returned to P.
P brought  a complaint to our service  as it was unhappy with Lloyds response. One of our 
investigators considered  what  had happened  and recommended the complaint be upheld.  
She didnt  believe  P  or Mrs P, as its agent  had acted with gross  negligence. She noted  
the sophistication of the fraud,  involving malware and the convincing imitation of genuine 
Ref: DRN59680472Lloyds web pages.  And she didnt think the previous incident, nine months earlier, was 
sufficient reason to say P had been grossly negligent. 
The investigator provided this opinion to the bank on 28 February 2020, resending  it on 
26 March 2020.   Lloyds was supposed to respond by 7 April 2020 (after an extended 
deadline from 13 March  2020). The bank  still hasnt provided a response and so the case  
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im upholding it and for 
broadly the same reasons  as the investigator.
Our statutory  rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend  deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision  on the basis of what  has been  supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information  requested;  
And that
If a respondent  fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed  
with consideration  of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material  distress 
or material inconvenience caused  by that failure in any award which  he decides to 
make.
Ive therefore  concluded  that, in the absence of a response from Lloyds to the investigators 
initial assessment,  it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis  of the evidence  we 
already have and/or to take account  of Lloyds  failure to reply to the investigators opinion.
The considerations most relevant to this case are set out in the Payment  Service  
Regulations 2017. Broadly speaking they set out when a customer will be responsible for 
payments out of an account. The starting position  is that a customer will be responsible for 
any payments that are properly authorised whereas the bank must refund any that are 
unauthorised. There are exceptions to when the bank will bear responsibility, including if it 
can be shown the customer has failed with gross negligence  to protect  their account.
Lloyds hasnt responded to the investigators opinion,  despite having had six months to do 
so. Im unsure as to whether it particularly objects to the investigators findings or not. Its put 
forward no new evidence or argument  and so I see no reason to depart from the 
investigators findings. 
Its accepted that the transactions were unauthorised and carried  out by a fraudster. And so 
it only remains for me to decide if Mrs Ps actions  were grossly negligent.
There isnt an exact definition for gross negligence. But we believe it to be beyond ordinary
carelessness. There needs to be a serious disregard or indifference to an obvious risk, so 
the bar is a high one. I dont think Mrs Ps pressing of the respond button on the card 
reader, or the actions  that surrounded doing  so, whilst caught up in the convincing deception 
of a fraudster, can fairly be described as grossly negligent. That remains true despite the 
Ref: DRN59680473similar incident almost a year before. The nature  and sophistication  of the fraud  being  an 
important consideration in making such an assessment.
With that in mind the bank ought  to have refunded P when it was made  aware of the fraud. 
My decision  then is that Lloyds should  refund the loss now.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Lloyds Bank PLC and direct it to pay P:
the money lost to the fraud - £16.553.88 minus any funds already recovered from the 
recipient account); and
pay 8% simple interest per year on that amount, calculated from the date the money  
debited the account  to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P  on behalf 
of P  to accept  or reject  my decision before 27 September 2020.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5968047