K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
June 2002. Mr S says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold  him the PPI.
background
Mr S bought the policy in June 2002 at the same  time as taking out a credit  card.  The sale 
took place during a telephone  call.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr S case.
I dont think the policy  was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr S says he wasnt given an option of having  the credit  card without the PPI. He says that 
had he been given a choice, he would  have declined it. So, Ive thought about what hes said 
alongside the additional information Ive seen from HSBC.
HSBC says the PPI was sold during  a telephone  call. Its explained that following the 
telephone call, Mr S was sent a credit  card application form in the post which he then 
completed and returned  to HSBC.
HSBC hasnt been able to provide us with a copy of the telephone call recording or a copy  of 
the sales script which its representative would have used when selling Mr S the PPI. This 
isnt surprising given  the sale took place over 17 years ago. As a result,  I dont know what 
was said in the discussion between Mr S and HSBC.  So, Ive had to base my decision on 
what I think is most likely  to have happened at the time of sale.
HSBC has provided  us with a copy  of Mr S credit  agreement. This shows Mr S was given 
the option of adding the PPI to his account. Under  the section Optional Cardholder  
Repayment Protector Mr S was asked to sign if he wanted the PPI. 
Looking at Mr S credit  agreement, I can see he signed below the statement I wish to apply 
for Cardholder  Repayment Protector  and declare that I am aged  between 18 and 65 and 
working at least 16 hours per week Please debit my card account with the premiums.
Ref: DRN52384232Taking everything into account,  including the credit  agreement  which  describes the PPI as 
Optional Cardholder Repayment Protector , I think its more likely  than not Mr S would have 
understood the PPI was optional. And I dont think he would have signed  for the cover  if he 
didnt want to take it out.
Mr S says the PPI was recommended to him. HSBC  on the other hand says it didnt make 
any recommendations to Mr S about the PPI at the time of sale. Ive seen  nothing  to suggest 
HSBC assessed  Mr S individual needs, such as his employee benefits and made  a formal 
recommendation for PPI, so I think its unlikely that it did.
As I dont think HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr S, it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide  if it was right 
for him.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should have 
been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Mr S chose to take out the PPI, so it 
looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the 
time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover, such  as pre-existing medical conditions  so it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mr S has told us he didnt need PPI as he would have received generous sick pay from his 
employer. He says he would have been entitled  to at least six months  sick pay from his 
employer if he was too unwell to work. Having thought about what  Mr S has said about his 
sick pay, I dont think  this means he wouldnt  have  found the policy  useful. I say this because 
the PPI would have paid out in addition to the sick pay Mr S would have received from his 
employer and would have paid out for longer. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Mr S 
was ever made redundant and in the event of death.
So overall, I think Mr S could have found  the policy useful if he ever fell on hard times and I 
dont think that any better  information would have put him off from taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Which  means  HSBC  
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S. But HSBC  has paid back  some of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr S about  that. Because HSBC didnt tell Mr S, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN52384233my final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5238423