K821x#15complaint
Ms P complains  that Close Brothers Limited  refused to allow  her to reject  a car she bought  
with a conditional sale agreement.
background
In January 2018 Ms P bought a car from a garage  I will call P. It was second hand and had 
done 43,071 miles.  She says she had trouble using the car due to a loss of power, poor 
erratic gear change and it jerked in reverse. She first returned  the car after about three 
months when it had done some 1,400  miles. She says P kept the car for 24 hours and 
returned it saying  it was running fine, but Ms P says she noticed no difference.  No 
paperwork was produced to show what the garage  had done.  It was her first automatic car 
so she presumed  it must  be ok as she had been reassured  all was well by the garage.
She persevered with the car, but in June the problem became worse and then an engine 
management light came  on. She took the car back to P and it identified a fault in the gearbox  
hydraulic pump. She says that after five days the car was returned to her and she was told it 
was driving fine. However, she discovered  a large  puddle of oil under the car and the 
warning light still on. 
She contacted Close Brothers and it commissioned a report from an engineer.  He thought  
that work  had been done on the gearbox and concluded it hadnt  been done properly. 
However, when he was told that no work  had been  done on the car he changed his 
conclusion and said that the fault was one that would occur within 1,000 miles. As the car 
had done over 3,000 miles  since purchase  he didnt believe the fault was present at the time 
of sale.
The complaint was brought to this service where it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who recommended  it be upheld. She noted the overall mileage was low and 
that Ms P had made modest use of it. She thought for a car to be of satisfactory quality the 
components should  function without any significant issue or problem for a reasonable period 
of time.
She didnt  think that was the case with this car as she hadnt  seen  evidence  to show  that this 
issue occurred as a result of reasonable wear  and tear, a lack of servicing,  or misuse by Ms 
P. Given  the amount of time Ms P was in possession of the car before  this issue presented 
itself suggested  it was more likely to have been  an issue with the durability and /or quality of 
the car, or an issue  that was developing at the point  of sale.  She thought  Ms P should  be 
entitled to a right to repair.
Close Brothers didnt  agree. It said Ms P had fair usage of the car and the engineer had 
concluded that fault arose during her ownership.  The car was seven years old and was 
subject to wear and tear more than a new one would be. It said it had followed a far process  
and had relied on an independent report and so it was unreasonable  to come  to a different 
conclusion. It added  that it would be unfair on P to require  it to fund the repair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN54491292In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Close Brothers is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and 
responsible for a complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I would say at the outset  that I have sympathy  with the arguments put forward by the 
business, but after due consideration I find myself in agreement  with the investigator. I 
accept the revised  engineers report although it has been undermined somewhat by the error 
in the original one. However, I also have to take into account the other  evidence.  Ms P has 
set out her version  of events on several  occasions to both Close Brothers  and this service 
and I am satisfied her account is credible.
I believe she encountered problems with the gearbox shortly after she bought  the car and in 
due course made P aware. She took the car in to P in June after she had done some 1,400  
miles. It seems likely the problem had manifested itself before that, but Ms P being 
inexperienced in driving automatics hadnt  realised there was a significant problem. 
I am concerned that P looked at the car on several  occasions and told her there was no 
problem and has provided no documentation  of what it did. One time it had the car for five 
days and returned  it saying all was well, but with no explanation. I am satisfied that Ms P 
found a puddle of oil under it when it was returned by P. 
Therefore, I believe the fault had manifested itself long before the engineer looked at it and 
his view that it would have arisen within 1,000  miles allows me to conclude that it was 
probably present  at the point of sale.
Ref: DRN54491293my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Close Brothers  Limited to have 
the car repaired at no cost to Ms P and for that repair to be checked by an independent 
engineer. If Ms P has been  charged  for the engineers report  that cost should be refunded. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5449129