K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty, wouldnt allow him to update his 
new bank debit card in order to make  payments  on time. 
background
Mr G took out a revolving  credit loan in June 2017 with Drafty.  This was an open ended 
credit agreement for which payments were made using continuous authority. In early 2018 
Mr G changed his bank  to one I shall refer to as M and sought to update  his payment details 
with Drafty. 
On 3 January  Mr G wrote to Drafty  to query  why he was unable to set up a direct debit. 
Drafty responded  and confirmed it had successfully  received a payment on 7 January so 
thought the issue had been resolved. But the problem persisted and Mr G emailed Drafty on 
27 January to say that he couldnt use his bank card. Drafty provided  instructions on how to 
input a new card but Mr G again  confirmed that Draftys payment system would not 
recognise his card as valid. On 28 January  Drafty provided Mr G with alternative methods of 
payment. 
On 23 February Mr G again complained to Drafty that the app and website were not allowing 
him to register his direct debit for his new bank. Drafty responded by requesting information 
relating to the bank account  on 8 March 2018. On 13 March it sent a final response letter  
which said Mr Gs complaint had been resolved. Mr G wasnt  satisfied so he brought his 
complaint to this service.  By the time he did so Drafty was accepting  payment out of Mr Gs 
M account.  
Our adjudicator thought that Drafty  hadnt  provided an explanation as to why Mr G had 
problems with the new bank details between  January and early March. And despite 
requesting it Drafty did not provide an explanation  to this service. So the adjudicator 
recommended Drafty:
Refund all late payment charges that Mr G paid on his running credit  facility during 
January, February  and 1 to 13 March 2018;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement; 
Remove any negative  information about the running credit facility  from Mr Gs credit  
file in January,  February and 1 to 13 March 2018.  
Drafty did not respond to the adjudicators view so the complaint has come  to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read through the contact notes and correspondence between  Drafty and Mr G between  
January and March.  Its clear from this that Mr G tried repeatedly  to get an explanation as to 
what the problem  was. He also tried to explain that the problem appeared to be technical  
with the system rather than him not knowing how to update his details.  And while Im 
satisfied that Drafty did respond to his emails  and provided Mr G with alternative ways to pay 
Ref: DRN50797662it still did not help him set up his new bank so that he could continue to pay regularly as a 
direct debit allows customers  to do. 
The problem that occurred between January and mid March has been resolved and Drafty 
has confirmed Mr G has been able to make payments  from his new bank. 
During his investigation our adjudicator  contacted Drafty on a number  of occasions to ask 
why Mr Gs new bank account  and debit card werent  able to be added  to the system. Drafty 
provided Mr Gs file but did not respond  with any explanation or supporting  evidence  
regarding the source  of the problem. He concluded that either  Draftys  system wasnt  
compatible with Ms bank  details or there was a human error. Im satisfied that either  of 
these explanations could be possible or there  could be some other reason. 
Irrespective of the reason why Mr G could not set up his direct debit Im satisfied that he 
tried, in good  faith, to do so and to get Drafty  to help him, and was never provided with an 
explanation. Im also satisfied this affected his ability to pay on time. Mr Gs account did go 
into arrears during this period, on 26 January and 23 February. So I believe it is fair and 
reasonable for Drafty  to remove the negative information about his account  for this period of 
time. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty should:
refund  all late payment charges that Mr G paid on his running credit  facility during 
January, February  and 1 to 13 March 2018;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement; 
remove any negative information  about the running credit facility  from Mr Gs credit  
file in January,  February and 1 to 13 March 2018.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5079766