K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC gave her a credit card with a credit limit she 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Ms F applied for a credit  card with Barclays in March 2014. She entered in her personal 
details and her application  was accepted. She was given a card with a credit  limit of £800. In 
October 2014, Ms Fs credit limit was increased  to £1,400. Ms F maintained her account, 
making her repayments and operating  within her credit limit until July 2015. 
In July 2015, Ms F missed a payment to her credit card. Barclays  contacted Ms F to remind  
her to make a payment. When Ms F missed further  payments her account was transferred to 
recoveries and a default notice was sent.  Ms Fs account was defaulted  and in September  
2016, the debt was sold to a third party  where  it remains.
Ms F has complained that she couldnt  afford  her credit card and Barclays shouldnt  have 
accepted her application. Shes explained  that she wasnt working at the time she took out 
her credit card, and she was on benefits and looking after her children. So she feels  the 
credit card was unaffordable.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He explained that Barclays  set the original credit  
limit, and accepted  the application, based on information that Ms F had given it. It also 
conducted a credit check. So he thought it had done enough to check  it was lending 
responsibly to Ms F. Our adjudicator also explained  that Barclays  gave  Ms F notice when it 
changed her credit  limit, and treated her positively and sympathetically  when  she couldnt 
make her repayments by offering her options for assistance.
Ms F disagreed with the adjudicator. She explained  that she was a housewife  on benefits  at 
the time of application so her income  wasnt the amount that Barclays  based its assessment 
on. She explained  that this should  have been known  and her application shouldnt have 
been successful.  Shes  asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint so it has been  
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I understand that Ms F is experiencing  financial difficulties, and I expect lenders to work  with 
her at this time to agree  an appropriate way forward. But this complaint is about Barclays 
decision to give Ms F a credit  card.  As Barclays no longer owns  the debt, Ive only 
considered its actions in agreeing to lend to Ms F.
Ms F applied for her credit card in 2014. As this was a long time ago, Barclays has only been 
able to provide  the data that was input by Ms F when she applied  for the card.  This data 
shows that Ms F said her income was £3,500 and her outstanding balance on other  
accounts was £67. Barclays also carried out a credit check.  This showed  that at the time of 
application, Ms F didnt  have any adverse  credit  history. So Barclays  agreed to provide a 
credit card with a limit of £800. Given the income listed  on Ms Fs application, I cant see that 
Ref: DRN52392162this was an unaffordable limit. And I think its reasonable for Barclays  to have used  the 
information that Ms F provided, as well as the credit check, to decide whether the application 
should be successful.  So I think Barclays carried  out proportionate  checks on Ms F when it 
reviewed her application.
Ive also seen that Ms F made  at least her minimum payments for the first 14 months of 
having the card. During this time her credit limit was increased, but as Ms F had maintained  
her account,  I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to have offered this increased 
limit. I can also see that Barclays gave Ms F the option to decline  the increase in her limit, for 
example if she felt her circumstances would change. So I dont think  Barclays has done 
anything wrong  in increasing  Ms Fs limit.
In summary,  I think Barclays undertook proportionate checks  when it offered Ms F a credit 
card. There  wasnt anything to suggest  at that point that the credit limit was unaffordable. So 
I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5239216