K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Provident Personal  Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma, lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr G took out seven instalment loans with Satsuma  between  September 2016 and 
December 2018.  Loan one was for 13 weeks, loan two was for four months and loans
three to seven were  for 12 months.  
Mr G repaid loans one to five but he didnt repay loans six and seven. A summary of Mr Gs 
borrowing from Satsuma is as follows: 
date £ amount 
borroweddate repaid
124 September 2016 100 26 December 2016
26 May 2017 400 6 September 2017
33 August 2017 1,000 6 September 2017
421 September  2017 500 15 October 2018
520 November 2017 1,000 15 December 2018
626 September 2018 600
716 December 2018 600
Mr G says that he became reliant on these loans and borrowed from different lenders to 
repay earlier loans.  He wants a refund of all interest  and charges, plus interest, all adverse 
information removed  from his credit file and any outstanding balances written  off.
In response to Mr Gs complaint, Satsuma offered to refund interest and charges on loan 
one and to remove  adverse  information about  that loan from Mr Gs credit  file.
One of our adjudicators looked  at loans two to seven. She said that Satsuma shouldnt have 
given Mr G loans six and seven. The adjudicator  set out what  she thought Satsuma should 
do to put matters right. 
Mr G agreed with the adjudicator but Satsuma  didnt at first. Then, Satsuma said that it 
agreed to settle  the matter as the adjudicator suggested. We put that to Mr G but we didnt 
hear from him further.  As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN55250452Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Satsuma was required to establish whether Mr G could  sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.  As Satsuma  has already made an offer 
in relation to loan one, Ill look at loans two to seven. 
I dont think that Satsuma was wrong to give Mr G loan two. Given  the repayment amounts, 
what was apparent about Mr Gs circumstances at the time and his history with the lender at 
that point, I dont think it wouldve been  proportionate  for Satsuma to ask Mr G for the 
amount of information  needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt  anything  
in the information Mr G provided or the information  Satsuma shouldve  been aware of, which 
meant it wouldve  been proportionate for it to start verifying what Mr G said at that stage. 
For loan three, four and five. I think Satsuma shouldve taken steps to build a more  detailed 
picture of Mr Gs financial situation. But I havent seen anything in the information provided  
which suggests the lender wouldve known that Mr G wouldnt have been able to make  the 
repayments for these  loans in a sustainable way.
Ref: DRN55250453Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think that I can safely  conclude  that Satsuma  was wrong to 
give Mr G loans two to five. 
Satsuma has now agreed with the adjudicators  proposals in relation  to loans six and seven, 
so I dont need to comment  further on those loans. In addition to the offer Satsuma has 
already taken in relation to loan one, I think it should  put things right in relation to loans six 
and seven.
Mr G has said that he wants Satsuma to write  off the outstanding balances. I dont think  that 
would be a fair resolution here. Thats because Mr G has had the use and benefit of the 
capital sums  borrowed, so its right that he repays them. But Satsuma should refund and 
write off interest and charges  on loans six and seven, add interest and remove adverse 
information it recorded on Mr Gs credit file in relation to loans six and seven when the 
capital on those loans  has been repaid. Its right that Satsuma applies the refund to the 
capital outstanding. 
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
In addition to its offer in relation to loan one: 
refund  all interest and charges Mr G paid on loans six and seven and write off any
outstanding interest  and charges on those  loans;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded  interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
deduct from the refund above  any capital  sum still due in relation to loans six and 
seven and agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr G in relation  to any 
remaining outstanding  balance. 
the number  of loans  taken from loan six onwards means  any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So, all entries  about  loans  six and seven should be 
removed once the capital owing on those  loans has been repaid.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Mr G a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Gs complaint  in part. Provident  Personal 
Credit Limited, trading  as Satsuma, should  pay Mr G compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5525045