K822xcomplaint
Mr K says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him. 
background
This complaint is about nineteen  high-cost short term credit instalment loans that Sunny 
provided to Mr K from January 2016  onwards.  Mr Ks last loan was provided in November 
2017. Our adjudicator partially upheld  Mr Ks complaint and thought he shouldnt  have  been  
provided with the loans  from loan 4 onwards. Sunny disagreed with our adjudicators 
assessment and so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr K could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr K, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Mr K was unlikely  to have been  able to make his payments in a 
sustainable manner  when it provided loan 4. 
Ref: DRN57682532I say this because  the monthly repayment required for the combined loan payments for loans 
2, 3 and 4 took up a significant proportion of Mr Ks income. And this meant that there  was a 
significant risk that Mr K wouldnt have been able to make his payments without borrowing 
further or experiencing financial difficulty.  And loans 5 was provided in similar  circumstances 
insofar as loans 2 and 4 were still due to be repaid.
By the time of loan 6. Mr K had an established  borrowing pattern of taking out further loans  
not too long after repaying previous ones, some of which  were  provided when Mr K already 
had an outstanding balance on an existing loan. Sunny continued lending to Mr K even 
when this pattern  was repeated and in circumstances where it ought reasonably to have 
realised that any further loans were more likely than not unsustainable  for him. 
Mr K had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny  shouldnt  have provided him with. 
So I think that he lost out and Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund all interest  and charges Mr K paid on loans 4 to 19;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit  file as a result of loans  4 and 
5. The number  of loans provided means  that any information recorded about loans 6 to 
19 on Mr Ks credit  file is likely to be adverse. So all reference to these loans should be 
removed from Mr Ks credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr K a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ks complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Mr K compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5768253