K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Spirit Motor  Holdings Limited (Spirit Motor) mis-sold Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI)  with a loan.
background
I only intend to set out brief details here as the events leading  up to this complaint were 
clearly set out by the adjudicator and theyve not been disputed.
In 2007 Mrs S borrowed money to buy a car during a meeting at a car dealership. At the 
same time she also took out PPI designed to protect her loan payments  in the event she 
couldnt work through accident, sickness or unemployment.
Mrs S borrowed just under £4,500 over a 4 year term.  The PPI was a regular premium policy 
costing around £17 a month.
At the time Mrs S told us she was working,  she was entitled to at least three  months sick 
pay and she was in good health.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  He said he thought  the evidence showed  Mrs S 
chose to take out PP; there  wasnt enough evidence to say she was pressured to take it; and 
the policy was suitable for her.
Mrs S disagrees. She says she was made to feel that she had to take out PPI. And while  the 
paperwork might  suggest it was optional, she was verbally told that the finance was subject 
to her signing for PPI.
This complaint therefore comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs S  I know this isnt the answer she was hoping for  but Ive 
decided to not uphold this complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
Firstly  did Spirit Motor  provide advice  to Mrs S? 
I can see Mrs S has said she thought she did receive advice. Unfortunately Spirit  Motor 
hasnt said either way if it did or not. And while theres very little by way of evidence or 
information about what happened, given Mrs S testimony; the context of how the sale came 
about; and because it happened after the sale of PPI became a regulated  activity,  I think  its 
more likely than not in this particular case this was an advised sale.  This means  Spirit  Motor 
not only had to give Mrs S enough  clear and timely information about  PPI, it had to ensure 
the policy was suitable or right for her given her needs and circumstances at the time. Ive 
kept this in mind  in deciding this complaint.
Ref: DRN50982902was Mrs S given  a choice  about  PPI?
I can see this is the main complaint point Mrs S has raised in bringing her complaint to us. In 
summary she says she was told by the adviser  that to get the loan it was dependent on her 
taking out PPI. Ive therefore considered this carefully.
Having done so, while I hear what Mrs S says, Ive not seen  enough to support what  she 
says happened  and uphold her complaint on the basis she didnt have  a choice.
While theres very little information  from the time to help me understand what  happened 
(which isnt surprising  given how long ago the events in question took place) I have seen  a 
copy of the loan agreement completed at the time.  And here I can see that PPI was 
described as optional in two places  towards  the top of the agreement; the cost of PPI was 
set out separately  from the borrowing; and Mrs S had to both tick a box and sign a separate 
section to agree to take it out  it also said PPI was optional here too.
By describing PPI as optional in several  places and by having to sign to agree to take it out, I 
find it unlikely Mrs S would have been  under the impression that she didnt have a choice.
So overall and on balance, I think Mrs S was given  a choice about PPI and she agreed to 
take it out without  undue pressure.
was PPI suitable  for Mrs S?
Because of the lack of paperwork  from the time, I dont know what steps Spirit Motor  took to 
ensure the PPI was suitable for Mrs S. So I dont  know  whether for example it explored Mrs 
S existing  means  to assess  her ability to manage her loan repayments  if she couldnt work.  
Or if it considered her health and what the policy said about covering  existing  medical 
conditions. So accept  it is possible that it didnt advise Mrs S with due care and skill.
But in light of Mrs S circumstances at the time  the things we do know  I think  the policy  
was nevertheless ultimately  suitable for her and I dont think it was wrong for Spirit Motor  to 
have recommended it to her. For example:
Mrs S was eligible  for the policy and its benefits.
It wasnt fundamentally wrong or inappropriate for her  she was employed and in good 
health, so she wouldnt have been  impacted by any significant exclusions or limitations of 
cover around unusual employment circumstances or existing medical conditions.
Mrs S didnt  have significant sick pay, so she might have struggled to meet her loan 
repayments if she was off work sick or unemployed for an extended  period of time.
I can see shes said she had some savings  to fall back on and her father  wouldve 
helped her out if needed. But Im mindful  that Mrs S only put down a relatively small 
amount of her own funds  towards the car and I find it unlikely that she wouldve chosen  
to borrow the majority  of the cost of the car if she had a reasonable level of savings. I 
also dont think a reliance  on family  can reasonably be described  as a guaranteed  
means of help when  it might be needed  because circumstances can change  over time. I 
also dont think Mrs S would have wanted to solely rely on her family.
Ref: DRN50982903So I think Mrs S did have  a need for cover. The PPI would  have paid out alongside any 
sick pay and for longer  if necessary  and so it would have proved useful to her if any of 
the insured events  unfortunately  happened  it wouldve  helped  her out financially if 
things went wrong.
The cost appears  to have been  affordable and because  the policy was of the regular 
premium type it could be cancelled at any time and without penalty if circumstances 
changed or Mrs S decided she no longer  wanted  cover.
did Mrs S get all the information she needed about PPI in a clear and timely manner?
Again, the evidence  is limited here.  The loan agreement set out the cost of the cover  so I 
think Mrs S understood this when she made  her decision to take it out. I also think  she had a 
broad understanding of the cover including what the benefit was  I find it unlikely she would 
have agreed to it otherwise. 
But theres nothing  to indicate  that the significant limitations and exclusions of cover were  
specifically drawn  to her attention. Its likely these were set out in a policy document,  which I 
expect Mrs S got after the sale. But she wouldnt have relied on this to make her decision. 
So I think its likely Spirit Motor didnt do all that it should  have  done.
But Ive already found that the policy  was ultimately  suitable for Mrs S. Ive also said that I 
think she chose to take it out. And given the policy wasnt fundamentally different from what  I 
think she would have  expected from the information  she was given, I dont think her decision 
to take out PPI would  have been any different had Spirit Motor done  anything more.
In conclusion  because I think Mrs S would most likely have still taken out PPI but for the 
things Spirit Motor  didnt do, I dont think Mrs S has fairly and reasonably suffered any loss. 
This means  theres nothing Spirit Motor needs to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint, so I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5098290