K822xcomplaint
Miss F complains about the time it took PrePay Technologies Limited, trading as Prepay 
Solutions, to return money she sent to the wrong account. 
background 
In May 2018  Miss F sent £1,643.80 from her bank account to an incorrect  account. She 
contacted her bank  to retrieve  the money. She also contacted the police. It turned out that 
the money had been credited to an account with Prepay Solutions. In early November 2018 
Miss Fs money  was returned to her bank account. 
Miss F contacted Prepay  Solutions to complain.  She asked it to explain why it had held the 
money for such a long time. Prepay  Solutions didnt respond to her so she brought  her 
complaint to this service.  Miss F said this situation had caused her a lot of stress  and taken  
up a lot of her time so she should  receive significant  compensation.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint. Prepay Solutions told our investigator the money 
had been held in a safeguarding account due to an oversight. So our investigator felt Prepay 
Solutions should pay Miss F £250 compensation and send a written apology.  
Prepay Solutions agreed but Miss F wasnt happy  with this offer. She said she thought she 
had been the victim of a crime due to Prepay Solutions error which led to her getting the 
police involved.  She also said she had spent  a lot of time trying  to resolve this issue. And 
Prepay Solutions had shown no consideration for the difficulties she had experienced. Miss 
F said she thinks  she should be paid compensation in the thousands.  So this complaint has 
now been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
It isnt in dispute that Prepay Solutions has caused  distress and inconvenience to Miss F by 
holding on to the money for as long as it did. I think it took far longer  than it should  have 
done to arrange for her money to be sent back to her. However, now Miss F has her money 
back, the only remaining dispute  is what a fair amount  of compensation looks  like for this 
complaint. And thats what Ive considered here. 
In reaching my decision on fair compensation Ive taken all of the above into account   the 
inconvenience Miss F suffered trying to find out where her money was, the stress she 
experienced in not knowing what had happened, and Prepay Solutions not responding to her 
enquiries. 
Miss F has shown the lengths she went to and the amount of time she spent in trying  to 
recover her money. It must have been hard to not know what  had happened to her money.  I 
can see Miss F had issues when trying to get answers from the other banks  involved.  But I 
note they have compensated her for this. 
Miss F told our investigator  that luckily she didnt need the money for anything else at the 
time. And I believe this is important when considering the amount of compensation Miss F is 
asking for here. Although  this has been  a stressful situation for her to deal with Im not 
Ref: DRN57318332satisfied - from the evidence Ive seen - that Prepay Solutions has caused  significant 
financial detriment and distress.  So I dont agree it should pay her compensation in the 
thousands of pounds.
In all the circumstances, while  I realise  this isnt the answer Miss F was hoping to receive, I 
consider £250  is a fair award  of compensation here.
my final decision
My final decision is that PrePay Technologies Limited,  trading  as Prepay Solutions,  should  
pay Miss F a total of £250 compensation and send her a letter of apology.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5731833