K820x#14complaint
Miss B1 and Miss B2 are unhappy  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wont  pay their claim for 
damage to their roof under their home insurance. The policy was a branded  one bought 
through their bank,  although for convenience  Ill refer to UKI throughout.
Background
In August  2018  Miss B1 contacted UKI because the ceiling in their bathroom had collapsed. 
The claims handler at UKI advised  that he didnt  think there had been a storm so the 
damage wasnt likely to be covered. He advised  Miss B1 to get a cause of damage report. 
Miss B1 contacted UKI again as she was concerned  about  damage being caused by further  
rainfall. It agreed to send  out a contractor  to look at the damage.  After reviewing it, the 
contractor reported  back that the damage  was likely  to be due to wear and tear. Again UKI 
advised Miss B1 that it couldnt cover the loss as there hadnt been  a storm.
Miss B1 and Miss B2 remained unhappy  and referred the matter to this service. On 
reviewing it our investigator advised  that UKI was right to say there wasn't  a storm around 
the time of the claim and that it was likely the damage had been happening  to the roof over a 
period of time.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An ordinary home insurance policy doesnt cover things like general wear and tear or 
maintenance or upkeep of a house.  Miss B1advised that the bathroom  ceiling had collapsed  
after some particularly bad weather.  There  is cover  for storm  in Miss B1 and Miss B2s 
policy. But that is cover  if damage  is caused  by a one-off  identifiable storm event. As there is 
no definition of it in the policy we say a storm, in insurance terms, means  violent winds,  
usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. On reviewing the weather records for the time the 
incident took place, there  was no noticeable  wind or rain. So I dont think there was a storm.
When talking to UKI Miss B1 had explained that when  it rains heavily the roof leaked. I 
understand that the ceiling was an old lathe  and plaster one which had been patched  up 
before. The most likely cause of the ceiling collapsing was in my view wear and tear over a 
period of time. So Im afraid Miss B1 and Miss B2s policy wouldnt cover the damage to their 
ceiling.
Ive noted that Miss B1 and Miss B2 dont have accidental damage cover  under their policy.  
This means  that any internal  damage  caused  by the rain getting in wouldnt be covered 
either.
So overall I dont  think the damage  to Miss B1 and Miss B2 's property is covered under their 
policy and that UKI has acted fairly  in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN53144362Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Miss B1 and Miss B2 to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5314436