K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr K took out the PPI during the same meeting in branch in which he applied  for the credit 
card in 2000. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr K disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr K says he doesnt recollect  any discussion about  PPI or of being  sold it, therefore the 
policy was added without  his knowledge  or consent.
Ive seen a copy  of the credit card application  form that was completed in branch. Looking  at 
the form, there is a separate section for insurance  and there were two types of insurance 
product listed within  that section. There is an x in the box to request PPI, but the box for the 
other type of insurance has been left blank as not required. The cross in the box is computer 
generated. However, this is typical of branch meetings where there  is a discussion about the 
customers preferences and then the form is printed out afterwards for signing.  
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mr Ks recollection of 
events has faded.  From the wording and layout of the form, I think  that Mr K would have 
known that he had a choice about  buying the PPI. And it appears he was able to decline the 
other insurance product on offer. If, as Mr K suggests, the PPI was just added  without his 
consent, I might have expected him to have ended up with all of the available insurance  
options. On balance, it seems to me that Mr K decided to buy the PPI, knowing that he didnt 
have to, even  if he no longer  remembers  doing so.
BoS advised Mr K to take out the PPI. That means that, in recommending  it to him, it needed 
to ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Ks circumstances at the time, 
the policy was suitable for him.
Mr K has said he couldnt remember if hed have received any sick pay from his employer. 
And he had no other means, such as savings, to fall back on. So the policy could  have 
provided a useful benefit at what would have been  a difficult  time. So I consider it was 
reasonable of BoS to advise Mr K to buy it.
BoS also needed to provide Mr K with enough  information for him to make  an informed 
decision about whether or not it was right for him. I think that Mr K would have known 
Ref: DRN51162092something about the policy  that it would  cover his repayments if he was unable to work  
due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think  hed have decided to buy 
it without knowing anything at all about it. 
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much  information about  the policy as it should  have,  
particularly about  the things that it didnt cover. But Mr K wasnt  affected by any of those 
things. As I think that Mr K had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont think  
that further information would have caused him to change his mind. So he was no worse  off 
as a result  of anything  that BoS may have done  wrong, so there  is nothing  that BoS needs  to 
do to put things right.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5116209