K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mrs P says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs Ps PPI started  when  she took out her credit card by post. She says she wasnt  aware of 
any insurance on the card when  she took it. But Mrs P applied for her card over fifteen years  
ago. So I wouldnt expect  her to recall everything  about her application now. Taking this into 
account, what Mrs P can recall now isnt, on its own, enough to make  me think that HSBC  
added PPI to her card without her knowing or agreeing. And Ive not seen anything else to 
make me think HSBC did this. 
For example the sample application  form Ive seen from the time of the sale suggests PPI 
was added if the consumer asked for it. Im not sure if this is like the application  Mrs P filled 
in  HSBC no longer  has a copy of her actual  application. But given how long ago the sale 
took place, the fact HSBC no longer has the original documents  doesnt  make me think that 
HSBC likely did something  wrong. Taking  everything into account,  what I have isnt enough 
to make me think HSBC  added the PPI to Mrs Ps card without getting her agreement. And I 
dont have enough to say that HSBC didnt make  it clear the PPI was optional.
Mrs P took out the PPI by post and I dont  think HSBC gave her a personal recommendation 
that the PPI was right for her own particular circumstances.  I think HSBC left it up to Mrs P to 
decide if the PPI was right for her. But HSBC  still had to make sure Mrs P got the information 
she needed to decide whether the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I havent seen enough  to make me think she didnt choose to take it out. And from 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, Mr P wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it wouldve been useful for her if something went  
wrong. From what shes told us, Mrs P was only entitled to statutory pay from her employer if 
she was too sick to work. For a successful sickness claim the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 
twelve months. And the savings Mrs Ps told us about wouldnt  have  made up for the fall in 
earnings she could  suffer over that period  if she were too sick to work. 
The PPI also had unemployment cover. And the policy benefit wouldve been paid out on top 
of anything Mrs P received from her employer. Taking everything into account,  on balance I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put Mrs P off taking out the cover.
What Ive said above means HSBC doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs P. But HSBC has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P because:
Ref: DRN53368842When the policy was sold,  HSBC got a high level of commission  and profit share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mrs P about that. Because  HSBC  
didnt tell Mrs P, that was unfair.  
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about all Mrs Ps points, including what shes  said about becoming  aware  of the 
cover and cancelling it. But Ive explained  why what I have isnt enough to persuade  me that 
Mrs P wasnt  made aware of the cover  when she took it out. So, for those reasons and the 
others Ive given above, these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs P any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5336884