K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC allowed his estranged  wife to close  their joint 
bank account,  without his knowledge or consent.  Hes also unhappy that Barclays  wont  
reopen the account in his sole name.
background
Mr P had a Barclays bank account  in his sole name. The account  was later converted  to a 
joint bank account,  with the other account  holder  being his wife.
Mr Ps wife later gave instructions in a branch,  to close their joint bank account and their joint 
savings account.  Barclays has explained to Mr P that because they were joint accounts with 
a single mandate, either account  holder  could  request them  to be closed without Barclays 
requiring authorisation from the other. Barclays noted this information was set out in its 
terms and conditions.
Barclays also explained that it couldnt now reactive the accounts, but Mr P had the option of 
opening a new sole account with Barclays through his online banking  or by visiting a local 
branch.
Mr P referred a complaint to this service. One of our investigators considered  the matter, but 
he didnt think Barclays had done  anything wrong.  Mr P disagreed,  so his complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen information which supports what Barclays says in respect of Mr Ps wife requesting 
to close their joint accounts. Barclays terms and conditions also explain that either account 
holder can give instructions on a joint account, without it requiring authorisation from the 
other account holder. 
Those terms and conditions also explain that if Barclays is aware of a dispute  between joint 
account holders,  it may insist on joint instructions; and it will suspend account access  and 
payment tools.  However, I havent seen  or been told anything that leads me to believe 
Barclays was aware  of a dispute between Mr P and his wife. 
Therefore, in view of the above, Im not persuaded Barclays acted unfairly by closing the 
accounts.
I appreciate the joint account was originally Mr Ps long-standing sole account, and as such, 
he would  like it to be reopened as a sole account in his name.  However, Barclays  says its 
unable to reopen an account once  closed, and a new application would need to be made. 
I accept what it says here. 
In any event, Im not persuaded  that Barclays is treating Mr P unfairly by declining to reopen 
a bank account previously held in joint names, when the other party has requested it to be 
closed. I consider Barclays invitation to Mr P, to apply for a new account, to be fair and 
reasonable.
Ref: DRN55546972my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr P. But for the reasons  explained above, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2020.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5554697