K820x#14Complaint
Mrs K complains that she didnt receive  paper statements from Barclays  Bank UK PLC 
(trading as Barclaycard)  for her credit card. As a result, she wasnt  aware  she had an 
outstanding balance. 
Background
Mrs K has a credit card with Barclaycard.  In May 2016 a payment of £6,000 was made which 
reduced the outstanding balance to £3,796. At this point Mrs Ks card was subject to a 0% 
interest promotional  rate. In November 2016 the promotional rate ended and Mrs Ks interest 
rate went  up. 
Mrs K registered to use the Barclaycard  app in September  2015  and again in August 2016.  
Barclaycard says that as part of the terms customers agree to when signing up for the app 
statements are set to paperless.  That means  customers with the app can use it to find out 
about their account  and access statements.  
Direct debits  have been collected each month from Mrs Ks nominated  bank account  to 
cover the minimum payments. Mrs K says she wasnt  aware there was an outstanding 
balance or that she was paying interest to Barclaycard each month  as she wasnt  sent 
statements and complained. 
Barclaycard responded and offered to refund six months interest as a gesture of goodwill. 
But Barclaycard didnt agree it had made a mistake as it had acted in line with the terms 
Mrs K agreed to when  she signed up for the app. An investigator at our service looked at 
Mrs Ks complaint but didnt think Barclaycard had acted unfairly. Mr K brings this complaint  
on behalf of Mrs K and has told us she doesnt accept. As a result, the complaint has been  
passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K says she wasnt aware that Barclaycard was continuing to take money from her each 
month to cover  the minimum payment because it stopped sending  her paper statements. I 
dont doubt what  Mrs K says, but I think Barclaycard has provided clear evidence  to show its 
acted in line with the information it provided  when she signed up for the app. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mrs K but I havent found anything  to show Barclaycard has made  an error or 
treated her unfairly. 
When Mrs K signed up for the app she agreed  to Barclaycards terms. The terms say 
statements will be made available via the app. The terms also say that if the cardholder  
wants paper  statements they can request them online. Mr K said the information Barclaycard 
gave Mrs K when she signed  up for the app was confusing. But I think  the information  in the 
terms is clearly  explained  and reasonably short. The information about online statements 
isnt hidden in the small print and Im satisfied Barclaycard made the way its app works clear. 
Ref: DRN50235652I think its reasonable to note that Mrs Ks payments continued for several years before she 
complained and were  collected by direct debit.  That means payments of around  £70 a month 
would also have shown  on the bank statements of the account  Mrs K used  to pay her credit 
card each month. 
Mrs K made a substantial  payment of £6,000  to reduce her outstanding balance  in May 2016  
but £3,796 remained outstanding. Ive looked at the contact notes but cant find anything to 
show Mrs K contacted Barclaycard to check how much she owed after making  that payment. 
I appreciate Mrs K says she wasnt receiving  statements for an extended period but I havent 
seen anything to show Barclaycard advised  the outstanding  balance  had been repaid in full 
or that no further  payments  were due. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs K but I havent seen anything that shows  Barclaycard has made 
an error or treated her unfairly. Its app has worked in line with the terms she agreed to when 
she signed up for it. Paper statements could have  been sent to her but had to be manually 
requested. Whilst Mrs K has paid interest  on her outstanding  balance  over time, I havent  
been persuaded to uphold this complaint or tell Barclaycard to take any further  action. 
Barclaycard offered to refund six months  interest totalling £393.56 as a gesture of goodwill. 
As I havent  found  that Barclaycard has made an error and Im not upholding this complaint 
Im not telling it to take any further action  or increase the settlement its offered. I leave it to 
Mrs K to decide whether she wants to accept the offer Barclaycard made. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5023565