K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that the mileage on a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) plc, trading as Santander Consumer Finance, 
wasnt correct.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr D under a conditional  sale agreement with Santander  
Consumer Finance that he signed  in May 2015.  The car was about  six and a half years  old 
and its mileage was shown on the sales invoice  as being 80,634 miles. The agreement had 
a term of 60 months. Mr D wanted to sell the car and settle the agreement in April 2018 but 
he found out that there was a discrepancy in the cars mileage from before it was supplied to 
him. He complained  to Santander  Consumer  Finance but wasnt  satisfied  with its response 
so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that there 
wasnt enough evidence  to show that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality or fit for purpose 
at the point of supply.  So he said that he was unable to fairly conclude  that Santander  
Consumer Finance should  accept  the car back and provide him with a refund.
Mr D has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that there is 
a significant doubt over the history of the car and theres no way to confirm  or assess  the car 
properly due to there  being modules in the car that wont respond. And he says that a more 
sophisticated tamper that circumnavigates the tamper  warning in the car's system may have 
been used to change the cars mileage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are clearly some issues with the cars  mileage.  Santander Consumer Finance says 
that historic mileage readings for the car are:
September 2012 54,758
August 2013 60,839
August 2014 116,678
April 2015 80,644
April 2016 93,789
April 2017 106,637
And it says that the discrepancy between  August 2014 and April 2015 may have resulted 
from the August  2014 reading  being  taken in kilometres which wouldve been 72,924 miles 
and therefore  consistent with the other readings.  It said that the Driver and Vehicle 
Standards Agency had agreed to present  those findings to its appeals panel with a view to 
the cars  mileage history  being  changed  and that it was awaiting a decision. But it now 
says that that was an error and that it wont be possible to change the cars mileage history.
None of Santander Consumer Finance, the dealer,  a manufacturers specialist, the expert 
who inspected the car or the Driver and Vehicle  Standards  Agency has been able to provide  
any further information to confirm the cars correct mileage.
Ref: DRN58517502But other than the mileage discrepancy, theres  no other evidence to show that theres a 
fault with the car or that it wasnt of satisfactory  quality when it was supplied to Mr D. And 
Mr D hasnt provided any other evidence to show  that the cars mileage has been  tampered 
with. Santander  says that Mr D hasnt experienced  any detriment because  the car was 
supplied on the basis of the correct  mileage and it was priced  correctly.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.  And 
having done that I consider it to be more likely than not that the August 2014 reading is in 
kilometres - not miles.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that the cars  mileage has been 
tampered with, that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr D or that 
it was mis-sold to him. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances 
for me to require  Santander  Consumer Finance to allow Mr D to reject  the car, to pay him 
any compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5851750