K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained about her home insurer Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited.  She 
feels it provided poor service to her in relation to a claim she made following a water  leak at 
her home.
background
Mrs H called Lloyds on 20 February 2018,  having  discovered a leak from a plinth heater in 
her kitchen. A Lloyds  claims  consultant  visited Mrs Hs home along with a contractor. The 
claim was accepted and part of the floor was taken up. 
Later more  of the floor was taken up. Mrs H was asked to empty  cupboards and her range 
cooker was set on plinths  in the middle  of the room.  The contractor visited  on 6 June and 
said the floor was dry. Mrs H was surprised when he said he was leaving and it would be 
another week before the floor was reinstated. 
When the floor was reinstated it was lower  than the floor in place before (the old flooring  had 
been laid on top of previous flooring). The cooker  had to be raised and new plinths  ordered.  
The new plinths didnt  match the kitchen. Mrs H complained.
Lloyds accepted the claim had taken too long and that its contractor had provided poor 
service. It offered £300  compensation,  plus £25 because it accepted it had delayed in 
responding to Mrs Hs complaint. It said if Mrs H sourced replacement  plinths and sent it a 
quote for materials and fitting it would settle that. 
Mrs H complained to this service. Our investigator  felt that Lloyds offer of compensation was 
fair and reasonable and noted it was trying to resolve the plinth issue.
Mrs H was unhappy  she felt that some  of the things mentioned by our investigator  were 
wrong  that the contractor had lied about many things to cover up their failings. Mrs H also 
told our investigator that whilst Lloyds had paid her some money for the plinths, the person 
that had quoted to replace  them  had since said they couldnt guarantee a match  in colour 
either. When our investigator wasnt minded to change their view,  Mrs H asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs Hs frustration, and it surprises me that so much of the insurance claim 
handling in this case seems to have been past to or left with the contractor to deal with. Key 
claim issues such as whether alternative  accommodation was needed and the fact 
(according to the contractor) that it was refused causing the repairs to taken longer and 
cause more disruption. That is the sort of issue Id expect the insurer  to manage.  If it had 
there might have been a more decisive account of what happened in this respect  rather 
than Mrs Hs word  against the contractor.  
However, the repairs that were necessary shouldnt, in my view, have warranted alternative 
accommodation. The floor was able to be taken  out fully without the whole of the bottom half 
of the kitchen being taken  out and the family werent  left without key facilities,  such  as 
Ref: DRN58251612heating and hot water. The conditions were far from ideal but that is the consequence of 
having damage that leads  to an insurance claim.  
The issue  is how long things took and that the contractor never really explained timeframes  
to Mrs H or set her expectations properly for what would happen and when. But really  that 
was Lloyds job. As I said above,  it didnt manage this claim properly at all. I accept that 
Mrs H suffered as a result and that compensation is due.
However, Lloyds has already offered  £300  to make  up for the upset. This amount is in line 
with awards made by this service in similar circumstances. Im satisfied that is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances here. 
Regarding the plinths,  I can see from Lloyds final response that it is willing  to try and resolve 
the problem its contractors caused. Really the floor should have been reinstated  at the level 
it was before, so this was something that Lloyds did need to rectify. If Mrs H has new 
information about the plinths  that despite  having been given a quote,  a match  cant  be 
provided, she should contact Lloyds to discuss this issue further.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020. 
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5825161