K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that a Clydesdale Bank  Plc adviser gave him incorrect  information  about 
transferring from a residential  to a buy to let mortgage. Mr V wants Clydesdale  to honour the 
deal that was offered to him
 
background
Mr V lives abroad and has a residential mortgage  with Clydesdale  in the United Kingdom  on 
a property that he lets out. Mr V says that Clydesdale contacted him to advise him to transfer  
from his present mortgage  which is capital repayment to interest-only. Mr V wanted to go 
ahead with this deal but Clydesdale then told him that because of his circumstances it could  
not offer a buy to let mortgage.
Clydesdale agrees that it recommended a buy to let mortgage to Mr V. But it says that as Mr 
V is a non UK resident,  paid in a foreign currency and as he already owns  the property, that 
it is unable to offer him a regulated buy to let contract under its foreign  currency policy. 
Further, as Mr V is currently letting the property it says that it cant  offer him a product  switch 
to any of its residential mortgage  products.  Clydesdale  accepted that Mr V got incorrect 
advice and offered  compensation of £100  for that. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He felt that 
Clydesdale was entitled to apply its lending criteria  and had done nothing wrong. Mr V asked 
for a review  of his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V has a residential mortgage with Clydesdale and was on a fixed  rate mortgage product  
which was coming to an end. At the end of the mortgage period, the interest rate on the 
mortgage would revert to the Standard  Variable Rate (SVR).  After  Mr V took out the 
mortgage Mr V moved to work abroad  and let his property out.
Mr V discussed with the bank moving the mortgage to a buy to let. If Mr V was UK resident, 
he could apply for a regulated buy to let mortgage. But as Mr V is now non UK resident and 
paid in a foreign currency, Clydesdale says that under its foreign currency  policy it cant  offer 
Mr V a regulated buy to let mortgage.  The other problem for Mr V is that as he is not residing 
in the property Clydesdale cant offer him one of its fixed  interest rate mortgage products for 
residential mortgages. 
Clearly, Mr Vs mortgage requirements  have changed significantly since  he first took out the 
mortgage. The Clydesdale adviser thought that it could assist  Mr V and suggested a buy to 
let mortgage to him. Unfortunately Clydesdales  lending  criteria couldnt facilitate Mr V. It 
would have been preferable for the adviser to have been better  informed about Clydesdales  
lending criteria before  speaking to Mr V. Clydesdale has offered £100 to Mr V for providing 
incorrect information which seems  appropriate.  
But I cant fairly ask Clydesdale to change its lending criteria because  a member of its staff 
got it wrong. Mr V is looking  to alter the terms of his mortgage as his circumstances have 
Ref: DRN50741772changed. Clydesdale should honour  the terms of its current mortgage  contract  with Mr V. Its 
a matter for Clydesdales  commercial judgement  as to whether it wishes to offer a different 
mortgage to Mr V and has decided  not to do so. On that basis I cant fairly  uphold this 
complaint.    
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5074177