K820x#14complaint
Mr B1 and Mr B2 complain that The Mortgage  Works (UK) Plc calculated  the release of 
property figure incorrectly  when they asked  it to release a property from their mortgage. 
They ask that TMW honours  the original agreement. 
background
Mr B1 and Mr B2 took out an interest only mortgage  with TMW  for buy to let properties. 
They intended to sell one of the properties in late 2018 so applied to TMW for this property 
to be released from the security.  They were expecting to repay an amount equivalent to the 
amount they borrowed to buy the property in 2008  about £112,000. TMW added  about 
£20,000 so that the loan to value on the remaining properties didnt increase from its current 
level (about  86%). Mr B1 says this is unfair and not what was agreed when they took out the 
mortgages.
Mr B1 and Mr B2 would like TMW to base the release of property figure on the original loan 
to value ratio of 89%. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary,  she 
said TMW had calculated  the release of property figure in accordance with the mortgage 
documents and its own policies.  
Mr B1 and Mr B2 didnt  agree.  Mr B1 said TMW didnt have the right to change the loan to 
value requirement  as the value of the properties  increased. He didnt agree with TMW  and 
the investigators interpretation of how the mortgage  documents said the release of property 
figure would be calculated. Mr B1 also disputed the property valuations  used by TMW. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr B1 and Mr B2 have  a portfolio mortgage  with TMW  for buy to let properties. There is 
one loan secured  on all the properties  in the portfolio. The parties dispute how much of the 
loan should be repaid  if one of the properties is released from the security. 
TMW says its policies  say that to permit the release of a property, the LTV existing at the 
time cant be increased. Lenders  are able to apply their policies, provided  they do so fairly 
and reasonably. 
TMW says it sent Mr B1 and Mr B2 information about how properties could be released from 
its security with its mortgage offer (in a document headed What if). This included:
We will provide you with a release of property figure, this is calculated  to either 
maintain the loan to value based upon  the last valuation or to maintain the rental 
coverage on the remaining security held.
Ref: DRN59476062Mr B1 interprets this as meaning that the release of property figure will be calculated so that 
the original LTV (of 89%) will be maintained. Ive considered the points he makes. But I dont 
think this is a fair interpretation of the provision.
I think if the intention  was that the original LTV was to be maintained then the provision 
would say this. But it says maintain the loan to value based  upon the last valuation. I do 
appreciate that Mr B1 doesnt agree. But, as written,  I think  this says the intention  is to 
maintain the LTV based on the last valuation. 
I dont think its relevant now that the original mortgage product required an LTV of up to 
90%. I dont  think the original choice of product determines what the LTV should always  be  
rather the LTV is one of the factors that determine what  product is available.
Mr B1 says he wouldnt have started  the sales process  and incur costs   if hed known 
how TMW would calculate the release of property  figure. I note that there  is a guide (updated  
in mid 2018)  on TMWs website about  the process and calculations for the release of 
property. And Mr B1 could  have asked TMW for a release of property figure  before  incurring  
costs. I dont think B&B misled Mr B1 and Mr B2 about how it would calculate the release of 
property figure. 
Mr B1 also disputes the automated valuations  used by TMW.  If Mr B1 and Mr B2 decide to 
sell a property in future and are unhappy  about  the valuations at that time, they can raise  this 
with TMW. Depending  on its policies  at that time, TMW can provide  information about 
valuation options  and costs. 
TMW apologised for any confusion caused by its response to Mr B1 and Mr B2s complaint and 
offered £100 compensation.  Ill leave  it to Mr B1 and Mr B2 to decide whether  to accept this. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I think  TMWs response to this 
complaint was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B1 and Mr B2 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5947606