K820x#14Complaint
Mr O, who is represented  by a Claims Management  Company,  (CMC), complains that 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  rejected his claim under section 75 Consumer Credit  
Act 1974 in respect of a timeshare.
Background
In December 2010 Mr O together  with his wife acquired trial membership of a holiday club I 
will call H at a cost of £3,995. Of this, £3,000 was funded by a loan from Clydesdale.  In 
February 2018 the CMC made a claim to Clydesdale on Mr Os behalf.  It explained that 
Mr and Mrs O won a free holiday and during that they were subjected  to a long presentation. 
It said a number of misleading  and inaccurate  claims  were  made.  It said they had been told 
this was an investment  which could be sold and could  be used by friends. 
It said they were pressurised into taking out a trial membership which was funded by a loan 
to Mr O by Clydesdale. The CMC  said that this proved to be too expensive  and Mr O took 
out an alternative loan after their return  to the UK. It has not said that Mr and Mrs O didnt 
make use of the trial membership.  After the claim was rejected the complaint  was brought to 
this service. 
It was considered by one of our investigators who didnt  recommend it be upheld.  She 
concluded the claim had been  made  outside  the time limits  set down in the Limitation Act. 
The CMC didnt agree and submitted  a statement from Mr and Mrs O reiterating what  had 
happened and what they had been  told.
The CMC also said their client  had been  forced to refinance due to the high rate of interest 
charged by Clydesdale. It added that it believed Clydesdale was receiving commission from 
H which induced it into trapping  Mr and Mrs O. The CMC suggested Clydesdale  should  
provide commission  details to this service. It concluded that the sale had been fraudulent 
and so the time limit should  commence  from when they had discovered this or could have 
reasonably discovered  it. In this connection  it referred to S 32 of the Limitation Act.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our rules say that we cant consider a complaint if a consumer refers  it to us more  than:
(a)six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought
reasonably to have  become aware) that he had cause for complaint
unless:
the failure to comply  with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
When assessing and declining a claim under the Consumer Credit  Act, a business is 
exercising its rights  and duties under a regulated credit agreement. A consumer may then 
Ref: DRN51710142complain if they feel that a business  has failed to fulfil its obligations  under this credit 
agreement, because they havent received satisfactory compensation for their claim.
So in this case, it follows that the event  complained  of is Clydesdales  decision to decline 
the claim the CMC made regarding the timeshare, rather than the sale itself. The CMC  then 
complained within the six year time limit specified  in the rules.
Because of this, I think we can look at the complaint,  as it has been brought within  the time 
limits set under DISP  2.8.2(2). So, I will now go on to consider the complaint, which  is that 
Clydesdale would not look into Mr Os claim under  the Limitation Act. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, Im 
required to take into account: relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice.
Under s.75, Clydesdale is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of the goods or 
services for any breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier.  This means,  Mr O 
has a like claim against Clydesdale  just as he would have against the supplier. So, if his 
claim against the supplier  of the timeshare has likely expired  under the Limitation Act, then 
that is something Clydesdale could take into account when it considers claims against it.
The Limitation Act sets out the time limits  which apply to different  types of claims. Mr O has 
said the timeshare  he and his wife bought was misrepresented to them.
Under the Limitation Act, Mr O would  have six years from the date upon which they suffered 
a loss as a result of the misrepresentation to bring the claim. 
As Clydesdale  steps into the shoes of the supplier for the purposes  of the s.75 claim,  to work 
out when the clock  starts running under the Limitation Act, we need to work out when it 
would start if the claim had been brought directly  against the supplier.
Misrepresentation claims can be made once the person  bringing  the claim has experienced 
damage and or loss as a result  of the misrepresentation.  In this case,  given the nature of 
the complaint,  I think damage occurred when Mr O suffered a financial loss as a result of 
purchasing the timeshare.  Ill explain  why below.
 
The CMC says that as a result of the suppliers misrepresentation,  Mr O paid to enter an 
agreement which has caused  him to suffer a loss. It says that but for the misrepresentation, 
he and his wife wouldnt have entered into the contract  at all and wouldnt have paid any 
money to the supplier.
So, I think the point  of loss was the point at which the transaction was entered into, which 
was in December  2010. Thats the moment when they accepted any potential  benefit under 
the contract, and it was also the moment they accepted the cost under the contract.
The time limit applicable to misrepresentation is six years from the date of loss. So, Mr O 
needed to raise his claim no later than December 2016. As I understand it, the CMC  raised 
the claim in February  2018, which is a little over seven  years after the loss occurred.
Mr O may say that he wasnt aware  he could raise concerns  about  the misrepresentation 
until much  later. But the time limits  set out for misrepresentation claims such as this, start to 
Ref: DRN51710143run from the date of loss, which  may fall earlier than the date he became aware that 
something might have gone  wrong.   
On the matter of the Limitation Act being extended due to fraud typically s.32 applies to 
fraudulent misrepresentation but it does  extend  to concealment.  In cases  where that has 
been alleged,  it can extend the time the consumer has to raise a claim. However,  where a 
consumer has raised a number of issues  with the product  (over  and above commission) as 
Mr O has done those  issues could  have been discoverable  earlier. That means  that I 
consider Mr O could have discovered  or ought to have been  able to discover that something  
had gone wrong.  As such I do not consider that s.32 extends  time in this complaint.
Although I do not have  the actual commission rates paid for this loan the typical  commission  
rates seen by this service are not of such an amount that they could give rise to an unfair 
relationship. We also disagree  that there  was a fiduciary relationship between the parties 
which may also give rise to a need to disclose.  
Ultimately, it is for the courts to decide  whether or not any claim Mr O may have against the 
supplier or the creditor has expired under the Limitation Act.
However, given the above, it seems to me that this misrepresentation claim against the 
supplier and the like claim  against Clydesdale more  than likely exceeded the relevant time 
limits set out in the Limitation Act. So, it would  not be unreasonable for Clydesdale  to take 
this into account  when considering Mr Os s.75 claim against it. 
So, given that Mr Os claim now is more  than likely time barred under the Limitation Act, 
I think Clydesdales decision not to look into the claim was fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject  my decision 
before 13 August 2021.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5171014