K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about Mr Ws mortgage with Santander UK Plc. Hes unhappy  with how 
hes been treated  whilst in arrears.
background 
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding  the amounts involved. No discourtesys intended 
by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to the outcome 
of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr W when  my decision is 
published.
Mr W has been in arrears  on his mortgage for a number of years;  theyd been gradually  
falling over time, albeit  quite slowly.  In August  2018, Santander appointed solicitors to 
manage the account. Later that year, the solicitors took possession proceedings and the 
court granted a suspended possession order (SPO). Since that time, Mr W has kept to the 
payment arrangement underpinned by the SPO.  But he was very unhappy that Santander 
instructed solicitors in the first place.
When our investigator looked  at the case, he didnt think it was unfair of Santander  to put the 
account into the hands of its solicitors. He explained  to Mr W that we had no power  to 
interfere with or countermand the court decision to grant the SPO,  but he did think  a 
payment arrangement could have been  reached directly and the possession proceedings 
avoided. For that reason,  he recommended  Santander refund the court  costs  (£150) and pay 
Mr W £300 compensation.
Santander agreed with the proposal,  and eventually, Mr W did too, albeit I think reluctantly. 
That was in June  of this year, and the complaint was closed  on the basis of this informal 
settlement. The matter rested there  until October, when Mr W contacted us and asked for 
the case to be reopened after Santander  debited legal fees of £721 to the mortgage 
account.
We checked the position with Santander;  it explained that of the £721, the £150 was the 
afore-mentioned court  fee, and the other £571 was the cost of the solicitor managing the 
account generally without the extra cost of the court action.  Bearing in mind  the finding  that 
the appointment of solicitors to manage the account wasnt  inherently unfair,  the investigator 
(a different one by now)  didnt think  the settlement should include the £571.
Mr W remains unhappy so its come to me to decide.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Ref: DRN56631552Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
news for Mr W; I think the original settlement proposal was fair in all the circumstances, and 
neednt be changed.  Ill explain why.
I think it would have  been helpful if the full position regarding  the legal costs  (that,  is, that the 
£571 was fairly chargeable but the £150  wasnt and should be waived/refunded) had been 
made clear when the settlement  proposal had been brokered and agreed.  Of course,  its 
quite possible Mr W wouldnt have agreed  to it if the full facts had been known. But if he 
hadnt, wed still be where we are now with the case requiring a decision from an 
ombudsman.
my final decision
My final decision is that this complaint be settled in full by Santander UK Plc 
implementing the agreement reached in June 2019,  whereby  it waives the £150 court  
fees and pays  Mr W £300.  If it has already taken these steps, Santander  need  not do 
any more. My final decision  concludes  this services consideration  of this complaint, 
which means Ill not be engaging in any further  discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5663155