K822xcomplaint
Ms W complains that a used car she acquired via a hire purchase agreement with Oodle  
Financial Services Limited had been misrepresented to her.
background 
In October  2018 Ms W found a car she thought would be suitable for her via a website. 
She arranged  a five year hire purchase  agreement with Oodle  and the car was delivered to 
her.
The car had been  advertised as having a full service history but when it arrived  Ms W 
checked the paperwork and she found this wasn't correct. It appeared from the service 
book  that at least one service had been missed.  Ms W also says that there  was no 
paperwork  detailing any repairs or maintenance work  carried out when the car was 
serviced.
Ms W contacted the dealership to complain and was told she needed to contact the broker  
who'd arranged the finance with Oodle.  Ms W contacted the broker and said she wanted to 
return the car. The broker spoke with the dealership on Ms Ws behalf. The dealership said 
they were  willing to take the car back if Ms W paid for the collection costs.  Ms W declined 
to cover these costs  as she said it was unfair to ask her to do so.
The handing of the car back didn't progress and so Ms W complained to Oodle.  Oodle 
says  that in January it agreed to cover the costs  of having the car collected as the matter 
had got "bogged  down."  However,  by this time, the dealership refused to take the car back.
Oodle told Ms W that the broker  had said the dealership had contacted this service and it had 
been confirmed that the dealer had been right to ask Ms W to cover the costs of handing  the 
car back. It also said that this service had agreed with the dealer that it was now 
unreasonable to return the car due to the lapse  in time. Oodle  said that repair was now the 
remaining route to resolve Ms Ws complaint as it was likely  a missed service would mean  
that there were  outstanding repairs required.
Oodle said that Ms W should take the car to a manufacturer approved garage for a full 
condition report  to be prepared. This report should  then be provided to the dealership  
for them to consider. Oodle said Ms W wasn't entitled to reject the car.
Ms W was unhappy at Oodle's decision and complained  to this service.  Our investigator  
recommended her complaint should  be upheld. He said he didn't  think  Oodle had acted fairly  
when looking  at Ms Ws complaint.
Our investigator said under the Consumer  Rights Act ("CRA") goods supplied must be of 
satisfactory quality and a consumer had the right to reject goods within the first 30 days  if a 
fault was found to be present or developing at the point of sale.  Here, Ms W had rejected 
the car within seven  days of taking delivery of it as it hadn't matched the description in the
advert. And our investigator said that the advert clearly said the car came with a full 
service  history  which wasn't the case.  He said he didn't think the car wasn't  fit for purpose 
at the point of sale.
Our investigator said he couldn't comment on what this service had said to the dealership  
about Ms W covering  the costs of handing  the car back but he thought  such  a request 
was unfair.  He said Ms W should  have  been  able to hand the car back  when she'd asked 
Ref: DRN50221042to do so and that Oodle  should now cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay and 
collect  the car at no cost to her.
Our investigator said that Ms W had faced  additional expenses when she hadn't  been able to 
hand the car back when she'd wanted to. She had originally  planned to sell her old car but 
had continued  to use it when she found the new car wasn't what she'd  expected. This meant  
she had extra costs  taxing  and extending  the insurance on her old car as well as insuring the 
new car which was required by the agreement. Ms W had also paid to have  the new car 
serviced and replaced some missing locking wheel nuts. Our investigator said it would be fair 
for these costs to be reimbursed by Oodle.
Our Investigator  said that Ms W had suffered  distress and inconvenience  over the car not 
being as expected and that Oodle should pay £200 compensation to reflect this. He also 
said that Ms W had only used the car a minimal  number of times as she had no 
confidence  in its quality.  Looking at the number  of miles she'd driven it was unfair  that all 
her monthly  payments were kept by Oodle. He said he thought  it was fair for Oodle  to 
reimburse all of Ms Ws monthly payments save two that would cover her use of the car.
Ms W agreed  with our investigator's view but Oodle disagreed. It said that the position  set 
out in its final letter to Ms W was fair and that repairs to the car should now be 
considered  rather than it being handed  back.
As the parties couldn't  agree the complaint was passed  to me. I decided  to issue a 
provisional decision along the following lines.
I'd seen a copy of the advert for the car and it clearly set out that it came with a full service 
history. It wasn't disputed that this wasnt the position and that the car had been last 
serviced  in 2015.
Ms W said she'd wanted a car with a full service history as shed  wanted to know it had 
been  properly  maintained. She said that had she known this car didn't have this history 
she wouldn't  have gone ahead with the purchase.
I'd seen that Ms W checked the car's documentation within a short time of taking  
possession of the car and had quickly complained when shed  found the service history 
was incomplete. So I thought Ms Ws behaviour corroborated what she said about the 
importance  of a service  history to her when shed been choosing a car.
I didn't think I needed  to consider  whether the car was of satisfactory quality or fit for 
purpose.  The issue for me to decide  had been whether the car was misrepresented to Ms 
W and whether  shed been induced  by that misrepresentation to enter  into the contract.
The car had been advertised as having a full service history and this statement wasn't  true. 
I thought  it was reasonable to say that Ms W had relied on the advert  as accurately 
describing what came  with the car in regards to its services. So I thought  it was reasonable 
to say shed  been induced  by the statement of the full service history  to enter  into the 
contract.
Where a misrepresentation occurs then the usual  remedy is for the agreement to be 
cancelled  and the car returned.  I'd seen that Oodle had been told by the broker that this 
service  had said it was appropriate for Ms W to pay for the car to be collected from her. But I 
didn't  know what was exactly said between the dealership and this service. And I didn't  think  
that in these circumstances it was reasonable or fair to expect Ms W to cover the costs  of 
Ref: DRN50221043returning the car. I couldnt criticise her objection to paying this cost when  it was raised  with 
her.
It appeared that there was something of an impasse  reached when Ms W declined  to pay 
the costs of the car being  returned until Oodle offered to cover these costs. However, this 
delay  hadnt  meant  Ms W had accepted the car.  I'd also seen that the broker  had told 
Oodle this service had confirmed,  in a separate enquiry, that it would be unreasonable to 
return the car after this amount of time had passed but again I didn't  know how this 
question was phrased  or whether the history of the complaint was accurately described. 
But I disagreed that Ms W wasn't  entitled to return the car because of the delay, particularly 
as it wasn't of her doing. I thought Ms W had always been clear the car wasn't as she'd 
been told it would be and wanted  to reject it.
So looking at the evidence I thought the car had been misrepresented to Ms W and that 
she was entitled to reject  it. The agreement should  now be cancelled with nothing further 
to pay and the car collected at no cost to Ms W.
I'd seen that Ms Ws original intention was to sell her old car when this car had been 
delivered.  Ms W changed her plans as shed  decided to return this car within a very short 
time of acquiring  it. I could  appreciate  why Ms W didn't  have  confidence  in the car; she 
wasn't sure how well it had been repaired and maintained in the past. I thought  that shed  
acted reasonably in keeping her old car going  as she was expecting to return this new car 
and so the costs of doing so (road tax and insurance) should  be reimbursed to Ms W by 
Oodle.
I also thought  Ms W acted  reasonably in getting this car serviced especially as time 
was passing.  She was required to keep this car taxed and insured under  the agreement 
but found it was a financial struggle  to cover both cars. As she had to insure  this one 
she decided to have it serviced so she knew it was safe to use as it became  clear she 
would  need to use it over time.  So I thought that as she would  now be returning the car 
it would  be fair for Oodle  to reimburse her that cost.
However I'd also seen that Ms W had kept driving this car to a minimum and so she had 
added around 2,500 miles to the car in the time its been  in her possession.  In light of this 
I agreed with our investigator  that it would  be unfair for Ms W not to be repaid  some of the
monthly payments made under the agreement. The average mileage is about 1000 per 
month so looking at the amount Miss W has driven the car I thought she should  be 
reimbursed  all her monthly payments less two that will cover her usage.
Finally I thought this matter had caused Ms W unnecessary distress and inconvenience.   The 
car had been misrepresented to her and so she was disappointed when  it was delivered and 
the missing service came  to light. Shed  then attempted  to rectify the situation and had to 
deal with the dealer,  the broker and Oodle  - which was inconvenient for her and took a lot 
of time. I thought £200 compensation would be fair and reasonable here.
So for the reasons  given  I intended  to uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Neither  Ms W nor Oodle  has asked  me to reconsider  my decision.
Ref: DRN50221044my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent been asked to reconsider any 
part of my provisional decision so I havent  changed  my mind  and Im upholding Ms Ws 
complaint for the reasons set out above.
Ms W has also confirmed  that she paid £200 to have the car delivered to her home address 
when she first took possession of it. I think its fair that this cost is also reimbursed.
.
my final decision
As set out above, I am upholding  Ms Ws complaint. Im asking Oodle Financial Services  
Limited to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Ms W.
End the agreement  with nothing further  to pay.
Reimburse all of Ms Ws monthly payments save  two that will cover  her use 
of the car.
Pay Ms W £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Reimburse Ms W a total of £267.40  for the road tax payments and 
temporary  insurance  cover for her old car, the servicing costs for the car 
and replacing the missing locking wheel nuts.
Reimburse Ms W the costs of delivering the car which amounted  to £200.
Remove all information relating to this agreement from Ms Ws credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5022104