K820x#14complaint
Overall, Mr Ms complaint  is that Gain Capital UK Limited (Gain) deprived  him of best 
execution for his trades in the overnight DAX index markets. He suggests that manipulation 
within the execution  of his trades  leading to less favourable prices   contributed to the 
matter. Mr M also says it was unfair  that the price spread on the market widened  near 
market close of trading  hours and that the spread on US markets  remained wide during the 
US elections.
background
Gain did not uphold  the complaint. In the main, it said:
Mr Ms request to be sent information  in order for him to verify activity  in his account  
had been met. It sent him documentation  containing his account history.
His orders were  broadly considered to be in excess  of its trading limits and were  
subject to manual  checking and then dealer approval  otherwise and in the events 
where this was followed by a rejection  of the trade this meant the particular market 
had been set to phone only trading.
It acted within the terms and policies for the account  including the term that price  
quotes do not constitute binding  or contractual trades and the term that reserves  its 
right to refuse to enter trades in circumstances where they are placed outside  market 
hours, they are of a large size, they relate to price movements  outside its specified 
price tolerance, or they relate to manifest  errors.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. In summary, he said:
It was reasonable  for Gain to have referred most, or all of Mr Ms trades for manual 
approval where they were oversized and/or placed outside of normal market hours. 
Evidence suggests many or most of his trades fell into these categories  and that he 
had prior notice about the likelihood of such a process.
Any trade processing price delay  wasnt the responsibility of Gain under its terms and 
conditions given  Mr Ms trading at market opening  or closing  or after or outside  of 
market hours. Gain had not acted outside  the agreed terms in this respect.
Most  of Mr Ms many screenshots and video processing delay examples were for 
very large oversized trades and were either pre-market or after market close. His 
trades therefore faced  processing delays or telephone trading and received different 
prices from the ones quoted. Gain was under no obligation to execute his oversize 
out of hours trades at the quoted prices and its terms  did not say that it would.
It was understandable that the price  spread  on the DAX widened seven points near 
market close of hours due to increased  volatility and price risks. Gain was not at fault 
for an increase in price  spreads during the US elections, it had discretion in this 
respect and it had covered  this risk, to customers, under its terms.
There is not sufficient  documentary evidence of any error in Gains price executions  
for Mr Ms trades. There was prior notice  of the type of processing  and execution 
delays that could happen and of the risk of price slippage against Stop and Limit 
levels not being hit or filled when trades were sent for execution.
Mr M understood the adjudicators reasoning but did not quite agree with the outcome.  In the 
main he said the following:
Ref: DRN55507272He accepts that trades in relatively large  sizes are subject to manual  approval and 
some delay.  His complaint is about  what happened  thereafter.  There were manually 
quoted prices from the dealing  desk but he was then subjected  to a second  level of 
intervention by Gain, further delaying the pricing  and acceptance of his trades.  
Gain only accepted  certain trades that went in its favour  and it appeared to be 
manipulating the prices he received. He referred  to his video and screenshot 
evidence of where the price delay had gone  against him and said the same  
manipulation happened for his Stop and Limit orders. He also made reference to 
price slippage  in certain orders, execution time delays and lack of consistency  in 
filling his orders.
He wanted  Gain to provide more background data analysis on his historic trades.
The adjudicator retained his view and, in the main,  responded as follows:
He does not consider Gain should undertake further analysis of Mr Ms trades and he 
has not seen sufficient documentary evidence that any of his trade executions had 
been conducted at incorrect or manipulated prices.  
There was no evidence that any of the execution delays  were  unusual for large sized  
out of hours market  orders.  The execution delays were to be expected.
Neither Mr M nor Gain appears to have commented  further. The complaint was referred to 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The adjudicator gave what I consider to be thorough treatment of the complaint, over the 
course of a very detailed initial view, a meaningful supplementary view and cross 
correspondence with the parties and telephone calls around  the views.  As such, I do not 
propose to replicate the same  level of detail and unduly duplicate the information that 
already features in his view letters. I agree with his conclusion and I do not uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. I also endorse and share  the main grounds on which he reached his conclusion.
Having said the above, I can understand Mr Ms position in the matter, especially with 
regards to the second layer of trade verification/approval which appears  to be his main (or 
one of his main) objections. Like the adjudicator, I have not seen evidence of price  
manipulation inherent within Gains  processes  either in the first or second layer. However, 
it is clear that Mr M sincerely considers  that it must be more than a mere  coincidence that his 
experience of how the question of whether (or not) the trades were eventually  accepted  
appeared to him to depend  on whether  (or not) the price movement was in his favour. 
Even though  I understand how his view could  have been formed  by his experience,  I repeat 
that evidence  does not support the notion of price manipulation.  Mr Ms experience could  
well have resulted  from coincidence, but if not, I have not seen evidence to determine its 
cause or, more importantly, to suggest that any such cause related to a wrongdoing by Gain.
In terms of legitimacy of the second verification/approval layer, it does not appear that its 
application conflicts with the terms for the account.  Instead, the suggestion  within or from the 
terms is that the primary layer was to verify/approve an oversized  or out of hours  trade, or a 
trade that on reasonable grounds triggered  cause for such verification. Mr Ms response(s) to 
Ref: DRN55507273the adjudicator  suggest that he agrees with and does not dispute this layer  or Gains  need  to 
pay additional attention to such trades.  I consider it plausible, as Gain appears to have 
described, that the second layer was triggered by further need for verification  in the course  
of filling  an order or by the relevant  market  being set to telephone only trading.
As Gain stressed, its quote prices were not binding. Even though I can understand Mr Ms 
reliance upon  them, the fact remains that they were  not binding. The terms of the account 
also allowed Gain to reject particular  trades  essentially in circumstances it considered  
unsafe or unreliable to execute  such trades. There is a notable presence of discretion in this 
respect and in the absence of evidence that Gain exercised such discretion unreasonably I 
consider that weight  should be given to its right to exercise such discretion. 
Mr Ms trading history  appears to have been  shared with him and, like the adjudicator, I am 
not persuaded that Gain should have to provide additional analysis of that history.  I 
understand that Mr M might consider that evidence  to support his suspicion  about price 
manipulation might come  to light from such analysis. There is arguably  a difference between  
a request for reasonably  specific evidence that is relevant to determining  an issue and then 
a request for generic  information in the hope  that it yields specific evidence  that is relevant to 
determining an issue. I consider that the request for additional analysis falls into the latter  
category and I am not persuaded by the prospects of such  analysis  if it can be 
meaningfully defined  adding value  to the complaint.
I have considered the issue  about the market/price  spread. In straightforward terms, Gain  
also had discretion in this respect and I am not persuaded that it exercised  it unreasonably in 
terms of the case that Mr M has presented.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 28 April 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5550727