K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that American Express Services Europe Limited has deducted AirMiles from 
his account balance, recorded  late payment information on his credit file and charged fees 
as a result  of him making payments late. He is also unhappy about the way in which  his 
concerns about  these  matters have been  responded to.
background
Mr W is a charge card customer of American  Express Services  Europe Limited (Amex) for 
which he pays an annual fee of £140. This account  enables him to earn AirMiles and the 
terms and conditions require him to pay the balance of his account in full each month. 
Mr W said that as a result of a number  of statements arriving  late some payments didnt 
reach his account  on time, which resulted in late payment fees being  charged by Amex  and 
AirMiles being forfeited.
In June or July 2018 Mr W applied  for a mortgage  and discovered  that late payment markers 
had been recorded on his credit file by Amex when  it had received his payments late. He 
said this caused  problems with the progression of his mortgage  application  and has 
impacted his credit score rating.
In July 2018 Mr W complained about the late payment  markers  that had been  recorded on 
his credit file. And he asked Amex to remove them because he said that when he had made 
a late payment it was because he hadnt  received his account statements in time. Mr W also 
said he wanted the AirMiles that had been forfeited from his account  reinstating. And he told 
Amex that he was dissatisfied  with the service  he received during its investigation into his 
complaint as it didnt  call him back after he had raised concerns about the late payment  
markers that had been recorded  on his credit file. He also wanted it to refund  the annual  fee 
he had paid to recognise the problems he had experienced.
On 3 August  2018, Amex wrote to Mr W with its final response.  In its correspondence Amex  
accepted it didnt call Mr W back when it shouldve  done. And it agreed this omission fell 
short of the service standard it wanted  to offer its customers. So, it credited Mr Ws account 
with £30 as an apology to recognise this. But it told him it wouldnt reinstate the AirMiles that 
had been deducted from his account  or remove  the late payment markers because it needed 
to report financial information accurately  to credit reference agencies. 
But Mr W was unhappy with this and brought his complaint  to us. He said the information 
recorded on his credit file adversely affected his mortgage application and financial standing.  
But, our adjudicator didnt uphold  his complaint  and said that they thought the late payment 
markers and default information had been correctly  recorded on Mr Ws credit  file. They  
thought Amex had acted  fairly and reasonably here. Mr W disagreed with our adjudicator  
and asked for his complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusion  as the adjudicator. I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by this 
outcome. But I hope he can understand the reasons behind my decision.
Ref: DRN50944372Mr W has brought two complaints to our service,  which are being dealt with separately. His 
first complaint relates  to him not receiving statements on time or at all on occasion. And his 
second complaint  concerns late payment information that has been recorded on his credit 
file and fees that have been charged as a result  of him making  payments  late. This 
complaint also is about AirMiles being forfeited and the way in which  he feels Amex 
responded to his concerns about the late payment information it had recorded. So, for the 
purposes of this complaint Ill deal solely with the problems Mr W has raised in complaint 
two.
Ill focus first on Mr Ws concerns regarding the late payment fees hes been  charged by 
Amex and the late payment information its recorded on his credit file.
Having seen the terms of Mr Ws account  Im satisfied Amex tells customers  they must pay 
the outstanding balance  on their account  each month by the due date shown in their 
statement. These terms also state that a fee of £12 is payable each time a customer  doesnt  
pay their balance by the time the next statement is issued. And I think that Amex goes on, in 
these terms, to appropriately warn customers of the potential consequences  of making 
payments late. Specifically, it tells customers missing a payment  can affect their credit rating.
Mr W wouldve  had to have accepted these terms and conditions to have  an account with 
Amex and Id have expected him to be aware of the consequences of missing a payment. I 
know Mr W opened his account with Amex in 1980.  So its reasonable to expect the terms 
and conditions to have changed  over that time. But Mr W continued to use his account  after 
it was opened  so Im satisfied he gave his consent  to the terms and conditions  that applied  
while he was using  his account.
It was Mr Ws responsibility to ensure  the relevant balance  on his account  was paid on time 
and in line with Amexs terms and conditions to prevent his account falling into arrears.  
When an account goes  into arrears, as Mr Ws did here, Amex is entitled to apply a late 
payment fee and record information on a customers credit file. I note that Amex  has 
refunded a number  of late payment  fees as a gesture  of goodwill, which  is more  than Id 
have asked it to do here.  I say this because Im satisfied these late payment fees were  
properly applied by Amex in line with the terms of Mr Ws account. 
Given that there were  occasions when Mr W didnt make payments to this account on time I 
think it was reasonable  for Amex to record default  information on his credit file. Mr W wants 
the default information to be erased from his credit file. But while  he may have later brought 
his account up-to-date this doesnt mean that Amex  should remove accurate  information 
about what happened, which is that a number of payments were  missed.
Financial  businesses should make sure that the information they report  to credit reference 
agencies is accurate. As Mr W hasnt always maintained his account  in line with its terms 
and conditions I cant say Amex acted unfairly and unreasonably in reporting this 
information. I appreciate  the default will adversely affect Mr Ws credit score for some time. 
But, taking  all the circumstances into account, Im satisfied that Amex  reported late payment 
information properly.  So I cant ask it to remove it as its a true reflection of what happened. 
Ill turn now to the second part of Mr Ws complaint, which is that AirMiles hes earned  during 
the month prior to missing  a payment have been deducted by Amex. Hes asked  it to 
reinstate the AirMiles hes forfeited but Amex has refused to do so. 
Ref: DRN50944373I can see that the terms of his account  outline  the circumstances in which  he may forfeit 
points he has earned.  I think its clear  from the information Amex  provides its customers that 
if they miss a monthly  payment on their card account any points earned the previous  month  
will be forfeited and deducted from the balance  of their points account. Based on what  Ive 
seen, when Amex  deducted AirMiles from Mr Ws account it was after he had missed a 
payment. So, Im satisfied  it acted  in line with its terms and conditions.  And I cant fairly 
conclude its done  anything wrong here or ask it to reinstate  the points its deducted.
The final part of Mr Ws complaint is about  the service he says he received during Amexs  
investigation into his complaint. He says it didnt call him back after he had raised concerns 
about the late payment information it had recorded. 
Amex has accepted it shouldve responded to his concerns sooner. And it has already 
credited Mr Ws account with £30 as an apology to recognise this. Its clear Mr W doesnt 
think this adequately reflects his inconvenience  and experience.
Strictly speaking, we dont  have the power to look at how financial businesses deal with 
complaint handling  as its not a regulated  activity  under the legislation that governs our 
service. So, even if I did think Amex  hadnt  done  things  well in this regard, I wouldnt be able 
to uphold that element of Mr Ws concerns  or make an award. I cant act outside the law. It 
follows that I cant tell Amex it should pay any more  than its already done in relation to this 
part of Mr Ws complaint.
I appreciate that Mr W feels very strongly about the issues  raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered  everything he has said. But for the reasons set out above, I think  Amex  
has dealt with this complaint  fairly.  Im satisfied its acted fairly and reasonably and I wont be 
asking it to do anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5094437