K821x#15complaint
Mrs B has complained about Hastings Insurance Services Limiteds actions following a claim 
on her motor insurance policy.
background
Mrs A had a motor insurance  policy arranged by Hastings but underwritten by an insurer 
which is a separate  business. Mrs As car was stolen. The insurer  paid her claim for the 
stolen car. She contacted Hastings about  replacing the car on the policy.  She said that 
because it gave her incorrect advice she cancelled her policy with Hastings and bought a 
policy from a different insurer. But she didnt receive any refund for the unused portion of her 
policy.
Ms A complained. Hasting acknowledged that it hadnt got everything right and sent Mrs A a 
£50 cheque by way of compensation. Mrs A didnt think that went far enough and brought  
her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think Hastings had dealt with Mrs A fairly, she 
said that if Hastings  had provided  appropriate advice Mrs A wouldnt have cancelled her 
policy and taken out a new one. So to put things right she said Hastings should cover the 
cost of Mrs As new policy for the period it overlapped  with her previous policy. She said it 
should add simple interest to that sum and, to address Mrs As distress and inconvenience, 
pay her a further £150 in compensation.
Hastings didnt agree  so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it.
In bringing this complaint Mrs A raised  a number of points. But in this decision I will focus on 
the outstanding points  that I consider to be Hastings responsibility.  It might help if I clarify 
that Hastings  is an insurance broker. That means it will arrange policies and may help with 
their administration but, as Ive said above, the actual  cover is provided by an insurer  which  
is a separate business. So Hastings isnt responsible for the insurers  actions, even where  
Hastings provides information  on the insurers behalf. 
Mrs A paid for her policy in instalments. After her car was stolen Mrs A rang Hastings about 
adding a new car to the policy. Hastings said she could do so but that she would have to pay 
an additional  premium  of around £18. Hastings told her that she could spread the cost of the 
additional premium  over her remaining instalments. Hastings told Mrs A it couldnt say why 
the new car would  cost more to insure than her previous  car as that was the insurers 
decision. Mrs A said she couldnt  afford to pay an extra £18 a month. Hastings told her that 
she could cancel her existing policy and take out a new policy.  But it then said that it couldnt  
offer her a new policy.
Mrs A cancelled her existing policy and took out a new policy from another  provider. But as 
shed claimed on her previous policy, in line with its terms and conditions,  the insurer  didnt 
provide any refund of the unused portion  of her policy.
Ive listened to the call in which Hastings  told Mrs A shed need to pay an additional  premium  
to add her new car to the policy. And initially Hastings gave her the right information.  That is 
Ref: DRN58134352that the total amount  she needed to pay to add her new car to the policy  was around £18. 
And it said that Mrs A could have spread that cost across the remaining seven months  or so 
that her policy was due to run for. But its apparent  that Mrs A had misunderstood what 
Hastings had told her and that she thought that Hastings was going  to charge her an extra  
£18 every month, on top of what she was already paying. I dont think  Hastings did anything 
wrong to lead Mrs A into that mistake but I think it should have corrected Mrs A when she 
asked for an explanation for why she would  have to make an additional monthly  payment. 
Ive heard that on at least seven occasions,  Mrs A refers to not being able to afford  to pay 
the extra amount  each  month. But on none  of those occasions did Hastings call handler  tell 
her that the amount  the insurer wanted  to add the new car to the policy was £18 in total and 
not £18 a month. But because Hastings didnt take the time to correct  Mrs A, she believed  
that she was going  to have to pay a significant  extra sum to insurer  her car for the remaining 
terms of the policy.
I accept that Hastings acts on whats known as a non-advised basis, that is it doesnt make 
recommendation to customers as to what action is the most suitable for them. But I do 
expect Hastings to give its customers enough information to make an informed choice. I 
dont think it did so in this case. Its clear to me that Mrs A had misunderstood and thought  
she had to pay an extra £18 for every  month  her policy  still had to run. I think  Hastings  
should have corrected Mrs As misunderstanding by telling her in order to add her new car 
for the remaining term of her policy she only had to make a single payment of £18. And 
Mrs A has told us that if Hastings had made  that clear she would have just paid the £18. But 
because it didnt clarify the position  she took out a new policy and had to pay her existing 
insurer for the remaining term of her old policy which  she no longer had use of. I dont  think  
that was fair.
So, as I think - but for Hastings mistake handling the call - Mrs A would have  left her existing 
policy in place until it was due to lapse, shes unnecessarily had to pay for her new policy  to 
cover that period.  And, to put things right, I think Hastings should cover the cost of Mrs As 
new policy from the date she took it out to the date her old policy was due to lapse. And as 
shed been without the benefit of that money I think its fair that Hastings adds simple interest 
to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date(s) Mrs A paid for that policy  until the date it 
refunds her. Also Im aware that this complaint has been a source of distress and 
inconvenience for Mrs A so I think it should  pay her a further  £150  compensation to bring the 
total amount up to £200.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited to:
Refund Mrs A for the cost of her replacement policy from the date she took it out to 
the date her old policy was due to lapse. It should add simple interest to that refund 
from the date(s) Mrs A paid for her new policy to the date it refunds  her at a rate of 
8% a year.
Pay Mrs A a further £150  compensation, to bring the sum to £200 in total,  to address 
Mrs As distress  and inconvenience.  It should  pay the compensation within  28 days 
of us telling  it that Mrs A has accepted  my final decision. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment  at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
Ref: DRN58134353Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Mrs A considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs A how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate showing this if 
she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5813435