K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as C&G) mis-sold him a mortgage  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr H took out the PPI at the same  time as arranging his mortgage in 2002.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint  and Ill explain  why.
Mr H has said that he wasnt aware that PPI had been added  to the mortgage account. 
Lloyds has provided  copies of the paperwork from the sale.  The mortgage  application form 
contains a statement saying: I wish to apply for C&G Payment Protection Plus cover. 
There is a tick in the box next to this statement. There  is also a separate  PPI application 
form that Mr H has completed to request the policy.  And Mr H also signed a direct  debit  
mandate to have  the premiums taken  from his bank account. The sale happened  a long time 
ago so its not surprising if Mr Hs recollection of the event isnt particularly clear. Looking  at 
the available  evidence, I think that the policy was presented as optional.  It seems to me that 
Mr H decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers  doing 
so.
Lloyds says that it advised  Mr H to take out the policy. Therefore, in recommending it to him, 
it needed to ensure that the PPI met his needs. And from what Ive seen of Mr Hs 
circumstances at the time, I think the policy was suitable.
Mr H was working as a contractor. But as he was on an annual  contract  that had been 
renewed at least once at the point of sale, it wouldnt have been any more difficult for him to 
claim for unemployment than a permanently employed person.
Mr H initially told us that he would  only have received statutory sick pay. He later said that he 
would have received 12 months full sick pay. Mr H was later taken  on as a permanent 
employee by the same  company and so its possible that the higher sick pay relates to when 
he became permanent. It would be unusual for a contractor, working via an agency, to 
receive such generous  sick pay. Regardless of this, the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and could have provided  a useful benefit at what would have been a 
difficult time. Mr H says he had some savings, but having the PPI meant that he could have 
retained these or used  them  to cover other outgoings.
Mr H was a first time buyer, and a mortgage  is a significant financial commitment,  so it 
wouldnt be surprising if he had an interest in protecting his repayments.  
Ref: DRN51446432Its possible that Lloyds  didnt provide as much information about the policy  as it should  
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr H wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that Mr H had an interest in the policy and decided  to buy it, I dont 
think that further information  would have caused  him to change his mind. So he isnt any 
worse off as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong,  so there is nothing that 
Lloyds needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5144643