K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained about the way National House-Building Council (NHBC) has
handled their claim under their new home building warranty after they found  numerous 
defects both outside and inside their house.
background
I issued  a provisional  decision in this case in February 2020.  That provisional  decision is set 
out below  and forms part of my final decision.
Both parties  have confirmed theyve received my provisional decision.
And both parties  have  replied. Ive set out my responses in my findings below.
provisional decision
When Mr and Mrs P bought a new house in April 2016 it came with a ten year building  
warranty underwritten by NHBC. This warranty provided cover  for defects found  and 
reported in the first two years, and damage caused by defects  in years three to ten. Initial  
responsibility for putting right any defects lay with the house builder. If Mr and Mrs P were 
dissatisfied with the builders response  to reported defects, they could  make a claim to 
NHBC. Before  providing cover,  NHBC could ask the parties to make use of a resolution  
service to determine what action, if any, the builder  was required to take.  If the builder failed 
to comply  with the recommendations in a resolution  service report  then NHBC would provide 
cover under the warranty.
Mr and Mrs P had some  issues  with the house  right from the beginning. So they complained 
to the NHBC resolution service who inspected the property and compiled a report in March  
2017. Some work was carried  out and the report  was updated as the work was deemed  as 
completed in June 2017. But Mr and Mrs P werent happy that the works had been  
completed, so a further report was carried out in March 2018. Following this report Mr and 
Mrs P again complained  to NHBC.  A final response was issued in July 2018,  and a further 
email was issued in August stating that a cash settlement  had been agreed for some work 
and a final deadline set. Its unknown what this cash amounted to or if this deadline was ever 
met.
Mr and Mrs P remain unhappy. They  say that the NHBC has shown a clear bias towards the 
builder and this has caused them considerable distress with financial implications over a 
long period  of time. They say that the NHBC  have behaved in such a way that there  needs  
to be a full investigation into how theyve treated this case and in particular theyve  called 
into question the judgement and findings  of the original NHBC Investigator.
An investigator in our service looked  at this case and advised Mr and Mrs P that the case  
was outside  of our remit. She said that the resolution service offered  by NHBC isnt a 
regulated activity.  And in order for us to look into a complaint, the activity that is being  
complained about would  need to be classed  as a regulated activity and fall under the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCAs) remit.
Mr and Mrs P disagree. They say that after the original report in March 2017  the repairs  
were not completed to their satisfaction. They insisted  on another investigation in March 
2018, which  has proven  that the remedial work  was sub-standard. And as the builder has 
Ref: DRN50302732failed to complete the works by the deadline  the complaint now comes within  our jurisdiction. 
Theyve asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
provisional findings
jurisdiction
Not all complaints that are brought to this service  are ones  we can look at. When  we receive
a complaint we always check whether its within our jurisdiction. We do this by considering
the rules laid down in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. The rules say that we can 
only consider a complaint if it relates  to an act or omission by a firm in carrying  on regulated 
activities. This means that in order to look into a complaint, the activity that is being 
complained about would  need to be classed  as a regulated activity and fall under the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCAs) remit. The rules go on to say that, for an insurer those 
activities are effecting or (more usually) carrying out contracts of insurance.
NHBC isnt an insurer in the conventional sense. Part of its remit is to provide insurance 
covering (amongst  other  things) damage  caused by defects in years  three to ten after a 
property has been completed.  It also carries out a number of other (non-insurance, 
nonregulated) activities including  setting  standards for UK house  builders, ensuring that new 
homes are built to certain standards  and, most  relevant to this complaint,  providing a dispute 
resolution service in the first two years of the warranty. The dispute resolution service  is 
intended to help the builder and the homeowner resolve any differences they may have in 
that period. The primary responsibility  for putting right defects  during this time lies with the 
builder.
The dispute resolution  service isnt a regulated activity in itself (in part because  it doesnt 
amount to a contract of insurance). So complaints  about this arent in our jurisdiction. This 
includes complaints about the insurers decision to not offer the service, what faults are and 
are not identified, what repairs are deemed necessary and the projected completion date.
As a service we can only get involved with claims  in years 0-2 when the following has 
happened:
a resolution or conciliation report has been  completed
the report has directed the builder to do something by a deadline
the builder has failed to complete the works  by the deadline, or is insolvent
In this case a resolution report has been  completed  and the report  has directed the builder  to 
do something by a deadline. The dispute  arises  about whether the builder has failed  to 
complete the works by the deadline.
Mr and Mrs P say the tiling throughout the property failed to meet NHBC  standards  and that 
it was never in the builders interest  to agree  to carry out the repairs.  They  say that they 
pushed hard to get NHBC to carry out a second report and that this report was damning and 
condemned the tiling. Mr and Mrs P say that this services interpretation of the NHBCs 
responsibilities isnt correct, and we should be able to look at this case.
Ive reviewed all the evidence and I agree with Mr and Mrs P. The report  from March 2017 
listed 27 items to be reviewed with further  rectification work to be completed on 15 of the 27 
Ref: DRN50302733items by 14 April 2017. Included on this list was wall and floor tiling in both the main and 
ensuite bathroom. A follow up report in June 2017 only listed  one item, wall tiling in the 
ensuite bathroom  with no further action required.
However, the report dated June 2018  lists 11 items for rectification, and again  the tiling in 
both the main bathroom and the ensuite bathroom is listed. Its noted  that the finish was poor 
and that concerns had been raised  about lipping  between tiles.
It looks  to me like the deadline that was set in the first report  was never adhered to. Although 
the June 2017  report said the work was deemed  as completed,  the June 2018  report  shows  
this wasnt the case. It showed further  action to the tiles was required and as Ive set out 
above, if the builder  fails to complete the works then NHBC would provide cover under the 
warranty.
At this point the insurance element of the warranty shouldve kicked  in. And at this point 
NHBC shouldve  assumed the builders  responsibilities. So it follows  that our service can 
consider the issue  complained about as its become a regulated activity.
merits
In normal circumstances  we would likely  recommend that NHBC now assumes the builders 
responsibilities immediately. And if Mr and Mrs P have any issues with the claim or with the 
service provided our service  can then deal with the complaint that follows.  But in this case  
that cant happen. A second  report has been  completed, and even now its not clear what 
work was finalised by the second  deadline  agreed. Weve asked NHBC to confirm this on 
several occasions  without  response. All we know at this stage is that some sort of a cash  
settlement was made for the tiling issues, but we havent received any confirmation  if the 
deadline set in August  2018 was ever adhered to. We also know  that Mr and Mrs P sold the 
house, and they say it was sold at a loss due to the issues  that theyve complained about.
Its very difficult in these circumstances to say that the quality of rectification work had any 
bearing on the price  that Mr and Mrs P received for their property. Im also conscious  that Mr 
and Mrs P talk about  the outside tiles/paving as being something  that the new buyer picked 
up on as influencing  his offer for the house. But that this wasnt  something  that was 
mentioned in the second NHBC report from March 2018. So I cant consider this when  Im 
making my recommendations.
Im also mindful that the core of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint surrounds the actions of the 
investigator from the NHBC. So, I feel I need  to stress again that the dispute resolution 
service provided by NHBC isnt a regulated activity in itself (in part because it doesnt  
amount to a contract of insurance). So, complaints about this arent in our jurisdiction. This 
includes complaints about the insurers decision to not offer the service, what faults are and 
are not identified, what  repairs  are deemed necessary,  the actions of the investigator  and the 
projected completion date
But I do think  NHBC made an error  and shouldve stepped in with its insurance  cover much 
sooner, probably after the follow-on report in June 2017 but most definitely once  the second 
report was completed in March 2018. And I believe that there has been a certain  amount of 
distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr and Mrs P because NHBC didnt act correctly. 
So, Im recommending  that NHBC pay Mr and Mrs P £350  in compensation for the distress  
and inconvenience  caused by not stepping in and activating  cover when it should have.
Ref: DRN50302734my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered very carefully the points made by both parties in response to my provisional 
decision. But Im not persuaded  though that I should change my mind.
I will deal with the NHBC response first. But before I continue, I want to clarify a date. In my 
provisional decision I referred to a resolution  report dated June 2018. This was an error and 
the report is actually  dated March 2018.
what NHBC say
NHBC say Mr and Mrs P have logged five complaints. But only one complaint  can be looked  
at by the Financial Ombudsman Service, as the rest are time barred under the six-month 
rule.
NHBC say the content of the decision  is incorrect. They say they wouldnt have stepped  in 
as early as June  2017 as this report dealt with the wall tiles in the en-suite only,  which  were 
then found to comply.
NHBC say that the consumers have specifically mentioned the en-suite tiling on their 
complaint form and also tiling in general.  But that its not clear  what tiling Mr and Mrs P are 
unhappy with.
NHBC say the floor tiling in the en-suite and main bathroom wasnt  initially  complained 
about. And that it was only at a later inspection that Mr P mentioned that he wasnt happy  
with the repairs to the wall tiles in the en-suite bathroom. NHBC say this issue was later 
found to meet NHBCs requirements. They also say that the floor tiling in the en-suite and 
main bathroom,  was a new issue that was dealt with in the March  2018 report  and was 
resolved following a cash settlement from the Builder.
NHBC say the provisional decision is mixing two separate issues together  and that a valid 
resolution report may have been  issued for both the wall tiles in the en-suite and main 
bathroom but the works were completed within the extension  time provided.  NHBC have 
questioned whether the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction to even look at this and they 
dont agree that compensation  is warranted as all issues were resolved.
did Mr P bring his complaint to this service in time?
Yes. Weve received two final responses on this case. The first one is dated 19 December 
2017 and the second is dated  11 July 2018. Mr P first contacted  the Financial Ombudsman 
Service on 9 January 2018 and a new complaint was set up. He did contact us again  on 16 
July 2018, and another complaint was set up. But this was deemed to be a duplicate  of the 
first complaint, so the original reference from 9 January  2018 was deemed correct.  This 
means hes deemed to have brought this complaint to us within  six months of the date the 
first final response letter was sent. So, under  the rules its deemed a valid complaint.
jurisdiction  
 
Ref: DRN50302735NHBC say that Im mixing two separate issues together and that a resolution report  on the 
issues raised  in March  2018 wouldve become  available if the issues hadnt been resolved,  
but they feel they have.
But I dont  think thats the main point in this complaint. The NHBC  insurance  policy  is 
supposed to kick in once  a report is completed and the deadline has been  exceeded. In 
effect the insurance kicks in once the resolution  service  had failed. And I think in this 
instance it was clear  that the resolution service was failing long before  the March  2018  
report, and the policy  shouldve kicked in before  this date.
And even  though NHBC say the issues raised in June 2017 are different to those raised in 
March 2018, I dont  agree. From what I can see the June 2017 report didnt deal with all the 
issues to everyones satisfaction. And this cascaded over the coming months. So even 
though the updated report  from June 2017 showed only one fault, and this was deemed to 
have been  rectified, this was clearly not the case and there were  further meetings and 
updates to that report. From what I can see there was a further updated inspection on 28 
September 2017, a further  report in October  2017,  another meeting in December 2017,  with 
a further report on 26 January 2017 and a final meeting on 11 January  with a report on 19 
January 2018.  And this was all before the meeting  in March  2018.
I know NHBC disagree  on whether our service has jurisdiction over this issue. And theyve 
pinpointed specific issues that they say were only raised at differing  points in time. But even 
though NHBC has pinpointed specific dates  where specific  rooms and areas have been 
highlighted, I think its pretty clear from the letter of complaint dated  6 November 2017,  that 
there were question marks over the tiling throughout  the whole property. And this is 
supported in the notes and recommendations from all of the above additional meetings. 
And the common  thread amongst all of these meetings was the quality of the tiling 
throughout the whole  house.  In his letter dated 6 November 2017 Mr P specifically points out 
and provides evidence  of his dissatisfaction with the following: en-suite wall tiles, downstairs 
floor tiles, bathroom floor tiles, bathroom  wall tiles, sloping tiles in bathroom, en-suite tiling 
above the door, floor tiling in downstairs W.C,  floor tiling in hall and kitchen, downstairs  floor 
tiling, hall, W,C. and kitchen. So, I dont  think its fair for NHBC to say that Mr and Mrs P 
werent clear on what tiling they were unhappy  with given the detail set out in this specific  
letter and the 100s of photos  and video files that were submitted as evidence.
Further to this these issues arent dealt with in the final response letter  from December 2017. 
And I think  Mr Ps issues are justified, given  that the March 2018 resolution  report  
recommends action on the bathroom floor tiles, floor tiling in conservatory, wc, utility, 
kitchen/diner, cloakroom, the sloped  wall from en-suite to bedroom and tiles in the en-suite.
So, I do think NHBC  made an error. Its clear there was unresolved  issues  even after 
deadlines were set and NHBC shouldve stepped in with its insurance cover much  sooner. 
And I believe that there has been a certain  amount of distress  and inconvenience suffered 
by Mr and Mrs P because NHBC didnt act correctly.
what Mr and Mrs P say
Mr and Mrs P have  also responded. Ive considered their submission, and I need  to make  
clear that I will only be dealing with new information Ive received  since the provisional 
decision, in this final decision.
Ref: DRN50302736Whats now become clear is the total cash settlements received by Mr and Mrs P following 
the March 2018 resolution report.  These settlements total £5,285. Mr P feels  that more  
compensation is due as he says that he reluctantly accepted  the payments and that the 
builder got a good deal.
I appreciate having read through all of the correspondence weve  received in relation to this 
file, that this has not been an easy journey for anyone. Its been  fractious and at times I think 
its been  stressful  on both parties.  But Im conscious of our rules and what  Im allowed to 
consider. The dispute resolution service provided by NHBC isnt a regulated  activity  in itself 
(in part because it doesnt amount to a contract of insurance). So, complaints about  this 
arent in our jurisdiction. So, any distress that Mr and Mrs P felt during  this time is not 
something I can consider.  Im also satisfied that the amount of cash settlement received  by 
Mr and Mrs P covers  any losses  sustained when they sold the house.
However, as Ive set out in my provisional  decision, I think  that the resolution service  that 
was being  provided failed, and the NHBC insurance policy shouldve kicked in sooner. I 
previously recommended  that NHBC pay Mr and Mrs P £350 in compensation for this error 
and following the responses  from both parties I still consider this to be a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
So, Im recommending  that NHBC pay Mr and Mrs P £350  in compensation for the distress  
and inconvenience  caused by not stepping in and activating  cover when it should have.
my final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint
I require National House-Building Council to:
pay £350 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 May 2020
Derek Dunne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5030273