K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003.  Mr H says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Lloyds made  it clear that Mr H didnt  have to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out. I say this because Mr H was offered the choice whether he 
wished to take the PPI or not on the mortgage  application form and he has ticked to 
say that the he did wish to take it, and then signed the mortgage application form. He 
has also signed a separate application form for the PPI.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr H so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover. I say this because Mr H had 
less than 6 months of sick pay entitlement from his employer and no savings. The 
PPI would have  paid his mortgage  repayments for up to 12 months  in addition to his 
sick pay if he was unable to work  through accident or sickness  or if he lost his job. So 
I think he wouldve considered that the PPI would help him through such difficult  
financial circumstances and potentially help him to keep his home.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable at under £16 a month. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said. But these  points  dont change  my decision.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN50352962what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr H any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr H the extra he paid each month  because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr H 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5035296