K820x#14complaint
Mrs B say Lloyds Bank PLC, Cheltenham and Gloucester at the time, mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs B bought the policy in 1999  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  She applied  for 
the borrowing  and PPI policy in branch.
Then in 2000  she took out a further  advance and an additional policy to include the new 
borrowing. In 2001 she took out another further advance and again took out an additional 
policy to cover this further borrowing. She applied for these borrowings and the PPI policies  
in a branch as well.  
The policies provided cover for Mrs B for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  The first policy, taken out in 1999, offered to repay £101.97 a 
month towards Mrs Bs mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim.  At the time, it 
cost £5.00 a month. The second policy, taken out in 2000, offered to repay  an additional 
£41.48 a month towards Mrs Bs total borrowing in the event of a successful claim. At the 
time, it cost an additional £2.00 a month. The third policy provided an additional monthly 
benefit of £40.24 and cost an additional £1.50 per month.  
The evidence from 1999, 2000 and 2001  shows Mrs B was employed  as a learning  support 
assistant. She told us that in 1999 she was entitled to at least six months sick pay and 
redundancy pay from her employer. Mrs B says she didnt have any savings to rely on in 
1999. We tried to contact  Mrs B to find out if her employment benefits or other means 
changed throughout this period, but we received no response.  So I have completed my 
assessment on the basis that Ive not seen any evidence to suggest Mrs Bs circumstances 
changed. Mrs B has said she suffered from some medical conditions  prior to the sale of the 
PPI in 1999. Again, we have not been  able to obtain any further details about this.  
Lloyds has sent us evidence to show that the mortgage account closed in November 2004. 
Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate her all here, but I have read and considered her all carefully.  In summary, 
Mrs Bs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs B wouldnt 
have taken out the policies and the complaint should be upheld. Mrs Bs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
Ref: DRN54036592low claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means  Lloyds should 
have told Mrs B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs B and the impact  
she would have  had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The policies only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mrs B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
This sales took place  in 1999, 2000 and 2001  before the sale of general insurance  products 
like this became regulated  by the FSA in January 2005. So, the FSAs  and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB and ICOBS)  are 
not applicable to this complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
Ref: DRN54036593complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
The sales  were made  during a period of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance  
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Bs 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. These sales took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if she were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN54036594-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mrs B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policies  were appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mrs B sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policies, including 
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs B suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs B and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs B know she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policies were optional. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Bs mortgage  application  form which included a section for PPI. In 
this there  was the option for Mrs B to tick yes or no for the PPI. The yes box has been 
ticked to show that Mrs B wanted to take out a PPI policy. But I think she wouldve known 
she couldve  declined the cover if she wasnt interested. Ive also seen a copy of a separate 
PPI application  form and a signed  direct debit mandate  for the PPI premiums  so I am also 
persuaded that she consented to taking  out the cover. 
For the sale of the PPI in 2000,  Ive seen a copy of a completed and signed  separate PPI 
application form and direct debit mandate. But there is nothing here to suggest Mrs B had to 
take out the PPI in order to get the borrowing. So, I am satisfied that in 2000 she also 
wouldve known the PPI was optional and she gave her consent  to take it out.
For the sale of the PPI in 2001,  Mrs B followed a similar process to the sale in 2000. She 
signed a separate PPI application form confirming she wanted to take out the PPI.  
So, taking everything  into account, I think its more likely  that Mrs B knew the policies were 
optional and she agreed to take them out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it provided advice during the sales of PPI. Mrs B has said she think  she wasnt  
provided any advice  or recommendation. Looking  at what happened when Lloyds sold Mrs B 
the PPI policies, I think its more likely that it provided advice, I say this because all of the 
policies were sold in a meeting alongside  borrowings  which were sold on an advised basis. 
So, its likely a discussion  took place about Mrs Bs financial situation and her need  for these 
policies.  
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mrs B with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policies were appropriate or suitable given her needs  and circumstances.
the advice
Ref: DRN54036595While I dont know what was discussed  in the meetings, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether the policies were suitable for Mrs B. In all 
of the sales, the adviser had information about  some of Mrs Bs financial circumstances as 
part of the borrowing applications. But there is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took 
steps to establish whether Mrs B would have been  caught by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policies did not fully meet her needs.  For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Lloyds considered whether Mrs B had any pre-existing medical  
conditions.
 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policies were  suitable for Mrs B given her circumstances. So, Im 
not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable  care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policies were  
suitable for Mrs B, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policies were ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs B met the eligibility criteria for the policies
-Mrs B had a need for the policies  Mrs B was solely responsible for her repayments  
and it seems likely her finances would be put under strain  if she was not working  
even allowing for the sickness  and redundancy benefits  she was entitled  to. The 
policies would have  helped Mrs B manage the consequences if she was unable to 
work.
-Although Mrs B says she were  financially stretched, Ive seen nothing else to suggest  
the monthly cost of any of the PPI policies werent affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policies unsuitable for Mrs B. There  
was nothing about Mrs Bs employment or occupation which would have  made it 
difficult for her to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mrs B has told us 
about two conditions she suffered from prior to the sale of PPI. But Mrs B hasnt told 
us that either of these conditions required any ongoing treatment or were reoccurring 
in nature. So, it doesnt seem that either of these  conditions  were likely to be 
something Mrs B would need to claim on the policies for, and so I dont think this 
made the policies  unsuitable for her. There were  also no additional restrictions on 
cover for mental health or back  problems.
-While  the policies  would only pay benefits for a maximum  of 12 months for each 
claim for accident, sickness or unemployment, she still provided  useful cover given 
Mrs Bs circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mrs B sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policies to enable  her to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policies.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs B were  given a broad description of what  the 
policies intended  to cover  (that is that the policies would protect her payments if Mrs B were 
Ref: DRN54036596unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs B would  have taken out the 
policies without any sense  of what the policies  were for and of how much the premiums 
might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs B agreed to take out the policies. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policies were suitably recommended for Mrs B Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policies it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Lloyds  gave Mrs B all of the information she 
needed about the policies  to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take her out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points with regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  
in PPI sales. It suggests these points  apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Bs. Ive 
considered these carefully and summarised her as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Bs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premiums went to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs B about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of her to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs B have suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  
of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mrs B? To what extent did Mrs B 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold these policies  to Mrs B. 
So, I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs B 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs B 
would have still taken  out the policies, had Lloyds done things properly. 
Ref: DRN54036597While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policies it recommended was suitable for Mrs B, I have found that the policies were 
ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs B have  suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mrs B would have acted differently, or whether  she would have taken out the policies in any 
event.
Mrs B say she wouldnt have taken them out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences she will suffer if she do not have insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs B had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she were  
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she were getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Bs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policies were not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs B knew  she would have to pay something 
for the policies, it doesnt appear  Lloyds  told her the exact premium at the point Mrs B 
applied for each of the policies. Having said that, it seems likely Mrs B would have been told 
the cost before the policies started  and she paid for the policies for a number of years, so if 
the costs were significantly at odds  with her expectations at the point of sale,  its possible 
she might  have raised that with Lloyds at the time, or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs B would have found  the costs  unacceptable if she had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policies.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mrs B would get back in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mrs Bs expectations 
about what the policies would pay in the event of a claim  (an amount sufficient to meet her 
further advance  payment) were significantly different to what  the policies actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policies actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than she would have  expected as there  was an additional payment to contribute  towards her 
original mortgage.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs B thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policies excluded claims relating to any condition, injury,  illness,  disease or 
sickness which Mrs B knew  about  or should reasonably have known  about  at the 
Ref: DRN54036598commencement date of the policies, or about  which Mrs B had seen or arranged to 
see a doctor  during the 12 months  immediately before the commencement  of the 
policies; 
The policies limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mrs B 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policies protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term 
of the borrowing.   
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs B pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policies werent as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in these sales,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs B from taking out the policies. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policies 
werent fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for her. Mrs B was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. As Ive said above, based on what Mrs B 
has told us about  her medical  history,  and for the same reasons I think  the policies were still 
suitable for her, I dont think  this wouldve made a difference to her decision to take out the 
PPI. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest  Mrs B wouldve been  caught by any of the 
other significant exclusions. So, I still think she had some good reasons to take the policies 
out.
The policies didnt  exclude back or mental health  conditions or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mrs B 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policies without  first providing some  
evidence to support  that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mrs B needed  to be totally unable to do her normal job and not 
be doing any other work. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what  she would have 
expected to make a claim. So it seems unlikely  she would have thought shed  been  able to 
make a successful claim if she were still working. 
Lloyds may not have  told Mrs B that any claim  she made would be limited to a 12-month. 
This may have differed  from what she expected and might have hoped for  but she had 
limited other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs B would still have thought policies  that paid 
up to 12 monthly payments would have been of benefit to her and would help her manage 
the consequences should she be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by the 
policies. The policies allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure her home  was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  Mrs Bs sick pay and redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs B would  still have taken out the policies. The policies were suitable  for her, 
were sufficiently close to what its likely  she thought she were  getting and provided benefits 
that would  help her manage the consequences if Mrs B were made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not 
Ref: DRN54036599Mrs B would have taken out the policies in any event  notwithstanding the limitations  on 
cover.
Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. She say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs B would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs B 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs B believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policies. I am not persuaded  by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs B in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policies, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policies she were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mrs B compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs B think Lloyds misrepresented  the terms of the policies in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mrs B, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1999, 2000 and 2001 when providing information about an insurance policy.  
Ref: DRN540365910Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs B and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs B in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2021.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5403659