K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains about issues  shes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited  (SMF).
background
In December 2018 Miss M was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase  
agreement with SMF.
Miss M experienced issues with the car including poor tyres and brakes.  She contacted SMF  
in late December 2018 and asked to reject the car.
SMF investigated and issued a final response  in January 2019, stating that it didnt accept 
the request to reject.
Miss M stopped making payments under the agreement because  she thought shed rejected 
the car. Shes unhappy  that SMF has reported  adverse information on her credit file.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She didnt think  the problems with the car made  
it of unsatisfactory  quality  and felt that SMF had clearly communicated  to Miss M that the 
rejection hadnt  been accepted. The investigator said that Miss M hadnt withdrawn from the 
agreement either and found  that SMF hadnt done  anything wrong  in reporting the arrears to 
the credit  reference  agencies.
Miss M didnt agree. She said the car had been MOTd just before she purchased  it but 
despite this she experienced issues straightaway. Miss M said shed withdrawn from the 
agreement in December  2018 but hadnt paid the balance because of the condition of the 
car. Miss M said that SMF had actioned her request to reject the car and had asked her to 
make it ready for collection. She says she returned  the car to the dealer and assumed this 
was an end to the matter.  Miss M said she subsequently received letters about arrears and 
later found  out the car had been  sold. She says shes been  refused finance because  of the 
adverse information  on her credit file.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because SMF supplied  the car under a hire purchase agreement,  theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory  quality. Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would regard as 
acceptable taking  into account factors such as the age ad mileage of the car and the price 
paid. I would expect  a second  hand  car, such as that supplied  to Miss M, to have a degree  of 
wear and tear.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault is found within the first 30 days a 
consumer has an immediate right to reject. After 30 days and within the first 6 months,  its 
presumed that the fault was present at the point of supply unless the business can show  
otherwise. If there is a fault, the business is allowed one attempt at repair. If the repair isnt 
successful the consumer can reject the car.
Ref: DRN51578792Miss M says that the car had faults  at the point of supply.  She asked to reject  the car within  
the first 30 days.
SMF says there were  issues  with the car but these  were due to wear  and tear as opposed to 
inherent faults. It says it refused the request to reject and notified Miss M of this decision in 
January 2019.
Ive looked at the available evidence detailing the issues with the car. I can see that there 
were issues  with the tyres and brake pads. Ive had regard to the fact that the car was 
second hand and had covered 48,000 at the point of supply. Ive also had regard to the MOT 
which was carried out just before Miss M took possession of the car.
On balance, Im unable to conclude that there were faults with the car. Worn tyres and 
brakes are generally considered to be wear  and tear items for which  a customer is 
responsible. Wear and tear issues  arent faults and dont warrant a rejection.
Ive taken into account the points  which Miss M has made about the MOT. I can see that the 
car was MOTd in December 2018. If there  had been faults with the tyres or brakes I 
wouldve expected  to see evidence of this. But there  are no relevant advisories.
Ive also looked  at the inspection carried out by a third party garage in January 2019. The 
report identifies rust on the brake  discs but says this doesnt make the car unfit for purpose.
Based on everything  Ive seen, Im unable to say that the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality. 
Theres no evidence of an inherent  fault with the car which would warrant a rejection.
I can see that Miss M asked  to reject the car and thought shed brought  the agreement  to an 
end. However, its necessary for the business to accept the rejection request as well. In this 
case, SMF wrote to Miss M explaining  that it didnt accept the rejection.
Ive looked at the email sent by SMF to Miss M on 8 January 2019. I appreciate that Miss M 
views this email  as an acceptance of her request  to reject. However, I dont agree with that 
analysis because theres no clear acceptance  of the rejection request, just a  summary of 
action to be taken  in response to the request. I understand  why Miss M might  have found 
this email confusing  but I think  the final response letter  dated  31 January 2019  makes  it very 
clear that the request to reject hasnt been  accepted.
Ive considered the comments which  Miss M has made about exercising her right to 
withdraw from the agreement. The agreement gives a right of withdrawal  and states that in 
the event of giving notice  to withdraw a customer must within  30 days pay the amount 
outstanding including interest  under the agreement.
On the available evidence, I cant see that Miss M exercised  her right to withdraw (although I 
acknowledge that she asked to reject the car, which is a different process).  Even if Miss M 
had given notice  of withdrawal, I cant see that she paid the amount due under the 
agreement, so the withdrawal wouldntve been  effective and legal title to the car wouldntve  
passed to her.
Based on what Ive seen,  the car hasnt  been  rejected and Miss M didnt withdraw from the 
agreement. Because of this, Miss M remained liable to make payments under the 
agreement.
Ref: DRN51578793I appreciate that Miss M returned the car to the dealer. But in the circumstances of her 
request to reject not being accepted, Miss M remained liable to make  payments under the 
agreement even though the car wasnt in her possession.
I understand that Miss M is unhappy about  adverse information on her credit file relating to 
this agreement. I can see that Miss M didnt make  payments due under the agreement  to 
SMF. SMF has an obligation  to report missed/late payment  to the credit reference agencies.  
So I cant say that SMF has done  anything wrong here.
Similarly, if Miss M has been  refused credit because  of entries  on her credit file (and I 
havent seen any evidence of that), I would need to be satisfied that the information  on the 
credit file was incorrect if I was going to ask the business to remove  it. But in this case, as 
Ive said above,  I dont think SMF has done anything wrong  in reporting missed payments.
Miss M has told this service that a bailiff visited her to repossess the car even though it was 
no longer in her possession.  Repossession  is what I would expect to happen if a consumer 
missed several payments  under the agreement. I dont think  SMF acted unfairly  in 
repossessing and selling the car. Miss M is now liable for any shortfall under the agreement.  
I appreciate that my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss M. But having taken 
everything into account, Im unable  to say that she rejected the car or withdrew from the 
agreement. Im unable  to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5157879