K822xcomplaint
Mr V  on behalf of Company A  complains that QIC Europe Limited  (QIC)  handled his 
business interruption  claim  unfairly.
QIC use intermediaries to administer their insurance  and manage  claims on their behalf,  so 
any reference to the insurer  within this decision should be read as including  the 
acts/omissions of such intermediaries.
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I will not repeat  them  again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the investigator for these reasons:
Despite what is said in the lease agreement about cessation of rent, QIC has agreed to 
discount this expense as a saving  and pay £24,607.56 upon receiving reasonable proof  
from Mr V of the rent that was actually paid during  the entire business closure period, 
which I consider to be fair and reasonable. QIC say they are yet to receive  this, however, 
so Mr V will need to provide evidence of the total rent paid before any adjustment  can be 
made to the savings  applicable to the business losses.  I can also see that QIC have said 
they will consider other fixed  expenses  if they are provided  with reasonable proof of 
these being paid.
Mr V says he wants this service to provide a thorough explanation as to what  he is due 
under the policy.  But it is not for this service to explain or calculate exactly what he is 
business is due under the policy  that is for the insurer. Our remit extends to 
considering whether  the settlement offered is fair and in line with the policy  terms and 
conditions. 
The policy entitles Company A to its gross profits, less the cost of stock  and other  
reasonable adjustments that ought  to be taken  into account so as to reach an amount 
that represents as nearly as practicable  the business results if the damage had not 
occurred. Therefore, it may not be an exact  science,  and there is clearly scope for 
negotiation, which  I can see QIC have been open to when they agreed to increase the 
gross profits  from 61% of the overall  turnover to 65% following further discussions with 
Mr V.
Mr V says that QIC have not explained  what he is entitled  to. But I can see from the 
emails of 11 April 2018,  and also of 27 January 2020, that they have made  reasonable 
efforts to explain the basis of the settlement, including the assumptions made  around  lost 
revenue, what this is based on, and the fact that the policy  only allows  parameters of 12 
months from the date of loss for the purposes of calculating average values. 
I appreciate that Mr V does not consider  the settlement amount to be high enough, and 
has given reasons such as the average  revenue  not taking account of seasonal trends. 
But I have seen  nothing  in the policy that states the insurer must take such factors into 
account in their calculations. And neither have I seen any independent evidence  (for 
example, a report from a suitably qualified accountant or auditor)  to persuade  me that 
Ref: DRN53595542the way QIC has arrived  at the average  values/calculated the settlement is either  
incorrect or unfair.
If Mr V is able to present such evidence to QIC  that independently demonstrates why 
their settlement offer or average  values  relied on are incorrect   then they would be 
expected to take this into account. But I can see that QIC have so far consulted Mr V for 
his input on their assumptions  in order to calculate the settlement, (e.g. regarding  when 
the downturn in trading started). And in the absence of any evidence  to the contrary,  Im 
not satisfied their current basis of settlement  which has been based on the balance 
sheets and profit and loss accounts provided by Company A  is unfair in the 
circumstances, or that it fails to put them as close as is practicable into their position had 
the damage not occurred.
QIC have also made  it clear which costs would  not be included  in this claim  such  as 
the plumbing and investigative  works  which are attributable  to the landlords  buildings 
insurance claim being progressed alongside  Mr Vs business  interruption claim by a 
separate insurer. So I do not consider that QIC have failed to explain what  forms part of 
the business interruption claim either.
I appreciate that Mr V is unhappy with the way his claim has been  handled,  and its clear  
he has been left frustrated by the poor service  he has received. I can see, for example, 
that he has often  had to chase QIC for a response to his questions, and that there have 
been general instances of poor communication throughout his claim. However,  Im also 
mindful that this was a complex  claim  that was also dependent  on third-parties, who I 
can see have contributed toward the delays experienced. So I do not think  QIC can fairly 
be held responsible for the entire time taken  to reach a settlement. The investigator 
recommended an award of £350  for the poor service attributable to QIC. And having 
considered all the evidence, Im satisfied this is fair compensation in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  in part and direct QIC Europe Ltd to 
pay £350 compensation in recognition of the inconvenience caused to Company A by their 
handling of the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V  on behalf of 
Company A  to accept or reject my decision before  12 September  2020.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5359554