K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the way Lloyds Bank plc handled a dispute arising from a card 
payment. 
background
On 20 July 2018 Mr C made a card payment of £357.32 to a company  which  Ill call U. U 
claims to provide assistance  and advice to people  wishing to move to the United States to 
work or study. 
Mr C became suspicious of U, however, and in early August 2018 contacted Lloyds to say 
he thought hed been the victim of a fraud.  Amongst  other things, hed found out that U didnt 
provide the services hed requested.
Lloyds agreed  to look into things and asked  Mr C to provide further information so it could 
pursue his claim through the relevant card scheme   in this case, Visa.  Mr C provided the 
information but, after review, Lloyds decided  it needed more. Mr C didnt think  that Lloyds 
was handling  the matter  very well and that it was causing unnecessary  delays. 
In October  2018 it told Mr C that it thought  it did  on the basis  of the information it had  
have the right to request a refund. It would  make a request  for a refund and report  back to 
Mr C. It also acknowledged that its service hadnt been good and offered Mr C a total of 
£100 in recognition of that  which it paid into his account. 
The claim through Visa was successful, and the initial card payment was reversed on or 
about 19 November  2018  meaning  Mr C received  a refund. 
Mr C remained  unhappy, however, with the way Lloyds had handled the case. Our 
investigator thought  however that the bank had done enough to compensate  Mr C for the 
poor service it had provided. Mr C didnt  agree  and asked  that an ombudsman review  the 
case.          
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Its not necessary  for me to decide whether Mr Cs underlying complaint about U was 
justified or not, since the claim for a refund was successful. I have however seen a number 
of online  reviews suggesting that U routinely doesnt  provide the services  it promises.  
Lloyds acknowledged  that it hadnt handled Mr Cs claim for a refund as effectively  as it 
should have done. Specifically, it said that it ought to have been  able to identify which  
documents it would  need and shouldnt have had to seek further  information  from Mr C. So I 
have to consider  whether the £100  it paid Mr C in recognition of this is sufficient or whether it 
should do more.  
I take the view that Lloyds payment  is sufficient  in this case. Since  Mr C had authorised  the 
payment, it was reasonable for the bank  to seek a refund through the card scheme. That 
process is run by the scheme, and so Lloyds had little control over it. That said,  Lloyds 
handling of Mr Cs case meant that it probably took a few weeks more than it should have 
Ref: DRN50062222done for Mr C to receive his refund; it also put him to more  trouble and inconvenience. Its 
right that he should  receive some compensation, but in all the circumstances I think  that the 
payment of £100  is fair. As Ive indicated, that payment has already been made. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank plc to do anything more  to resolve Mr Cs 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 February  2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5006222