K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about how Assurant  General Insurance Limited  dealt with a claim under his 
mobile phone insurance  policy. 
background
Mr H had his mobile  phone stolen and made a claim under his policy with Assurant. 
Mr H was sent a replacement phone but this was faulty. Assurant explained it could arrange 
for the replacement phone to be exchanged  for another one. As Mr H was unhappy with this, 
he complained.  
Assurant didnt call Mr H back about  his complaint  as it had agreed to do. When Mr H 
contacted Assurant again, it offered him a cash settlement of £729.99 instead of another 
replacement phone. It also offered Mr H £75 compensation for the problems hed 
experienced during the claim.  
Unhappy, Mr H brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She explained the terms and conditions of 
Mr Hs policy  didnt provide for the payment of a cash  settlement and Assurant had offered 
this as a gesture of goodwill. She said Assurant  had provided evidence that an equivalent 
refurbished phone could  be bought  for £729.99, and she also thought  the compensation 
offered by Assurant was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators  opinion. He said Assurant wasted his time by 
providing him with a faulty phone and he wasnt given good customer service during the 
claim. So, the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Hs insurance policy say Assurant will repair  or replace a 
phone with one of the same make, model  and memory size. The policy says a replacement 
mobile phone may come  from new or refurbished stock. 
I understand it will have  been inconvenient for Mr H when the replacement  phone he 
received was faulty. But I think Assurant made  a reasonable attempt to put this right when 
Mr H made  it aware of the problem by offering another replacement phone, in line with the 
terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy. 
When Mr H wasnt  happy with this, Assurant offered him a cash settlement. The terms and 
conditions of Mr Hs policy dont provide for this  but I think a cash  settlement was a fair and 
reasonable offer for Assurant to make in the circumstances at this point in the claim. 
I understand Mr H paid more than £729.99  for his original phone. But the policy  doesnt  
cover the amount Mr H paid for his original phone  the policy  covers the cost of replacing 
Mr Hs original phone with a new or refurbished phone of the same  make,  model and 
memory size. 
Ref: DRN55388392Assurant has provided evidence to show a refurbished phone of the same  make,  model and 
memory size could be bought from what I think are well-known, reputable  suppliers for 
between £599  and £729. The cash settlement Assurant made is at the upper end of this 
scale, so I think the settlement is fair and I wont  be recommending for Assurant to increase 
this. 
I understand Mr H is also unhappy with the delays and the poor customer  service he 
received. 
Mr Hs policy  doesnt guarantee that claims will be dealt with within  any particular timeframe. 
But Id expect Assurant  to handle the process within a reasonable timescale,  without any 
unnecessary delays.
Assurant offered Mr H the option  of a new replacement phone  as soon as he made  it aware 
of the problems he had with the first one he received. And from the timeline Assurant has 
sent to us, it seems  Assurant paid the cash settlement to Mr H as soon as it received  
confirmation that the faulty phone had been returned  to it. 
Assurant has acknowledged  it didnt provide good customer  service  when it didnt call Mr H 
back. And I know it will have been inconvenient for Mr H to have had to chase Assurant 
again himself. But Assurant has apologised for this and offered Mr H £75 compensation. I 
think this is a fair payment for the trouble Mr H was put to in the circumstances so I wont be 
asking Assurant to do anything more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5538839