K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (Tesco) unfairly closed  his credit card 
account without  notice or explanation. 
background
The adjudicators background summary  covered all the relevant facts  and is known to both 
Mr K and Tesco so I wont repeat it in any great  detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned  
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues. 
However in summary  it is this; 
In May 2018  Mr K opened  an account with Tesco. He notified  them  he was going to make a 
large purchase and then did so that same  month.  Thereafter  he made regular payments to 
his account in accordance with the terms and conditions.
Tescos internal fraud  prevention systems  indicated potential fraudulent  activity  which  led 
Tesco to attempt to contact Mr K to discuss his account further. They said they had spoken 
to him on the 25 May and had promised  to call him back the following day but failed and for 
that they paid him £20 in compensation. And they tried to contact him on a number of 
occasions after that, eventually making  contact on the 4 June but Mr K stated  he would 
prefer to call them back to satisfy himself  they were  genuine. Mr K did call back  to speak 
with Tesco  but whilst  on hold the call was dropped. Tesco continued  with their attempts to 
speak with Mr K by calling  his mobile,  leaving voicemail messages and messages with third 
parties at his home number. On the 20 August, as they had been unable to speak to him, 
they took the decision to close his account. 
Mr K says he was caused stress and inconvenience  in having to contact Tesco  and being 
placed on hold for lengthy  periods. He was also unhappy that he was unable to access  his 
statements on line after Tesco  closed the account.
Tesco believe that they have acted within their terms  and conditions and had adequate 
grounds to close his account.  As such they did not consider they had acted unfairly. 
Mr K was unhappy with Tescos response and so the adjudicator  looked  into the complaint 
and found that there had been  failings in the level of service provided by Tesco. She thought  
Tesco hadnt  been able to justify  or evidence why Mr Ks account  gave them  cause for 
concern. She thought that Tesco should therefore pay £250 compensation to Mr K. As 
Tesco didnt  agree, the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on the 27 January 2020 and in summary 
said that save for failing  to call Mr K back within an agreed timescale I didnt think  Tesco had 
treated Mr K unfairly.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that Tesco has already paid £20 to settle their failure to return  a 
call to Mr K within the agreed timescale  and I think this is fair in all the circumstances. So I 
dont think Tesco needs to do anything else to settle tat element  of the complaint.
Ref: DRN59326872responses my provisional decision
Both Mr K and Tesco responded to my provisional  decision. Tesco  agreed with it but Mr K 
didnt. Mr K repeated  the arguments  he had previously  put, emphasising what  he saw as 
contradictions in my provisional findings,  and how unlikely  it was that he was trying to 
commit fraud.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. I do not perform  the role of the industry regulator, and nor do I have the power  to make 
rules for financial businesses, punish them,  or direct that they change their processes.  
What I need to decide is whether Tesco acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr K. 
I take into account both Tescos view and that of Mr K. The purpose of my decision isnt to 
address every single  point  raised. So, my aim is to reach a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the facts  of the case.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory, I am bound to reach  a 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, I consider  what  is more likely  to 
have happened  in the light of that evidence and the wider circumstances of the case. 
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. 
I agree  there was a failure in the level of service Tesco provided to Mr K when it failed to 
make the promised call back in May within the stated time.  Tesco  acknowledge that and 
have paid £20 in compensation and provided feedback to the relevant dept. I think  that this 
is reasonable and fair.
The crux of this complaint however is the decision taken by Tesco  to close Mr Ks account. 
Tesco had concerns about the account but havent disclosed to this service what those 
concerns were since that is sensitive information. They  have however explained how their 
systems are sophisticated,  intelligent,  and use data including fraud trends to detect potential 
fraud. I cant  compel Tesco to disclose  such information  and I can readily accept  why such  
detailed information  should not be disclosed.  The point however is that Tescos system 
detected something, which in Tescos view warranted further  investigation. Tesco then tried 
to gather more information to satisfy themselves that Mr Ks account  was not being 
subjected to fraudulent  activity and being unable to make contact satisfactorily they closed 
the account. Ive looked  at the attempts Tesco made  to contact Mr K which  include  leaving  
voicemail messages,  ring his home and mobile numbers, leaving messages with others and 
writing a letter asking  his to contact them and that is a reasonable approach. In the absence 
of being able to speak  to Mr K to have  their concerns answered I think  Tesco acted 
reasonably in closing the account. This they did within the terms and conditions  and that is 
fair.
I have taken into account that Mr K made  his contractual payments each month  and even 
paid more in order  to reduce his balance. However that to my mind misses  the point which is 
that Tesco had concerns  about security and were unable to make contact. It is for that 
reason that their concerns  were heightened and they took the decision to close the account. 
Ref: DRN59326873Having closed the account Mr K was sent paper  statements which  is again  in line with the 
terms and conditions, so I cannot say that Tesco have acted unfairly.
I have considered Mr Ks further representations but I am afraid they dont  change  my view. I 
have not made any finding that Mr K was attempting to commit fraud or was in any way 
acting in a fraudulent manner. Far from it. I believe he was and is genuine, and in opening 
the account as he did, he did so in a very transparent and above  board  way. However, to my 
mind that is not the issue. The issue is that Tesco have to have in place systems to protect 
all of their customers  from fraud. These systems  pick up certain activity,  which  lead it, the 
system, to question whether fraud is being attempted. Having done  so Tesco have a process  
which must be followed, and when that process  is not satisfied it will inevitably lead to Tesco 
having to make a decision  about  the account.  In Mr Ks case they came to that point as they 
couldnt get the information from him they required. As such they made  the decision they did 
and I think they were entitled  to come to the decision  they did as it is within the range  of 
decision making that one could reasonably make. So I say they have followed their 
processes, and come to a decision which is reasonable and thus I find they have acted fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that Tesco has already paid £20 to settle  
their failure to return a call to Mr K within the agreed timescale and I think  this is fair in all the 
circumstances. So I dont  think Tesco needs  to do anything else to settle that element of the 
complaint.
I do not consider  that Tesco acted fairly in closing Mr Ks account and so I do not think  they 
ought to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5932687