K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the handling  of a claim by Aviva Insurance  Limited under his 
mobile phone insurance  policy.
background
Mr M made a claim on his insurance  for a replacement  mobile  phone. Aviva advised  that a 
replacement would be delivered within the next two days and that on the day of delivery  he 
would be given a one hour delivery slot. I understand  Mr M asked for the phone to be 
delivered to a friends address, instead of his home, as it was near to his workplace. 
Delivery was attempted the next day. However, Mr M says he was waiting with his friend for 
the delivery, saw the courier but he would  not stop.  Mr M contacted Aviva.  Aviva  accepts the 
courier failed to make the delivery and said it would rearrange delivery but I understand     
Mr M opted to collect the phone from the delivery depot instead,  which  he did the next 
morning.  
Aviva offered Mr M £20 for the delay in delivery,  however Mr M doesnt think  this is enough 
to compensate him for the inconvenience  caused  and the taxi fare (£44) he had to pay to get 
to the depot. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He didnt recommend that it be upheld  as he 
considered that Avivas  offer of £20 compensation was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr M doesnt accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is annoying and frustrating when deliveries are not made when they are expected. 
However, sometimes things do go wrong but it doesnt mean compensation is always 
warranted. Mr M had to wait for an hour at his friends house and then contact Aviva. Aviva 
said it would  arrange  redelivery but Mr M preferred to collect  the phone  instead. Mr M says 
he had to pay for a taxi to get to the depot  but he could have waited for redelivery and didnt  
need to incur that expense. He says he was due to be working  on the day Aviva  said it would 
redeliver but he had arranged for the original delivery to be to a friends  house  as it was near 
his work,  so could have  done so again.  Also, the note of the telephone conversation 
between Mr M and Aviva says he wanted the phone quickly and didnt want to wait for 
redelivery. Initially Mr M said he would collect it that evening and theres no note of any 
dates for redelivery having been  discussed. Mr M told the investigator  he thought Aviva 
suggested it would be another  couple of days but that is not reflected in the notes. 
Having taken all this into consideration, I dont  consider that Aviva  should be required to 
reimburse Mr Ms taxi fare. He could have  waited for redelivery and would still have received 
his phone within a  reasonable  time of making the claim. I consider the £20 already offered is 
not unreasonable to reflect the inconvenience caused to him. 
Ref: DRN54830352my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  Aviva  Insurance Limited, as I consider it has already 
made a reasonable offer to settle  the complaint. If the £20 has not yet been paid and Mr M 
now wishes to accept  that offer, he should  confirm  acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5483035