K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  (Ageas) unfairly  avoided  (treated it as if it 
never existed) his car insurance policy. 
background 
Mr M took out a car insurance  policy with Ageas via a comparison website and insurance 
broker. In response to a question about  previous claims on the comparison site, he gave 
details of one claim  relating to an accident  that took place almost five years  before the date 
of his application. And he said he had nine years no claims discount  (NCD). 
After Mr M took out the policy, Ageas asked for proof of the NCD. Mr M told his insurance 
broker that his NCD  was earned while  driving  a company car and said he would have to 
obtain the evidence from his employers  insurer. The insurer provided  a letter  confirming the 
claims history   this detailed seven claims over five years  six more than the one Mr M had 
detailed on the comparison  site. 
After receiving the claims history information,  Ageas called  Mr M for more information  about 
the incidents that were listed. It also contacted Mr Ms insurance broker.  
Mr M said it was unclear to him that he needed to declare  the other incidents the employers 
insurer had detailed. He said he had never  had an accident that was his fault and said hed 
been unaware of some  of the claims which  had been recorded by his employers insurer. He 
said most of the claims that had been  recorded related to his car becoming damaged while  it 
was parked in the car park where he worked. He said three of the claims were listed  on 
fictitious dates across  three consecutive days.  And related  to paintwork damage his 
employer had identified  and chosen  to have repaired after hed returned his car. 
When it became clear to Ageas that Mr Ms NCD was earned on a company car policy, it told 
him it was unable to accept this. Mr M said he didnt realise his NCD wouldnt be valid.  He 
said hed been  driving a company car through his employer since 2002,  so hadnt needed to 
take out his own car insurance for a long time.  
Ageas said it didnt accept  NCD relating to company car policies. And said had it known 
Mr Ms full claims  history, it would  have considered the risk unacceptable  and wouldnt  have  
offered cover.  And it avoided Mr Ms policy. 
Mr M complained. He said he didnt think Ageas underwriter had taken into account the 
explanations hed provided,  such as him having  not had any accidents which were his fault, 
and some of the claims being recorded by his employer without his knowledge. 
Ageas responded to the complaint.  It said Mr M hadnt taken reasonable care not to make 
a misrepresentation  when  he took out the policy. It didnt change  its stance on avoiding  the 
policy.
Unhappy with Ageas response,  Mr M brought  his complaint to us. 
Mr M also made a separate complaint to the insurer whod provided the company car policy 
to his employer.  This revealed that the claims it had recorded werent  insurance  claims. Due 
to the nature  of the company car policy Mr Ms employer had in place, all of the repairs 
carried out on the company car had been paid for by his employer. The insurer confirmed 
Ref: DRN57836822four sets of repairs undertaken for damage were carried out after Mr M returned the car. And 
it said he had no claims attributed to him under that policy.
my provisional findings
In my provisional decision I said: 
When reviewing this complaint Ive considered  the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure  and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and 
insurer when entering into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty 
to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation (such  as giving untrue or 
misleading answers).
investigation carried out by Ageas 
Ive listened to calls between Ageas and Mr M where Mr Ms claims history is discussed.  
Mr M was very cooperative and gave a lot of detail in these calls. I think he made it very 
clear to Ageas that he was unaware  of three of the claims his employers insurer  recorded 
against him. He went into detail  about the damaged  paintwork  claims,  which  he said were  
recorded on three consecutive fictitious dates after hed returned his car, and without his 
knowledge. Mr M also told Ageas that his employers policy was self-insured, although he 
said he was unsure what this meant. 
Ageas doesnt  seem  to have taken the information Mr M provided about  the claims into 
account when  making  its decision to avoid  the policy,  as it counted  all of the claims in its 
assessment. Ive seen  no evidence  that Ageas contacted Mr Ms previous insurer  to 
investigate these claims further, despite  what  Mr M had said. Or to find out the nature of the 
self-insured policy, before making its decision  to avoid  Mr Ms policy. 
I think Ageas inclusion  of the paintwork  claims Mr M was unaware of, together  with a lack of 
further investigation, has led to an unfair outcome for Mr M. And this has caused  him 
substantial distress and inconvenience, as well as a financial loss due to having to pay 
higher premiums for insurance following the avoidance of his policy.  Ill explain below what 
I think Ageas  needs to do to correct this.
no claims discount
Mr M applied  for the insurance policy online through a comparison website. One of the 
questions he was asked  was: How many years  of no claims discount do you have?. Mr M 
answered nine years  as this was the number of years of NCD he believed he held from 
driving a company car. The question didnt  specify that company  car NCDs were invalid. To 
find this out, Mr M would have needed  to click on an information icon to view additional 
information, which included a statement to clarify that some insurers  dont accept NCDs 
earned on company  cars. 
There was no mention of company cars in the question, or alongside or underneath the 
question. I think  it would be unfair to say that Mr M is at fault for not clicking the information  
icon. I think its reasonable that Mr M believed hed answered the question  correctly, and that 
he wouldnt  have thought he needed  any more information in order to answer that question.
Ref: DRN57836823The information Mr M entered  on the comparison website was passed  to an insurance  
broker. Based on correspondence  Ive seen,  its clear to me that the insurance broker was 
acting as agent for Mr M.
The insurance broker passed Mr Ms information  to Ageas. The insurance broker may have 
asked Mr M additional  questions,  but Ive not had sight of these. 
When Ageas  asked for evidence of the NCD, Mr M told his insurance  broker  that this was 
earned on a company car policy. The insurance  broker advised Mr M to obtain  and send the 
evidence, but it seems it failed to advise him that company car NCD was unacceptable to 
Ageas. Also,  Mr Ms insurance  broker should have advised Ageas at this time that the NCD 
was earned on a company car policy   Ageas has said it can find no record  of being told.
I dont think Mr M knowingly provided incorrect information about his NCD. However,  his 
insurance broker failed  to correctly pass on the information to Ageas. This means that the 
broker, acting as Mr Ms agent, failed to take reasonable  care not to make a 
misrepresentation to the insurer on Mr Ms behalf. 
If a consumer or their agent fails to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, 
the remedies for the insurer depend on whether or not the misrepresentation was careless or 
reckless/deliberate and whether it would have  made  a difference to the terms the insurer  
was willing  to offer. But the insurer doesnt automatically have the right to avoid the policy. 
Whether it can do this depends on a number of factors.  
Having looked  at Ageas acceptance  guidelines, the lack of NCD wouldnt have affected its 
decision to offer a policy to Mr M. Ive asked Ageas how this would have affected the 
premium charged,  but Ive not been provided with this information. However, as I know the 
level of a NCD does  normally  affect  the premium charged, Ill assume the premium  would 
have been higher in Mr Ms case if his broker had provided the right information to Ageas. 
I dont think Ageas has demonstrated that the misrepresentation of the level of NCD by the 
broker was deliberate or reckless. I say this as nothing  Ive seen suggests Mr Ms broker  
didnt pass the information about  the NCD to Ageas deliberately,  or that it didnt care about 
this. So I think it was a careless misrepresentation. 
In this case, Ageas could have either offered to continue the policy  providing cover  for claims 
on a proportionate basis, or cancelled it. However, in line with CIDRA, Mr M would also have 
had the option to cancel  the policy himself once he had been told Ageas wanted to do this. 
Mr M attempted  to cancel  the policy when his insurance broker first made him aware the 
policy may have been cancelled  due to discrepancies in the claims history. So I find it most 
likely that had Ageas told Mr M it intended  to cancel his policy or carry on with it and settle  
claims on a proportionate basis, Mr M would have cancelled it himself. This means  Ageas 
decision to avoid the policy, instead of cancelling it as a result  of Mr M not having a valid 
NCD has put him in a worse position. And Ill explain below  what  I think  Ageas  needs to do 
to put this right. 
claims history  
Mr M declared one non-fault accident  when  making his insurance application through  
a comparison website.  The question he was asked was: Have  you had any driving  incidents  
or made any insurance claims  in the last 5 years?. 
Ref: DRN57836824Having reviewed new information which came to light following Mr Ms separate  complaint 
about the insurer of his company car, Im satisfied  that Mr M hadnt  made  any motor 
insurance claims in the five years prior to his application. However,  the question  asks about 
driving incidents as well as claims. 
The majority of the repair work Mr Ms previous insurer wrongly  recorded  as claims was due 
to damage Mr Ms car had sustained whilst parked. I think  its fair to say that most people 
wouldnt consider  a driving incident  to include damage to a parked car while the driver  isnt 
present. However,  I do think that Mr M should have declared both of the driving incidents 
which took place  when he was driving  his car and a third party  collided with him. 
This means  Mr M didnt  answer the question about  claims and driving incidents correctly,  as 
he only referred to one incident.  Although  hed not made any actual insurance claims, hed 
been involved in two driving incidents during the period he was asked about, so both should  
have been declared. 
As I explained earlier, the information Mr M entered on the comparison website was passed 
to an insurance broker  who passed  it on to Ageas. 
The question around claims and accidents  shown  on Ageas statement of fact was phrased 
significantly differently  from the question Mr M had been asked on the comparison website. 
The question was as follows. 
Please show below  any accidents, thefts or losses (irrespective of blame  and whether a 
claim resulted) which  you or any other  person who will drive have been involved in within  the 
past 5 years
The more  explicit phrasing  of this question suggests that Ageas wanted to know about 
accidents where Mr M was driving  his car, as well as any losses  that may have occurred 
when he wasnt. As this question is significantly different from the question Mr M answered 
on the comparison website, his insurance broker should have  asked additional questions  
and passed the information to Ageas. 
Based on the question  Ageas asked,  if Mr Ms Insurance broker  had also asked the same, 
Mr M should have declared all of the incidents  of damage to his car he was aware  of at the 
time. This would have  been four incidents within  the five years asked about. Its unclear to 
me whether or not Mr Ms insurance broker made the significant difference  in the question 
clear to Mr M. As Ive explained, Mr M is responsible for any information his broker 
misrepresented to Ageas. However, I dont think that the broker  deliberately passed on 
incomplete information to Ageas. I think its more likely than not that this was a mistake.
As Ive said,  the remedies  for the insurer depend on whether or not a careless 
misrepresentation would have made a difference. So I need to decide  if the 
misrepresentation about the number of incidents  of damage to Mr Ms car would have made 
a difference to the cover Ageas offered. 
Ive looked at Ageas acceptance guidelines  around claims and these specify it only takes  
into account incidents over the previous three  years   rather  than the previous five years. 
Based on these guidelines,  the failure  by Mr Ms broker to find out about and declare to 
Ageas all four of the incidents Mr M knew of, wouldnt have made a difference  to Ageas 
ability to offer cover. Hed had two incidents which he was aware of in the three  year period, 
Ref: DRN57836825but only declared one. According to Ageas underwriting guidelines,  if hed declared both of 
these incidents,  it still would have provided cover. 
I asked Ageas how the premiums would have been  affected by declaration of the second 
driving incident. Ive not been  provided  with this detail, but will assume  this would have made  
a difference, as an insurer would usually charge a higher premium in such  circumstances. 
This also means (as with the fact Mr M didnt have a NCD)  Ageas  could  have offered to 
continue the policy and deal with claims on a proportionate basis;  or it could  have cancelled  
the policy. But as Ive already explained,  Mr M would have had the option  to cancel it himself 
instead. And, as Ive also already said, I think thats what Mr M is most likely to have done. 
putting things  right 
As a result of the avoidance of his policy (as opposed to just him cancelling it) Mr M has said 
he initially  had to pay a much higher premium for his car insurance with another provider. 
Hes said that he later looked to minimise the additional expenses by taking out car 
insurance and home insurance together through his bank. This decreased his car insurance 
costs, but increased  his home insurance  premiums. He also opened a packaged bank 
account with a monthly fee so that he could take advantage of the included travel  insurance, 
instead of taking out a separate and more expensive travel policy.
So, I think Mr M has been unfairly disadvantaged  by the avoidance of his car insurance  
policy by Ageas, causing him to pay higher amounts for insurance since  then. To put things 
right, Ageas should treat and record the avoided policy as cancelled by Mr M as opposed to 
avoided. It should  also provide a letter of correction, which Mr M can use to request partial 
premium refunds from his other providers on that basis he didnt actually  have an avoided 
policy when he took out insurance  with them. Hopefully, they will agree to adjust his 
premiums retrospectively to reflect this and provide appropriate refunds or adjustments. 
As Ive explained, I dont  think  Ageas  adequately considered the information  and 
explanations Mr M provided. And I dont think it did enough to investigate the claims history.  
Because of this, Ageas unfairly avoided Mr Ms policy. I can see that Mr M was extremely 
worried by the avoidance of his policy, and the difficulties he encountered attempting  to 
obtain alternative cover. So I also intend  to require Ageas to pay £500 in compensation to 
Mr M, which I think fairly represents the distress and inconvenience he experienced. 
The original  premium Mr M would have paid, from inception until when the policy would have 
been cancelled,  may be deducted from the compensation Ive awarded. This is because 
Ageas refunded the entire  premium when it avoided Mr Ms policy,  whereas he would have 
paid a proportion  of it for the cover hed had if he had cancelled  the policy  instead. I think  its 
fair to take the cancellation date as the date Ageas  told Mr M it was avoiding his policy.  So 
the premium deducted should be based on a pro rata calculation from the date the policy 
started to this date.
response to my provisional  decision 
Mr M accepted my provisional decision.  And Ageas confirmed it had nothing further to add.
Ref: DRN57836826my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There isnt anything more  for me to consider as neither party  has provided any new 
information or comments. My final decision therefore remains  as outlined in my provisional  
decision, for the same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, its my final decision to uphold Mr Ms complaint and Ageas 
Insurance Limited must  do the following: 
record Mr Ms policy as having been  cancelled by him, as opposed to avoided; 
remove any record of the avoidance  on all internal and external databases and 
instead show the policy was cancelled by Mr M;
provide Mr M with a letter of correction explaining this; and 
pay Mr M £500 compensation for distress  and inconvenience, less the pro rata 
premium Mr M would have paid (based on the premium Ageas actually charged) if 
Mr M had cancelled  the policy at the point Ageas told him it was avoiding  it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019. 
Gemma Warner
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5783682