K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC, when  it was trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester 
(C&G), mis-sold him a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr G took out a mortgage in June 2000 and he bought PPI to protect his mortgage monthly 
repayments if he couldnt work. 
It doesnt look like Mr G took out any other PPI when he took out a further advance in May 
2002. So in my decision Im looking at how Lloyds  sold him PPI at the start of his mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.
Mr G mainly said he was unhappy because nothing was explained at all and it wasnt  made 
clear what  he was paying for. In response to our adjudicators assessment Mr G told us that 
he had PPI with a different mortgage, and he also mentioned that it wasnt optional and that 
the PPI was a compulsory  part of getting the mortgage. 
So the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint. 
It isnt reasonable  to expect Mr G to remember precisely what  happened  as the sale was so 
long ago. This means that what he says now isnt enough on its own for me to be able to 
uphold his mis-sale complaint. I must take into account all the information Ive got and 
decide what I think is most likely. 
Theres limited  paperwork  from the sale  but it looks as if PPI was discussed during the 
mortgage application process as Mr G completed a separate PPI application in order to have 
the cover  added on. So I think  Mr G wouldve been aware that it was up to him to say if he 
wanted to have PPI with the mortgage. It wasnt automatically included as part of the 
mortgage. 
Mr G indicated on the application how much cover he wanted to have. He signed the 
declaration at the end of the completed application  confirming  that he met the requirements 
to apply for the cover and he agreed with the information  put on the form. At the same  time 
Mr G also set up monthly payment arrangements at his bank to cover  the PPI cost. 
So, on balance, I find that Mr G signed  up for the policy knowing it was optional  and it was 
added to his mortgage account  when Mr G chose to buy the policy. 
Ref: DRN56347702Lloyds says it recommended PPI to Mr G. Although  Mr G said that Lloyds didnt  recommend  
PPI to him, treating this sale as if Lloyds personally  advised him to take out the PPI gives  his 
complaint the best chance of success. If a business  makes a recommendation about PPI it 
doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommends is suitable. So Im going to look at 
this complaint on the basis that Lloyds advised Mr G to take out PPI with this mortgage.
The policy wouldve covered Mr Gs mortgage repayments (and paid out an extra amount)  
for up to 12 months per claim if Mr G was unable to work as a result  of accident or sickness. 
It wouldve  paid out on top of any sick pay from work and couldve provided  a useful benefit 
when Mr G mightve also been facing extra costs if he was off work through illness  or 
disability. The policy wouldve also paid out if Mr G lost his job unexpectedly and he was 
unemployed. 
Mr G told us that he had no significant  other means he couldve relied on to cover his 
mortgage monthly repayments if he wasnt  working. Mr Gs mortgage was a long term 
financial commitment and his home  couldve been  at risk if he found  himself unexpectedly 
unable to keep  up his monthly  mortgage  repayments. Based on all the information  Ive seen, 
I think PPI couldve been a useful benefit  in what wouldve been difficult circumstances for 
Mr G if hed needed to make a claim.  
Its possible  some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr G about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But Mr G wasnt  affected  by any of the usual  conditions  that mightve  limited  
the policys benefit to him. So, even if these werent mentioned, I dont think  that knowing 
more about things the policy didnt  cover wouldve made any difference  to Mr Gs decision to 
have PPI. 
Mr G chose to take out the policy and so he appears to have wanted this type of cover. He 
was eligible for the policy.  I dont know  if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr G when he 
bought the policy. But, from what Ive seen,  it doesnt appear  to have been unaffordable  for 
him. And he wouldve seen the monthly premium  when Lloyds sent Mr G the policy schedule 
 when he had the option to cancel the policy within 30 days and get a full refund if he hadnt 
wanted to pay for it. After  that, he was still able to cancel the policy at any time without losing 
out financially. It looks as if Mr G was keen to keep the policy running as he sent a cheque  at 
one stage to cover the monthly premiums  when there had been some problems making 
these payments through his bank.  So it looks to me like he valued the protection  that PPI 
offered him, even  if hes forgotten this now.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr G still wouldve  decided to buy the policy if hed been better informed  as it gave 
him worthwhile protection in his particular  situation.  
Ive taken into account everything that Mr G has said in response to our adjudicators view 
but this doesnt change  the outcome. 
I understand that what Ive said will come  as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out 
the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.  
Ref: DRN56347703my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5634770