K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained about Advantage Insurance  Company Limiteds handling of claims 
against his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
background
Mr F was involved in two accidents within a short space of time. The first in February 2017 
when his car was hit by a stolen vehicle.  The second in April 2017 when both drivers blamed 
each other  for the accident. Advantage  settled both claims as fault claims against Mr Fs 
insurance history.
Mr F wasn't  happy with Advantages service and decisions so he complained. Advantage  
agreed that some of its service could have been better. And it paid Mr F compensation 
amounting to £150 as a result. Mr F remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator thought Advantage had dealt with Mr Fs complaint reasonably.  Mr F didnt 
agree so his complaint's been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Our investigator looked at number of aspects  of Mr F's complaint including the liability  
decision for the April 2017  claim and the increase in his premium. But in response to the 
investigators assessment  Mr F has focused  his comments  on the way Advantage dealt with 
and categorised the February 2017 claim.  So Ive limited my comments  to that specific 
complaint in this decision.
Mr Fs car was hit by a stolen car and the thief wasn't caught. And Mr F was in no way to 
blame for that. So I can understand  how frustrating he must find it that - through no fault of 
his own - the claim for the damage  to his car is now recorded as a fault claim,  which  is 
affecting his insurance  premiums. But that doesn't mean Advantage has done anything  
wrong.
It might help if I explain that the term fault when referring to an insurance claim is slightly  
misleading. In an insurance  context  fault doesn't necessarily mean that the policyholder 
has done anything  wrong. Instead insurers use the term to refer to a situation  where  they 
haven't been able to recover their outlay  - what theyve paid out to settle a claim - from 
another source. And thats the situation  here.  That is, because the other car was stolen 
Advantage had no-one to recover its outlay from. So it recorded  the claim as fault.
Mr Fs said that Advantage  misled him about  this but I don't think  it did. I've seen that 
Advantage sent Mr F an email in which it said it would try to recover  its outlay from the 
insurer of the stolen car. That's because if it turned out that the car wasn't stolen then the 
insurer of the stolen car would have been responsible  for settling  the claim. So I think it was 
reasonable that it told Mr F that it would try and reclaim its outlay from the other  insurer at 
the outset, although it wasn't successful in doing  so.
Ref: DRN57877982Mr F also said that Advantage should  have tried to recover  its outlay  from the Motor  Insurers  
Bureau (MIB). But I don't think thats  a route  thats  generally available for insurers  like 
Advantage. As I understand it the MIB exists  to operate a UK Government scheme  to 
compensate victims of motor accidents  for uninsured losses.  So I don't think  it exits to repay  
insurers for their outlay. And the MIB isn't itself an insurer, instead  it pays  compensation 
where no insurance cover exists.  
Mr Fs said that if Advantage  had given him full advice about the process with the MIB at the 
outset then he would have gone  about  things differently. He said he would have pursued his 
losses privately through the MIB. But I think hes mistaken. My understanding  is that any 
such claim would be bound to fail. 
Ill explain  that, as far as Im aware, the scheme  the MIB operates  currently only covers 
uninsured losses.  But Mr F was insured for the damage to his car by his policy with 
Advantage. So the claim for the damage  to his car wasn't an uninsured loss. And the MIBs 
advice when making a claim to it is that claimants  must in the first instance approach their 
own motor insurers. Also its booklet titled Guide  to Making a Motor Insurers  Bureau Claim 
says that where  a driver  has comprehensive  insurance then the MIB cannot  deal with your 
vehicle damage  claim.  You should  make  a claim for repair with your own insurer.  So as 
Mr F had comprehensive insurance  I think its unlikely he could have made a successful 
claim to the MIB for the damage to his car. So I don't think  Advantage was under any 
obligation to explain  the process  further.
I understand the MIB has accepted a personal  injury claim from Mr F for the same incident.  
But a personal injury claim isn't something  that his policy with Advantage covered him for. 
So it was an uninsured loss and the MIB applies different rules when looking at such  claims. 
It follows that, while I can understand why Mr F thinks  its unfair  that his premium  is now 
being affected by a claim he had no control over, I don't  think that situation has arisen 
because Advantage did anything wrong.. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman   
Ref: DRN5787798