K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr B bought the policy in 1996  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  Due to the time 
that has passed, its not clear whether Mr B applied for his credit  card by post or in branch. It 
has been assumed  by Barclays it may have been applied  for by the application form being 
completed in branch  in the presence of a customer  advisor. It has taken this approach  as 
this would require  it to assess suitability for Mr B which  would require a higher level of care 
than only providing  information for Mr B to assess  himself.
At the time,  Mr B was employed for 30 hours  each week  as an Architectural Technologist.  In 
this role he has told us he was entitled to sick pay of up to three months  and been entitled  to 
some redundancy pay. He has also indicated he had no savings or other means  of repaying 
his credit card should he be unable to work.  Mr B also had a second, part
-time job for around 16 hours each week which paid an hourly rate that was less than the 
minimum wage.  
Mr B has said he was in good  health  at the time of the sale. However,  he has indicated  that 
some six years before taking out this policy  he had had some joint pain in his foot and been 
to hospital. He was on crutches  for a short time and took paracetamol.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment and also life cover  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 10% of Mr Bs credit card balance 
in the event of a successful claim.  The amount of the premium paid each month  is not 
known. Neither party  has been able to provide  evidence of this. It would have cost a 
percentage of the monthly outstanding balance. This is likely to have been between  £0.75p  
and £0.85p per £100 of balance. The actual amount charged each month  would have been 
shown on Mr Bs statements.  The premium  would continue to have to be paid during  a 
successful claim  and it did attract interest.  
Barclays has sent us screenshots  to show that the credit card account closed in September 
2004, but the PPI ended in February  2000.
Mr Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Bs representative says:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr B wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Bs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN51943202The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Barclays should have 
told Mr B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclays should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr B and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and 
The information Mr B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
Although initially  Mr Bs representative  submitted  that the policy excluded or limited  claims 
for back pain and stress,  so reducing the value of the policy, following  our adjudicators  
opinion Mr Bs representative argued that even if these conditions were not specifically 
excluded, it suspected there were other  exclusions that had not been considered.
Also the issues about costs information,  poor value for money and the fairness  of the 
approach were all reemphasised. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
Ref: DRN51943203s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Barclays at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Bs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Barclays was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Mr B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
Ref: DRN51943204-Whether Barclays gave Mr B sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr B suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr B and 
Barclays, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mr B know  he had a choice?
Barclays had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
The application form for the credit  card account included  at section 7 an option about 
whether Mr B wanted to take out PPI to cover his account repayments in certain 
circumstances. 
In this section there are both Yes and No boxes to choose if the PPI is wanted or not. 
Against each of these  boxes is some information.  Next to the Yes box it indicates that the 
consumer is choosing the cover which means  the credit card account will be covered against 
Unemployment, Accident, Sickness and Death. It also authorises  the monthly premiums to 
be charged to the account. Mr B has ticked this Yes box on his application. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its most  likely that Mr B knew  the policy was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Barclays provide  advice?
Mr B has said he made his application by post.  However, Barclays  says that isnt clear and it 
is possible the application was made in branch by completing the form there with a customer  
advisor. So Barclays has said it would  assume  that advice was provided  during this sale. I 
think this is a fair assumption  to make in this particular case, as it places a higher level of 
care on Barclays  as it had to assess the suitability of the policy for Mr B, not just provide 
information for him to assess.
So, this means Barclays  had to advise Mr B with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Barclays may have  taken to establish whether the policy  was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr B. There is no record of what the adviser may have 
discussed in relation to the policy. The adviser  had some limited information about  Mr Bs 
financial circumstances from other information entered  on the application  form, but there is 
no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps  to establish whether Mr B would have 
been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  
Ref: DRN51943205did not fully meet his needs. For example, there is nothing to suggest  Barclays  considered 
whether Mr B had any pre-existing  medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities I am not persuaded that Barclays did all it should 
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr B given his circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded Barclays advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Barclays did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr B, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr B had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr Bs ability to continue to meet  
his credit card repayments  would  have been  put under strain  if he was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for the redundancy benefits  and sick 
pay benefits he says he would have been entitled  to.
-Ive seen nothing  else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt  affordable  and it 
appeared on Mr Bs statements each  month.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr B. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Bs employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  for 
him to claim. Although  Mr B had a second  job this was paid below minimum wage 
and not subject to National Insurance contributions. Therefore, it would not have 
affected a claim and the income from this part time role was minimal.
-Mr B hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical conditions  that could affect his 
ability to claim. He has told us about some joint pain that occurred  in 1990 when he 
attended hospital and had to use crutches  for a short  time.  He indicates he could not 
work for one weekend.  But this appears to be a one-off incident and the policy only 
restricted claims for sickness when medical treatment for a condition  had been 
sought in the 12 months  immediately before the starting date. So this condition 
doesnt appear to be caught by the policy  limitations and exclusions. There were also 
no additional  restrictions on cover  for mental  health or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident sickness and unemployment,  it still provided useful cover given Mr Bs 
circumstances and the fact the policy could have cleared his outstanding  card 
balance.
-The policy also included life cover  which  would  clear  the balance  on the credit card 
up to a maximum of £30,000.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Barclays  gave Mr B sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what 
Barclays was recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow 
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Ref: DRN51943206Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr B was given a very broad  description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect his card payments in the 
event he was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mr B would have been told this  at the very least   during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mr B would have taken out the policy without 
any sense of what the policy was. The application  form he signed also described the policy  
as covering unemployment, accident,  sickness and death as I indicated earlier, which would 
have given him some idea of what the policy was for.
I am also satisfied Mr B would have  realised the policy  wasnt free and its likely he would 
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out. He 
agreed by selecting  the PPI and signing the form that the premiums could be charged to his 
account. 
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Barclays gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that as the premiums 
would be added to the account balance they would  attract interest  if unpaid  at the end of the 
month, and were payable  during a claim) or about the exclusions and limitations, before 
Mr B agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied that the policy  was a suitable recommendation for Mr B, Im not persuaded Barclays  
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to Mr B. Im not persuaded  that Barclays gave Mr B all of the information 
he needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Bs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr B about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
Ref: DRN51943207good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Barclays ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Barclayss shortcomings  have on Mr B? To what extent  did Mr B suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr B. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr B suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr B would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Barclays done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Barclays took the steps it should have done  to establish 
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Mr B, Ive found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr B has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Barclays had explained things 
properly, Mr B would  have acted differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in 
any event.
Mr B says he would  not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr B had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Barclays advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his credit card payments in the event  he was unable  
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Bs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr B ought  reasonably to have known  he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But, I 
accept that Barclays  didnt make clear  the on-going cost information.  So while Mr B didnt  
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to 
take out the policy on and found  acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr B thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN51943208The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr B knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy  for which he had seen a 
doctor in the preceding 12 months;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Mr B pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the 
policy wasnt as good as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr B from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
he wouldve been  caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mr B didnt  have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr B 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.  
Although Mr B had a second part-time  job when  the PPI was taken out, the policy definition 
of unemployed  is having no work  and paying  the correct  class of National Insurance 
contributions. Mr Bs second  job was paid a nominal  hourly  rate which  was less than the 
minimum wage,  and any earnings would not have been subject to National Insurance  
contributions. So, he would still have been  able to make a claim if he became unemployed 
from his main job. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest  he wouldve been caught  by 
any of the significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy 
out.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr B would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting and he didnt have any means of meeting his credit card 
repayments if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness and redundancy. And in 
those circumstances,  I consider it more  likely  than not that he would have taken out the 
policy in any event.  
Mr Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN51943209I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr B would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr B 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr B in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Barclays should pay Mr B compensation, as that would  put him in a better position 
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr B thinks Barclays misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Barclayss statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Barclays  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Barclays  gave Mr B, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 1996 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Barclays negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr B and about  the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Barclays had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr B in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN519432010Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2021.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5194320