K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC failed  to update  her address and sent a 
replacement debit card to her previous address.
background
Miss K says she called Barclays  in March 2019  to order a replacement debit card and to tell 
Barclays her new address. She says Barclays sent the new card to her previous address 
and she had to call Barclays  again  and whilst doing so she dropped  and damaged her 
telephone. Miss K says Barclays should  pay compensation for the damage and its 
compensation offer doesnt go far enough  in any event, as she was without a debit  card for 
some time for her account.
Barclays accepts it made  a mistake and didnt update its records when Miss K called it. It 
has apologised and paid Miss K compensation of £100 and a further £20 for her call costs.  
Barclays says it wasnt responsible for Miss K dropping her telephone and will not pay for 
any damage to it.
Miss K brought her complaint to us but our investigator thought Barclays  had dealt fairly with 
it. The investigator thought Barclays had acted  quickly in apologising and arranging  a new 
debit card. She also thought the compensation was fair and reasonable but didnt think  
Barclays was responsible for Miss K dropping  her telephone.
Miss K doesnt accept  that view and has asked that it be reviewed. She says the 
compensation is not a reasonable amount and maintains that if she didnt have to call 
Barclays then she wouldnt have dropped the telephone.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Miss K will be disappointed  by my decision.
There is no question here that Barclays made a mistake by not updating Miss Ks address 
and then sending  a replacement card to her previous address. I have no doubt Miss K was 
caused inconvenience in having to call Barclays  again about what  had happened  and in 
having to wait just over week for a replacement  card. I also accept that she would have been 
worried about the security  of her account when  the debit card was sent to the wrong 
address. 
But Im satisfied that Barclays has apologised for its mistake and did so when Miss K called 
it for the second  time.  Im also satisfied that it reordering the card and offered  Miss K what I 
think is fair and reasonable amount of compensation of £120.  I think that compensation offer 
fairly reflects the level of inconvenience Miss K was caused. And takes into account  that she 
didnt suffer any financial loss over and above the call costs and that her account was not 
compromised in any way as a result  of what happened.
I accept that Miss K dropped her telephone when she called Barclays. But I cant  fairly hold 
Barclays responsible  for that. So I cant fairly  order that Barclays pay for any repair costs or 
for a replacement telephone.
Ref: DRN51145962Overall Im satisfied Barclays has fairly  dealt  with Miss Ks complaint and so I cant ask it to 
do anything further  in the circumstances  of this complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC has paid a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation and I dont  require it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5114596