K822xcomplaint
A a charity,  complains about delays and poor service by HSBC  UK Bank Plc after its 
trustees were asked to provide personal  information as part of a safeguarding review. A is 
represented in its complaint  by Mr F and Mrs Y. 
background 
A has two accounts with HSBC, one in its name and one for another  part of the charity called 
F. Mr F and Mrs Y say both A and F are the same legal entity and share a charity number, 
but each has a separate account with HSBC. 
In March 2017, HSBC wrote to A asking the trustees  to provide personal information  in order  
to satisfy the banks  safeguarding process. A says it sent the required information  and heard 
nothing further  until December 2017 when  the information was requested again. Each time 
the bank wrote to A, it said it would close As accounts if the information wasnt  received. 
After much correspondence on both sides the safeguarding review was completed  in May 
2018.
A complained because  it felt the whole  process had been inefficiently handled by HSBC.  
Paperwork provided  had gone missing despite having been  acknowledged, appointments 
were made to go through  the review without its agreement and the threats to close  the 
accounts caused distress  to its trustees and officers. 
HSBC looked  into the complaint and sent its final response.  It acknowledged that customers 
affected by its reviews would be inconvenienced by its requests. It went  on to explain it had 
requested the information to help to protect accounts, the integrity of the financial system 
and that it supported the significant regulatory  reforms  taking place across  the industry. It 
agreed that the service A had received had fallen short of what  was expected  and gave 
feedback to those staff involved. 
F made a similar complaint and was awarded  compensation by HSBC.
A referred  its complaint to us and one of our adjudicators looked into it. When HSBC sent its 
file to us, it made an offer of £100  compensation to A. Our adjudicator acknowledged the 
inconvenience A and its trustees had been put to, and said she felt that the offer now on the 
table was a fair and reasonable  way to resolve the complaint.  
Mr F and Mrs Y didnt agree. They said the amount offered was an insult and lacking in any 
human decency.  They  reiterated that A and F are one and the same charity and asked why 
F had been offered a larger sum than A when the situation was the same. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fs complaint has been looked at separately. Our adjudicator wrote to Mr F and Mrs Y in 
December 2018  endorsing an offer made by HSBC to F as a reasonable way to resolve it. F 
didnt respond  to that letter, so the complaint is now closed. Ill not comment further  on that.
Ref: DRN58388892HSBC confirmed in May 2018 that the safeguarding review was complete and its not in 
dispute that HSBC could  have handled things better for A. So I dont need  to comment in 
detail on those issues. What I do need to consider is whether or not the banks offer to pay 
the charity £100  is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint. 
When we consider awards  of compensation, we consider  the impact  on the customer  of 
what went wrong. In this case, the customer of the HSBC is the charity, A. From what Ive 
seen the charity continued  to go about its business during that period  perhaps  largely  due 
to the effort  and goodwill of its trustees  and officers. So I cant say theres been any adverse 
impact on A as a result of the safeguarding  process.
I acknowledge the trustees and officers  of A  especially Mr F and Mrs Y  were  caused 
inconvenience during the course of the safeguarding review. But as A is the customer in this 
relationship, I cant award compensation to them for their personal inconvenience.  
Mr F and Mrs Y have asked why F was awarded  a greater sum than A for a similar 
complaint. HSBC is free to pay compensation of any amount in any circumstances it 
chooses but our powers to do so are limited by the rules that govern our service. I cant  
comment here on what was paid to F and the rights  and wrongs  of that, I can only deal with 
the complaint  thats been brought  to me. 
In the circumstances and for the reasons set out above, while I cant  make  an award to A, I 
note the bank has offered to do so. I think that is a fair and reasonable way to resolve  the 
complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold As complaint.  I think HSBC  UK Bank Plcs offer to pay A 
£100 is a reasonable way to resolve it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5838889