K820x#14complaint
Mrs C and Mr C are unhappy  with the service  they received from CIS General Insurance 
Limited with regards to their home  insurance  policy.
background
Mrs C and Mr C said damp patches  had begun to appear on the walls of their front room  and 
dining room. They discovered their neighbours had been carrying  out some work after a 
burst pipe. So they contacted their insurer but were initially told the claim would be declined.  
They had to answer a lot of questions about  the claim and their tenancy agreement. CIS 
eventually accepted the claim. But theyre unhappy with the way things have been  handled.  
And they say £100 compensation isnt enough for the distress theyve been  put through.
CIS said Mrs C had reported a leak from a neighbouring property that was causing  damage  
to their house. Itd initially declined  the claim as the leak came from the neighbours pipe. But 
the claim shouldve  been investigated further and CIS apologised. CIS said there was a 
separate concern as the property wasnt owned  by Mrs C and Mr C. And it thought the 
owners had also taken out insurance in their own name. So itd made reasonable inquiries  to 
clarify the situation.  CIS apologised  for any distress or inconvenience caused while matters 
were being  investigated. And it paid £100 compensation for any distress or inconvenience.
Mrs C and Mr C werent  satisfied with CISs  response. So they contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She went carefully through  the chain of events between  
Mrs C and Mr C and their insurer and with CIS who underwrote the policy. And she could 
see theyd had to chase a number of times  to try and get things resolved before being told 
their claim had been accepted.
Our investigator appreciated how frustrating it mustve been. But she was satisfied with 
CISs explanation for the delay after theyd challenged  the initial decision to decline the 
claim. CIS needed  to clarify certain  information.  And the claim had been accepted just over a 
month after itd been  raised.  So she felt the £100 compensation was fair and reasonable. 
And she wouldnt ask CIS to do anything more.
Mrs C and Mr C didnt think that was enough  for the stress and inconvenience  theyd 
suffered. Theyd answered questions accurately and truthfully when theyd taken out the 
policy. So CIS couldve raised any queries about the ownership then. And they said the 
property wasnt dual-insured. Theyd told CIS on a number of occasions that they were  the 
only ones with insurance for the property. Mrs C and Mr C said theyd suffered considerable 
stress while chasing a response. And they feel compensation of nearer £1000 is appropriate. 
So theyve asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It mustve  been very worrying  for Mrs C and Mr C when  they noticed  damp beginning to 
spread across the walls  of their home. When they tried to report it to their insurance 
company they were  initially  told the claim would be declined. And they had to chase on a 
number of occasions to get matters resolved. So Ive looked very carefully to see if CIS 
needs to do anything more to put things right.
Ref: DRN59938442Our investigator provided a detailed timeline in her view, so I wont repeat it all here. But I 
will refer to the areas that are relevant to my decision. Mrs C and Mr C are tenants in a 
property owned  by Mrs Cs parents. Theres  an agreement that Mrs C and Mr C will be 
responsible for maintaining and repairing the property. And the agreement  says they must 
also take out suitable insurance.
When Mrs C reported the leak they were  told it wasnt covered on their home  insurance  
policy. They  thought about claiming  against the neighbours insurance. But after checking 
the policy documents Mrs C thought they should be covered for an escape  of water.  
When they were told they werent covered as the leak was outside the boundary  Mrs C 
queried the decision. But she had to chase for a response. She was then told they shouldnt 
have taken out buildings insurance as they were  private tenants.  And they had to provide 
confirmation of the tenancy agreement to show they were responsible for obtaining buildings  
insurance for the property.
Mrs C and Mr C say theyve complied with every request for more  information. They  had to 
chase for about  eight  weeks  before  they were told their claim would be honoured. So I can 
appreciate how stressful  this mustve been  for Mrs C and Mr C. They  feel theyve only got a 
positive response  because of their persistence. And it mustve  been very frustrating to have 
to answer so many questions about  their policy and the tenancy when they say theyd 
already provided  the information  when  they took out the insurance.
But I dont think CIS was suggesting  theyd  done  anything wrong. It needed  to clarify the 
exact situation in relation to the tenancy to avoid any problems  in terms of financial 
ownership or liability. Normally a building would be insured  by the owner  as landlord as they 
have the financial  interest in the property. So I cant say CIS acted unreasonably in doing  so. 
It needed to be sure the correct insurance  policy was in place  for both this claim and when 
providing future cover.
Mrs C and Mr C feel the £100  offered doesnt cover the delays and stress theyve been 
through. But I think CIS has provided  a reasonable explanation for the delay in considering 
the claim while it checked the tenancy  situation. And it then referred the policy  wording for 
senior review before  agreeing  to accept the claim.  So I think  the matter has been dealt with 
in a reasonable timeframe taking into account  whats happened.
CIS has accepted  Mrs C and Mr C werent given the level of service it wants to provide. And 
there were delays while it confirmed certain information and reviewed the policy  wording. So 
its only right Mrs C and Mr C are compensated for their trouble and upset.
I do recognise how frustrating this mustve been while the matter  was being dealt with. And I 
know Mrs C and Mr C think the £100 compensation paid isnt enough. But based on what 
Ive seen I think thats a fair and reasonable response. And its in line with the sort of award  
this service normally makes. So I wont be asking CIS to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 August  2020.
Ref: DRN59938443Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5993844