K821x#15complaint
Miss K has complained about her let property insurer Amtrust Europe  Limited  because  it 
wont agree  to carry out all of the repairs she feels are necessary  at her property due to 
subsidence that Amtrust  accepts has occurred.
background
Miss K bought a property  in 2003. In March 2017  she contacted Amtrust as shed  noticed  
cracking. Amtrust appointed a loss adjuster to assess  the damage  and consider the claim.  
He visited Miss Ks home  in April 2017.  He felt the issues at Miss Ks property were 
longstanding and Amtrust initially declined the claim.
Amtrust later reviewed matters and said, as the property was still moving, it would agree to 
liability for stabilisation works to stop the movement. But only if Miss K agreed that it wouldnt 
repair any of the damage.
Miss K was unhappy and complained to this service. Around that time Amtrust said it would  
carry out some damage repairs in addition to the stabilisation works. Essentially it would 
repair anything that had resulted  from movement since  it began offering cover for the 
property. The loss adjuster obtained  a quote  from a stabilisation specialist and created a 
scope for damage repairs which he put to tender. Having received all the costs Amtrust 
decided to settle  the matter by making a payment to Miss K.
Miss K was unhappy, she thought it had gone  back on its agreement to carry out all repairs. 
She also pointed out that a window wouldnt close and work for this hadnt  been included  in 
the schedule.  She said this had been pointed out to her by the contractor who had visited as 
part of its tender process.
Amtrust said it was satisfied that the scope of work its surveyor had produced  reflected  the 
work necessary to carry out damage  repairs it was liable for. It said that whilst it had
intended to carry out the work initially, as there was work it wasnt  liable for completing it was 
more appropriate  that it settle the claim in cash. Miss K complained to this service.
Our investigator  felt it wasnt fair for Amtrust  to settle this claim in cash; that it should  do the 
repairs. And he felt that as it was clear  movement was still occurring, Amtrust should  accept 
the problem with the window had resulted from that and fix it.
Amtrust said it had never carried out any work  at Miss Ks property  or appointed contractors. 
It had only ever sought  estimates for repair. Amtrust said it would be prepared  to consider 
the problem with the window, but didnt think it was fair to say it should repair it without 
further investigation being allowed.
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  was passed to me. I felt Amtrust couldnt  
reasonably seek  to settle the claim in cash. I also thought it needed to review  what damage 
it would  be repairing to ensure it fixed any subsidence damage caused during the term of its 
cover and, if necessary  any older  damage  where  repairing this is required to carry out repair 
of damage caused  during its term of cover. I explained that would include a review of the 
windows to see if any that arent opening  and/or closing properly are suffering subsidence 
damage, and if they are fix them.
Ref: DRN56321052Miss K said she was happy  with my findings. Amtrust felt it should only have to carry out 
stabilisation works and that settling in cash for any remaining crack repairs  was fair. 
Ive copied my provisional findings below and inserted Amtrusts objections at relevant 
points, along with my responses to those objections.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so Amtrusts points havent 
changed my view on this complaint, including how it should be resolved.
I said provisionally:
Amtrusts policy provides  for it settling claims in cash. But it gives itself a choice  of settling  
by carrying our repairs if it wants  to. However, what the policy says in this respect isnt 
relevant here. Thats because Amtrust  moved away from the policy terms when  it elected  to 
repair Miss Ks property. Amtrust didnt  just have a surveyor cost the work that needed doing 
at Miss Ks home, it told her it would do the repairs and it put the repairs  out to tender. 
Tender is not a costing exercise.  It is the first stage of the process to appoint contractors. 
Having elected  to repair, Amtrust cant just change its mind. 
In response Amtrust said that initiating the tender process was just a way of costing the 
work. It didnt equate  to it electing  to carry out that repair. Amtrust said that as it didnt elect  
to repair  the above ground damage  it should  be allowed to settle  for that work in cash as is 
its right under the policy, but it would carry out the stabilisation works. 
Electing to repair means the whole repair. There are no grounds for portioning  off the 
different aspects of the work. So if Im satisfied Amtrust elected to repair then it has to repair  
everything, and cant reasonably seek to rely on its policy terms, regarding settling in cash, 
in respect of part of that work.    
I accept that putting  work to tender does result  in a price being achieved for that work.  But it 
is a price that is linked  to the contractor that has provided it. And that contractor provides 
that price on the basis that it will be offered the work  if their price  is the most competitive. So 
it isnt just a pricing  exercise  it is the first stage of a contractor being selected for work to 
be carried out. A pure pricing exercise can be, and often is, carried out by a surveyor. Or 
sometimes the agreed scope is passed  to the policyholder for them  to seek  prices from their 
local contractors. Im satisfied that here Amtrust initially intended to repair the property and 
this was signified by it seeking tenders from contractors for that work. In doing that Im 
satisfied it elected  to repair the property  and that is something it cant  now fairly back  out of. 
My provisional findings continued:
The only situations  where I might say Amtrust could  reasonably settle in cash is if Miss K 
had asked it to, which she hasnt, or made it impossible  (not just more complicated or 
difficult) for it carry out work. Ive seen no evidence of that.
In response Amtrust said that as soon as the contractor attended to price  the work  Miss K 
tried to talk them into increasing  the scope. 
Ref: DRN56321053I wasnt at the property so cant know for sure what transpired. But even if I accepted  that 
Miss K tried to persuade  the contractor into doing  things  that werent on the scope that 
wouldnt amount  to frustration. To frustrate  the contract for repair  Miss K would have to act in 
such a way that it was impossible or dangerous for the agreement  to continue. Ive seen no 
signs of that. And I said provisionally (see below) that if Amtrust continues with the work it 
has elected to do it can maintain  more control  of the situation  a competent  loss adjuster or 
surveyor will be able to manage  the repair process  to ensure only work Amtrust  is liable for 
is done.
My provisional findings continued:
I know  Amtrust feels there are issues with the bay part of the property that it isnt responsible 
for resolving (lateral movement and a failed lintel).  But it knew  of those  issues when it 
elected to repair. And it seems it felt the subsidence damage could be repaired in isolation 
from the other issues anyway.
Whilst I know Amtrust thinks  Miss K wants more  work doing than it is prepared to accept  , in 
completing the repairs it elected to carry out, it will be in control of what  work is being  done 
and/or Miss K is requesting to be done. So it will be able manage the situation to ensure that 
only the work it accepts  lability for is completed. But it will also be able to manage  the 
situation if additional work is found  to be necessary  in order to allow the repairs  it accepts it
is liable  for to be completed, or because further  subsidence  damage is identified. I would  at 
this stage point  out to Amtrust that if, in order to complete repairs  it is liable for, it has to 
complete some works  on earlier damage, it would be expected  to do so.
In respect of additional subsidence damage, it has been identified that at least  one window 
may not be closing properly. Whilst this wasnt on the initial scope created by Amtrust, it 
seems that scope may have been created anywhere between  one and three months before 
the problem was discovered. And its clear the property is still moving. So, whilst  I know 
there is other damage  to the bay that might  cause this type of problem, I think its reasonable 
to say Amtrust  should consider whether this issue with the window has been caused by the 
ongoing subsidence movement. If it has itll have to fix it.
Given the time that has passed already without the property having been  stabilised, it may 
be that other damage has occurred.  Therefore, once the property has been  stabilised 
Amtrust should  review the damage and create a new scope for repair, to include all damage 
caused as a result of the subsidence movement during the period it is liable for and any 
older damage it needs to repair in order to fulfil its liability.
Its clear Miss K has been upset by Amtrusts actions.  I think it should  pay her £150 
compensation.
Amtrust noted that my decision differed somewhat from that issued by our investigator.  It 
said it shouldnt be penalised for not having  accepted the investigators findings.
My outcome  is a little different. That is why a provisional decision was issued. My 
compensation award though is made because Im satisfied that Miss K was caused distress  
and inconvenience  when Amtrust  unfairly offered her a cash  settlement after it had elected 
to repair  her property. My view on that remains the same.
Overall, having considered Amtrusts  response  to my provisional findings, I remain satisfied 
that my provisional findings set out a fair and reasonable decision for this complaint. They, 
Ref: DRN56321054along with the parties  responses  and my current comments, now form part of this final 
decision. 
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint. I require Amtrust Europe  Limited to carry out subsidence repairs at 
Miss Ks property. It will have to carry out stabilisation works and then review  the damage  
and create  a new scope  for repair,  to include all damage caused as a result of the 
subsidence movement  during the period it is liable for and any older damage it needs to 
repair in order to fulfil its liability (to reinstate the house).
I also require  Amtrust Europe Limited to pay Miss K £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5632105