K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service hes received from Ageas Retail  Limited.
background
Mr C held home and contents  insurance  for a number of years  which  included  cover for 
certain legal  expenses. The cover  was arranged by Ageas  Retail Limited although  the 
product was branded in the name  of another company. 
In 2013 Mr C made a claim  for assistance  in relation to a nuisance regarding  trees  that were 
overhanging his property. This claim was considered by the legal expenses provider at the 
time, a company  Ill refer to as D. And Mr C says he was advised  to pursue matters with his 
local council. 
In 2016 the legal expenses insurance (LEI) provider of Mr Cs policy changed  from D to 
another insurer, A. By 2018 the situation  still hadnt been resolved and Mr C contacted  the 
legal helpline  associated  with his policy wanting  to take legal action. He was sent a claim 
form by As claims handler.
Mr C again contacted Ageas Retail and said that he wanted to select  his own solicitor to 
represent him. Ageas Retail referred Mr C back to A. They explained that As claims handler 
administers the policy on As behalf and theyd asked them  to respond  as Ageas Retail  
were unable to assist. 
Mr C continued to correspond with Ageas Retail in relation to his complaint. In September 
2018 Ageas  Retail  provided their final response to Mr Cs complaint. They said that D had 
written to Mr C in May 2016 to ask if he wished to pursue the claim hed initially  made in 
2013 and they hadnt received  a response. They advised him that if the overhanging trees  
were the same as those  relating  to the 2013 claim,  hed need to contact D in relation to this. 
This was because D were  his LEI insurer  at the time. Ageas Retail acknowledged that Mr C 
was unhappy  to use As claims handler  and particularly one of their panel solicitors. But they 
explained A wouldnt appoint a solicitor  to assess a claim. To acknowledge that some  of their 
previous replies  hadnt fully addressed Mr Cs concerns they included  a cheque  for £100 as 
a gesture of goodwill.  
Mr C wasnt happy with this and referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators  
didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. She said that as the broker who arranged the 
policy Ageas  Retail  werent responsible for claims decisions. So she couldnt ask them  to 
address Mr Cs concerns  about being  able to choose a solicitor  to assess his claim. She 
recommended that Mr C contact As claims handler if he wished to progress his claim. 
Mr C doesnt accept  this and has asked for an ombudsman  to review his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for largely the same reasons. 
Its common for large insurers to have  other  businesses handle  claims on their behalf. And I 
can quite understand why this sometimes leads to confusion over which  business is 
Ref: DRN55725162responsible for what. Particularly  when there  are different trading names and different parts 
of the same  overall  business group involved. 
In the circumstances of this complaint,  Ageas Retail arranged Mr Cs policy (under a 
different trading name), but they arent  his insurer. The insurer  in relation to the LEI was D 
and is currently A. And it is the respective insurers who are ultimately responsible for all 
decisions in relation to claims being made.  
So whilst I can understand why Mr C addressed  his concerns to Ageas Retail,  they have 
limited responsibility. I would, however, still expect them to give appropriate advice to a 
customer who is making enquiries about their policy or a claim. And overall,  Im satisfied 
Ageas Retail  have done this. 
Ageas Retail  correctly referred  Mr Cs concerns to the appropriate insurers  and advised him 
of this. They also offered  him £100  as a gesture of goodwill for not initially  responding to all 
the points Mr C raised. This is what Id expect them to do and I dont think they need  to do 
more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5572516