K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complained she was mis-sold a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
by Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS).
background
Mrs S took out the PPI in April 2002 when she applied for a credit card.  BoS said the sale 
took place during a meeting and that Mrs S was advised to take the cover. Mrs S couldnt  
remember much about the sale, but said she wasnt given  a choice about taking the PPI, 
and didnt need it as she had good employee  benefits.
The policy cost 78p per £100.00 owed. If Mrs S had successfully claimed on the policy  for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, each month  it wouldve  paid out 10% of the balance 
outstanding when she stopped work.  This wouldve carried on for up to 12 months per claim. 
The policy also provided life and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that BoS mis-sold the policy, 
so didnt uphold  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS sent in a copy of Mrs Ss credit  card agreement. This shows  a cross in a box to say that 
she wanted PPI (but no cross in a second  box relating to another  insurance product). The 
cross was pre-printed  but so was all the other information  on the agreement,  including  Mrs 
Ss income  and employment details. So I think its likely that the form was printed out after a 
discussion with the adviser  and that the PPI formed part of that discussion. I consider it 
reasonable to think that Mrs S would have  looked  over the form she signed, even if only 
briefly. So, on balance,  I think  Mrs S was given a choice  about whether to take the PPI - and 
that she decided  to do so. I think she probably just doesnt remember  it after all this time.
Im satisfied that BoS advised Mrs S to take out the policy.  So it had to make sure that the 
cover was suitable for her. I think it was. 
As Ive said,  I cant know how the adviser verbally explained the PPI, or the things  not 
covered by the policy. But I cant  see that Mrs S wouldve been affected by any of these.  
Mrs S said she would have been entitled to sick pay from her employer of six months  full 
pay and six months half pay, and she wouldve had some redundancy pay. But she had no 
other savings to rely on. On balance I think she couldve  found it difficult to make the monthly 
payments on the card once her sick pay reduced  or if shed lost her job  and Ive kept in 
mind that the policy couldve  paid out for up to 12 months per claim and in addition to her 
employee benefits. So I dont think there was anything wrong with BoS recommending  the 
PPI. 
Ref: DRN52718782Ive also considered the information that BoS mightve given Mrs S. As Ive said, I cant  know 
how the adviser explained the policy, or at what point Mrs S mightve  been  given the policy 
summary or the full policy document. So its possible the information about the cost and 
benefits may not have been  as clear as it shouldve been. 
However, given Mrs Ss circumstances, I dont  think more detailed information  about the cost 
and benefits wouldve changed her decision to take the policy.  It couldve provided useful 
protection if shed  been unable to work. 
Overall, I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need to refund everything Mrs S 
paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mrs S back  some  of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
I understand BoS has already made this payment to Mrs S.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5271878