K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained about the difficulties he had with Santander UK plc. He wasnt able 
to withdraw cash from a cash machine and he was unhappy with the way Santander  dealt 
with him.
background
On 19 August 2017 Mr T tried to withdraw some money from a cash  machine. This 
transaction was blocked. He phoned  Santander to find out what  had been going  on. He was 
told that his card use at cash  machines had been  blocked as hed exceeded the monthly  
number of withdrawals  allowed. Mr T had already made a few calls to Santander,  been  left 
hanging on waiting  and was promised a call back which he didnt get for a couple of days. 
Santander apologised for the delay and gave Mr T £20 in compensation.
Mr T was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service. In his 
detailed letter he also complained about the difficulties  hed had in getting cash  out of his 
account whilst hed been recently  overseas. He also mentioned that this could be seriously 
concerning and life-impacting. So for example when he was delayed  from getting back  from 
abroad following  the Icelandic  volcanic  disruption,  he also suffered  from dreadful 
communication from his bank.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This included evidence from Santander about the 
withdrawal limits when using a cash machine. Although this wasnt included in Santanders 
terms and conditions, they confirmed customers could only use a cash  machine a maximum 
of 50 times  a month.  This was set for security reasons.
In Mr Ts case, hed just returned from overseas. Hed had to make many  small cash  
withdrawals from cash  machines. This was why hed now exceeded his monthly limit.
Whilst it was understandable Mr T was concerned about having limits placed on accessing 
his own money, our investigator didnt think Santander had done anything  wrong. 
Mr T didnt  agree with the investigator. He felt that Santander had acted unfairly. And our 
investigator hadnt understood how strongly  he felt about the problems  hed experienced.
Mr Ts complaint has been  referred to an ombudsman for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached roughly the 
same conclusion as our investigator.
Firstly I should say its clear how strongly Mr T feels  about this issue. Hes conveyed this to 
us eloquently.  And what I say in this decision shouldnt be taken to mean  Ive not taken this 
into account when  deciding whether Santander should do anything further.
Weve been sent calls by Santander  when Mr T first had difficulty  getting money out of the 
cash machine. I appreciate how frustrating this experience can be. Although  Mr T said this 
would cause him problems in using  his card after it was stopped,  I cant see from his 
statements this was the case.  His card was used frequently  after this period. And as he said 
in his own letter to us I eventually  paid by the swipe method.
Ref: DRN52900112I also didnt know about the monthly  limit Santander sets on their customers for the number 
of cash machine withdrawals. But as our investigator explained all banks set certain security  
protocols to protect consumers from fraudulent activity. Individual banks are able to set 
these themselves and I can see this is what Santander  did here. There  is nothing  wrong  with 
these. Even  though this limit wasnt mentioned specifically in Mr Ts terms and conditions,  
these do allow for the bank to use transactional limits. Its a balance for banks  as they 
frequently get criticised for not having  sufficient security settings in place.
I can see the problems  Mr T had on 19 August were all linked  to a recent stay abroad. The 
local cash machines  that he used placed  a limit on how much he could  take out. Hed needed 
funds that exceeded his daily withdrawal  limit from Santander so had ended up having to 
make a large  number  of small  withdrawals. I could see this from his statements. This is why 
hed ended up using  a cash machine more times in a month than he was permitted.
This is all unfortunate  and a coincidence  of circumstances. Im in no doubt  how annoying this 
must have  been.  But Santander has no control  over what limits for withdrawals individual  
foreign cash machines may have so I cant say they did anything  wrong.
There are a number of calls relevant to this case. I know  Mr T feels  he was talked down to 
and treated like a child by the staff. But I dont believe they were rude or unprofessional. I 
accept staff do sometimes have  a tendency to treat their customers  in this way. I find this 
irritating too but unfortunately for Mr T I wont be asking Santander to pay him any additional 
compensation.
Santander paid Mr T £20 for the delay in getting  back to him on the phone.  I think overall this 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I must apologise to Mr T for the delays we have 
had in being able to reach a final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ts complaint against  
Santander UK plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019. 
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5290011