K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains the vehicle he acquired  on hire purchase financed by Startline  Motor  
Finance Limited  was not fit for purpose. He wants to reject the vehicle or for it to be repaired. 
Mr M is represented  in this complaint by a friend but for ease of reading Ill refer mostly to Mr 
M.
background
Mr M tells us he acquired the vehicle in June 2016 from a dealer  Ill refer to as H. But he 
says from an early  stage hes had a number of issues with the vehicle. This led to the timing  
chain being replaced in November 2016 - a repair he said was arranged by H but carried out 
by another garage Ill call D. Mr M says further  problems occurred with the timing  chain in 
December 2017  and hes not been  able to drive  the car since.
Startline said it was confident the reported  faults were not a point  of sale issue. And it 
recommended Mr M contact D as it had done  the repairs in November 2016.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 10 December  2018  in which I indicated I 
did not intend to uphold  the complaint.
Since then Startline hasnt  replied. Mr Ms representative has replied and stated his 
disagreement with my provisional view. He feels insufficient account has been taken of the 
personal difficulties  Mr M faces  which limits  his ability to fully understand potentially  complex  
situations. But he recognises it would have been  preferable for Mr M to obtain an 
independent report  if he thought problems  with the vehicle were  recurring.  
I thank Mr Ms representative for the reply on his behalf. But in the absence  of fresh  
evidence such as an independent report Im not minded to change my provisional view.  This 
is largely repeated  in the final decision set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr M has experienced  problems with his vehicle and the inconvenience this has 
caused. Unfortunately this is an unavoidable risk and is increased with the age and mileage 
of a vehicle.
Under current legislation as the supplier  of the vehicle  and finance under a hire purchase 
agreement Startline is responsible for the vehicle  being of satisfactory quality and fit for 
purpose at the point  of supply. And whilst  I dont  apply the law directly I do take it into 
account. So if I thought the vehicle wasnt in satisfactory condition or fit for purpose  at the 
point of supply  Id expect Startline to put things right.
Ive been provided  with a considerable amount of evidence and documentation  in this case  -
and its proved to involve  complex issues. So whilst Ive read everything Ive been provided 
with if I dont comment on something individually its not because I havent considered it. Its
simply I dont  think I need to mention it separately  in order to reach  what  I think  is the correct 
decision.
Ref: DRN51647332The vehicle was eight  years old when acquired  by Mr M and had covered around  45,000  
miles. As such it could  not be expected to be in perfect condition and was likely to have 
some wear  and tear issues. This is presumably reflected in the sale price of £3,150.
And its clear  there were problems from an early stage which  eventually  resulted in the 
vehicle being  repaired in November 2016 and having the timing chain replaced. Apart from 
some other wear  and tear issues the vehicle appears to have  functioned properly until 
December 2017.  And Mr M expressed  his satisfaction with its condition in April 2017  when 
an earlier complaint  was resolved.
Ive see two inspection  reports prepared for this vehicle by independent experts. The first by 
S in December 2016 didnt  refer to problems with the timing chain. But it did refer to other 
issues which it described as wear and tear. It was to be expected  that the timing chain would 
not be faulty given it had been replaced  the previous month. But it does suggest there were 
no obvious problems  at this stage.
A further  report by K in January 2018  found  what it described as an unusual rattle  from 
the timing chain casing.  It concluded this was related  to the November  2016  repair  but did 
not go further to diagnose  a specific cause.
Where evidence is incomplete - as is the case here - Im required to make a decision on the 
balance of probabilities. Put another way I have to say what  I think  has most probably 
happened.
Since the November  2016 repairs the vehicle has travelled  about  6,500 miles prior to its 
latest breakdown.  Whilst Id expect a timing chain  to last longer than this Im aware from 
dealing with many  similar cases that problems with timing chains can be caused by a 
number of factors. These include ensuring correct  lubrication is used and the vehicle is 
properly maintained.
During the course of an earlier complaint, in April 2017, Mr M confirmed the vehicle was in 
good condition  at that time. And it seems to have  performed satisfactorily until December  
2017. In order  to find Startline liable Id have to find the vehicle was not in satisfactory 
condition at the time of supply and/ or there had been a subsequent repair which  had been  
unsuccessful. 
Whilst the report by K concluded the unusual  rattle was related to the November repairs  I 
think I must  treat this with caution. The component had been  replaced in November 2016 
and so in one sense any issue with it might  be said to be related to that. But without a 
specific cause being identified its hard to say if the repair has failed or there is some other 
cause. In the absence of an independent report stating the rattle is the result  of the 
November 2016  repair having failed - as opposed to something else - it would not be fair 
and reasonable to find Startline responsible.
In his response to the provisional  view Mr Ms representative states  that the original dealer H 
should have been more  helpful in assisting Mr M to contact D about the latest issue  with the 
timing change - as it was H and not Mr M who paid for that repair. Whilst thats not an issue 
for me decide  - Id simply point out that even if this were the case Startline is not liable for 
any failures - and Im not saying there were any - of H in this respect.
Ref: DRN51647333Given the mileage covered since the repair - apparently  without issue  - its not unreasonable  
to think if the repair  had failed it would have  been apparent at an earlier stage. Ive now also 
been told by Mr M the vehicle hasnt been  serviced since  he acquired it. Whilst Im not able 
to say if this has contributed to the present situation  neither can I say it has not.
So in the absence of persuasive  evidence that the latest issue with the timing chain was due 
to a failed repair I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to say this issue should 
now permit Mr M to reject the vehicle.  So Im not upholding the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5164733