K820x#14complaint
Mr Js complained that Zenith Insurance plc refused to pay his commercial vehicle insurance 
claim.
background
Mr J parked his van outside a property he was working at. He didnt lock the van and put the 
key in the pocket  of his jacket that hed used to wedge open the front door of the house. A 
while later Mr J noticed his van was missing. His jacket and van keys had also been stolen. 
He reported the theft to the police and claimed  on his policy.  He also claimed on his tools  in 
transit policy  for his stolen tools.  
Zenith turned down  Mr Js claim. It said the police report showed hed left his van unlocked 
and his policy excluded  cover where  the van was unlocked. It also said he hadnt taken 
reasonable care to safeguard his van by leaving the key in his jacket  which  was wedged in 
the door. 
Mr J didnt think this was fair and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator thought 
Zeniths decision to turn down the claim was reasonable as it was in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. Mr J didnt agree. He didnt think  leaving the van open would have 
led to his van being stolen. He said it was a genuine  theft and the thief would have had to 
walk up a number of steps to the house  to take the jacket. He asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
I contacted Mr J and Zenith  to let them know I thought Mr Js claim should be paid.  I didnt 
think the van being unlocked was material to the theft. And while  Mr J might have been 
careless in leaving  his keys by the front door I didnt think hed been reckless. 
Zenith disagreed.  It provided examples of other cases that it thought demonstrated  that it 
had made  the right decision. Zenith also said it had spoken to the manufacturer  who said   
Mr Js van wouldnt  have locked itself. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it.
Mr J has also complained  about a claim on his tools  in transit  policy being turned down by a 
different insurer. Im not going to comment on that further in this decision as its being  dealt 
with separately.  And in this decision I can only consider  what Zenith might or might not have 
done wrong. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Js policy say hes not covered for theft if the van wasnt 
locked. In the general conditions it also says he needs to take reasonable care to safeguard 
the van from loss or damage.  
Ive spoken to Mr J and he said the model of van he has locks itself after a few minutes if left 
unlocked. Zenith said its spoken to the manufacturer  and that isnt correct.  While it would be 
disappointing if Mr Js given us incorrect information I dont think that matters to the outcome 
of the complaint so I dont need  to make a finding on it. Thats  because even if the van was 
Ref: DRN58010112unlocked I still dont  think this it was material to the theft, as Im satisfied the thieves also 
stole the key.
Industry guidelines (ICOBS) say insurers shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. They  say it 
would be unreasonable for an insurer to turn down a claim for breach  of warranty  or 
condition unless the circumstances of the claim are material to theft. And while  that 
specifically refers to consumer contracts (rather than commercial  as this policy  is) and 
Zeniths relying on an exclusion rather than condition or warranty,  we think  its fair and 
reasonable to consider how its applied in the same way. Thats because I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable for an insurer to reject a claim where  someone  left their vehicle 
unlocked but this had no bearing on the loss.
The thieves also stole Mr Js key for his van. That means even if the van was locked  the 
thieves would have  been able to unlock it. There doesnt seem to be any doubt that Mr J left 
his keys near the front door and the thieves went up to the house to steal the key. This 
means they did more  than see that the van was unlocked  and take it for that reason. So Im 
not persuaded that the van being unlocked made any difference to the theft or made it more 
likely to happen. And I dont think it would produce  a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
particular complaint if I let Zenith rely on that term to turn down Mr Js claim. 
Zenith also said Mr J didnt  take reasonable care to safeguard his van. I understand Mr J left 
his key in his jacket pocket and the jacket was wedged in the front door. Ive seen  a 
photograph of the house and, while the thief would have had to go up a number of steps, the 
front door is visible from the road. Mr J said he didnt think there was a risk in leaving his 
keys by the front door as it was so far from the street and his van. 
When considering  whether  its fair and reasonable for an insurer  to rely on the term that a 
policyholder didnt take reasonable care,  we consider whether they (in this case  Mr J) were 
reckless. By this I mean that they recognised there  was a risk and did nothing  to avert it. In 
this case Mr J said he didnt recognise  a risk as he thought his key was safe by the front 
door. Ive spoken  to him and Im persuaded that he didnt think his van would be stolen.  I 
think its unlikely Mr J would have left his keys where they were  if he thought there was a risk 
to his van being stolen given that he needed  his van and tools  for work. So while  Mr J might 
have been careless  he wasnt reckless.  And I dont think  its fair and reasonable for Zenith  to 
rely on this term to turn down Mr Js claim. 
Zeniths provided me with some examples of previous  complaints that have been brought  to 
our service  that it says shows  it made the right decision. While we consider complaints on 
their individual merits Id like to address this. The first example  Zenith  provided has very 
similar circumstances. I can see, however, that this claim occurred in January 1999  which  is 
over 20 years ago. Its also before ICOBS was produced so is unlikely to have  taken account  
of its guidance.  I can also see from that example that another  insurer  involved in the claim 
had accepted the policyholder acted reasonably. 
In the second  example Zenith provided  the policyholder kept a spare set of keys in the car. 
So in that case  the car being  unlocked was likely  to be material  to the theft. Which I dont 
think was the case  when Mr Js car was stolen. 
Given this, I dont think it would produce  a fair and reasonable outcome to this particular 
case if I allowed Zenith to rely on the terms it had. So to put things  right Zenith  should  pay 
Mr Js claim for his van in line with any limits and excesses on his policy. Due to the time 
Ref: DRN58010113hes been without  the money it should  add interest at 8% simple per year from the date of 
the theft to the date it makes payment. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Zenith  Insurance plc to pay       
Mr Js claim for his van in line with any limits or excesses on his policy. It should add interest 
at 8% simple per year from the date of the theft to the date it makes payment1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
1 If Zenith considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It should also give Mr J a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN5801011