K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua (Aqua) wrongly  approved his application 
for a credit card when they knew of his health  conditions, and then increased his credit limit 
and interest rate.
background 
Mr R opened a credit card account  with Aqua on the 10 December 2014 following receipt of 
marketing mail through the post. Mr R said that when  he applied for the account,  he told 
Aqua of his medical conditions in writing.  Aqua said they didnt receive that letter and 
assessed his application based  upon the application  form and information  they obtained 
from a Credit Reference Agencies (CRA). The latter revealed a default some 2 years 
previously, but did not adversely affect the application. Mr R met Aquas acceptance criteria 
and he was given  a credit  limit of £600.
Aqua agreed Mr R had credit limit increases in March and July 2015 to £1,600  and £2,200. 
And in December 2015 and April 2016  the limit was increased to £3,200 and £4,200  
respectively, at Mr Rs request. The final increase  in October 2016  was to £5,300 which was 
not at Mr Rs request;  although in June 2017 his request for a further increase was refused.
Aqua agreed that the interest rate was increased  in May and December 2017 following a 
review and in line with their terms and conditions. They said it was in line with their business 
risk policy and took account of the way Mr R managed his account,  how it was being  used 
and any CRA information. They said letters were sent to Mr R in February and September  
2017 explaining the reasons, and giving  him the option to opt-out, which would have allowed 
him to continue to pay the balance at the previous interest rate, but closing the account for 
further transactions. Mr R did not opt out.
Aqua accepted Mr R contacted them on the 29 March 2018 advising them of his ill health,  
but the call disconnected  before they could offer him any help. When he called on the 
17 April 2018 a hold was applied to his account and he was issued with an Income  and 
Expenditure Form. When that was returned  on the 10 May 2018,  with an explanation of his 
medical issues, Aqua said it placed a block on the account stopping  interest and charges  
accruing. A £20 pcm payment arrangement was agreed with the last payment made on the 
14 December 2018.
Aqua accepted that in dealing with his complaint, they had wrongly  suggested he had 
applied online rather than by post, and because of that offered £35 in compensation. Mr R 
was unhappy  with Aquas response and so an adjudicator from this service looked into the 
complaint but didnt  think Aqua had done  anything wrong. He did however  think  the offer of 
£35 for providing  inaccurate information was reasonable. Mr R disagreed  with that view and 
so the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  There are a number of aspects to this 
complaint. The first is in relation to the approval of Mr Rs application. I know Mr R says he 
sent a letter  explaining his medical  conditions to Aqua,  and I do not doubt him, but equally 
Aqua have checked to see if that letter was received  and they say it wasnt, which means 
they were unaware  of his medical conditions.  They did take into account  his employment 
Ref: DRN53142902status, his income  and made checks with a CRA.  Having done so they acted appropriately, 
at that time, in approving  his account and awarding him a credit limit of £600. 
The second  aspect is in relation to the credit  limit. I accept the first two increases were  made  
without Mr R requesting them, but in March  and July 2015  and in October 2016, Aqua 
informed him they were  increasing his credit  limit explaining his options. Mr R would also 
know from the statements  he received that the rate had increased. Further, in December 
2015 and April 2016 he made  a request for an increase which was granted. From Mr Rs 
credit card statements it is clear that he was managing his account quite well by meeting or 
exceeding the minimum payment required indicating that the increases were affordable. As 
our adjudicator found, Aqua also carried out checks before all the credit limit increases, so I 
think they have  acted fairly here.  Ive taken  into account the fact that there  was a default on 
Mr Rs credit file with Experian but that did not appear on the Equifax report  which  Aqua 
used, and so it would  be unfair  to blame  Aqua for that deficiency.
The third aspect to the complaint relates  to the increase in interest rate. This they were  
entitled to do pursuant  to the terms and conditions governing the account,  provided they 
gave notice which they did. And, Mr R elected not to opt out of the increases.
The final issue is in relation to the level of compensation Aqua offered for providing  wrong  
information. That was an unfortunate  error,  but I can accept that it did not materially affect 
the way in which Aqua dealt with Mr R. As such I think Aquas offer of £35 was fair and 
reasonable and it is in line with the awards  this service would make  in such  circumstances.
What I need to decide is whether Aqua acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with Mr R. 
When Mr R made his application Aqua were unaware of his medical conditions,  but when 
they were,  they acted  appropriately and fairly. And the increase in interest rates and credit 
limits were  pursuant to the terms and conditions and after checks were completed.  So, Im 
not satisfied that Aqua  has treated Mr R unfairly,  and I dont uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
Aqua has already made an offer to pay £35 to settle  the complaint and I think this offer is fair 
in all the circumstances. So my decision is that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua should pay £35 
to Mr R.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5314290