K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Mr B says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr B says he assumed he had to take the PPI in order  for the credit card to be accepted.  
From the internal  records Barclays has given me, I think its likely Mr B applied for his 
credit card and PPI online. Barclays has referred us to example screenshots of the sorts 
of questions it says Mr B wouldve been  asked in his online application. These  show 
customers were  given  the option to tick yes or no to PPI. There is nothing  on the 
example screen  shots to suggest lending was conditional on taking the PPI. This is also 
in line with what we know of how similar policies were sold around the time Mr B bought 
his PPI. Barclays record of his application  shows that Mr B selected  the PPI. So I think  
its likely  he chose to take it, knowing he had a choice. Given  how long ago it was sold, I 
can understand why he might not remember this now.  
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr B so it 
didnt have  to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr B got the 
information he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted  this 
type of cover.  Based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would 
have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable.
Mr B says he was entitled to some sick pay from his employer. But the PPI policy 
wouldve paid out on top of any employee benefits  he had and for up to 12 months if he 
was unable to work  because  of accident,  sickness or unemployment.  So  I think he 
wouldve found the policy useful if he found himself out of work. With this in mind, I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. 
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr B, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN55702052To put that right, Barclays  has basically paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B. 
But Barclays  Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I 
wont award any further compensation in this case. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5570205