K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that Simplyhealth Access cancelled her private health insurance policy 
cover and asked her to pay back claim payments it made under the policy.
background
Mrs A, her husband and daughter had cover  under a health insurance  policy.  From the 
evidence it was a cash plan policy. The policy included  cover for contact lenses up to the 
policy limit.
Mrs A claimed for contact lenses she bought on-line. She made a claim of contact lenses for 
her husband  which  prompted Simplyhealth to audit her previous claims since  the policy 
started in 2015.  It noted that some  of the claims had the same  prescription for different 
members of the family.  It asked Mrs A several times to send  copies of her, her husbands  
and daughters optical prescriptions so it could  ensure the claims  had been  allocated to the 
right person  to the policy limit. 
Mrs A didnt send the prescriptions  to Simplyhealth. It told Mrs A that her failure to provide 
the information meant it could reasonably conclude she deliberately attempted  to obtain 
payments from Simplyhealth by submitting incorrect claims. It cancelled her and her familys 
cover under the policy, as it said it would. It also asked Mrs A to pay £440.95 which it 
believed it had overpaid as it wasn't  able to substantiate the claims.
 
Mrs A complained to us. She said Simplyhealth accepted  and paid the claims and it couldnt 
fairly now say it wanted her to pay money back. She wanted her and her familys policy 
cover reinstated. 
Ultimately our investigator thought Simplyhealth had acted fairly in cancelling  the policy 
cover and requiring  Mrs A to pay it £440.95  for the unsubstantiated claims.
Mrs A disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. Our investigator had asked Mrs A if 
she could explain the discrepancies in the claims she submitted to Simplyhealth and if she 
could provide the prescriptions Simplyhealth  requested. Mrs A said she sent the evidence  
Simplyhealth needed with each separate claim and she didnt have paperwork from 2015. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
The policy says that when Mrs A made a claim she needed to complete the online claim 
form and send supporting documents that should leave Simplyhealth in no doubt about:
the name of the patient
the details  of the practitioner or establishment  and the service  or treatment that they 
have provided
the date of the service or treatment
the amount  paid for that service or treatment.
Ref: DRN59632122The claim form contained a tick box that Mrs A needed to complete to agree that she 
declared the information shed given was true and a false  statement may result in 
cancellation of policy cover and non payment of a claim. 
On the basis of the information provided in the claims and Mrs As declaration Simplyhealth 
paid the claims believing the claims  to be accurate and true.
Simplyhealth doesnt dispute that for at least most  of the claims Mrs A gave the above  
information. But following  the discrepancy in Mrs As claim for her husband's contact lenses 
Simplyhealth audited  the previous claims, which it could reasonably do.
From the audit findings Simplyhealth said it couldnt be sure who the claims were being  
made for and I think that was a reasonable conclusion for it to make.  Some of the claims 
contained prescription details and some of the claims had the same prescription for different 
members of the family.  
Simplyhealth fairly  asked Mrs A to provide  the prescriptions  for her and her family over the 
claims period so it could  be in no doubt about who the lenses were  for. It asked Mrs A for 
the information numerous times so gave  her a reasonable  opportunity to provide the 
information, but she hasnt provided.
Mrs A says she doesnt have the paperwork from 2015, but she hasnt provided the 
information for later years either.  And I think its very probable that the optician/s  who see the 
family could  provide the prescription information. I dont think Mrs A has given Simplyhealth 
a reasonable explanation of why she cant provide the information its asked for.
As Mrs A hasnt  provided the prescription information Simplyhealth  has concluded that she 
deliberately attempted to obtain  payments  from it by submitting incorrect  claims. I think  
Simplyhealth can reasonably come to that conclusion on the basis of the evidence  thats  
available.
The policy says that in those circumstances Simplyhealth can cancel cover with immediate 
effect and if it has already  paid claims it can recover that money from Mrs A. I think  
Simplyhealth has fairly cancelled the policy cover  and it can fairly ask Mrs A for the payment. 
From the calculations its provided the £440.95  its requested she pay looks to be a 
reasonable amount.
If Mrs A can provide the prescription information  she should send it to Simplyhealth  so it can 
try to substantiate her claims. Simplyhealth has acted fairly and reasonably on the 
information it has.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5963212