K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains Advantage  Insurance Company Limited didnt repair  his car properly and 
took too long to deal with his claim on his car insurance policy. 
For ease of reading, any reference to Advantage includes its agents.
background 
In October  2018 Mr P was involved in a car accident  and contacted  Advantage to claim on 
his policy. Advantage  collected the car for inspection,  following which  it arranged  the repairs. 
Mr P says the repairs took too long and when completed, there were issues  to be rectified. 
Mr P also said he had to pay an independent  engineer to look at the vehicle. And, due to the 
time the vehicle was with Advantage, the MOT had expired and he had to pay for a recovery 
vehicle to collect the car.
When the car was returned, Mr P says the tyre tread  on a back tyre was lower than the legal 
limit  so the car failed the MOT. Hes referred to the report issued by Advantages engineer  
when the vehicle was first inspected,  which states  the tread on all the tyres  was at 5mm  
much higher  than the legal minimum of 1.6mm.  He believes the tyres on the vehicle are not 
the same  as those when  it was taken to the garage - so he thinks they have been stolen. 
In addition, Mr P also complained he was prevented from moving his vehicle to a different 
garage, and that the garage caused  malicious damage to the car. Hes also said he was 
treated poorly  by both Advantage and its repairers.
Advantage investigated the complaint. It accepted it took too long for the vehicle to be 
collected by the garage  for the repairs to begin.  And it apologised for any incorrect  
information that may have been  given  to Mr P about  the completion  of the repair. It offered 
him £50 compensation for these issues. It also agreed that the repairs  themselves took too 
long. In relation  to the tyres, it said there  wasnt any evidence that the tyres on the car had 
been replaced. It said the engineers report was wrong about the amount of tread left and it 
apologised for this error. Advantage  offered a further £75 for these delays and for the 
misinformation about  the tyre tread. But it didnt  find any evidence  of poor conduct by either 
its staff or of those at the garage.  
Mr P remained unhappy  with Advantages response and the complaint was brought here.  
Advantage reconsidered the complaint and increased its offer of compensation by a further 
£175, bringing the total amount to £300.  This new offer was put to Mr P but he didnt accept 
this sum. Mr P told us that he wanted  £10,000  in compensation for Advantages errors. 
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and agreed that Advantage hadnt handled Mr Ps 
insurance claim very well. He found the repairs took too long to complete and that the first 
set of repairs were poor. He also didnt agree the garage had maliciously damaged  Mr Ps 
car or that Mr P had been treated unprofessionally.  
As the garage  had started stripping  the vehicle and ordered parts  when Mr P asked about 
relocation, our investigator agreed that it made  sense for the garage to finish the repair.  He 
also noted Advantage had apologised for the error in the inspection report  about the tyre 
tread. So, he didnt  think Advantage had to reimburse the cost of the new tyre.
Ref: DRN56606482Finally, our investigator didnt agree that Advantage should pay the cost of the recovery  
vehicle or the MOT fee. He concluded  that the compensation offer of £300 made by 
Advantage was fair and reasonable and didnt  feel this should be increased.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators findings.  He didnt think we should be relying on the 
engineers report  provided  by Advantage as evidence in his complaint. And he was unhappy 
that the investigator hadnt agreed with him that the garage had caused  damage to his car or 
had swapped his tyres.
As Mr P didnt agree,  the complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr P has made a number of detailed  
points. Were an informal dispute  resolution  service, set up as a free alternative to the courts. 
In deciding this complaint  Ive focused on what I consider to be the heart  of the matter  rather 
than commenting  on every issue in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr P. Rather  
it reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit and my role in it. 
Mr Ps policy  says that, if the car is damaged in an accident the insurer  will either pay and 
arrange for the necessary  repairs or pay the market value of the car immediately before the 
loss if it cant be repaired. I therefore need to decide if Advantage has done  what  its 
required to do under the policy.  
Following the accident, Advantage collected the vehicle for inspection and agreed to cover 
the cost of the repairs. However, it took time for the car to be placed  with a repairer. 
Advantage said the repair was expected  to be completed by the end of November  but the 
car wasnt finished until January 2019. I understand some of this delay is down to having to 
wait for parts. Advantage has agreed the repairs took too long and has offered 
compensation totalling £225 for this. Im satisfied thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances as Mr P did have a courtesy  car while his was in for repair,  so he wasnt  
disadvantaged by not having a car. 
Part of Mr Ps complaint relates  to not being  able to move his car to another garage. As the 
garage had started  to disassemble the car and ordered replacement  parts,  Mr P was told 
moving it could make  him liable for any costs already incurred. Advantage had a report  
which confirmed the car could be repaired at a cost lower than the vehicles value so Im 
satisfied it was fair for Advantage to repair the car. As additional  costs  could have been  
incurred as a result of moving the vehicle,  I think it was reasonable for the car to remain  at 
the first garage or Mr P be told he would  be liable for the additional  cost.  I say this because  
Advantage wouldnt incur  these additional costs if Mr P didnt move the car.  
When the car was first repaired it wasnt completed  correctly, as agreed by Advantage. Mr P 
tells us he arranged  for his own expert  to review  the car and he wants this cost refunded.  
Mr P hasnt provided an invoice for this cost or a copy  of this report. So, it wouldnt be fair to 
instruct Advantage to reimburse Mr P for it.
After the second  repair  Mr P remained unhappy  with the condition of his car. He reported  
hearing noises  from the front wheels, when  turning  and that the heater was noisy.  He also 
complained about marks  and stains in the vehicle. An engineer  investigated these and said 
no untoward noises  were heard from the vehicle  and the heater appeared to be working 
Ref: DRN56606483correctly, without excessive noise. The engineer said that the stains  on the seats could have  
occurred at any time. So, he couldnt  say these were caused by the garage. As the only 
report provided, Im persuaded by it - so I dont agree Advantage needs to do anything  more.
Ive seen the initial inspection report says that all the tyres  had 5mm tread.  Advantage has 
said this was a mistake. Having the same  amount of tread  on all tyres would be quite  
unusual. Mr P provided an invoice to show he bought a new tyre in November 2017 and 
says he replaced another a few weeks later. So, I think its more  plausible there would have 
been differences in the level of tread  as the tyres were changed at different times. Its 
therefore more  likely  the information on the initial report was incorrect.  Taking this into 
account, Im not satisfied  the tyres have been swapped so I wont  be telling  Advantage to 
pay for them.
Ive considered Mr Ps complaint about the cost of the recovery  vehicle. The governments 
website confirms a vehicle can be legally driven without a valid MOT or tax if it is being taken 
to a pre-arranged MOT  appointment. So, Mr P didnt need  to incur this expense in order  to 
get to the MOT test centre. Based on this, I dont agree  that Advantage needs to reimburse  
these costs.
From everything Ive seen, Advantage  has met its obligation under the policy  to repair the 
vehicle. But the claim could have been handled better. When taking all the issues into 
account Im satisfied Advantages offer of £300 compensation is fair and reasonable. I say 
this because even  though  there were delays  and issues  with the repairs, Mr P was in 
possession of a courtesy  car throughout this time. And while I do think the errors on the 
report regarding the tyre tread has caused  Mr P upset, I dont think this warrants a 
compensation payment at the level which hes suggested. 
final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I uphold this complaint. Advantage Insurance  Company 
Limited needs to pay £175 (in addition  to the £125 its already paid) as compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5660648