K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Pepper  (UK) Limited (trading as Engage Credit) unfairly added legal 
fees to his mortgage account. Mr B asks that it removes the fees and pays compensation.
background
Mr B took out a mortgage in March  2006. The mortgage was transferred to Engage  in 
March 2015. Engage  wrote to Mr B in late 2017 about his arrears  and not being  able to 
reach a satisfactory  arrangement.  It said it would instruct solicitors  to start possession  
proceedings if it didnt  hear from him by mid-January 2018. In March 2018 Mr B agreed a 
payment plan with Engage. But by that time Engage had instructed solicitors.  It added legal 
fees of about £754 to Mr Bs mortgage.
Mr B says this isnt fair as there hasnt been  a court hearing. He says adding  legal costs to 
his mortgage put him further  into debt.  He says Engage agreed he could make monthly 
payments of £425  in December 2017 and then changed its mind.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She said Engage  
was entitled under the terms of the mortgage to add legal costs to the mortgage.  She 
couldnt ask it to refund the costs  or pay compensation.
Mr B didnt agree. He said it was wrong for Engage to apply legal and court  fees when there  
hasnt been any court action. He said it was wrong for Engage to take action when it knows 
theres a delay in receiving help from the government with mortgage payments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
Engage wrote to Mr B in December 2017.  It said it wanted to agree a payment arrangement 
with him to clear the arrears. Engage said it intended to instruct  solicitors if it didnt hear from 
Mr B by 15 January 2018. Mr B contacted Engage in December 2017  and in January 2018, 
but Engage says no arrangement was agreed.
Engage instructed solicitors and a court hearing was set for 13 March  2018. In mid-February 
2018 Engage  told Mr B if a payment of £425 was received before 10 March  2018 the hearing 
would be adjourned.
Mr B made the payment  on 9 March and Engage adjourned the court  hearing.  A payment 
plan was set up from 22 March 2018.
was Engage entitled to add legal fees to Mr Bs mortgage?
Engage provided  copies  of invoices from its solicitors. The solicitors did work on the account 
preparing for the hearing. The court hearing was adjourned   but this was after the solicitors  
Ref: DRN57769182had done the work.  Engage paid the solicitors  and added the cost to Mr Bs mortgage 
account. The terms of Mr Bs mortgage allow  it to do this. 
was it fair for Engage  to add legal fees to Mr Bs mortgage?
Engage wrote to Mr B in December 2017  saying it intended to instruct  solicitors  if it didnt  
hear from him. It said this would incur costs which would be added  to the mortgage balance. 
It provided a breakdown of what the legal  fees could cost.  So I think  Engage  made Mr B 
aware of its intention to instruct  solicitors  and how this could  be avoided.
Engage adjourned the court hearing. This avoided  further legal costs  being incurred. But this 
doesnt mean its unfair for Engage to add the legal costs it had already incurred to the 
mortgage. 
Engage says it didnt  have an arrangement  with Mr B in December 2017.  It says it told 
Mr Bs representative in November 2017 that it needed supporting  documents before it could 
accept Mr Bs proposed  payment plan. This was due to previous plans failing and Mr Bs 
payment history.  It provided evidence to support this.
Engages notes show four payment arrangements were  agreed in 2016, which all failed. A 
six months arrangement  was agreed in July 2017 for Mr B to pay £450 per month from 
September 2017: this failed in early  October  2017.  Mr B called Engage on 10 October and 
proposed paying £113  per week. Later in October  he proposed paying £95 per week  and 
said hed applied for employment  and support  allowance.  In mid-November 2017 Mr B 
proposed paying the contractual monthly payment plus £25, which he said he could afford as 
hed started a new job. However,  that job was only for a month and Mr B made  a another  
payment proposal  in January 2018. 
Engage asked Mr B and his representative  for information, including his employment 
contract and a complete and up to date income  and expenditure, but these werent provided. 
I dont think a payment  arrangement was agreed in December 2017  or January 2018. And I 
dont think Engage gave Mr B unclear  information about this.
I can see that Mr B maintained contact with Engage. He made payments and put forward  
payment proposals.  He told Engage  about changes to his employment. But I must also take 
into account that Mr Bs account had been  in arrears for some years.  In January 2018 the 
account was about seven  months in arrears.  Mr B hadnt provided the information requested 
by Engage and he hadnt  maintained the arrangements  hed agreed. I think it was 
reasonable for Engage  to be concerned about  the arrears.
I dont think, in the circumstances,  it was unreasonable  for Engage  to start legal action. I 
think it was entitled  to add legal costs  to Mr Bs mortgage account. Engage provided a copy 
of the solicitors invoice  and theres nothing to suggest the legal work wasnt  done  or the fees 
werent legitimate.  I dont  think, in the circumstances,  its fair and reasonable to require 
Engage to refund these costs. 
Ref: DRN57769183my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5776918