K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs Y says Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ys case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
From what  we know about  how Bank of Scotland sold PPI in branch at the time, I think its 
likely that PPI was discussed  with Mrs Y. The credit card application has a pre-printed 
cross to indicate she wanted  PPI. Mrs Y says she simply  signed this form and she wasnt  
made aware she was being  charged for PPI. But next to the PPI box was also an option 
for another type of insurance, which was not selected. So I think the cross in the PPI box 
was likely  put there following a discussion about  PPI and Mrs Y agreeing  to it  and 
declining the other  insurance. I also think she would most  likely have checked the 
information on the form was accurate before signing. So I think Bank of Scotland made it 
clear that Mrs Y didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why she cant  remember this given  it was over 15 years ago.
Bank of Scotland  recommended the PPI to Mrs Y so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  
and she seems to have  had a need  for the cover. 
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs Y about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. But I think she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went 
wrong. While she had some sick and redundancy pay through  her work, the PPI wouldve 
paid out for up to 12 months if shed had to claim. This wouldve left any sick or 
redundancy pay available for other  things,  meaning she couldve got by for longer without 
defaulting on her card repayments. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means Bank of Scotland doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs Y.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs Y because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs Y about that. Because Bank  of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mrs Y, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs Y has. But these points dont change  my decision.
Ref: DRN54821822my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs Y.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mrs Y any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5482182