K820x#14complaint
Ms K complains  that PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA declined her claim for a refund, for an
item that she purchased using her online  PayPal  account.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 13 November 2019. In summary,  I was 
minded not to uphold the complaint  so I didnt require PayPal to refund the cost of the item 
that Ms K paid, nor award her half of the associated inspection fee. 
In short,  I concluded  that the claim Ms K raised was only possible because PayPal  an 
online business  voluntarily offer a form of buyer protection as part of the contract, not 
because there is a warranty in place. And similarly, that the claim is not provided as part of a 
statutory protection  (such  as that provided by a credit card, for example). 
Ms K hadnt satisfied  the necessary requirement to provide online documentation from a 
postal company, to show that the item had been  successfully  returned to the seller  
therefore she hadnt submitted valid  proof of delivery to PayPal, as defined in the contract. 
Given the online nature  of the business  and contract,  and the relative weightiness of such 
evidence, I felt that PayPal had fair and legitimate commercial reasons for relying only on 
online tracking evidence   as opposed  to other  documentation. I was persuaded that Ms Ks 
failure to satisfy the definition of valid proof of delivery was not merely  a technicality. Rather, 
for the purposes  of this claim, the absence  of online documentation was a breach of the 
contract that could prejudice PayPals position,  i.e. in the event of a dispute raised against it 
by a seller. 
Overall, I was minded  to conclude that valid proof of delivery, as defined in the contract, 
doesnt constitute a significant imbalance  in the rights or obligations of PayPal to the 
detriment of Ms K  therefore, I was satisfied that its not an unfair term in the contract. In 
light of this, PayPal  hadnt made an unfair  decision in declining Ms Ks claim for a refund 
because she hadnt provided valid proof of delivery  and was therefore materially  in breach of 
this contract term. 
responses to the provisional  decision
Ms K informed our service that she doesnt accept my provisional findings  but didnt 
provide any further  evidence  for consideration. 
PayPal did not respond to my provisional decisional.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further  arguments have been made, and given that neither of the parties has 
submitted any further evidence for consideration, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN53080362my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and before, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this 
complaint. 
Ms K should note that Ive only considered the acts and omissions of PayPal  so my 
decision (even if accepted by her) would not affect  her statutory or legal rights against the 
payment recipient, i.e. the seller of the item.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Matthew Belcher 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5308036