K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in alongside a 
a mortgage in 2001. Mr D says National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ds case.
Having done that, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr D says he wasnt given a choice  in buying the policy and it was added  without his 
knowledge. NatWest  has said Mr D wouldve been given an option and has provided a copy 
of Mr Ds paperwork at the time of the mortgage.  The mortgage application form shows that 
a separate section for PPI was completed. So I think its likely that Mr D discussed the option 
of PPI at the time and knew he had a choice about  whether  to take it out or not. So, I think  
NatWest made it clear that Mr D didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  
although I can understand why he cant remember this.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr D got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Which means NatWest doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr D paid on his PPI  and whether NatWest  treated  
him unfairly.  
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr Ds PPI was less than half of what he paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how NatWest has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Ds commission was less than half the cost of the 
PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about the commission  so I dont 
think NatWest treated him unfairly. This means  it doesnt need to pay Mr D back any of the 
commission he paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Ref: DRN59439742Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5943974