K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited, trading as Provident,  provided her
with loans that were  unaffordable. She also complains about Providents debt collection
practices and her financial difficulties.
background
Miss D took out seven  instalment loans  from Provident between  September 2013  and 
July 2017 as follows:-
Loan number
Date of Loan Loan amount
Weekly repayment  
amountsDate loan 
repaid
1. 3/9/2013 £100 £5 x 32 24/12/2013
2. 19/12/2013 £500 £15 x 63 27/8/2014
3. 26/8/2014 £600 £18 x 63 17/11/2015
4. 27/4/2015 £300 £9 x 63 18/12/2015
5. 3/12/2015 £700 £21 x 63 14/9/2016
6. 12/9/2016 £800 £19.20 x 84 26/7/17
7. 24/7/17 £1,200 £27.60 x 104 Unpaid
Miss D said that her complaint was about Loans  3 to 7. She said that these loans were
granted irresponsibly and that they sent her into a debt spiral that she couldnt  escape from.
As soon  as she managed to repay a loan, she was forced  to take out another  loan to cover
her weekly  payments on the recommendation of Providents agent. All the loans other than
Loan 7 have been repaid.
Miss D is also unhappy  about  Providents  debt collection practices  and treatment of her
financial difficulties. She said:
Provident agents  have  harassed me every evening calling for money I simply have not
got. I have constant text messages  and phone calls to my mobile phone whilst Im trying to
sleep throughout  the day. I have  a history of depression and can feel myself slipping into a
dark place where I can see no light.
Provident said that its agent confirmed  Miss Ds employment details, and documented
details of Miss Ds income and expenses.  Miss D completed and signed  paper application
forms for Loans 1 to 4. Provident said that Loans  5 onwards were completed by its agent on
a lending app. It combined Miss Ds details with credit reference  agency data and Miss Ds
previous lending history. With regard to expenses  on Loans  5 to 7, Provident said there
would have been a discussion between the agent and Miss D about her outgoings.
our investigators view
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should  be upheld.  She had asked
Miss D for her bank  statements to confirm her expenditure  but Miss D said that she didnt
have these and couldnt afford to pay for them. The investigator said that without evidence  to
suggest that the expenditure  amounts  Miss D had provided to Provident were  incorrect,  she
couldnt say that Provident shouldnt have lent to Miss D. The investigator didnt think that
the expenditure figures provided  by Miss D to Provident looked  unreasonable.  The
investigator also noted that Miss D was now suffering financial difficulties.  She noted that
Miss D had offered  a weekly  payment of £5 towards  her debt with Provident and said that
Ref: DRN57007912she thought that Provident should  consider this.
Miss D disagreed and said that Loans 3 onwards  were irresponsibly lent. She was paying
£392 rent per month  and £110 council tax and earned between  £800 and £950. She said
that her payslips werent checked. She said that she had received tax credits but these had
stopped and she then had to repay  tax credit overpayments.
Provident agreed to set up a repayment  plan in line with Miss Ds offer of £5 per week. It
noted that the investigator had earlier suggested that Provident shouldnt  add further interest
and charges to the debt and that it should reduce the interest  it had applied  by 50%. But
Provident said that interest was added to the loans from the outset and no further interest  or
charges were added. It also didnt agree to reduce the interest  it had applied.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss D 
and to Provident on 17 December 2018.  I summarise my findings:
I noted that there were two aspects of Miss Ds complaint  affordability of the loans and
Providents debt collection practices including treatment of her financial difficulties. I said that 
I would treat each separately.
Where the evidence was incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it was here), 
I reached my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I considered 
was most likely to have happened  in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
affordability of the loans
I explained that Provident was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to make checks  to see 
whether Miss D could  afford to pay back each loan before it lent to her. Those checks 
needed to be proportionate to things such as the amount Miss D was borrowing, the length 
of the loan agreement and her lending history, but there was no set list of checks  Provident 
had to do.
Provident had told us about  the checks it did before lending  to Miss D. It said it used credit
bureau data before giving  her each loan.  And it had asked Miss D for details of her normal
income and expenditure. I hadnt seen  any information about  the credit  checks, but I had
seen details of the income  and expenditure figures provided to Provident.
I noted that Miss D wasnt complaining about Loans  1 and 2. But I said that Id take these 
loans into account  in deciding whether Providents checks were  proportionate as there was a 
continuous chain  of loans which suggested that Miss D might have been reliant on 
Providents loans.  Loan 2 was granted immediately after Loan 1 had been repaid, and 
Loan 3 was granted immediately after Loan 2 was repaid. Id also noted that Miss D missed 
repayments and on occasion paid reduced repayments on both Loans 1 and 2 and I thought 
her repayment history should have been  considered when assessing affordability and the 
checks to be made.
Loan 3
When Miss D applied  for Loan 3 in August 2014,  she completed a paper application form
Ref: DRN57007913which shed signed.  Id seen a copy of this and noted that Miss D had told Provident that she 
was earning a net weekly income of £285.  And shed said her weekly  regular  expenditure 
was £185. So it appeared that Miss D had £100 left over each  week that she could use to 
make her repayments. Miss D needed  to repay £18 each week  on Loan  3. I could see that 
the repayments were  relatively modest compared to the weekly  disposable  income of £100
Miss D had declared to Provident. But I thought by this time,  Provident should have been
concerned that Miss D appeared to be reliant  on its loans and about the increasing amount
of Miss Ds borrowing,  especially in view of the missed repayments  on Loans 1 and 2. And
considering that the loan repayments needed to be made over 63 weeks,  I thought it would
have been proportionate  for Provident to have asked Miss D some more detailed  questions
at this point, such  as whether she was borrowing from short  term lenders at the same  time.
So, overall, I didnt  think that Providents  checks were  proportionate  for Loan 3.
Loan 4
Miss D applied for Loan 4 before Loan  3 was repaid and the total loan repayments  had
increased to £27 per week.  Miss D again  completed  and signed a paper application form.
Id seen a copy  of this and noted that Miss D told Provident that she was earning a net
weekly income of £278 and that shed also received other income  of £20 per week.  And 
shed said her weekly expenditure  was £180. So it appeared  that Miss D had £118 left over 
each week that she could use to make her repayments. I could see again that the 
repayments were relatively  modest compared  to the weekly disposable income  of £118 
Miss D had declared to Provident. But again  I thought that Provident should have been 
concerned about  the frequency of Miss Ds borrowing, and the increased repayment 
amounts when she had already missed some  repayments on Loan 3. And as the loan 
repayments needed to be made over 63 weeks, I again thought it would have been 
proportionate for Provident to have asked  Miss D some more detailed  questions at this point, 
such as whether she was borrowing from short term lenders. So, overall, I didnt think that 
Providents checks were  proportionate  for Loan  4.
Loan 5
Miss D applied for Loan 5 around  the same time as Loan 4 was repaid. The loan amount  
had increased  to £700. Providents application process had also changed so that information 
was provided by Miss D to Providents  agent  who then entered the information  on a lenders 
app.
Provident said that the information provided by Miss D showed that she had a total monthly
income of £1,385.60 and regular monthly  outgoings  of £324.75. So it said that she had a 
total disposable income of £1,060.85.  Id noted  that there was nothing  recorded in the 
information provided by Provident regarding rent, council tax or other  financial commitments. 
I could also see that Miss Ds outgoings  had reduced substantially  when compared to the 
outgoings information provided  before Loans  3 and 4 and I thought Provident might have 
been concerned  about  that. Id also noted that Miss D had missed  repayments on Loan 4. 
And I thought Miss Ds loans were being  taken sufficiently regularly to suggest that she was 
reliant on them. So Id thought all this should have prompted Provident  to be more  
concerned about  Miss Ds financial situation. And I thought Provident  should have looked in 
much more depth at her true financial  situation  to assess  the affordability of its lending. It 
couldve done this in a number of ways. Id noted  that it had asked for evidence  of Miss Ds 
income but I also thought it could have asked  for evidence of Miss Ds expenditure such  as 
bills, or it couldve looked at things like her bank statements.
Ref: DRN57007914Loan 6
Loan 6 was taken out at the same time as Loan 5 was repaid and was for the increased
amount of £800.  The loan term had substantially increased to 84 weeks.  I thought this might
have suggested  that Miss D was struggling to manage her finances and that Provident
should have again been concerned that Miss D was needing to borrow immediately after
Loan 5 was repaid. I also couldnt see that Provident  had asked for details of Miss Ds rent 
and council tax or evidence  of her income and other outgoings  before Loan 6. So again, I 
thought it should have  been clear to Provident that it couldnt rely on the information  Miss D 
had provided about  her financial situation. And I thought it would have been reasonable to 
expect Provident  to enquire  further  into Miss Ds financial situation at this time.
Loan 7
Loan 7 was taken out at the same time as Loan 6 was repaid and was for the substantially
increased amount  of £1,200 and the loan term had significantly  increased to 104 weeks. I
thought Provident should again have been  concerned that Miss D was borrowing frequently
from it and appeared  to be reliant  on Providents loans. So, I didnt think it had made
proportionate checks for Loan 7 and again  I thought  it would have been proportionate for
Provident to have looked at Miss Ds financial situation in much more depth  here.
Although I didnt think the checks Provident  made for Loans  3 to 7 were sufficient, that in
itself didnt mean that Miss Ds complaint about these should succeed. I also needed to see
whether what I considered to be proportionate checks  would have shown  Provident  that 
Miss D couldnt sustainably afford the loans.
For Loans 3 and 4, as Id said above,  I thought Provident needed to supplement the
information Miss D had provided by asking her if she had short term loans. To find out what,
if any, outstanding short term commitments Miss D had, Id asked the investigator  to obtain
copies of Miss Ds bank statements. 
Id reviewed Miss Ds bank statements for each of the months before she took out Loans 3 
and 4. But I couldnt see that Miss D had taken out any short term loans in those months. So 
whilst I didnt think Provident had carried out proportionate checks  before giving Loans 3 and 
4, I also didnt think that carrying out better checks wouldve uncovered  anything  that 
wouldve stopped  it from giving Loans 3 and 4 to Miss D. So, I didnt intend to uphold 
Miss Ds complaint about Loans 3 and 4.
With regard to Loans 5 to 7, as Id said above, I thought Provident should have been
independently checking what Miss D was earning and spending each  month. So Id tried to
do this by looking at Miss Ds bank statements for the month before each of those loans, to
see what better checks would have suggested to Provident. The bank statements might not
have shown Provident everything  it wouldve seen  by carrying out proportionate checks. But
Id said that the bank  statements were  the best indication  of Miss Ds ability  to afford  the 
loans at the time they were approved.  So I didnt think it was unreasonable to rely on these.
For the month before Loan 5, Miss Ds statements showed her monthly  income was around
£1,284 but her normal living costs  and regular financial commitments amounted to around 
£890. She hadnt taken out any short term loans in that period. Whilst I didnt think Provident  
had carried out proportionate checks before giving Loan 5, I also didnt think  that carrying out 
better checks wouldve  uncovered anything that wouldve stopped Provident from giving 
Loan 5 to Miss D. It could  have seen, as I had, the transactions going through Miss Ds 
Ref: DRN57007915account. And, I didnt  think  these  were sufficient to suggest that Loan 5 wasnt  sustainable 
as the monthly  repayment for Loan  5 was around  £91. So, I didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint 
about Loan 5.
And I thought the picture was similar for Loan  6. Miss Ds income  was slightly lower  at 
around nearly £1,284 and the loan repayment  amount  was around £83. Miss Ds normal  
living costs  and regular  financial  commitments amounted to around £816.  So, I also didnt  
think I could conclude here that Loan  6 wasnt sustainable.
By the time of Loan 7, Miss Ds statements showed that her regular income had reduced to
£1,045. But the transactions on her bank statements showed that her normal living costs and
regular financial commitments  amounted to around  £826. There  was no short term lending in
that period. Nevertheless, as the loan repayment  was £119.60,  Id thought  if Provident  had 
done what I considered to be proportionate  checks here, that these would have suggested 
that Loan 7 was sustainable.
In summary  I didnt think the checks Provident  had made before Loans 3 to 7 were  
proportionate. But if Provident had carried out what I considered  to be proportionate checks, 
I didnt think it would  have  concluded that the loans werent sustainable. So, I didnt intend  to 
uphold this aspect  of Miss Ds complaint.
debt collection and financial difficulties
I noted that Miss D was unhappy about Providents  debt collection practices. As I needed 
more information  about these, I asked  the investigator to ask Miss D for details of the dates 
of the calls and texts shed received, and copies of the texts  if she had them. Id also asked  
the investigator to ask Miss D how Provident  responded to her when shed told them she 
had financial  difficulties.  I also wanted  to know if Miss D had any evidence of her mental  
health issues such as letters  from the hospital.
Id also asked the investigator  to ask Provident  if it would  be able to supply us with a copy  of
its contact records with Miss D and for its comments on what Miss D had said about  its debt
collection practices.
Miss D responded  to say that she didnt  have any details of the calls or texts,  but she would 
ask her phone  company  if these could be retrieved. Shed  said that she had lots of calling 
cards from Provident which shed received through her door on a daily basis. She had been 
on medication a number of times but was unable to provide medical  evidence  due to lack of 
funds.
Miss D had around four weeks to supply further information to us. Shed provided photos  of 
a number of calling cards from Provident which were put through her door. The cards didnt 
show a date or time. But as Miss Ds loans were  home credit loans with repayments  for the 
loans collected  weekly from Miss D at her address,  I didnt think it was unreasonable for 
Provident to leave calling cards when  Miss D wasnt available. Id noted that in total 472 
weekly collections were to be made by Provident over the period of the loans. So I didnt 
think the number  of cards shown by Miss Ds photos was unreasonable over this period. Id 
noted that the cards showed  a phone number to be called with a request for a message to 
be left to rearrange a visit if the call wasnt answered. I didnt find the wording  of the cards to 
be inappropriate. Miss D hadnt provided us with any further information about  the calls and 
texts.
Ref: DRN57007916Provident had responded to say that Miss Ds complaint about  debt collection wasnt 
mentioned in her formal  complaint to it dated  23 November 2017. It noted that the complaint 
did say that Miss D was struggling to repay the loan and that shed offered to repay  £5 per 
week. She had also asked for some of the interest to be removed. As a result of this, 
Provident said it had wanted to ensure Miss D was provided with the relevant support she 
might need  and it offered her assistance from its Customer  Care Team, along  with 
requesting its local office to discuss a repayment  plan to assist Miss D. Id noted that 
Provident had agreed a repayment plan of £5 per week for the balance due which  I thought 
was reasonable.
Provident had also provided this service  with details of the dates of calls made by its local 
office and a summary of voice recordings made  at the times of visits to Miss D. These  
showed where it had spoken to Miss D and the purpose of the contact. There were five 
phone calls between January and October  2016 to discuss arrears which I didnt think was 
unreasonable. There were also records of seven visits  between July 2017  and 
February 2018 where repayments were collected  or Miss D wasnt available.  Whilst  I didnt 
think that all visits were  shown in the information provided by Provident (as I could see from 
the loan accounts that there  were  numerous weekly visits  to collect repayments), I didnt 
think that the purposes of the visits shown  in the summary were  inappropriate.
I appreciated that it was unsettling for Miss D to receive phone calls about arrears  and 
calling cards, and I didnt  underestimate her strength of feeling. But in the absence of 
information from Miss D about  the number of calls received, I didnt  find the information 
about the number of calls provided  by Provident  to be unreasonable.  And the calling cards I 
had seen were written in appropriate language  and they simply requested a phone  call to 
rearrange a visit.
I appreciated that Miss D would be very disappointed with the decision Id come to. But, for
the reasons explained above, and on the balance of probabilities,  I couldnt  see that 
Provident had acted inappropriately here and I didnt intend  to uphold  this aspect of her 
complaint.
I also said that if Miss D continues to be worried about being in financial difficulty, I would 
urge her to contact Provident about this. I reminded Provident of its duty to treat cases of 
financial difficulty positively and sympathetically.
Subject to any further representations by Miss D or Provident my provisional  decision was 
that I didnt  intend to uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Miss D responded  to say that Provident  hadnt contacted  her with regards to accepting  her 
lower monthly offer. She also said that just because the calling  cards  were undated, it didnt 
mean they werent from the time when Provident was harassing her for money when shed 
told them  she was suffering financial hardship.  Miss D also said that her mental health had 
affected her work but she had no medical records.
Provident hasnt  provided any further  comments.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN57007917I note that Miss D said that Provident hadnt contacted her about accepting  her lower 
monthly offer. But I can see that Provident has agreed to a repayment  plan of £5 per week. 
And I would urge Miss D to contact Provident  about this or if she is continuing to suffer 
financial difficulties. 
I also note Miss Ds comments  about the calling cards being undated. But as Ive said 
above, on balance,  I didnt think that the calling cards were  inappropriate.
Im also sorry  to hear about  Miss Ds health  difficulties.  But without medical evidence I can 
do no more about  this.
So, after considering the points made by Miss D, Im not persuaded to change  my findings  
from those set out in my provisional decision.  I realise this isnt the answer Miss D hoped  for 
and Im sorry to read of her distress. I remind Provident of its continuing obligations to treat 
Miss D positively and sympathetically in respect of the outstanding debt. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before  4 February  2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5700791