K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mrs C says HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  agree that this sale took place  during  a telephone call. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Although a call recording isnt available due to the time thats passed since the sale 
took place, I think  its more likely than not that HSBC made it clear that Mrs C didnt 
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why she may not remember  this.
I say this because  Ive considered what we know more widely  about  how HSBC  sold 
PPI around the time this policy was taken  out. I think that its more likely than not that 
HSBC followed their normal  sales process  and that Mrs C would have been sent a 
credit agreement to sign after the phone call that would have had an option  to sign 
separately for PPI.
As PPI was added to the account,  it seems more likely than not that Mrs C signed  
separately to agree  to take PPI. 
Although Mrs C has said that she didnt know PPI was attached  to the account,  
I think that Mrs C would quite reasonably  have questioned with HSBC  much  sooner 
than she did, why she paying for PPI when it appeared on her monthly credit card 
statements. 
But I havent seen  evidence that she did and PPI remained on her account for some  
time after it was taken out. 
HSBC didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs C got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Ref: DRN54298762So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the 
cover. 
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But HSBC  has already paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because  HSBC didnt tell Mrs C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs C has said, including  what  shes  said about not needing 
PPI because she could  have relied on her family  and friends.  But although her family and 
friends may have wanted to help her, circumstances can change  and they may not have 
been in a position to help when needed. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs C any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5429876