K821x#15complaint
Mr I has made a complaint because  he is unhappy with how The Royal London Mutual  
Insurance Society Limited  (trading as Scottish Provident) handled a claim he made  on his 
Income Protection Policy.  
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision. Ive attached  a copy  
and it forms part of my final decision.  Mr I made a claim which was declined. Scottish 
Provident (SP) later agreed that it shouldnt have declined the claim. But Mr I remained 
unhappy with the amount of money he was due to be paid because he didnt think  it fairly 
reflected his overall income and his wider circumstances  
I explained I was intending to uphold  Mr Is complaint  because  I didnt think the benefit figure 
had been fairly calculated,  taking  into account  the specific  circumstances of this complaint. 
I said I was intending  to direct SP to put things  right by:
Calculating the monthly benefit based  on Mr Is average earned income for the three  
year period running from the 1 January  2010 to 31 December 2012. This figure was 
to include Mrs Is dividends for the same  period.  But it would be subject to the other  
policy terms, which includes the special  provision  in relation to the maximum policy 
benefit; 
Paying Mr I in full the outstanding backdated payments including 8% simple interest 
from the date the deferred period ended;  
Paying Mr I £2000  trouble for the trouble and upset of his claim being incorrectly 
declined and the impact this has had on his family. 
SP didnt make any further comments on my provisional decision. Mr I pointed out the 
redress Id directed didnt  reflect how SP had calculated  the benefit  previously. Having 
reviewed the file again I agreed with his representations on that point.  I therefore  asked SP 
to calculate the amount of compensation using  the methodology  theyd used previously. 
SP calculated the total settlement as being approximately £106,702.00 exclusive of the 8% 
interest and the award for trouble and upset. 
Mr I still had some concerns about the amount being  awarded and said the settlement figure  
was still out by around £387. He was also unhappy with how the information was presented 
by SP and that figures were rounded down, to his disadvantage. He was also concerned 
about how SP would  calculate  the benefit  in the future. 
SP agreed to pay the additional amount of approximately £387 and, as requested by Mr I, 
made the payment to him. The total settlement for the claim was approximately £138,992.00 
which included the 8% simple interest, but not the payment  for the trouble and upset. This 
was because Mr I felt that this should be increased further from the £2000  I was intending to 
award. 
Ref: DRN55983732Following the settlement  SP wrote to Mr I to say what  the new monthly benefit would be. 
However, the figure quoted in this letter was wrong. SP confirmed  that figure was wrong and 
said it had already written  to Mr I to correct the mistake. 
However, Mr I still disputed the new figure. SP confirmed the new monthly benefit would be 
approximately £2,800 per month. Mr I remained unhappy  that SP are rounding down  the 
figures and asked for the benefit  figure.  SP confirmed  that the monthly benefit in the future 
would be £2,800.18. It also agreed  to pay Mr I the outstanding few pence from the previous 
months underpayment.  
Mr I also raised  some  wider concerns which included:
The systematic rounding down of figures  by SP
Continual mistakes  made by SP
That my decision referred to the particular and unusual circumstances of his case  
which in his mind introduced ambiguity  and suggested I was making an 
unprecedented exception in his case
I didnt refer to our services online guidance or technical note
He wanted  to clarify that his wife did take a nominal salary  albeit he acknowledged 
that it wouldnt be included within the benefit calculation
The award for trouble and upset wasnt enough  and should  take into account his 
legal fees. 
So I now need to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I made  a number of detailed representations  in response to my provisional  decision and 
whilst SP have been calculating the claim settlement figure. However,  Im only going to refer 
to those points  which I consider  to be relevant to my final decision.  
Ive confirmed to Mr I that I am happy  to clarify his wife took a nominal salary although, as he 
has said, this doesnt affect the overall award  Im making. 
I remain of the view that the clause in the product  guide relates  to self-employed  people for 
the same  reasons I set out in my provisional  decision. And in my provisional decision I 
explained why I thought  it was fair and reasonable to use a different  time frame in Mr Is 
case. This is an approach our service  may take when  its fair and reasonable to do so. 
However, of course,  that depends  on the facts of the case as every case  is different. Ive 
already explained why the facts of this case persuaded  me it was fair and reasonable to do 
so.   
Ref: DRN55983733Mr I expressed  concerns that SP has habitually rounded down  figures and that this could 
short change thousands of customers each year. I can only consider the facts of Mr Is case. 
And the evidence Ive seen persuades me that this is largely due to the calculations being an 
automated process  with some manual input. I also note that the calculations in this case 
have been complex  and extensive. So Im not persuaded this is a malicious or deliberate  
attempt to leave  Mr I out of pocket.  
I explained in my provisional decision  that our service is free to use for consumers. I 
appreciate why Mr I chose to instruct a lawyer  for advice. But I dont think its fair to direct SP 
to cover the legal costs  because it was Mr Is choice to do so. 
Our investigator recommended SP increase the total compensation from £750 to £1500.  I 
said I was intending  to increase the total compensation  to £2000. Overall, I remain  of the 
view that £2000 compensation  for the non-financial loss Mr I experienced is fair. I explained 
why I thought the length of time his claim has been  ongoing, and the issues with the claim 
itself, have been distressing and frustrating. An award of £2000 is at the top of the 
substantial range and at bottom of the severe  range  for our service. Mr Is further 
comments havent changed my thoughts about  this as I think  it fairly  reflects the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced.
I accept that SP has made a number of mistakes  throughout the life of this complaint and 
thats reflected  in the award  I made  in my provisional decision. There  have  been  some 
ongoing difficulties  with the calculations  since  I issued  my provisional  decision. However, I 
also need to take into account  that the calculations involved  in this case  are extensive and 
complex. I can also see that where  mistakes have been made since I issued my provisional 
decision, SP have taken appropriate steps to put things right  for example, correcting the 
monthly benefit payment going  forward and paying the outstanding amounts Mr I requested.  
So this hasnt changed my thoughts about  the overall level of compensation in this case. 
putting things right
SP has paid Mr I for the settlement of the claim which totalled around £138,992.00 and this 
settlement forms part of the total award Im directing SP to make as Ive upheld this aspect 
of Mr Is complaint. SP should  also pay the outstanding few pence to Mr I as they have 
agreed to do so.
I now direct  it to further put things right by paying  a total of £2000 for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by incorrectly declining the claim  and the impact  this had on Mr I. 
my final decision
Im upholding Mr Is complaint about  The Royal London Mutual  Insurance  Society  Limited 
and direct it to put things  right in the way Ive outlined above. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or reject  my decision before 
25 August 2019.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN55983734COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr I has made a complaint  because  he is unhappy with how The Royal London  Mutual Insurance  
Society Limited handled  a claim he made on his Income Protection Policy. 
background
application
Mr I took out an income protection policy in 2007 with The Royal London  Mutual Insurance  Society 
Limited trading as Scottish Provident (SP). The policy  was taken out via an Independent  Financial  
Advisor.
Mr I was running a limited  company in which he had 51% of the shares  and his wife had 49% shares. 
Mr I has explained this was for reasons of tax efficiency rather  than because  they shared equal 
responsibilities in the running of the company. Their income was made  up of a combination of salaries 
paid from the company  and dividends. In summary, he says he was the driving force  behind  the 
company and its profitability.  
On the application form Mr I was asked, Do you have or have you had any of the following.mental  
illness that has required hospital treatment or referral to a psychiatrist?. Mr I selected the no box in 
answer to that question.  
The application was successful and the policy was set up on the basis there was a deferred  period of 
52 weeks. The sum assured  was £24 000 at the date of commencement but had increased  to just 
over £30 000 by 2013. 
declining the claim
In 2013 Mr I consulted his GP as he was experiencing depression. He was, in summary, so unwell 
that he was unable to return to his role in the business. Ultimately, Mr Is business closed in 2014. 
Mr I made a claim on his income protection policy after the deferred period had passed.  His claim was 
rejected on the basis hed failed to disclose  previous  mental  health problems during the application 
process. SP referred  to information in Mr Is medical notes which  said hed previously experienced 
depression and had been referred for some treatment before he took out the policy. SP said that had 
he disclosed this information  they wouldve  applied exclusions to the policy in relation to mental health 
conditions.
SP relied on information in the medical records which said Mr I had experienced  depression and had 
been referred for Cognitive  Behavioural Therapy (CBT) and a course  on Managing Depression in 
2005. They also explained Mr I had been assessed by a psychiatrist in October  2013 as part of the 
claims process and Mr I had said he had a history of mental illness.  
Mr I explained hed not failed to disclose  relevant information when he applied for the policy and 
strongly disputed the information contained within the psychiatrists report. He explained that 
references to depression in his medical  records were  inaccurate.  And he said hed never been 
depressed or received treatment for depression  before  he took out the policy.  So he said hed 
answered the questions truthfully.
Ref: DRN55983735Mr Is complaint
Following a complaint from Mr I, in September 2017, SP accepted the claim should  be paid. They 
acknowledged their interpretation of the medical  evidence  was wrong and opportunities  to address Mr 
Is concerns had been missed. SP agreed to write to another business, with whom Mr I had a different 
type of policy, to confirm there had been no misrepresentation. 
SP also accepted  some very sensitive  information about Mr Is family  had been  retained on their file 
when it shouldnt have  been.  So they arranged for the relevant information to be removed. 
SP apologised  to Mr I for what had gone wrong  and offered Mr I £750 compensation as an apology.  
They also refunded the premiums and backdated the claim, adding 8% simple interest. When SP 
confirmed the benefit level to Mr S he didnt receive  as much as he was expecting.  In summary, he 
doesnt think  SP has calculated  the benefit fairly. 
our investigation
Our investigator recommended that Mr Is wifes dividends were included  in the calculation of benefit 
as he thought  the policy terms didnt  make it clear that spousal  dividends needed  to stop when Mr I 
became unwell.  
He also said SP should  use an average  based  on tax returns submitted for the 2010/2011,  2011/2012 
and 2012/2013. The figures provided showed that 50% of the earnings  calculated over this period 
would lead to a benefit of £17, 681.54 using that calculation. The investigator also recommended SP 
increased the level of compensation to £1500. 
response to assessment
Mr I highlighted four keys issues which  he says mean that the benefit  hasnt been correctly calculated:  
1.Inclusion of his wifes dividends in the benefit calculation  Mr I says there are no terms in the 
Policy that qualify  or limit the inclusion  of the spousal dividend in the calculation of Mr Is 
earned income
2.The use of average income  the policy allows for earning to be averaged over a different 
period if using  a different period would  give a better indication  of the policyholders usual  
income. Mr I says this approach applies to both employed and self-employed persons
 
3.The relevant period  for calculating the benefit  the three  year time period used by the 
investigator is incorrect as 2012 and 2013 show Mr Is companys performance significantly 
dropped off in 2012 and worsened throughout 2013
4.The calculation  of the average  over the relevant period  Mr I says the fairest way to 
approach the average is by taking an average of the 2010 and 2011  earnings or alternatively  
an average of earnings between 2010 and 2012. 
non-financial loss
Our investigator increased the level of compensation from Mr I made  a number of representations in 
relation to the compensation. He didnt  think £1500 was fair and says it doesnt reflect  the usual  levels 
of compensation awarded by our service.   
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN55983736Mr I had a personal  self-assurance plan which was designed to provide protection  for him. He took 
out an additional option for disability income  benefit, which is income protection. There were a number 
of different options  available to select which  are set out at page nine of the product guide. I can see 
from page  ten of the application form Mr I chose the following options:
A Single  Life policy  
To cover his own occupation rather than work tasks
A deferred period  of 52 weeks 
An increasing level of benefit
Guaranteed premium rates
A fixed term benefit.   
The benefit level he selected was £24 000. 
does the definition of earned income for an employed  or self-employed person apply  to Mr I?
For an employed person the definition  of salary or earned income  is:
Earned income  means the gross taxable earnings for PAYE assessment  purposes in the 12 
months prior to the life assured becoming  disabled. This can include:  
Regular commission and bonuses received by the life assured
Dividends received by the life assured (and their spouse or co-habiting  partner)  from a private 
limited company in which the life assured  and not more than 3 other shareholders are 
employed as full time working directors. The dividend  amount used will represent the life 
assureds share (and their spouses  or co-habiting  partners share) in the net trading profit of 
that company from its normal, regular business, and must cease  as a result of the life 
assureds disability,  and/or
The salary received  by the life assureds spouse or co-habiting partner where  they are 
employed by the same  company as the life assured. Their salary would need to be a nominal 
amount (up to a maximum of £6, 500 per year), and they would  not contribute  towards 
generating the profit  of the company. The spouses or co-habiting  partners salary  must cease 
on the disability of the life assured.  
Any salary,  dividends or any form of private  disability benefits being received by the spouse or 
cohabiting partner when the life assured is disabled will be treated  as continuing income of the life 
assured for claims  assessment purposes. 
The definition  of earned income for a self-employed  person is:
If the life assured is self-employed,  earned income means the life assureds share  of pre-tax 
profit (after the deduction of trading expenses and adjustment for capital allowances) from 
their trade,  profession or vocation for the purpose of Schedule D cases I and II of the Income 
and Corporation Taxes Act 1988,  in the 12 months prior to the life assured  becoming 
disabled. 
Earned income  will have been agreed by the United Kingdom HM Revenue & Customers  or 
by the tax authorities in the relevant country for earning outside  the United  Kingdom. 
Income from savings and investments and benefits in kind (P11D)  is not included  in our 
definition of earned income. 
Ref: DRN55983737We may average earnings over a different period, if in our reasonable opinion,  the life 
assureds earned  income fluctuates  significantly and using a different  period would give a 
better indication of the life assureds usual earned income.
Mr I says the following  section  of the policy terms allows SP to average his earnings  over a different 
period:
We may average earnings over a different period, if in our reasonable opinion,  the life 
assureds earned  income fluctuates  significantly and using a different  period would give a 
better indication of the life assureds usual earned income.
Ill refer to this section  of the policy as the average earnings clause. 
Mr I referred me to section  7 of The Unfair  Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations  1999 (UTCCR) 
which says:
(1)A seller or supplier shall ensure that any written term of a contract is expressed in plain 
and intelligible language 
(2)If there is any doubt about the meaning of a written term, the interpretation which is most 
favourable to the consumer shall prevail  but this rule shall not apply in proceedings 
bought under Regulation 12. 
And, Mr I also referred me to section 69 of the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 (CRA) which says, If a 
term in a consumer contract, or a consumer  notice, could have different meanings  the meaning that is 
most favourable to the consumer  is to prevail. 
SP told us the average earnings clause  only relates to claims from self-employed  people and 
therefore its not applicable to the calculation of Mr Is benefit calculation. So I need  to decide whether 
the employed  earnings definition or the self-employed  earnings definition applies in Mr Is case. 
Mr I was an employed director of a limited  company.  Therefore, for the purposes of the claim, Im 
satisfied its fair to use the definition of earned income  for an employed person and that he meets  that 
definition in the policy. 
Im not persuaded  by Mr Is representations in relation to the application of the average earnings 
clause. I think this area of the policy is clearly split into sections dealing with employed and self-
employed people. And the average  earnings clause fell clearly under  the heading  relating to self-
employed persons. So the representations about section 7 of UTCCR and s69 of the CRA 2015 dont 
change my thoughts about this point.
is it fair and reasonable to use the 12 months prior to the commencement  date as an accurate 
reflection of Mr Is earnings?
I dont think its fair or reasonable to conclude  Mr Is income over the 12 months prior to his disability  
were an accurate reflection of his income. The medical  evidence Ive seen is persuasive and I think  
Mr I been  struggling with his mental  health  for some  time prior to his disability formally being 
recognised in 2013. And Im persuaded that this had a real and tangible impact on the profitability of 
the business from which  he drew his income. 
This is supported by the witness  statements  of those involved in the running of the business  
describing the decline  of the business during  the period prior to Mr Is formal diagnosis in September 
2013. As Mr I had a predominantly client facing  and strategic role Im satisfied his declining mental  
health had a significant and direct impact on the profitability of the business. 
Ref: DRN55983738Ive also taken  into account that the accountant has provided information showing that the business  
made over £350 000 profit  in 2010 compared to £144 145 in 2011 and £64 292 profit  in 2012 which 
coincides with the period  Mr Is mental  health  was declining. In 2013,  the business made a loss of 
around £100  000. And the accountant confirmed  that the company  had a history of being able to meet 
a remuneration/distribution policy of at least £70 000 for all the previous accounting years. 
Therefore, whilst I dont agree with Mr Is interpretation of the policy terms,  Im satisfied its fair and 
reasonable to use an average figure in the particular  and unusual circumstances of this case. Thats 
because Im satisfied its the fair and reasonable  way to assess Mr Is earnings in the circumstances. 
what is the relevant  period  over which  Mr Is income  should be assessed?
Ive taken into account the witness statements provided by employees  and Mrs I. I found them to be 
credible and persuasive on the point of there being a connection between  Mr Is worsening mental 
state and the impact  on the profitability of the business. 
This is also reflected in a notable worsening  in the performance of the business during 2012,  although  
it still generated a profit. In 2013 the business made a loss. So this is consistent with the testimony 
from Mr I and the other witnesses. 
Therefore, Im persuaded that 2013  doesnt fully represent part of the normal economic  cycle of Mr Is 
business. And I think, on balance, this is most likely to be connected to Mr Is worsening condition and 
the impact this had on the business. 
Im persuaded  the fair and reasonable way to assess the relevant period is to take into account  how 
the business performed prior to Mr Is disability impacting on the business. Mr I was diagnosed in 
September 2013 and so I think the average earnings should be calculated on how the business 
performed during an earlier period. I think  the fairest way to calculate this would be to use an average 
for the three year period  running from the 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2012. 
should Mr Is wifes dividends be included in the calculation of the benefit? 
Mr Is wife owned a 49% share  in the company. SP says they wont include her earnings as she is not 
the insured person claiming under the policy. So they say, as both company  owners  contributed to the 
earnings and receive a pro-rata share, its fair to only look at Mr Is share of the earnings when 
assessing the claim. Otherwise,  this would  artificially  inflate  the claimants earnings. SP also pointed 
out Mr Is wife continued to work in the business after her husbands illness. 
Mr I explained his wife was a 49% shareholder  to ensure tax efficiency  and that he was the driving  
force behind  the business. So he says, in summary, its unfair not to take into account his wifes 
earnings particularly because there are no terms in the Policy that qualify or limit the inclusion of the 
Spousal Dividend  in the calculation  of the policyholders earned income. 
As Ive outlined above Im satisfied Mr Is claim should be correctly assessed in line with the policy 
terms relating to earned income by an employed  person. However, I think  its fair and reasonable to 
calculate the relevant period  over a different  period  so that Mr Is income is fairly  reflected before he 
fell ill. 
The policy wording says earned income can include (my emphasis added  in bold):
Dividends received by the life assured (and their spouse or co-habiting  partner)  from a private 
limited company in which the life assured  and not more than 3 other shareholders are 
employed as full time working directors. The dividend amount used will represent the life 
assureds share (and their spouses  or co-habiting partners  share)  in the net trading 
profit of that company from its normal, regular business, and must cease as a result of 
the life assureds disability, and/or
Ref: DRN55983739The salary received  by the life assureds spouse or co-habiting partner where  they are 
employed by the same  company as the life assured. Their salary would need to be a nominal 
amount (up to a maximum of £6, 500 per year), and they would  not contribute  towards 
generating the profit  of the company. The spouses or co-habiting  partners salary  must cease 
on the disability of the life assured.  
Mrs I took an active role in the company but she didnt  take a salary  from the business. So I dont  
think the second  bullet  point is relevant  to Mr Is claim. However, she did take dividends of £33 000 in 
the years 2010 and 2011  and £20 000 in 2012.She described her role as mainly invoicing clients,  
paying suppliers and staff.  She says she worked variable hours and mainly from home in a behind  the 
scenes role. 
On balance, I think  the benefit used should include Mrs Is dividends. I say that because Im satisfied 
the relevant section of the terms relating to dividends  says the amount used will represent the life 
assureds share and their spouses share in the net trading profit of that company from its normal  
regular business.  It doesnt say the benefit will be adjusted to take into account  the percentage share 
of the profit or that it will be pro-rated. 
I also note that the business  made a significant loss in the year after Mr Is disability was diagnosed. 
Therefore the dividends Mrs I received after Mr Is disability came from retained profit.  So this didnt 
reflect the businesses  normal regular  business. I dont think  its reasonable for this aspect of the claim 
to be declined  taking  into account all of these factors. 
I think  the relevant  period  should mirror the relevant period over which Mr Is income is to be 
assessed. As Ive already explained I think this gives the fairest reflection of Mr Is income.  So I think 
thats the fair and reasonable  approach  to take in the particular circumstances of this case.
what is the maximum policy benefit?
The product guide says:
You also choose the level of cover that you want.  However, the following limits apply:
Minimum benefit of 50% of £1200 a year or £100 a month.
Maximum benefit of 50% of your salary or earned income  (50% of the lower salary  or amount 
of earned income  if you chose joint-life  benefit).  We will not pay more  than £126 000 per year 
or £10 500 per month. If you are a house-person  we will not pay more  than £12 000 a year or 
£1000 per month. 
These limits take also take into account all other income protection and accident,  sickness 
and unemployment plans that you might have with other providers.
The product guide also contained an example demonstrating how the maximum benefit calculation 
would be completed. 
Mr Is policy  includes a special provision which says:
The initial annual amount  of the benefit  payable  shall we restricted, if necessary, by us to an 
amount which, together with the annual amounts of all other private disability benefits and 
earned income being received by the life assured, does not exceed 50% of the life assureds 
annual pre-disability earned income. Where the life assured is not in gainful employment the 
amount of the benefit will be restricted to £12 000.00 p.a
This reflects the information  in the product guide which Ive outlined above. I think the product guide  
did make  it clear that the policy would pay out a maximum of 50% of the benefit level selected. The 
benefit level selected was £24 000 and so the maximum benefit is 50% of that figure. 
Ref: DRN559837310As Mr I selected an increasing benefit level hes entitled to receive up to 50% of the current sum 
assured, which I understand was approximately  £30 000 at the point he made  a claim. 
did SP mis-sell  the policy?
Mr I has expressed  concern  about the sale of the policy  and its suitability  for his needs,  in particular 
the level of benefit. 
ICOBS 5.3.1 says,  A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice for any 
customer who is entitled  to rely upon  its judgement. 
ICOBS 5.3.2 says when  taking  reasonable  care to ensure the suitability of advice on a payment  
protection contract or a pure protection contract a firm should:
(a)establish the customers  demands and needs by using  information readily available to the firm 
and by obtaining further relevant information from the customer,  including details  of existing  
insurance cover;  it need  not consider alternatives to policies nor customer needs that are not 
relevant to the type of policy  in which  the customer  is interested
(b)take reasonable care to ensure that a policy  is suitable for the customers demands and 
needs, taking into account its level of cover and cost,  and relevant  exclusions,  excesses, 
limitations and conditions;  and
(c)inform the customer of any demands and needs that are not met.
However, SP didnt sell the policy to Mr I and didnt  give him advice about it. The policy  was sold via a 
third party. So SP isnt responsible for any advice  Mr I received about  the suitability of the policy  for 
his needs, including the benefit level he selected. 
trouble and upset
Mr I has referred me to our services website  and the examples on it. He says his circumstances are 
more akin to examples where awards  of over £5000 per made. 
Initially the claim was declined and SP now accepts  that decision was wrong. However, it took until 
September 2017 for them to acknowledge  theyd misinterpreted the medical evidence. This caused a 
substantial amount of trouble and upset to Mr I and his wife. They  were in the process  of closing their 
business and I understand they also had to move home as a result of the change in their financial 
circumstances. So I can appreciate that this was added pressure at a time when they didnt need any 
further stress. It took nearly two and a half years  for the claim to be accepted and its over three years 
since the claim  was made. 
There have also been errors made  in the calculations which have led to changes to the benefit  
calculations on at least two occasions and I understand no back payments have yet been made. 
I also note its accepted by SP they retained sensitive  personal information  about  Mr Is family which 
shouldnt have been retained as it didnt  have  a bearing  on the claim.  This information  has now been 
deleted by SP and they have  apologised  in their final response letter. 
I think  the errors throughout the handling  of this claim  have had a severe  impact on Mr I. Hes had to 
deal with all of this at a time when he was experiencing  severe  mental health problems. So, 
understandably, this has taken his time and energy away from being able to focus on his wellbeing 
and recovery. And its caused avoidable disruption, inconvenience, worry and stress for an 
unnecessary amount of time. So I think an award  of £2000 fairly  reflects the level of trouble  and upset  
caused. 
Ref: DRN559837311Im aware that Mr I has incurred some legal costs. Our service is informal, and is free for consumers 
to use. So, whilst I can understand why Mr I has sought  legal  guidance, I dont think  its fair for these 
costs to be reimbursed as it was Mr Is choice  to instruct legal representation.  
putting things  right
Im intending  to direct  SP to put things right by: 
Calculating the monthly benefit based on Mr Is average  earned income  for the three year 
period running from the 1 January  2010 to 31 December 2012.  This figure should include Mrs 
Is dividends for the same period.  But it will be subject to the other policy terms, which 
includes the special  provision in relation to the maximum  policy benefit; 
Paying Mr I in full the outstanding backdated payments including 8% simple  interest from the 
date the deferred period  ended; 
Paying Mr I £2000 trouble for the trouble and upset  of his claim being incorrectly declined  and 
the impact this has had on his family. This award  also takes  into account  that SP retained 
sensitive information  on their files which wasnt relevant  to the claim. 
I think  that fair compensation should be calculated  as Ive outlined above. My decision is that SP 
should pay Mr I the amount  produced by that calculation  up to a maximum  of £150,000.
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold Mr Is complaint and direct SP to put things right in the way Ive outlined 
above. Mr I and SP should let me know by 3 April 2019if theres anything else you wanted to add. 
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5598373