K822xcomplaint
Mr G has complained that he has received poor service from Suffolk  Life Pensions Limited in 
relation to his Self-Invested  Personal  Pension (SIPP). He highlights  the activities conducted 
by Suffolk Life in allowing for VAT to HMRC without his knowledge and the incorrect 
information he was given about  this subsequently. 
 
background
Mr G owns a commercial  property together with three members  of his family. This asset is 
held within  individual  SIPPs.  Initially each  family  member held a 25% stake  of the property.  
However, it became  necessary to adjust the proportion of ownership to unequal shares. 
This resulted in a requirement to make  VAT adjustments in line with the new property share  
split. This involved settling and then reclaiming  VAT. To do this, in February 2017 a sum of 
about £52,000 was moved from each individual  SIPP bank account and paid into the group 
property bank account. A collective sum of about £207,000 was then moved into a Suffolk 
Life internal pooled account  to process the VAT calculations for HMRC. This sum was then 
reclaimed and returned to the group property account in March 2017. 
Mr G (and other family members) was unaware such movement of funds would take place to 
fulfil the VAT transaction. Since funds were  then not paid back  into his individual SIPP 
account, he complained to Suffolk  Life. 
Mr G believes  Suffolk  Life shouldve provided  prior warning  of this activity.  He was also 
unhappy with the explanation provided  surrounding these events and that Suffolk Life didnt 
return the funds  to the correct SIPP account. 
Since Mr G had complained in 2016  about  other  elements  of their service,  he felt this was 
another example of Suffolk  Lifes poor customer service.
Suffolk Life partially upheld the complaint. It acknowledged funds should  have  been  
refunded back to the correct account. It offered £50 as compensation. Mr G (and other family 
members) rejected this and their complaints were  forwarded  to our service.
An adjudicator considered  the complaint. He concluded that the complaint should  be partially 
upheld. Whilst he did not consider the behaviour of Suffolk Life to have  been  unreasonable 
he agreed funds were not returned to the appropriate account. An increased total offer of 
£200 was proposed to cover the complaints  of all property shareholders but this was 
declined.
The complaint was therefore  passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As administrator of Mr Gs SIPP,  I believe Suffolk  Life has a responsibility to ensure  taxation 
requirements are adhered  to particularly given the revised ownership relevant here. Suffolk  
Life told our adjudicator that its calculations are conducted collectively with all applicable  
Ref: DRN53728022clients, on a quarterly basis and that there is a requirement for use of an internal pooled  
account to assist with complex cases. 
Suffolk Life believes the process  was complex for Mr Gs situation due to the altered 
property share allocation. Therefore, they believe an internal account  was required. Mr G 
disputes this, suggesting  it was unnecessary for funds to leave his account for three weeks. 
It is not my role to determine exactly how Suffolk Life should account for VAT  it has 
commercial discretion to determine its process to do that. That there may be other ways of 
doing so that does  not mean that Suffolk Lifes process in the circumstances was 
unreasonable. I have not seen evidence that it was. 
I have considered Mr Gs point about being  given conflicting information about the VAT 
payment/reclaim process. But I dont believe that Suffolk Life was misleading Mr G or was 
changing its story about what happened.  I think it was the nature of the VAT 
payment/reclaim process which was difficult to explain  and liable to be misinterpreted.  As I 
say I do not believe  Suffolk Life set out to mislead Mr G or necessarily provided contradictory 
information. I do not believe it made material  errors in this respect.   
It is not disputed  that Suffolk Life had to carry out a calculation. As the adjudicator  
highlighted the Terms and Conditions record that:
We will be responsible for the following activities.f) where  applicable reclaiming or paying 
VAT for VAT elected properties.
However, it carried out this process without telling Mr G in advance.  My view is that it would 
have been better if it had done so but it should  be noted that it was not a requirement  that it 
did so given that it had the authority to move funds in such a way as to reasonably settle  the 
VAT adjustment.
Whilst funds were held in the Suffolk Life internal account there  was no restriction  of activity  
as Mr Gs account continued to honour  outgoings  and accept income where appropriate.  
Furthermore, he suffered  no financial loss. Mr G has accepted these points via his 
representative. It is important to take into account  that he has not been disadvantaged whilst 
the VAT calculation process was conducted.
Suffolk Life has accepted  that funds were not re-credited to Mr Gs individual  account 
following the VAT refund and hence their offer of a compensation payment. Following the 
subsequent involvement of our adjudicator an additional £150 was offered as it was 
identified that other  funds  had not been  returned appropriately. 
Mr G believes  this is an insufficient offer. His frustration over this matter stems from the 
service provided which is considered here and previous  service  problems he has 
encountered with Suffolk Life, which are not being considered in this decision.  I can 
understand Mr Gs view, that these matters have inconvenienced him and that he has lost 
trust in Suffolk  Lifes ability to service his pension correctly. He would like to change SIPP  
administrator yet the costs of doing so are significant because  of the property asset  held. He 
believes the costs  of this transferring should be reimbursed  or waived by Suffolk Life. 
Whilst I have taken  that into account  I do not believe that Suffolk Lifes  service  has been  
deficient to the extent  that all the costs  of transferring the pension  from it should be met by it. 
I have taken into account that it put matters right in due course and generally Suffolk  Life is 
Ref: DRN53728023carrying out the service  required  of it. Mr G can transfer if he wishes  to but I dont think  that 
Suffolk Life meeting  the costs of this is fair in the circumstances.  
That said,  I do believe that a payment  is warranted to reflect the inconvenience and upset 
caused to Mr G  materially for the issue regarding crediting the accounts appropriately. This 
is a complaint made individually  by Mr G and I have considered that Suffolk  Life is 
essentially offering  him £50 in this respect.  I believe a payment of £100  is fair in the 
circumstances. 
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint in part  insofar as Mr G has been caused inconvenience  and upset. 
My decision  is that Suffolk Life Pensions Limited  should pay Mr G £100 in settlement of the 
complaint, less any payment that has already been  made by it in respect of this complaint  to 
Mr G. To clarify, if Suffolk Life has already  paid £50 into a SIPP account in respect  of all four 
SIPP/property holders, then the sum can be reduced by £12.50 as this is the share 
attributable to Mr G. Should Mr G accept this decision  he can decide if he wishes this 
payment to be made direct to him or into a SIPP account.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5372802