K822xcomplaint
Miss S has complained  about  Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling  of her car insurance  
policy.
Reference to Ageas  includes  their agents.
Miss S mother has assisted Miss S on her behalf throughout her dealings  with Ageas and 
our service.  But for ease  of reference I shall refer to Miss S mothers  actions as being those 
of Miss S.
background 
In November 2017, Miss S was involved in a minor  accident where her car hit the back  of 
another car. The other driver said her car was damaged and that she suffered injury.  
Ageas settled the claim by accepting Miss S was at fault and they paid the other drivers 
claim for damage and injury. But Ageas didnt tell Miss S they settled. Miss S only found out 
when she came to renew her policy and she was told she lost her no claims bonus because 
of the accident.  Miss S wasnt happy so she complained. She said the other  drivers claim 
was exaggerated and Ageas didnt investigate properly. She also said the service  was poor 
and that she wasnt  kept informed and wasnt told the claim had been settled.
Ageas said they hadnt done anything wrong so they rejected the complaint. Miss S didn't 
think that was fair so she brought her complaint to us. One of our adjudicators  looked  into 
the complaint.  She felt that Ageas service, in particular their communication with Miss S, 
was poor so she suggested  that they pay her £100  compensation.  She also said that while  
Ageas were  correct in settling the claim and recording  it as Miss S fault, they could  have 
done more to investigate.  So she proposed  that Ageas should record  the cost of the claim 
(the total amount  they paid out in settling the claim)  as zero. She suggested that because 
she said some insurers  feel the value of a settled  claim is important and that may have a 
bearing on the premium  they set. As neither Ageas nor Miss S agreed with our adjudicator, 
the complaint  was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 28 February 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
In her complaint, Miss S has made a number  of detailed points and Ive considered 
all those carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what  I consider to be the key 
issues. My role is to decide  if Ageas have  dealt with Miss S in a fair and reasonable 
way. 
poor service
Ageas didnt tell Miss S that they had settled the other drivers claim. Although they 
did tell her from the start that it was going  to be recorded as her fault because she hit 
the other car from behind, but I think  they should  have told her when they settled it. 
Ageas agreed  with our adjudicators suggestion  to pay Miss S £100  compensation to 
Ref: DRN53705022address her distress and inconvenience. I think that is a fair amount and is in line 
with the type of compensation our service awards  for complaints of this seriousness.
investigation and settlement of the claim
Miss S said that soon  after the accident,  she exchanged text messages with the 
other driver who said she was fine.  Miss S also said there was no damage to the 
other drivers  car as far as she could see. And in the messages the other  driver  said 
there was a little scratch on her bumper.  So I can understand why Miss S was 
concerned that the other driver later claimed that she suffered injury  and her car was 
damaged. 
Miss S had what is commonly known as a black box installed on her car. She said 
that Ageas didnt  look at the black box data before  settling the claim. She said the 
black box data didnt  show  that an impact had taken  place,  which  would suggest the 
impact was very low.
I dont think the black  box not registering an impact is relevant in this instance 
because there is no doubt  that there  was impact. Both Miss S and the other  driver 
said that Miss S hit the other car from behind. When Miss S called to report  the 
incident, she said she went into the back  of the other car. She later described it as 
rolled into it. She also told Ageas that as a result of the accident, there  were  
cracks in the silver plastic plating on her car near the front logo.  In the message 
exchange Miss S told the other driver  she was a bit shaken up. So while  the impact 
was minor, it was sufficient to cause Miss S car some damage and to cause her to 
be shaken up. I therefore think Ageas decision to accept liability  was reasonable.
Miss S said that the other driver couldnt have suffered injury and that she had 
exaggerated. I have  seen the medical  evidence of the other driver. It is documented 
that she told the medical practitioner that her car was struck by another  car at low 
speed. So her account is consistent with Miss S in that she accepts the impact was 
at low speed, so I dont think she exaggerated the force of the accident. And the 
medical report concluded that her injuries were  consistent with her account of the 
accident. So I think it was reasonable  for Ageas to accept that evidence.
I am aware  that its not unusual  for minor accidents  like this to cause injuries. And its 
also not unusual  for someone to develop pain and realise they are injured some  time 
after an accident, which appears to be the case here with the other driver. I have also 
seen the invoice of the repairs done  to the other drivers car. The invoice is 
consistent with minor  damage. I note that Miss S told Ageas that when the accident 
happened it was still dark so she, and the other  driver, had to use the lights  on their 
phones to inspect  the cars. And Miss S said that there was no damage to the other 
car as far as I could  see. So I dont think Miss S could categorically discount  any 
damage being caused to the other car as a result of the accident. And given that 
theres engineering  evidence  of damage to the other car, I think  it was reasonable for 
Ageas to pay the claim for those  costs.
Ageas have experience in dealing with cases  like this and I think  they settled after 
reasonably investigating the claim.  They took into consideration all the information 
Miss S gave them; the other drivers account;  the repair costs; and the medical  
evidence. So I think Ageas decision was reasonable.
Ref: DRN53705023If Ageas didnt settle the claim as they did, the only way of challenging the other  
driver would  have been to take the matter to court. For the reasons explained above, 
Ageas would have  felt that if this matter  went to court they had a poor chance of 
succeeding. I dont  expect insurers to take disputes  to court  that are unlikely to 
succeed. So I think their decision  not to take the matter  to court, and potentially  incur 
significant costs  in doings so, was reasonable. 
Finally, Ageas, like all insurers, have a duty to record claims information as 
accurately as possible. So I think their decision to record the cost to them of this 
claim is reasonable.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Ageas accepted my provisional  
findings. Miss S reiterated her main  points again  and emphasised her belief that the other  
drivers claim  was exaggerated and her claim that she was injured was fraudulent.  
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same.
I appreciate Miss S strength of feeling,  but as I explained in my provisional  decision, there is 
both medical and engineering evidence that supports the other  drivers claim.  And while I 
dont disregard Miss S account that the impact was minor, I am aware that there have been 
past cases where claimants  have succeeded  in their claims that they suffered  injuries  as a 
result of minor  accidents. Also that their vehicles suffered  minor  damage.  And in this 
instance, the other drivers evidence supports their claim  that their car suffered minor 
damage and that they suffered injury. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint only in part and require Ageas 
Insurance Limited to pay Miss S £100  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  she 
experienced in relation to the poor service.  I understand that this has already been paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2019.
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
   
Ref: DRN5370502