K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Hargreaves  Lansdown Asset Management Limited advised a market 
maker that he had applied a stop-loss instruction to some shares  he held within  his Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).  He says that the market maker  was then able to 
manipulate the stock  prices, activating  the stop loss and allowing the shares to be purchased 
at a reduced price. He says hes lost out financially from the loss of investment growth had 
he remained  invested in the shares.
background
Mr G had an execution only SIPP with Hargreaves Lansdown which  allowed him to buy and 
sell stocks and shares  within his pension fund. Hargreaves Lansdown didnt provide him with 
financial advice, but was required to execute  his instructions. 
In August  2018,  Mr G bought shares  in the Oil Securities  CARP Exchange Traded  Fund 
(ETF) at 1171.1p per share.  He followed the progress of the share price using the 
Hargreaves Lansdown platform  and at 11.30am on 16 August 2018, he placed a stop loss 
instruction on the shares at 1100p per share.  This meant that if the price  was to dip below 
1100p, the shares would be sold.
Mr G continued to monitor the prices online and didnt see the prices  dip below 1100p. He 
said he was therefore  surprised to find that his shares had been sold at 1085.75p on 16 
August 2018.
Mr G called Hargreaves Lansdown  to query  the transaction  and was told that the price had 
dropped below 1100p shortly  after the stop loss instruction was placed, thereby triggering a 
sale instruction. 
Mr G said he had been monitoring the prices of the shares and had at no time seen  the price  
drop below 1100p. He made  further enquiries  and found that the trade had been  reported by 
the market maker on the NEX exchange rather than the London Stock  Exchange (LSE), 
which raised his suspicions. 
He complained to Hargreaves  Lansdown, who didnt uphold his complaint. It said the 
process was completely  automated and that the share price had gapped causing a 
temporary drop, which triggered the stop loss instruction. It said that his shares  werent 
traded on the NEX Exchange. The trade was reported by the market  counterparty  on the 
NEX exchange,  but traded against the (LSE) price.  It said his order triggered when the LSE 
observed a spread of 1080p-1150p at 12:08pm.  The best price returned  by a market  maker 
at that time was 1085.75p.
One of our adjudicators investigated Mr Gs complaint and was of the view that his complaint 
should not be upheld. She said that there was no evidence of any wrong-doing by 
Hargreaves Lansdown, who were  acting on an execution only basis. The stop loss applied 
was through an automated system and there was nothing to suggest there had been any 
manipulation in order  to trigger the sale of Mr Gs shares.
Mr G didnt accept our adjudicators view.  He said our adjudicator had missed  the point. His 
point was that the level of his stop was given to the NEX exchange so that they could pick up 
his shares at a favourable price.  He questioned  why it was only on the NEX exchange that 
the price dropped to that level and for such a short  period. He said that someone  at 
Ref: DRN59367322Hargreaves Lansdown had alerted  a market maker about his stop loss, thereby allowing 
them to manipulate the price and purchase  his shares at an advantageous  price.  He said he 
had information  that directly  contradicted  the information Hargreaves Lansdown had sent us 
about the price  movements.
Our adjudicator said she hadnt found  any evidence of manipulation, and that any allegations 
of illegal trading  would  need  to be investigated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Mr G stated that he had alerted the FCA already, but also wanted his case  to be referred  to 
an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to trade in ETFs Hargreaves Lansdown required Mr G to complete a form confirming 
that he was a knowledgeable  investor.  ETF shares are generally more  risky in nature, thats 
because they are not widely traded  in the same way as normal equities and their share price 
is therefore more  volatile.
Hargreaves London has provided us with a schedule of the LSE price for the CARP  ETF for 
16 August 2018.  The bid price  dropped  to 1080p on nine separate  occasions  during that 
day, mostly  for less than a second. At 12.08,  when the bid price dropped  to 1080p,  Mr Gs 
stop loss instruction was triggered and his stock was sold.  I think this schedule  of the LSE 
price can be reasonably relied  upon. It was provided  to Hargreaves London by a third party  
data provider. Ive not seen anything  to contradict the information  set out in this schedule.
From the phone calls made  to Hargreaves Lansdown by Mr G, it seems that he was 
following the prices  on the stock  exchange  via the Hargreaves  Lansdown  website. The 
website says that the live feed shows the price with a 15 minute  delay. Stock prices can 
change very quickly, sometimes for such a short amount of time that the price  is not always  
re-produced on the ticker price.
Hargreaves Lansdown told us that its SIPP platform is automated and doesnt involve any 
manual intervention. It says the system was set up in such a way that in Mr Gs case,  it 
would look for the bid price dropping  below  1100p and when that happened the stock 
wouldve automatically been sold. Hargreaves Lansdown says the system isnt capable of 
stopping the trade if the price immediately recovers seconds later.  
Like our adjudicator, Ive read the information  on Hargreaves Lansdowns website for 
investors interested in trading ETFs. It includes a number of risk warnings.
It says about stop loss orders:
If the bid price is lower  than your stop loss price when we attempt to place your deal, we will 
continue to place  your deal at the lower price.
It also says:
Share prices can fluctuate considerably, and you may see extreme  price spikes. Certain 
factors may also cause  the bid-offer spread (the difference between the buying and selling 
Ref: DRN59367323prices) of an investment to widen. Both of these situations may only last for a few minutes  or 
less, but they could  nevertheless trigger your limit or stop loss order.
Some stocks simply have  wider bid-offer spreads, therefore you should ensure you know the 
bid price of the share before  deciding how far away to set your stop price.
Some stocks are more volatile than others. You should bear this in mind  when deciding how 
far way from the current share price to set your stop or limit price.
I think the warnings that Hargreaves Lansdown  provided clearly covered the situation that 
Mr G finds himself in now. As an execution only client, I think  Hargreaves provided him with 
clear and fair information about how the stop loss system  worked so that he could make an 
informed choice about how he wanted  to proceed.
I therefore agree with our adjudicator I cant see that Hargreaves Lansdown acted 
improperly in its handling  of this trade  or that there  is evidence of it manually manipulating 
the trade.  So, it follows that I cant see that Mr G has lost out because  of anything that 
Hargreaves Lansdown did wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5936732