K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  about the charges PSA Finance UK Limited  (PSA) asked her to pay when 
she returned a car at the end of a finance  agreement. 
background
Ms S took receipt of a new car in June 2015.  She financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with PSA. 
She returned the car at the end of the agreement in June  2018 and the car was inspected by 
a third party company.  The inspection revealed  some damage that PSA said was beyond  
what would  be considered fair wear and tear. So in line with the finance agreement  they 
invoiced Ms S for the cost of refurbishing the car to put right the damage that had been 
identified. The charges they applied  were as follows:
dent to a quarter panel £152
scuff to an alloy wheel £65
Ms S was disappointed to be asked to pay for the refurbishment.  She disputed  the charges and 
said PSA hadnt  taken  into account the fact shed returned the car with a lower mileage than the 
agreement entitled  her to use and that they hadnt  done the refurbishment  work before selling 
the car anyway. PSA didnt  uphold her complaint so she referred it to this service.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the photographs  provided in the independent inspection report. 
He compared  the damage  to the fair wear  and tear industry guidelines provided by the 
British Vehicle Rental  and Leasing Association (BVRLA). He thought  the quarter panel dent 
was clearly larger than 10mm and was therefore fairly chargeable and he noted that the 
scuffing to the alloy wheel was beyond  50mm and was therefore also outside of what  the 
guidance would suggest was fair wear and tear. 
He explained  that the businesses werent contractually obliged to repair  vehicles but that charges 
could be made to compensate them for the loss of value they would experience  at auction. 
He also explained  that the mileage allowance was a separate  term of the contract  and he 
would not expect the business to compensate Ms S for her lower mileage. He noted shed 
used most  of that mileage allowance up anyway.
So overall the adjudicator didnt think it would be fair or reasonable to ask PSA to take any further  
action. But Ms S disagreed and she therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms S but I agree with the adjudicators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN50089692Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The finance  agreement required  the car to be returned in a good condition  and the BVRLA 
fair wear and tear guide is the appropriate standard.  Ive reviewed  the photographs  provided 
in the independent  inspectors report and I think in both instances the damage is beyond  
what would  be considered fair wear and tear and is therefore chargeable. The dent is over 
10mm and the scuffing is more than 50mm.
Its for the business  to decide whether or not to take a risk and sell the vehicle without 
completing repairs. The charge for refurbishment compensates them for any loss in value at 
auction so I dont think PSA did anything wrong by selling the car before theyd repaired it. 
The charges  were still due.
Ms S was allowed to drive up to 18,000 miles but any additional miles covered would incur a 
charge. Theres nothing in the agreement to allow a rebate for any unused miles and I dont 
think PSA had to take that into account  when calculating any end of term charges.
I therefore dont  think PSA have been  unreasonable here and I wont  be asking them to take 
any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5008969