K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (Audi) unfairly terminated 
his hire agreement  and applied a default to his credit  file. He wants the default removed and 
an apology.
background
Mr P tells us that in March 2018  he took out a hire agreement with Audi.  He says that in 
August 2018 Audi cancelled the contract and defaulted his account. Mr P states he didnt 
receive any letters about this as Audi had written  to his old address. And he says that when 
he did discover the contract had been  cancelled and the account  defaulted  he immediately 
made arrangements with Audi to settle  the account.
Audi told us it had found out that Mr Ps vehicle wasnt  insured.  And that this was in breach 
of the terms and conditions of the hire agreement. It said it had written to the address it had 
on record and given  Mr P notice of its intention to default the account. When no reply had 
been received  and the vehicle remained uninsured it said it had applied the default.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said it was a 
condition of the agreement that the vehicle was insured. She noted  that Audi had written to 
the address it had on file for Mr P and had given  him three weeks to remedy  the breach. But 
as this hadnt happened she thought Audi was entitled to terminate the agreement and 
default the account. As she didnt think Audi had acted unfairly she said she wouldnt be 
asking it to do anything  else.
Mr P didnt agree with this outcome and as its not been possible to resolve the complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me say at the outset  that Ive a deal of sympathy  for the situation in which Mr P finds  
himself. The situation  has seemingly arisen due to inadvertent oversights on his part and its 
resulted in an unfortunate outcome. Having said that I cant  reasonably  say that Audi has 
done anything  wrong in how its handled the matter.
Our adjudicator issued  a comprehensive timeline  of events along with her view and Ill not 
repeat this as the parties have seen it. And in reality theres little if any factual dispute in this 
case.
Mr P accepts that the insurance on the vehicle lapsed - when he had expected it to auto 
renew. Clearly its for each individual driver to ensure the vehicle theyre using is insured. 
And when  Audi checked the insurance  database  and found the vehicle wasnt insured it was 
entitled to issue  a notice warning of the potential default on this ground.
Ref: DRN51257692This wouldnt necessarily have led to the termination of the contract as the notice, dated 8 
August 2018,  gave  Mr P until 27 August 2018  to remedy the issue. Unfortunately Mr P didnt 
get the letter as hed moved address. Mr P has told us that from the start of the contract until 
1 October he was living at the address to which the vehicle was delivered and that hed 
notified the broker. So Im not sure why the agreement should  show a previous address. But 
as Mr P acknowledges he didnt inform Audi directly, until 1 October 2018, of a further 
change of address  I cant say Audi was wrong  in writing to the address it had on file.
Under the terms of the agreement Audi was entitled  to immediate payment of the entire  
balance on the agreement if it was terminated  due to a breach of condition by Mr P. Hence 
the agreement  was terminated on 29 August 2018 and the account defaulted. Again I cant 
say that Audi did anything  wrong  based  on the information it had at the time.
Having terminated  the agreement Audi passed  the account to its collections team.  And I 
accept that once Mr P knew of the arrears which  had accumulated  he took steps  to repay  
the balance on the agreement. Im also aware the agreement wasnt in arrears immediately 
prior to the default. And that it was Audis decision to stop collecting the direct debits - as 
opposed to Mr P cancelling them. But it was still for Mr P to check that payments were  being 
taken from his account. As it happens  its not made  a great deal of practical difference. As 
the account was defaulted  in August 2018, the subsequent non-payment hasnt  made any 
material difference in terms  of Mr Ps credit file. And as hes now made arrangements  to pay, 
that will also be reflected  on future  entries.
I know Mr P would like me to require Audi to remove the default but I dont think  Im 
reasonably able to recommend it does so. A business is required follow  certain procedures 
and to report accurate  information to any credit reference agency that it uses.  Audi issued 
the required notices  and Ive already explained it wasnt responsible for Mr P not receiving 
them. It was therefore  acting correctly when it notified the default  to his account.  Nothing that 
has subsequently occurred alters that fact. So it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to 
require Audi to remove the default.
Im aware that the default is likely  to cause  Mr P difficulty in the immediate future in terms of 
accessing credit. And I understand why he may feel the effect on him is disproportionate  to 
the oversights  which led to this situation. Its open to Mr P to issue a notice  of correction 
which will be attached to his credit file. This allows him to explain the circumstances of the 
default and will enable  potential  lenders to see this and take it into account.
In summary,  I dont think Audi acted incorrectly when it defaulted the account  and so I shant 
be asking it to do anything  else.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5125769