K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that MBNA Limited  is holding her responsible for transactions on her credit 
card account  that she says she didnt make.
background
Mrs W lives abroad and says that on 3 September 2017 she noticed that she didnt have her 
credit card. She contacted  MBNA  and told it that the last time she used her card was on 11 
August 2017 at a cashpoint. But she was told that the card was used to make further cash 
withdrawals and also purchases until 2 September 2017. These totalled just over £10,600. 
MBNA said it wouldnt be refunding these  transactions. These were made when the chip on 
the genuine card was read and the correct PIN entered  each  time.  On 11 August  2017 it had 
blocked her card as it wanted to check on the transaction that day. But Mrs W had called it 
on 12 August 2017 to confirm that withdrawal  and the account  was unblocked. Mrs W had 
told it she kept her PIN safe and hadnt told it to anyone. And MBNA  said that the first 
payment she disputed didnt start until 17 hours  after the last withdrawal Mrs W recognises. 
There were gaps in the use of the card and this use stopped totally  the day before she 
reported her card missing  and no further  attempts were made  to use the card. This is despite 
there still being some £4,000 of the credit limit remaining.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. He said that:
-He didnt consider  that the card had been  copied  in the way Mrs W had suggested to 
this service. The evidence  from MBNA  showed that the chip on the genuine card had 
been read. 
-He considered whether someone  unknown  to Mrs W could have obtained her card 
and PIN. While it was possible her PIN was seen when  she last accepts she made  a 
withdrawal she couldnt recall  say dropping her card then. She hadnt lost anything 
else from her purse. And there  was no explanation why someone  in possession of 
her card and PIN would  have waited before using it - or known when the card had 
been reported lost.
-There was no clear  way in which someone known to Mrs W could have obtained  both 
the card and PIN, as Mrs W said she kept it safe, and then used it without her 
authority. And Mrs W didnt accept that this was a possibility.
-Mrs W had explained that she had health  and mobility  difficulties  and didnt go out in 
the period before she reported  the card missing. He didnt doubt  she was receiving 
medical treatment but that didnt rule out her allowing  someone  else to use her card. 
He thought that was the most likely explanation  here.
Mrs W didnt agree and wanted  her complaint  to be reviewed. She was unhappy at the time 
the investigation had taken and that MBNA was charging interest  on the balance on her 
account. She said that if MBNA asked her for her card number on 12 August 2017  when she 
spoke to it then she would  have gone  and got her husbands card from the kitchen (as he 
was an additional  card holder) and as it was nearest to her. She said she had always known 
that they both had the same card number. She wanted to know  how we could think that the 
card couldnt  have been copied at the cash machine when shed been told by a local bank  
manager and police  that this was possible. She now thought that a plastic cover  on the 
machine had looked suspicious. And she could have dropped  her card there.  She also 
thought that CCTV  evidence  could  have been obtained to establish who used the card. 
Ref: DRN52556032Mrs W didnt think the time lapse to the fraudster using her account was significant  and 
neither was it significant that this person had used  a cash  machine that shed used in the 
past. No one else was aware  her card was missing when it was reported  apart  from her son. 
And none of her family  had ever taken anything without her consent. She wanted to know  
why MBNA  hadnt identified unusual spending  on the account. She maintained  that she 
hadnt authorised  these  transactions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2009 in considering  this 
complaint. And a payment  can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its not enough 
for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. Where credit  is involved, as here on a 
credit card, the Consumer Credit Act 1974  applies and it states that a consumer wouldnt be 
liable for an unauthorised payment unless  they consented to someone else having  
possession of that card. 
So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at this complaint:
-What is the most likely explanation of how these transactions were made?
-Did Mrs W authorise  the payments on the account including by allowing someone else 
to acquire the card?
Its not our role to say exactly what happened, but to decide whether MBNA can reasonably  
hold Mrs W liable for these transactions or not. In doing so, Ill be considering what is most 
likely on a balance of probabilities. 
were the payments authenticated?
The technical evidence  MBNA has provided shows that the transactions  were made use of 
the chip and PIN. Mrs W says she didnt have  the card  so Im not clear that I need to 
consider it being  cloned  as she thinks might have  happened.  And weve not seen evidence 
of that being possible in everyday use.
There was no evidence  of any incorrect PIN attempts and I consider that these payments 
were authenticated.
the loss of the card
Mrs W was asked to contact MBNA  about the withdrawal on 11 August 2017. She phoned 
and the first thing I heard  she gave to MBNA  during the call was the card number. I think it 
would have been natural  for her to check that she had her card when she knew  her account 
was blocked. And her evidence that if she needed the card number shed have gone for her 
husbands card which  was closer to her is inconsistent with her telling MBNA on 10 October 
2017 that she didnt realise that the card numbers were the same.  However, I didnt hear her 
actually confirm she did have her own card then.
Mrs W told MBNA she had a hospital appointment on 14 August 2017 but that she didnt 
stay in overnight. She said that her daughter was in hospital at around  this time and added  
that we were with her. She also said when she first reported her card missing on 3 
Ref: DRN52556033September 2017 that shed been  home  for two to three weeks due to health issues.  She has 
provided some evidence of health  issues and a further evaluation wouldnt affect my 
conclusion as Ill explain below.
I can see Mrs W had been using her card on a regular basis  for purchases  before August 
2017 so Id need to accept as most likely here that her need to use the card stopped just at 
the time a fraudster  obtained it and started  using it.
the pattern  of disputed transactions
As has been set out these didnt start until 12 August 2017  the first use was at 12:42pm  
and after the card had been  unblocked  in the call with Mrs W and MBNA logged  at 09:42am  
that morning.
Ive counted seven days up to 3 September 2018  when no attempt was made to use the 
card at all. Thats  despite  there being credit  available and for a fraudster an increasing  risk of 
detection by the genuine cardholder. And I do find it relevant that the usage stopped at the 
time Mrs W reported  the card as missing and that there were no further  attempts to use it.
my assessment
To find that someone  made these  transaction without  her consent Id need to think  all the 
following were most  likely:
-That party was able to obtain the card without Mrs W knowing and - if that happened 
during her cash withdrawal  was at the time when she says her husband had parked 
very close by and was watching  what she was doing.
-That party was also somehow able to obtain  the PIN even  though as Mrs W says she 
hadnt told anyone  it.
-Mrs W didnt  notice she didnt have her card for up to three weeks  and only did when 
she looked for money in her purse amongst her other cards  and any other documents 
on 3 September  2017.
-A person in possession of her card and PIN didnt use it to take as much money as 
quickly as possible and correctly  anticipated when the card was reactivated  on 12 
August 2017 and then later cancelled.
Im afraid that these  are not all findings  Im able to make based on the available evidence. I 
dont think that either  an unknown  third party or someone known to her made  these 
transactions without  her knowledge. That Im afraid leads me to the most likely conclusion 
being that she consented to them being  made. And that covers her allowing someone  else to 
be in possession of her card as she says she wasnt able to leave the house.  That also 
means CCTV wouldnt resolve whether the person using the card had her consent even if 
CCTV was available. And as I dont  find these payments were  unauthorised I dont have  a 
basis to find MBNA made any mistake  in not flagging  any of them  as suspicious.
I understand the amount  of money at stake here for Mrs W and that shes  being charged  
interest on the balance  and doing  little more than covering the interest and charges on the 
account with her minimum monthly  payments. But given my findings I consider its 
reasonable for MBNA  to hold her responsible for this borrowing and to apply interest and 
charges in line with its terms  and conditions.
Ref: DRN52556034my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5255603