K820x#14complaint
Mrs T has complained that Assurant  General Insurance Limited  refused to give her a 
breakdown of the repair costs following her claim under her mobile phone policy.
background
Mrs T made a claim for the repair of her mobile  phone under her platinum bank account 
cover, which  is underwritten by Assurant in July 2016. 
She then later asked  for a detailed repair invoice  in order to sell her phone. Assurant  sent 
her a report, which detailed what was repaired but not the cost of those repairs  It said this 
was commercially  sensitive information.
Mrs T remained unhappy and brought her complaint to us. The investigator  didnt  think 
Assurant had done anything wrong. Mrs T didnt agree so her complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 November 2018 and I said the following:
Mrs Ts policy for the repair of her phone has a £100 excess  for an Apple phone and 
a £50 excess for any other type of mobile phone. This is a fixed  excess,  which 
means that even if Mrs Ts phone could not have  been repaired and she needed a 
replacement phone, the most she would pay under this policy is the excess  payment. 
Mrs Ts phone was an Apple phone  so she paid the £100 excess. Her phone was 
repairable and so it was repaired and then sent back to her. The repair  report 
showed what was repaired, but not the cost of those  repairs.  And its this that Mrs T 
is complaining  about  it. Shes of the view that without knowing the repair costs, the 
excess amount might  have exceeded  the repair costs. 
I agree.  An excess  is usually only payable if the costs of the repair exceed the 
excess as otherwise whats the point of making a claim  on any insurance policy. 
Mrs T paid a premium to have such a risk covered but it wouldnt make any sense to 
her to pay her excess if the costs  of the repairs  she needed to be done, were  less 
than the excess  she had pay. Therefore, I think its only fair and reasonable that 
Assurant now discloses  the actual cost of repairing Mrs Ts phone. Without this 
information, it could  be that Assurant were  just profiting from this claim,  which  would 
entirely unreasonable.
Im not convinced however that this means Assurant  must detail each aspect of its 
repair to Mrs T, so she can challenge  each and every part of it. I dont consider thats 
reasonable either. But I do consider  Assurant  must  now show  what  it cost to repair 
Mrs Ts phone, to enable  her to see that it wasnt profiting  from her claim.
Assurant said given  the passage of time between the repair of Mrs Ts phone  in July 2016 
and her complaint  some  18 months later it was unable to get the actual breakdown  for the 
costs of the repair of her phone. It said it replaced the screen  and battery, did a software 
upgrade and a post repair  quality check. It made  the point that if she was unhappy  she 
should have complained about it much earlier. It also said she has provided no evidence, 
which supports her position that its profiting from her claim.
Ref: DRN51433602It maintains in any event  that the costs  are commercially sensitive information  but also 
maintains it doesnt  make  a profit from any claim and that the Financial Conduct  Authority  
(FCA) validated this in its Thematic  Review that its excess was fair to consumers. It said the 
manufacturers quote the following for the repairs to Mrs Ts phone now; screen repair - 
£132.44, other damage £266.44 so the total cost of the repair  would now be £398.88.
It also wanted to know  the legal grounds  under which this service  can request it discloses 
the cost of its repairs, bearing in mind the sensitivity of the information  on a commercial  
basis.
Mrs T responded that due to Assurants refusal to detail these costs, she sold her phone for 
£250 less than what it was worth  and she would like Assurant to compensate her for that.
Having considered the matter further,  I issued  another  provisional decision on 29 January. I 
said the following:
Given the delay  by Mrs T in requesting this information from Assurant,  I dont think 
its unreasonable Assurant cant now produce  the precise costs of its repair  of 
Mrs Ts phone. I consider  its detail of the manufacturers costs  instead to be a 
reasonable and a coherent  estimate.  This shows me that Assurant hasnt profited 
from her claim  and the costs are likely  to have well exceeded the £100 excess  Mrs T 
paid. Im satisfied with that.
I also dont think Assurant  needs to disclose any commercially sensitive information 
as to any agreements  it may have  made  with any third party  contracts, as that clearly  
is unreasonable and unwarranted.
Therefore, as its clear  to me that on balance the costs of the repair of Mrs Ts phone  
exceeded the excess she paid, I dont think Assurant has done anything  wrong.
Mrs T said that because she couldnt detail the cost of the repairs, she had to sell her 
phone at a loss of £250.  Ive not seen any evidence of that loss but in any event, I 
see Mrs T was given  details of what was repaired on 2 February 2018. Therefore, I 
consider she knew  what  had been repaired, at least. Consequently, I cant  see any 
basis that not knowing the precise  costs of the repair, would have affected the 
amount she sold her phone for.
Assurant didnt respond and Mrs T disagreed. She pointed out there  had been  no delay on 
her part in requesting  the breakdown and costs of the repair  of the phone, it was that 
Assurant didnt respond to her until she involved  her bank, through which this cover  was 
provided. She explained she was at a loss as to why Assurant were being so secretive  about  
it when all she was trying to do was obtain the documentation to sell on her phone  in a 
transparent manner.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN51433603First, I do understand that Mrs T raised this at the time her phone was repaired and I 
apologise for my error in the second  provisional  decision, saying that the delay was caused 
by her.
However, the fact remains that Assurant are entitled  to withhold commercial sensitive 
information. So its not the case as Mrs T initially thought that the costs  of repairing her 
phone were below the excess of £100  she paid to Assurant. This is because  Assurant has 
now showed that the costs of getting her phone repaired by the manufacturer  would  have 
exceeded the excess she paid.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5143360