K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc dealt with a claim against his 
motor insurance policy.
background
In September  2018, Mr R was involved in an accident whilst driving. Mr R says that his car 
was on a mini roundabout and had right of way when the driver of the other car pulled out in 
front of him. There was a collision between the front, passenger  side of Mr Rs car and the 
rear, drivers side of the other drivers car. 
Mr R says that the other driver admitted that he was at fault at the scene of the accident. 
The other driver subsequently  disputed liability and his insurer  said that Mr R caused the 
collision. RSA said it wasnt  able to hold the other  driver at fault and settled his claim.
Our investigator thought that RSA could have handled the claim better and that its payment 
of compensation  of £100 in relation to its errors was fair. He didnt think  that RSA had 
treated Mr R unfairly. The investigator said that, under  the terms of the policy, RSA was 
entitled to settle  the other drivers claim. The investigator said that RSA didnt  need  to get 
further evidence  if it thought it already had enough  to make a decision. 
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator and asked  that the matter  be considered by an 
ombudsman. He reiterated that he wasnt at fault for the accident. Mr R maintains that the 
other driver was at fault and says that he wont accept responsibility for something that he 
didnt do. He says that RSA has no evidence to hold him responsible for the accident. 
Mr R said that RSA made too many mistakes in handling  the claim. He doesnt want his long 
and good driving record  tainted  by other peoples mistakes. Mr R says that hes not 
interested in the compensation of £100 that RSA paid.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear and quite understandable that Mr R has very strong feelings about the third partys  
claim and RSAs handling of it. However, I trust that he will not take as a discourtesy  the fact 
that I focus on what I consider to be the central issues.
We dont decide  which party  is to blame  for causing an accident;  that is a matter for the 
courts. We do consider  however  whether  an insurer, RSA in this case, acted in line with its 
policy terms and whether it acted fairly and reasonably in coming to its decision  on liability.
Ref: DRN52405562The policy terms and conditions include the following:
The Insured Person must also be prepared to allow RSA or the External Claims 
Service Provider  to act in his or her name and take any steps RSA feel are necessary to 
protect his or her rights.  This may mean that RSA or the External Claims Service  Provider 
defend or settle the claim in the Insured  Persons name
Therefore, RSA is free to deal with the claim as it thinks fit, to include settling  the third partys 
claim. It can decide to settle the third partys claim if it believes it would be unsuccessful in 
defending that claim  in court or that it had no reasonable prospect of success  in getting  the 
third partys  insurer  to admit that the third party caused the accident. If Mr R wants  RSA to 
provide him with insurance, he has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of 
the claim,  whether he agrees with it or not. This is a common term in motor  insurance 
policies. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial decision about whether its reasonable to 
contest a claim or better  to settle. 
Ive considered this matter carefully.  Based on the available evidence,  I dont  think  that RSA 
treated Mr R unfairly in deciding that it couldnt defend the claim. It came to that decision 
after it had looked  at the evidence and taken advice from its solicitors. It was entitled to 
come to that view.
The dash cam footage  shows that the other  driver entered the roundabout  correctly. It 
doesnt show the position of Mr Rs car but the collision occurs as the other  drivers car is 
exiting the roundabout. RSA was faced with two very different versions  of events. Ive noted 
what Mr R says but I think it would be very difficult for RSA to prove  that the other driver was 
at fault. 
As RSA made a payment  under Mr Rs policy, it was settled and recorded as a fault  claim 
on his policy  record. That doesnt  necessarily mean  that Mr R was at fault for causing  the 
accident. It means that RSA didnt recover all of its costs. Even if RSA had decided  that the 
claim should be settled  on a 50/50 basis, that wouldnt help Mr R, as it would still show as a 
fault claim
I dont think that RSA was at fault in failing  to trace the passenger  of the other  car. When the 
other drivers  insurer  first contacted RSA,  it said its insured wasnt at fault and had dash cam 
footage and a witness, which was presumably his passenger. RSA no doubt took the view 
that the witness was supporting the other  drivers version of events. In any event, RSA was 
entitled to come to a view based on the evidence it had. 
RSA made  some errors  in its handling of the claim. Those errors affected Mr Rs confidence 
in RSAs ability to handle the claim. But the errors didnt affect its decision about who was at 
fault. I think the payment RSA has already made in relation to its handling  of the claim is fair 
and I dont propose to ask it to pay any more. 
Ref: DRN52405563my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr R but, for the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold  his complaint.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5240556