K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 1996 and 
2001. Miss P says Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Cheltenham and Gloucester  PLC (C&G) mis-
sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ps case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  and Ill explain why.
C&G had to make Miss P aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before  
adding the policies to her mortgage. Miss P has told us that she wasnt aware the PPI had 
been sold to her. C&G has provided  a copy of the paperwork available from the time the PPI 
was sold. The policies  were sold a long time ago so limited information  is still available. From 
what is available I dont  have enough  to say the policies werent presented  to Miss P as 
optional, or that she didnt  choose to have  them.
C&G recommended the PPI policies to Miss P so it had to check  that the policies were right 
for her. Miss P has told us that at the times she was sold the policies she was entitled to 
statutory sick pay, and had no other means  of making her repayments.
Miss P has also told us about a medical  condition she started to have symptoms of in 2001. 
Unfortunately Miss P hasnt provided  any further evidence of her condition so I have been 
unable to uphold  her complaint for this reason.
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Ps circumstances at the times she took the policies, she 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and she seems  to have 
had a need for the cover. So I think it was right for him.
Its possible the information C&G gave Miss P about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take out the policies  - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for her if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. 
Miss P has said she had reason to make  a claim on the policy  but as she didnt know  she 
had it she didnt. But I dont think this means  the PPI was mis-sold at the time, and this point 
doesnt change  my decision.
Which means C&G doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Miss P.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN56018122Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5601812