K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) didnt pay a claim he made under his 
home insurance policy. When I refer to UKI, I include its agents. 
background
Mr Ss home was burgled,  and he claimed under  his UKI policy  for a number of things which 
were stolen.
UKI looked into the claim, and asked  Mr S to provide evidence to show  he owned a number 
of the things which he said had been  taken and he was claiming for, including  a substantial 
amount of jewellery.  Unable to satisfy itself about  what had happened,  UKI visited  Mr S a 
few months after the claim  to get more details.
UKI investigated further. It spoke to the jeweller  where Mr S said the items had been bought, 
and asked him to provide bank statements showing when hed withdrawn the money to buy 
some of the other  items that hed reported stolen. 
Once it had finished its investigation,  UKI wrote  to Mr S (the challenge letter)  to say it 
needed to clear up some discrepancies if it was going to be able to pay his claim. After 
getting his response, it wrote to Mr S again to say it wouldnt  pay his claim on the basis  of 
misrepresentation and exaggeration under the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr S complained to our service, and one of our investigators looked into things. She thought 
UKI had acted fairly in declining the claim based on the discrepancies  and Mr Ss responses.  
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not going to uphold it, 
and Ill explain why.
The terms of Mr Ss policy say it wont pay claims which are fraudulent or exaggerated.  UKIs 
said there are a number  of inconsistencies and discrepancies which Mr S hasnt 
satisfactorily explained. So it took the view it shouldnt pay the claim.  Ive had to decide 
whether, on balance, the evidence suggests  UKI was fair to apply this term and decline 
Mr Ss claim.
The largest value  items  Mr S has claimed  for are items of jewellery valued at over £70,000. 
When asked to list the items, Mr S said most of them had been bought by his mother,  his 
father, or both. Some were stated  to have been bought a long time ago, and many items  
between mid-2014 and late 2015. He had receipts for a couple of items, but without his 
name on. He gave  UKI photographs  of him and his wife which he said showed them wearing 
the jewellery.
Mr S later said much of the jewellery had been his fathers, or bought by his mother  and 
given to him after his fathers death.  The family announcement he showed UKI said his 
father had passed  away in August  2014, although some of the items hed said had been 
bought by his father  in April 2015. 
Ref: DRN54289102UKI also spoke to the jeweller where Mr S said the items had been  bought.  They said they 
werent bought  or collected by Mr S or his father, but couldnt say anything apart from that.
UKI questioned these  discrepancies with Mr S in the challenge letter.  Mr S responded to say 
his mother bought everything and he didnt know where or when that was. He said he 
couldnt provide  any more  evidence than that because it had all happened over five years 
ago, and his mother  wasnt willing to discuss it or give evidence.  He said the photographs  
should be enough to show the jewellery was his. 
UKI asked  Mr S for the original photographs or the device they were taken on  as the 
copies theyd been sent were printed, and each one showed a number of other  pictures. It 
said it wanted to examine  the data of the pictures  and when  they were  taken to verify it 
supported Mr Ss version  of events. Mr S said he couldnt provide  the originals or the camera  
or phone they were  taken from.
Ive thought carefully about this issue. Photographs can be useful evidence in showing 
ownership of items. But taking everything  into account I think  its reasonable for UKI to have 
questioned whether Mr S owned  the items hes claimed  for. 
Ive considered this taking  into account that theres  a language barrier involved,  and the 
original jeweller and Mr Ss mother are both abroad. But there are, in my view,  significant 
inconsistencies and contradictions  that Mr S hasnt  been able to adequately explain.  Mr S 
said his father bought  some of the items,  but the jeweller itself said that wasnt  the case. And 
the date Mr S said his father bought them was after the date hes said his father passed 
away. 
Im also satisfied UKI made its concerns about  these contradictions  clear to Mr S and 
provided him opportunities to explain them  both when  it visited  him and following its 
challenge letter. Im not persuaded Mr Ss explanations show this jewellery  was his, and 
while hes said this is partly because  the items were bought, and his father passed away,  
over five years ago I note the dates hed given  for these events were around  three  years  
before he made his claim.
UKI has also questioned some of the other items Mr S claimed for, including  a desktop 
computer and two large  fans. Its said these werent  initially reported stolen to the police and 
Mr S never updated the police about their theft.
Ive borne in mind the stress that discovering a burglary would undoubtedly  cause.  And that 
Mr S had on that day been  at a medical appointment. But Ive also considered  that, from his 
own version of events, he was at home  for some time following the burglary before the police 
arrived. His home is a relatively  small flat and the computer and fans are large items. On 
balance, I think its more  likely than not Mr S would have noticed they had been taken and Id 
therefore have  expected  to see them listed on the police report. 
Given UKIs concerns  Id have expected it to explain why it wasnt  satisfied with Mr Ss 
version of events and presentation of his claim, and allow him to give his side of the story. 
Im satisfied it did so, both through its visit and challenge letter.  Like our investigator Im not 
persuaded Mr Ss responses explained the inconsistencies and contradictions.
Taking all this into account I think UKI acted fairly and reasonably  in declining Mr Ss claim 
on the basis of misrepresentation and exaggeration.  So I dont think it would be fair to 
require it to pay his claim.
Ref: DRN54289103Mr S has also said hes unhappy with the time it took UKI to tell him it wasnt going  to pay his 
claim. But I think this was largely  a result of the depth of investigation it carried  out, and the 
amount of time taken was contributed to by a lengthy wait for the police report. Given the 
size of the claim and the fact UKI declined it, I think it was appropriate for it to ensure it had 
carried out a thorough  investigation and given Mr S an opportunity to put his case before it 
did so. That this meant the claim took some time to come to a conclusion isnt something I 
think is unfair or unreasonable in these  circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5428910