K821x#15complaint
Mrs A is complaining about  how Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) how 
handled her complaint about the mis-selling  of a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy attached  to a store card. 
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint.
Another business was responsible for the assessment of Mrs As complaint on FICLs behalf.  
But FICL, as explained  above, are ultimately responsible for this complaint. So within my 
decision Ill only refer to FICL. But in referencing FICL, this includes the actions of the 
business responsible for assessing  Mrs As complaint on FICLs behalf.
background
In 2014, Mrs A complained that she had been  mis-sold PPI on a store  card. Mrs A 
provided the name of the store card account she held, her former surname (that she held 
at the time she took out the account) and her previous  addresses.  FICL explained that 
without the account number it couldnt trace the account.
Mrs A complained again in 2018.  FICL again explained it couldnt locate Mrs As account. 
Unhappy Mrs A brought the complaint to our service.  
While the complaint has been with our service, the store card account  with PPI was 
located, the sale of the PPI investigated and Mrs As complaint  about the sale upheld.
FICL offered compensation to place Mrs A in the position she would be in had she not 
been mis-sold PPI. It offered to refund the premiums Mrs A paid, any associated interest 
those premiums caused and finally some  additional compensation set at 8% simple 
interest to compensate  Mrs A for being out of pocket of that money.
Mrs A accepts that the policy  was mis-sold, and considers that the compensation offered is 
fair. But Mrs A remained unhappy  and has maintained  throughout her complaint she has 
been put through unnecessary inconvenience  by FICL. Mrs A considers she provided  FICL 
with enough information to locate  and investigate her account  back in 2014.  Mrs A wanted 
FICL to pay an additional amount of £100 as compensation  to recognise the 
inconvenience caused.
Our adjudicator looked at Mrs As complaint.  He agreed that FICL could have handled  
Mrs A complaint better  in 2014 and thought £50 as additional compensation was a fair 
amount to recognise  the poor service Mrs A received. 
Mrs A felt £100 was a more appropriate  amount. And FICL disagreed that any additional 
compensation should be awarded.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN52238122my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First I would like to clarify what  I will be looking at within this complaint.
The store card account has been  located.  The PPI policy on Mrs As store card has been 
investigated and upheld and compensation offered. Mrs A accepts that what FICL has 
offered seems fair and hasnt complained about the amount. 
So I wont  be looking at how the policy  came  to be sold or its offer of compensation. But I 
would like to add that having  looked  at FICLs offer of compensation, it includes everything I 
would expect to see.
In this decision, the only thing that remains for me to look at is Mrs As concern about the 
level of service FICL provided  in handling her complaint.
Our adjudicator thought FICL could have handled Mrs As complaint back  in 2014 better 
than it did and I agree for the same  reasons as our adjudicator.
Mrs A provided as much information as she could have provided back in 2014. Mrs A 
provided the name of the store card account she held, her name  at that time,  the address 
she lived at the time and her addresses since. 
FICL says that its systems at the time werent  as efficient at locating consumers accounts. 
Ive looked at the letters FICL sent to Mrs A in 2014. They explained  that they couldnt 
locate the account without  having the account number. But as our adjudicator pointed out, 
it wasnt unreasonable for Mrs A to no longer have a record  of the actual account number. 
Instead, Mrs A had provided all of the other information that should have enabled FICL to 
locate the account, regardless of the inefficiency  of its systems at that time.
FICL also explained that Mrs A could have completed a subject access request (SAR) in 
2014 and this would have  located the account  number in question.  I struggle  to understand 
FICLs logic here. Mrs A having to pay for a SAR is FICL  providing  to Mrs A all the 
information it holds  about her accounts. If FICL is suggesting that this would have located 
the account then it follows  that it could have simply found her account  without the need  for 
a SAR. 
All things  considered, I agree with our adjudicator, FICL could have handled Mrs As 
complaint and engaged  with Mrs A better than it did. FICL  could  have done  more to locate 
Mrs As account in 2014.
Given this, and the unnecessary hassle Mrs A has been put to in trying to resolve  her 
complaint I award  £50 as compensation for FICLs  poor handling of the complaint.
Also, I am unsure  as to whether the compensation for the mis-sale of the PPI has been  
paid. If it hasnt, FICL should ensure  that it is brought  up to date and paid to Mrs A.
Ref: DRN52238123my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mrs As complaint.
I direct  Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  to pay Mrs A £50 as compensation for the 
inconvenience Mrs A has been put to in her complaint about mis-sold PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5223812