K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained about the delays in AIG Europe Limiteds assessment of his claim 
under his personal accident insurance policy.
background
In February 2016,  Mr T made a claim under the policy after hed been involved in a car 
accident. AIG asked  Mr T to notify it once  hed completed all his treatment.
In June 2016, Mr T provided a report from his treating  consultant, Dr M. However,  AIG 
decided it needed  further information before  it could  properly assess Mr Ts claim. It 
therefore sought to obtain  further medical  evidence.
In August  2017,  AIG decided  it still didnt  have enough information to properly assess  the 
claim. It therefore arranged for Mr T to undergo an independent medical  examination (IME) 
by a consultant surgeon, Dr P.
In January 2018, Dr P provided his final report to AIG but explained  that he couldnt answer 
its particular questions about the extent  of Mr Ts injuries without seeing x-ray evidence.
In February 2018,  AIG wrote to Mr T explaining the situation. It asked him whether  he was 
prepared to undergo x-rays which could be provided  to Dr P or whether he would prefer for 
AIG to try and obtain an opinion on the validity of his claim from its independent doctor  
based on a desktop review of the existing  available evidence.
Mr T complained about the delays in the assessment of his claim. He considered that AIG 
was seeking views from different doctors  as a means of blocking him from receiving  a claims 
settlement.
AIG acknowledged there had been  delays  but said that most of these were outside of its 
control. However, it agreed  it could have handled things better at times, particularly in terms 
of keeping Mr T informed. It therefore  offered £300  in compensation for this.
Mr T was unhappy at AIGs response. He referred  his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  He considered it 
was necessary for AIG to obtain further evidence to assess Mr Ts claim. He was satisfied it 
had been proactive in chasing up that evidence and that the delays which  occurred were  
largely outside of its control. He considered its offer of £300 compensation was fair.
Mr T didnt  accept the adjudicators findings. He said that he, rather than AIG, had been 
proactive in getting evidence and chasing  up responses. He considered  that AIG had 
enough information to settle his claim once it had received  Dr Ms report along  with his 
medical records. He believed AIG had placed  unnecessary obstacles in the way of his claim.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.   
Ref: DRN50644262my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy will pay benefit if Mr T were to suffer an accidental bodily injury resulting  in death, 
permanent disability or fractures as specified in the policy. In Mr Ts case, his accident  didnt 
result in death or any fractures so his claim would be payable only if it led to him suffering 
permanent disability. Any settlement would depend  on the extent of that permanent 
disability.
I have examined the chronology of events  between February 2016 when Mr T made his 
claim and March 2018 when AIG issued its final response explaining why it was still unable 
to properly assess his claim. I acknowledge that it is an unusually long period for a claim of 
this nature to remain unresolved. However,  bearing in mind  the need  to assess the extent of 
any permanent disability  which Mr T may have suffered, I dont think AIG could reasonably 
have settled the claim on the basis of the information with which it was initially provided.  It 
needed further evidence from those whod  been involved in treating Mr T. And even  when it 
received this further evidence, I think it was reasonable  for AIG to decide it needed Mr T to 
undergo an IME. 
It is unfortunate that the process took so long. However, Im satisfied that AIG for the most 
part was dealing with matters in a reasonably timely manner.  The delays were largely down 
to it having to wait for doctors and hospitals  to respond to its requests for information. And 
after Mr T had undergone the IME, Dr P then took an unreasonably long time before 
confirming that he was unable to answer AIGs specific  questions without x-ray evidence.
I sympathise with Mr T for the experience hes had since making his claim.  I appreciate  that 
he will have  found it extremely frustrating. But I cant hold AIG responsible for the delays of 
third parties in providing requested  information,  provided that AIG has taken all necessary 
steps to chase this information. I therefore think that the delays on this case were largely 
outside of AIGs control. Nonetheless,  there were occasions when  it could have been  more 
proactive, and it certainly could have done  more to keep Mr T updated about what  was 
happening. But AIG has acknowledged this itself and has offered £300 compensation for 
these failings. I think this was fair and is similar to the amount I would have awarded for 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr T.
Since issuing its final response  letter on this complaint, I understand that AIG has obtained 
further x-ray evidence  and has declined Mr Ts claim. This complaint is about the delays in 
AIGs assessment of the claim  up until the time of its final response letter. In my decision, I 
havent therefore considered whether it was fair for AIG to subsequently  decline the claim.  If 
Mr T is unhappy  at AIGs decision he should  raise this as a new complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN50644263Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5064426