K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a Silver  packaged  bank 
account in 2015. He paid a monthly fee for the account which provided several benefits in 
return.
background
Mr B opened  a fee-free  Lloyds account in 2007.  Hes held a Silver packaged bank account 
twice. The first time was in October  2013,  when Mr B held the account for around  two 
weeks. Lloyds has refunded the fees Mr B paid for that, so I wont  be considering it further  in 
this decision.
Mr Bs second Silver account was taken  in August 2015. It was downgraded to a fee-free 
Classic account in June  2016.
Ive noted that during his complaint Mr B has mentioned several other  companies and banks. 
Whilst Mr B may have separate  complaints about  those  companies, this decision will only be 
looking at the mis-sale  of his Silver account  held with Lloyds.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Lloyds mis-sold the Silver account to Mr B in 2015 
and didnt recommend that Lloyds should pay him any compensation. Mr B didnt agree so 
he asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr Bs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr Bs complaint a lot of thought,  I dont  think the Silver account was mis-sold to 
him. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr B was given a fair choice when  he took his 
packaged bank  account.
From what  Ive seen, Mr Bs account  was upgraded to the Silver account online.  So there 
wouldnt have been any interaction between Mr B and any of Lloyds representatives.
Mr B says he was told the Silver account  was the account for him. And its possible that at 
some point he mayve had a conversation with someone from Lloyds  about  it. But as the 
upgrade happened over the internet, I think it was done at a separate  time to any 
conversation that Mr B mightve had with someone  from Lloyds. So I think  he was aware he 
didnt have to upgrade  his account,  and only proceeded to do so, of his own free will, when 
he wanted to. 
Ref: DRN57218752Im mindful that during  a phone call I had with Mr B he told he wasnt  aware his account  had 
been upgraded, because  it had been done fraudulently. But he also told me the specific 
branch that he says the upgrade was done  in. Im not sure why theres such a discrepancy 
here but either way, Im not persuaded that Mr Bs account was upgraded fraudulently, or 
that he didnt know about it.
As the sale happened  online, I dont think that Lloyds recommended the packaged account 
to Mr B so it didnt have  to check if the account was suitable for him. Mr B also says that 
Lloyds didnt check the benefits  he had with his other bank accounts. But Lloyds didnt need 
to check that; it was up to Mr B to check that for himself, and decide which  account  or 
benefits suited  him best.
Although it didnt make a recommendation, Lloyds had to give Mr B enough  clear  information 
about the Silver account for him to decide  if he wanted it. Like our adjudicator, I think  that Mr 
B was given  information about some of the Silver accounts benefits, account and chose it 
because of these  benefits. I dont know the exact process  that Mr B wouldve gone through  
during the online sale,  but Im confident that hed have been told about the accounts main 
features and benefits, and hed have actively needed to proceed with upgrading his account  
based on the information hed been presented.
Ive seen from Lloyds  records  that Mr B registered  his mobile phone against the Silver 
accounts insurance policy three days after the upgrade. This further persuades me that he 
mustve been told about the benefits  before agreeing to the account, in order  to know what  
they were and how to make use of them. I understand  Mr B says he didnt travel abroad  or 
drive in 2015, so he didnt  need the Silver  accounts travel insurance  or car breakdown 
cover, but I dont  find Lloyds at fault for that.
As Ive said,  Im also mindful that Mr B mentioned that someone else could have  fraudulently 
upgraded his account. But whilst  Ive thought  carefully about this, I think  its unlikely thats 
the case. The fact that Mr B registered his mobile  phone so soon after the upgrade makes 
me think he instigated,  and was aware of the change to his account. And Mr B held the 
Silver account for almost a year. I think if he hadnt upgraded it himself, its more  likely than 
not that hed have raised this with Lloyds, and possibly downgraded  the account,  much  
sooner than he did.
I accept that its possible  that Lloyds didnt  tell Mr B everything it should have about the 
Silver account. But for the reasons Ive explained, I havent seen enough to make  me think  
that Mr B wouldnt still have taken the account  even  if Lloyds had told him more about it. 
Mr B has also mentioned that he hasnt been receiving bank statements from Lloyds  so 
hes suggested that his mail may be being  intercepted. 
Lloyds has told me that Mr Bs account statements were switched to online banking delivery 
only in September  2016. I dont know whether Mr B chose to do this, but it does mean  that 
Lloyds doesnt  send out postal statements to Mr B, and hasnt done so for some  time. At 
Mr Bs request, Ive contacted Lloyds it has sent me evidence  that it has changed Mr Bs 
bank statements back to postal delivery.  If he has any further issues with this hell need  to 
contact Lloyds about it.
Mr B has raised many points throughout his complaint and I want  to reassure Mr B that 
whilst I havent listed them all individually, Ive thought carefully about everything hes said. 
Ref: DRN57218753But having  done so I dont  think Lloyds  mis-sold  the Silver account to him. So I dont think it 
owes him any money.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5721875