K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited wont  refund to him the money that 
hes paid it under a fixed  sum loan agreement for an HGV driving  course. He also complains 
that the loan agreement was mis-sold  to him.
background
Mr M entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Omni Capital that he electronically  
signed in May 2018 to pay for an HGV  driving  course. The loan agreement described the 
course as Category C 5 days, Initial CPC,  Pass Protection  with a specified course provider. 
The cost of the course was £3,297 and he paid a deposit of £33, so the amount of the loan 
was £3,264, which was to be repaid by a payment of £96.28 and 47 monthly payments of 
£96.29. The interest rate was 19.9%.
Mr M says that he wanted to cancel the agreement  at the end of July 2018  and he contacted 
the course provider  when  he returned from an overseas trip in October 2018. The course  
provider stopped trading and Mr M complained to Omni Capital in November 2019.  It said 
that it had arranged for him to receive  the course from another course provider. Mr M wasnt 
satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld.  She thought  that 
he should have  known that he were  entering  into a credit  agreement and that the 
replacement course  was a fair remedy for the original course providers breach of contract.
Mr M hasnt  accepted our investigators recommendations and Omni  Capital  has provided 
further evidence  to show that the original course provider made a partial refund of £1,978.20 
when Mr M cancelled his course in October 2018 so Mr M wasnt  offered  a replacement 
course.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its my understanding that Mr M approached the original course provider about the HGV 
driving course and that he started the course  before  he decided  that the career  change was 
too risky and the course was too long. The documents provided by the course provider arent 
available but Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr M made any payment for the course,  
other than the deposit, to the course  provider. Even though Mr Ms English is limited, I 
consider it to be more  likely than not that he agreed  to pay for the course using the loan from 
Omni Capital  and he agreed  to the terms of the fixed sum loan agreement. He also started 
making the monthly payments  set out in the agreement.
I consider that the agreement clearly sets out the key information  that Mr M would need to 
know. Ive seen no evidence to show that he tried to cancel the agreement  within  the 
cancellation period or that he complained to the course provider or Omni Capital that the 
loan agreement had been mis-sold to him. Im not persuaded  that theres enough evidence 
to show that the agreement  was mis-sold  to Mr M.
Mr M did contact  the course  provider  before it stopped trading and asked to cancel the 
course. Ive seen no evidence to show  that he had any right to cancel it at that time but Omni 
Ref: DRN58825962Capital has provided  evidence from the course  provider to show that it accepted his 
cancellation of the course  and agreed  to make a partial  refund  of £1,978.20. Omni Capital 
has confirmed that the balance  of Mr Ms loan was reduced by £1,978.20 in October 2018 
and it says that Mr M has continued  to make the payments to it and that in January 2021 the 
outstanding balance of his account  was £379.98.
As Mr M cancelled his course in October 2018  he wouldnt have been entitled to receive  a 
replacement course  after the original course provider had stopped  trading. I sympathise  with 
Mr M for the difficulties that hes experienced, but Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that Omni Capital has acted incorrectly in connection with the cancellation 
of his course. 
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Omni 
Capital to end Mr Ms loan agreement, to refund to him any of the payments that hes made 
under it, to reduce or waive  the outstanding balance of his account  or to take any other 
action in response to his complaint.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2021.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5882596