K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint  is about  their pursuit  for a US Withholding  Tax rebate related to 
US shares  which were  purchased in 2017 through a Self-Invested  Personal  Pension 
(SIPP) account with Equiniti Financial Services Limited (trading as Selftrade).
background 
Selftrade accepts  that the relevant tax ought  not to have applied  in relation to the shares 
because they were held within a SIPP. It says it provided the relevant tax documentation at 
the point of purchase, in time and to the third party registrars of the shares, but it was not 
informed that a withholding statement also had to be submitted. That statement was not 
submitted so the withholding tax was applied to dividend from the holding. 
Selftrade agreed to refund  the tax that was deducted. It offered £2,350.06 to Mr D and 
£243.11 to Mrs D in this respect. One of our investigators considered  the matter  and 
endorsed Selftrades  offer as a fair outcome  in addition  to the amount of £75 that Selftrade 
had already paid for the trouble and upset  caused by the matter.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed.  They consider that the amounts offered are inaccurate   that Mr D 
is due around £5,212  and that Mrs D is due around £617  and that a sum around £7,000 
should be paid to them for the trouble and upset they have been caused.  Thereafter  the 
matter was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I too consider  that Selftrades offer to refund  the tax incurred by Mr and Mrs D is a fair 
outcome to their complaint. With regards  to their claim  for trouble and upset,  I am not 
persuaded that it should have to pay any more than the payment it has already made. 
I have noted, with empathy, the challenging personal circumstances which Mr D has 
described and which  he says they faced  whilst  trying  to resolve the matter.  I have also noted 
their displeasure about what  they perceived  as a lack of accountability between Selftrade  
and the third party SIPP Trustee, in terms of responsibility for resolving the matter. 
However, the personal circumstances  were not caused by and do not appear  to have been 
foreseeable to Selftrade. Given that it did not provide a tax reclaiming service it also appears  
that its ability to achieve  a tax reclaim  for Mr and Mrs D  which was the initial pursuit  before 
it made its refund offer  appears to have  been  limited. Overall, I consider that the £75 
payment it made, for trouble and upset, is fair.
what must  Selftrade  do? 
The basis  for compensation to Mr and Mrs D is precise and identifiable. It is the tax amounts 
they individually incurred in relation to the relevant US shareholding. In this context, I 
consider that the dispute over the relevant sums can and should be resolved by reference to 
precise tax amounts they individually incurred.
Selftrade must:
Ref: DRN53000622Provide to Mr and Mrs D a copy of documentation from the registrar of the shares in 
which there is precise confirmation of the withholding tax amounts  they individually  
incurred. Being the basis for their refund/compensation it is important that Mr and 
Mrs D are satisfied  with the accuracy  of the withholding tax amounts.
Pay Mr and Mrs D refunds of the accurate withholding tax amounts they incurred.
Pay Mr and Mrs D interest on the refunds at the rate of 8% simple per year,  from the 
date(s) that the withholding tax was incurred to the date of settlement.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. I order Equiniti Financial 
Services Limited (trading  as Selftrade) to pay them compensation as stated above and to 
provide them  with a calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple format.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 November  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5300062