K820x#14complaint
Mr U complains that The Governor and Company of the Bank  of Ireland unfairly increased 
the interest rate on his mortgage.
background
In 2004, Mr U took out a mortgage  with Bristol & West  Mortgages  over a term of 25 years, 
though the loan has since transferred to Bank  of Ireland. The mortgage  was on a tracker rate 
of 1.6%  above Bank of England base rate until 30 September 2006. The mortgage offer 
stated that after this date, the differential  above  base  rate would increase to 1.75%.
In February 2013,  Bank of Ireland wrote to Mr U to tell him about changes they were making 
to the differential  rate later that year. The letter stated the following changes  would be 
applied:
in May 2013, the differential rate would  increase  to 2.49% (total  interest rate 2.99%)
in October 2013, the differential  rate would  increase to 3.99% (total interest rate 
4.49%)
The letter also contained  a leaflet  - which explained the reasons for the increase, and 
information about what Mr U could do if he wanted to apply for a different rate. Bank of 
Ireland also said they would  waive any Early  Repayment Charges (ERCs) applicable to Mr 
Us mortgage if he chose  to redeem his mortgage  early.
Mr U complained about the increases  as he felt they were  unfair.  Bank of Ireland said theyd 
increased the differential rate in line with the terms of the mortgage contract, and they wrote 
to Mr U before the increases explaining  the reasons. They also provided information about 
what Mr U could do if he felt the increases would affect his ability to make the new monthly  
payments.
Mr U wasnt happy with this so brought his complaint  to our service. Our adjudicator  looked  
into things and explained that, in her view, Bank of Ireland hadnt acted unfairly when 
increasing the differential of Mr Us interest rate. Mr U disagreed so the complaints been 
passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr U has provided a lot of information,  including articles  and other external material,  to 
support his complaint. Whilst Ive carefully  considered everything hes sent us, Im deciding 
this case on the individual  merits and facts of this particular case.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Us mortgage that he agreed to when he took it 
out. These  explain that Bank of Ireland can change the differential above or below Bank  of 
England base rate for the reasons that are outlined. Two of the reasons stated in the terms 
and conditions are:
because we need to increase the amount we need to receive from borrowers in order to 
maintain a prudent level of profitability or reserves. And
Ref: DRN54637892because it is costing us more to administer borrowers accounts.
In the leaflet Bank of Ireland sent Mr U in 2013, it explains the reason the differential rate 
has increased is  
Currently, banks are required to hold more  capital reserves, as part of measures to protect 
the banking system from the type of scenarios seen during the banking crisis. In addition, the 
cost of funding  mortgages has increased significantly for Bank of Ireland  and the market as a 
whole in recent years.
Bank of Ireland  have provided  the Financial Ombudsman Service with information about  the 
reasons why they needed to raise  the interest rate at this time.  This information is 
commercially sensitive  and so I wont go into detail about it here  as our rules allow us to 
receive evidence  in confidence  where appropriate to do so. But weve  carefully considered  
the information theyve provided and it shows that there was a business need to increase 
their funds at the time, and that the bank  didnt go further than they needed to.
So Im satisfied that Bank of Ireland have increased the differential rate in line with the terms 
of Mr Us mortgage, and were entitled  to do so. Theyve done so for a reason specified in Mr 
Us mortgage agreement. But what I need to consider is whether this was fair, taking into 
account the circumstances at the time.
When Bank of Ireland  told Mr U about the changes  they were making to the interest 
differential, they also gave information about what he could do if he wanted to consider other  
options. They gave  him the option to choose  a new Bank of Ireland  product, contact  his 
broker or Independent Financial Adviser  to discuss his options, or use their mortgage  
specialist. So Im satisfied  the bank made Mr U aware that he didnt have to stay on the 
tracker rate, and he had other options available if he didnt want  to pay the new rate.
Mr Us mortgage offer says theres  no ERC payable if the mortgage  is redeemed early, after 
September 2007. And in any case, in Bank of Irelands letter  sent in 2013, they said they 
would waive any ERCs that would normally have  been applicable. So the only charge 
payable on redemption would  be the closure fee. This fee would have been payable at any 
time the lending had been fully redeemed, even  if the mortgage ran to term  and so I dont 
consider it a charge or penalty for redeeming the mortgage early. So Im satisfied there were 
no contractual barriers  preventing Mr U from redeeming his mortgage  early if we wanted  to 
look for another interest  rate elsewhere.
Mr U has said he didnt receive the mortgage terms and conditions at the time he took it out, 
and so didnt know the differential  rate could change. He believed  it would  remain  at 1.75% 
above Bank of England base rate for the life of the mortgage. This mortgage was taken out 
some time ago, and so I cant know what Mr U did or didnt  receive. But I have seen  the 
mortgage offer document, which  was signed  by Mr U at the time. Here it states the following:
we will not change  the differential (if any) which  applies during any promotional  period. After 
any promotional period, we may change the differential (if any) under condition  6(m) of our 
Residential Mortgage  Conditions. However, during the guarantee period, we will only change  
the differential if either of the reasons stated  in condition  6(p) of our Residential Mortgage 
Conditions applies.
Ref: DRN54637893Mr Us mortgage offer states the promotional period would end on 30 September  2006, and 
the guarantee period  would end on 31 December 2006. So Im satisfied that even if Mr U 
didnt receive the full terms  and conditions of his mortgage, there was enough information 
available to him in the mortgage  offer, which he signed, for him to be aware the differential 
rate may change.
I appreciate Mr Us monthly payments increased significantly following the rise in interest  
rate, but Bank of Ireland encouraged him to get in touch with them at the time to discuss his 
options if this was going to make things unaffordable. I understand Mr U has not been 
making his full monthly payments  since  these  interest rate increases, and I would encourage 
him to discuss his financial situation with the bank so they can provide support  and agree  a 
way forward.
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied Bank of Ireland have 
acted fairly.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5463789