K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2004. Mrs G says Bank of Scotland Plc ((BoS) trading as Halifax) mis-sold  her the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mrs G says that she wasnt  aware  that PPI has been added  to her credit  card account. 
But I think BoS made it clear that Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this as it was so long 
ago. I say this because BoS has provided  a copy of Mrs Gs credit  card application form 
 on this I can see that the PPI is presented as an optional  product, and has been  
selected. Mrs G has then signed  the application, agreeing to the information on it. 
BoS didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mrs G so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs G got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs G has said - but these  points  dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs G paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mrs G back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mrs G now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Ref: DRN55090702Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5509070