K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that a solicitor, funded through his legal expenses  insurance with Allianz 
Insurance Plc  asked him for £2,000. He says Allianz are responsible  for the actions of the 
solicitor. 
Where I refer to Allianz, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
background
Mr R has the benefit  of insurance  for certain  legal expenses which  is a part of his motor 
insurance policy provided by Allianz. 
In May 2015  Mr R was unfortunately involved in an accident in his car. Mr R contacted  
Allianz in May 2016 and let them know he wanted  to pursue the third party for personal injury 
damages. In August 2016  Allianz put him in touch with one of their panel solicitors  Ill refer to 
as A to progress his legal claim.  
Following various correspondence between A and Mr R, in March  2018 A closed their file on 
Mr Rs claim.  They  say they did this as he had failed to co-operate  with them and had 
repeatedly failed to provide identification  and other  documents when requested.  A offered to 
act privately for Mr R as well as warning  him about the upcoming limitation date in relation to 
his legal claim.
In April 2018 Mr R complained to Allianz. He was unhappy with the service hed received 
from A and that A had asked him for money. Allianz  responded on 3 May 2018 and in 
summary said that they arent responsible for the actions of A and so didnt uphold the 
complaint. They also pointed out the imminent limitation date. 
Mr R wasnt happy with this response  and referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators didnt  think  it should be upheld. He concluded Allianz hadnt done anything  
wrong. He also asked Allianz if they would reconsider the claim if Mr R agreed to co-operate 
and send the requested documents. Allianz  explained that as the limitation date had now 
passed, they werent willing to reconsider the claim. 
Mr R didnt accept our investigators findings and has asked for an ombudsman  to review his 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and so Im not upholding this complaint. I know  this is likely to be disappointing  
for Mr R, so Id like to explain why.
As our investigator pointed out, Im only able to consider the actions of the insurer and their 
agents, in this case Allianz. So Ive considered  whether theyve acted within  the policy  terms 
and fairly.
Mr Rs policy  provides  cover to enable him to pursue a third party  for damages  following a 
car accident. But in common with nearly all policies it is subject to certain terms and 
Ref: DRN54850262conditions. One of those conditions says You must  follow  the advice of and co-operate  fully 
with the legal representative and us at all times
This isnt a policy condition that Id consider inherently unfair. Any legal  action will inevitably 
require the co-operation of the party involved.  And if this is being  funded  by the insurer under 
the policy, I think its reasonable  that they insist on the policyholder  being  co-operative. 
When Mr R made his claim, Allianz put him in contact with A and although A were being 
funded by Allianz, they were acting  on Mr Rs behalf as their client.  I understand Mr R was 
unhappy with the service  he received  from A, including their requests for certified 
identification documents and other  requests. But Allianz arent responsible  for way A conduct 
their litigation  on a day to day basis. If Mr R is unhappy with the service he received  from A 
the Legal Ombudsman may be able to assist. Our service has no jurisdiction to consider the 
actions of solicitors. 
By March 2018 A had decided to close their file on Mr Rs claim. They say this was because 
he had repeatedly failed to co-operate  with them. As a law firm, I think A are well placed to 
know the level of engagement required from a client to progress a legal claim. Because  of 
this I think it is reasonable for Allianz  to rely on As knowledge and experience  when 
deciding that Mr R hadnt complied with the above  condition of his policy.  
I understand there has been some confusion  as to Mr Rs freedom  of choice in relation to 
solicitors. He says A were imposed upon him and Allianz should be responsible  for their 
actions. Mr R was obviously free to choose any solicitor to represent  him. But if he wanted to 
do so within  the terms (and therefore funding)  of his insurance policy  it had to be a panel  
solicitor. That is unless  there was a conflict of interest, the case was unusually  complex or it 
reached the point  where proceedings needed  to be started. Mr Rs case  never reached that 
stage and Ive not seen  evidence to support that it couldnt have  been  dealt with by a panel 
solicitor or that there was a conflict of interest.  So I dont think  it was wrong  for Allianz to only 
offer the services of A. 
Mr R was unhappy when  A asked him for £2000 to progress his case, as he thought  it 
should be covered  under  his policy. Allianz  have explained that this was A offering to act 
privately for Mr R after they had closed their file under  the insurance claim.  I dont  think  
Allianz are at fault for this as the request didnt come  from them. 
Im aware Mr R doesnt feel that Allianz  did enough,  when  he made his initial claim, to make  
him aware  of his legal  expenses insurance cover. But as Allianz  havent  yet had the 
opportunity to respond to this, it would be inappropriate for me to comment  on that point in 
this decision. 
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think Allianz have  acted outside  the terms of the 
policy or unfairly. And as I dont think theyve done anything wrong, Im not upholding this 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Ref: DRN54850263Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5485026