K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) failed to follow  the 
correct process when it defaulted  his credit card. 
background
Mr S held a Barclaycard for several years. On 1 August  2014  he wrote to Barclaycard to say 
hed moved. Mr S asked  for the address  to be updated. 
Barclaycard says it has no record of receiving  Mr S letter so continued to write to him at the 
existing address. Mr S has confirmed  thats where  his parents live. Barclaycard  said it sent 
important letters about arrears and its decision to default the account  to the address it held 
for Mr S. But Mr S says neither he nor his parents have ever received the correspondence 
Barclaycard claims to have sent. 
Mr S complained to Barclaycard after it took the step of defaulting his account. Barclaycard 
didnt uphold  Mr S complaint and he asked us to look at what  had happened.  An investigator 
looked at Mr S complaint but didnt  think Barclaycard had made  a mistake.  She said there 
was nothing to show Barclaycard had received Mr S request to change his address and 
shed seen the letters it sent him about  the credit card. 
In response, Mr S says that Barclaycard  wrote  to him at his correct  address about a disputed  
transaction for a hot tub in 2015 or 2016.  He feels this shows  Barclaycard had the correct 
address on file for him. When the investigator asked  Barclaycard about this it said there was 
only one disputed payment in this period which  was for £39.99  and related to online gaming. 
Mr S wants  to appeal the investigators view so his complaints been passed to me to make  
a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has sent us a copy of the letter requesting his address be amended  dated 
1 August 2014.  Barclaycard said it didnt  receive the letter  so couldnt update  Mr S address. 
But I dont doubt  that Mr S sent Barclaycard the letter  in question on 1 August 2014. 
However, I note that while Mr S new address  and his name  are given  theres no other  
identifying information.  And, by its nature,  Barclaycard wouldnt be aware of Mr S new 
address. Theres no credit  card number  and no reference to Mr S previous  address. I this 
its unlikely Barclaycard would have been able to identify the right account  based on what  
Mr S sent.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr S but given the lack of details in his 1 August 2014 letter, I 
wouldnt expect Barclaycard to have acted  on its instructions and amend his address. 
Barclaycard says it sent Mr S important letters about  its decision to default his account to the 
existing address. Mr S has confirmed  thats his parents  address and hes since  returned  to 
live there.  
Ref: DRN55272702To support its case, Barclaycards sent us copies of all the letters it sent to Mr S in the run up 
to the default.  Barclaycard has also provided  some call recordings from the period when 
Mr S said he was living in the new property. During the call recordings Ive listened  to, when 
Mr S was asked to confirm his address  for security purposes he gave the address it held on 
file (his parents address) to Barclaycard, not one he moved to in August 2014. 
Where the circumstances of a complaint  are disputed  by both parties  Ill base my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. That is, what I consider  most likely  to have happened in light of 
all the available  information. 
In this case, Mr S says Barclaycard  didnt send any correspondence about  his credit card to 
his existing address  and says his parents can confirm that. But Barclaycard has provided 
copies of the letters it says were  posted  to Mr S and call recordings where  he confirms his 
existing address for security purposes  in the run up to its decision to default.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr S but I think the information supplied by Barclaycard in this case is 
compelling. All letters Barclaycard says were sent match the details we hold on file. I dont 
know why Mr S didnt receive  those  letters but Im satisfied from what Ive seen that they 
were sent.  And during  the calls Ive listened  to which  took place in the run up to the default 
Mr S completed the security questions by giving the address Barclaycard held (his parents 
address). 
Mr S says Barclaycard wrote to him at his new address  in relation to a disputed transaction  
for a hot tub. But Barclaycards  told us that the only disputed transaction it was involved with 
was for £39.99  on 19 January 2013.  That transaction  related to online gaming. Barclaycards 
statements show a refund was made for £945  on 30 July 2015 but its told us theres no 
record of being  involved with that transaction or setting up a dispute at that time. 
Barclaycards confirmed  it never wrote to Mr S new address and Im satisfied thats the 
case. 
I understand Mr S believed his address was updated after he wrote to Barclaycard on 
1 August 2014  but, for the reasons Ive given  above, Im satisfied it wasnt. Im not 
persuaded that Barclaycard failed  to follow the right process in the run up to defaulting  his 
credit card so Im not telling it to take any further action to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5527270