K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Miss S took out a credit  card during a meeting in a branch of Halifax in 1999. At the same  
time she was sold a PPI policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Ss complaint. Miss S disagreed with our adjudicators 
view. 
Miss Ss main  complaint is that she didn't  need PPI and she said if the costs versus  benefits 
and the policys  optional nature had been made clear then she wouldve declined  the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ss complaint.
I dont know what was discussed when Miss S took out her credit  card.  But on the 
application form Miss S completed to get this card theres a pre-printed cross in the box to 
have PPI added to the account. So I think she wouldve seen that it was up to her to say if 
having PPI was something she wanted. 
And I think the way that the form was completed  before  being  printed off for her to sign 
probably reflects what Miss S told the advisor  she wanted. If she hadnt wanted to have PPI 
with her credit card, the PPI box couldve been  left blank. 
Miss S signed the declaration on her completed  application confirming that the information 
shown on the form was correct.
So, on balance, I think that Halifax made  Miss S aware that the PPI was optional and that 
she chose to take it. 
Halifax said it recommended the PPI to Miss S, and it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for 
her based  on the information Ive got about  her circumstances at the time. 
Miss S was eligible for the PPI cover.  She had some  sick pay entitlement through  work  she 
mentioned shed have got 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months half pay from her 
employer. But the policy wouldve paid more than her minimum credit  card repayments for 
up to 12 months per claim in the event of accident or sickness   on top of any work benefits.  
So the policy  offered her better cover  than relying on her employment benefits alone. And as 
Miss S mightve also had some additional costs if she was too unwell to go back to work or 
disabled, I think this couldve  been  a useful benefit at a difficult time.  
Ref: DRN58644912And the policy wouldve also paid Miss S a monthly  benefit of 10% of the balance 
outstanding on her card at the start of the claim - for up to 12 months per claim - if she lost 
her job unexpectedly and was out of work. Miss S told us she had no significant  other  means 
she wouldve been able to rely on if she couldnt  work. So I think PPI provided Miss S with a 
useful benefit  in her particular  circumstances  and that PPI was suitable for Miss S. 
Its possible some information Halifax gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  There were some things the policy didnt cover.  But it doesnt look as if 
those wouldve applied  to Miss S. So, I dont think having more information  about what  
wasnt covered under  the policy wouldve put her off taking it out.
As far as I can see, Miss S chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. Overall, I think its unlikely Miss S wouldve  made a different decision if better  
information had been provided.  On balance, given the affordable benefits it gave her, I think  
its likely  she still wouldve  taken out the policy.
This means  it doesnt look as if Miss S has lost out as a result  of anything Halifax mightve 
done wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5864491