K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP lent him money  he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr H took out five loans  with Uncle  Buck between  May and October 2014.
Mr H says Uncle Buck was irresponsible to agree  to lend to him. Mr H says he had a 
gambling addiction  at the time. He wants Uncle Buck to compensate him.
Before this service became involved, Uncle Buck offered to refund  interest  and charges on 
loan five. Mr H declined  this offer.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Hs complaint be upheld in part. The adjudicator  
thought that although  Uncle  Bucks checks didnt go far enough before agreeing loan one, 
better checks wouldnt have made  a difference to Uncle Bucks decision to lend.
The adjudicator thought  that if Uncle Buck had carried out proportionate checks before loans 
two to five, it wouldnt  have agreed to lend.
Uncle Buck  doesnt  agree  with the adjudicators recommendation. Uncle Buck  points out that 
it declined a large number of Mr Hs loan applications. Uncle Buck  says that Mr H had 
enough disposable income  to afford  loan two as Mr H only had to make  one repayment. 
Uncle Buck  says that its important to assess Mr Hs complaint against the standards in 
place at the time of lending. Uncle Buck says it expected Mr H to provide accurate 
information about his financial situation as it wasnt in its interest to offer a loan that Mr H 
couldnt afford to repay.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Uncle Buck  was required to make  sure Mr H could repay any money that it lent to him in a 
sustainable way. Any checks had to be proportionate to things  such  as the amount of the 
loan, the repayments and any borrowing history. But there wasnt a set list of checks  Uncle 
Buck had to carry out.
I appreciate that Uncle Buck says it wasnt required by law to ask for bank statements as 
part of its affordability  assessment  but this is just one of the ways a lender could carry out a 
more thorough financial assessment before agreeing to lend. And although Uncle Buck was 
entitled to treat any information that Mr H gave  as being accurate, that doesnt mean it 
shouldnt have looked out for signs that something was wrong or that relevant details had 
been left out.
Uncle Buck  has already  offered to put things  right for loan five. As it doesnt appear that this 
loan is in dispute, I dont think I need to say anything more  about it.
Ref: DRN50925202loan one 
Mr H was due to repay just over £200 for loan one. 
It was early on in Mr Hs lending history with Uncle Buck  and the repayment on loan one 
represented a relatively modest proportion of his declared income of £1,200 I consider a 
proportionate check shouldve included asking about  Mr H about  his living  costs  and regular 
credit commitments.  
Uncle Buck  only asked Mr H about  his income  so I need to consider  what  its likely he 
wouldve told Uncle Buck  had it asked him out his outgoings  at the time.
It seems  likely to me that Mr H wouldve given broadly  similar expenditure information to 
what he declared some five months  later. If Mr H had done this, it wouldve appeared to 
Uncle Buck  that he had a monthly  disposable income of £330. I agree with the adjudicator  
that even with better checks, it wouldve looked  as though Mr H could afford to repay loan 
one.
loan two 
Mr H asked for loan two a couple  of months  after repaying loan one. Mr H was due to repay 
over £470  in one go. This represented more than a third of his declared monthly income of 
£1,400. 
I think that it was reasonable to expect Uncle Buck to ask about Mr Hs monthly  outgoings, 
including any other short term loans. As Uncle  Buck hasnt given me any evidence to 
suggest that it asked  Mr H for any of this information, I dont think  its checks were 
proportionate.
I think its reasonable to find it likely that if asked, Mr H wouldve given Uncle  Buck a similar 
expenditure figure for loan two as he did for loan five. On this basis,  Mr H wouldve been left 
with about £530 of disposable income.
Although it wouldve still appeared  that Mr H could just about  afford to repay  loan two from 
his disposable  income, I dont  think this means  that he could  afford to repay  the loan in a 
sustainable way. Mr H was left with about £55 after making the payment to Uncle Buck. If 
hed had had any unexpected expenses  even relatively minor ones  Mr H wouldve been 
left with no disposable income at all. 
I appreciate that Uncle Buck thinks that as Mr H only had to make  one repayment, a £55 
contingency was enough to say that he could repay the loan in a sustainable way. However, 
this doesnt change my decision to uphold  Mr Hs complaint  about  loan one.
loans three  and four
By the time Mr H borrowed from Uncle Buck in August 2014,  hed already  taken  out two 
loans in the same chain.  This meant Uncle Buck shouldve  been aware of Mr Hs borrowing 
history and done more  to check  whether  he could  afford the loans.
I think Uncle Buck shouldve had some  concerns  that Mr H was using the loans for general 
living costs  rather than to help with one-off expenses. The pattern of lending shouldve 
Ref: DRN50925203reasonably prompted Uncle Buck to try and get a comprehensive picture of Mr Hs finances. 
It couldve done this by asking to see bills or bank statements for example.
Just because I consider  that Uncle Buck shouldve carried  out further checks, doesnt 
necessarily mean that I must go on to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I would need to be 
persuaded that if Uncle Buck had carried out the proportionate checks  I think were 
reasonable, it wouldve discovered  that Mr H couldnt afford some or all of the loan 
repayments.
Although Mr H didnt have much in the way of monthly outgoings before loan three,  with 
better checks its likely  that Uncle Buck wouldve discovered that Mr H had a significant 
amount of online gambling  transactions. Over  the course of one month before Mr H applied  
for loan three, he spent  almost £4,500 online gambling.
Mr H had less gambling transactions  before loan four but he owed money to other payday 
lenders. Taking  these  liabilities together with his living costs and regular credit  commitments, 
Mr H wasnt left with enough  disposable  income to afford loan four. 
If Uncle Buck had looked at Mr Hs financial  circumstances in as much detail as I think  was 
proportionate, it wouldve  realised that he was using payday lending to support a gambling 
habit. As a responsible lender, I dont think Uncle Buck wouldve agreed loans three  and 
four. 
Overall, Mr H has lost out so Uncle Buck should  compensate him more than its offered to so 
far.
putting things right
To put things right Uncle Buck  should:
Refund any interest and charges paid on loans two to five;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
Remove any negative  information recorded about loans two to five from Mr Hs credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part and direct Uncle  Buck Finance LLP to 
put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Ref: DRN50925204Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5092520