K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold  them a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage in 2000. They were sold the PPI in connection with this 
mortgage at the same  time. The benefit  of the policy was split between Mr and Mrs S. The 
policy was meant to provide a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months per claim if Mr and/or   
Mrs S lost their jobs or were off sick.
Our adjudicator thought that Mr and Mrs S complaint should be upheld  because Mr S 
suffered from a pre-existing medical condition which he wouldnt have been able to make a 
successful claim  for under the policy if the need  arose. So she thought that the policy wasnt 
suitable for Mr S and that Nationwide  hadnt  made  the exclusion relating to pre-existing  
medical conditions  clear to Mr and Mrs S at the time of the sale.
Nationwide disagreed with our adjudicator  and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint.  I will now explain why.
Nationwide accept they advised  Mr and Mrs S to take PPI out. This means they had to take 
adequate steps to ensure  the policy was suitable for them. But I dont think  the policy  was 
suitable for them because Mr S was suffering from a pre-existing medical condition at the 
time of the sale and the policy excluded claims resulting  from pre-existing medical 
conditions. 
Nationwide questioned the fact that Mr S hadnt  mentioned his medical condition  to them 
initially when  making this complaint. However,  based on what  Mr and Mrs S have told us and 
the evidence Ive seen, I dont have  reason to doubt that Mr S was suffering from this 
condition at the time of the sale. 
As the policy excluded  claims resulting from pre-existing medical conditions, Mr S wouldnt 
have been able to make a claim under the policy if he was off work sick because of it. It 
appears that the triggers for his condition  were extensive and he has told us that he was in 
and out of hospital especially in his early years  because of it. Mr S has also told us he had to 
be taken into hospital twice 5/6 years  (approximately) before the sale of this policy  - the 
second time was approximately  two years before the policy  was taken out. So while  I 
appreciate that he could  have made  claims for other illnesses and also if he were to lose his 
job, I dont think this made up for the fact that Mr S wouldnt  have been able to make a claim 
for something which would have  been the most  likely reason he might have been off sick 
work for at the time of the sale.
Although Nationwide have told us that the exclusion was something which  would have been 
discussed with Mr and Mrs S at the time of the sale and that Mr and Mrs S decided to take 
Ref: DRN59335122PPI despite this condition, I havent  seen sufficient evidence for me to conclude that this was 
clearly discussed with Mr and Mrs S at the time of the sale.  None of the documents  that I 
have seen from the time of the sale - such as the PPI application form and the PPI 
declaration form - refer to Mr S medical  condition or why the policy was considered as being  
suitable despite Mr S medical condition.
Regardless of whether  or not Nationwide advised  Mr and Mrs S to take PPI, they still had to 
give Mr and Mrs S clear  information about  the main exclusions/restrictions in the policy  so 
that they could  make  an informed decision about  whether  to take it out or not. Nationwide  
say that they did this. In particular, they say that the PPI application form contained  a 
declaration containing this exclusion just above  where Mr and Mrs S had to sign the 
application. Ive considered this declaration, however, I note it contained  a number of other 
statements and didnt  highlight  the exclusion as it should have. I also note that the exclusion 
relating to pre-existing medical conditions wasnt phrased in the same  way as in the policy  
document/Key facts  document. And I dont think the exclusion relating  to pre-existing 
medical conditions  was set out clearly enough  in the other documents provided either.
So all in all, I dont  think Nationwide  did make  the actual exclusion relating to pre-existing 
medical conditions  clear enough  to Mr and Mrs S. If they had, I dont think Mr and Mrs S 
would have taken  the policy out. I say this for the same reasons I think the policy  wasnt  
suitable for them.
So based  on the evidence available to me, I think Nationwide mis-sold  Mr and Mrs S this PPI 
policy.
fair compensation
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs S in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide  
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs S the amount they paid each  month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Nationwide  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
I know that Nationwide made an offer to refund some of the commission it received for Mr 
and Mrs S PPI premiums. If this has already  been  paid to Mr and Mrs S, Nationwide  can 
take off what they got for the commission from the amount it owes them.  
my final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint against Nationwide  Building Society  and require them to 
pay Mr and Mrs S the compensation as set out above.
Ref: DRN59335123Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5933512