K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them  a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium MPPI policy taken out in 1997 the policy  was 
amended when Mr and Mrs H took out a further advance  in 2000. Mr and Mrs H had a joint 
mortgage but the policy only covered Mr H.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Having thought about everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
I dont know what happened at the time. But I can see that Mr and Mrs H signed a separate  
application forms for MPPI to cover Mr H. So taking everything Ive seen together,  I think  its 
likely Lloyds  made Mr and Mrs H aware  that the MPPI was optional and that they chose to 
take it out having an appreciation of what it was they were  agreeing  to.
I think that Lloyds  recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs H. So it had to make sure that it 
was right for them. And based  on what Mr and Mrs H have  told me about their 
circumstances at the time, I dont think that Lloyds  recommendation was unsuitable.  The 
information provided suggests that Mr H was the major wage earner. And the policy  
wouldve paid out 100% of the monthly  benefit in the event Mr H made a successful  claim.  
So it couldve proved  useful in the event he had to stop working suddenly and he needed  to 
make a claim. 
Mr H mayve been entitled to sick pay from his employer.  But I dont agree that this means 
that Mr and Mrs H didnt  need the policy, as it wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay 
Mr H wouldve received  at a time when their finances are likely  to have been squeezed. The 
MPPI also included unemployment cover. So it wouldve paid out if Mr H was to have lost his 
job too. 
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But the policy wasnt 
that expensive,  in relation to the protection it provided. And Ive not seen anything to suggest 
that Mr and Mrs H couldnt afford  the premiums at the time the recommendation was made. I 
think Mr and Mrs H had a need for this cover too  especially as Mr H was the major wage 
earner. So even  if it Lloyds had explained the cost better, I still think that Mr and Mrs H 
wouldve bought  it. 
Its possible that Lloyds  didnt tell Mr and Mrs H everything it shouldve  done about the policy  
and the main things  it didnt cover.  But from what Mr and Mrs H have told us, I dont think    
Ref: DRN53046382Mr H wouldve been affected by any of these. It looks like he was eligible for the policy, was 
in good health and he was working.  So I think that Mr and Mrs H wouldve still taken the 
MPPI even  if Lloyds had told them everything it needed to when they took it out.
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs H that Ive thought about everything theyve told us. And Ive 
listened to everything  theyve  said.  But overall  I dont have enough here to be able to say 
that the MPPI was mis-sold to them.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5304638