K821x#15complaint
Mr Y complains that an employee of Lloyds Bank PLC made offensive comments  about him. 
background
Mr Y called his bank to discuss a direct debit payment on his account.  His questions were 
answered and the call ended. However,  after the conversation finished,  Mr Y heard some  
derogatory comments being made.
Mr Y complained. He said he was appalled and disappointed. He said hed never been 
spoken about in this way, and the issue had really upset him. 
Lloyds Bank  responded quickly to Mr Ys complaint and apologised. It said the comments 
made by its employee  were unacceptable and said the matter had been  escalated and 
would be dealt with. It also offered to credit Mr Ys account with £100.  
Mr Y accepted the apology and the £100  payment. He said hed worked in customer service, 
so had an understanding of the expectations. He said if the caller had been someone else 
instead of him, they may not have taken  the comments  so lightly.  Lloyds Bank said it would 
be taking action to ensure  the same thing  wouldnt happen  again, and My Y said this was the 
reason hed raised the issue. 
Mr Y later decided he was dissatisfied  with the offer Lloyds Bank had made to him, and 
contacted this service.  Mr Y said although  Lloyds Bank had apologised and credited £100 to 
his account, he wanted to take things further. He said he felt insulted, and didnt think £100  
was enough to make up for that. He also said he had felt under  pressure  to accept Lloyds 
Banks offer of £100  over the phone.
An investigator here looked into the complaint and agreed that Lloyds Bank had done  
something wrong. The investigator  recommended  that Lloyds Bank increase its offer from 
£100 to £250. Lloyds  Bank said it was willing to pay £250.
Mr Y was unhappy with the level of compensation and asked for an ombudsman  to review  
the complaint.  He said he thought £1,000 was a more  suitable amount. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y has said the investigators view that he should  receive £250 in compensation shows his 
complaint hasnt been taken seriously. Id like to ensure Mr Y that this is not the case. All 
complaints brought to this service  are investigated  and considered  on their individual merits. 
Having listened  to the relevant call, Im in agreement that the offensive comments  Mr Y 
heard were  unprofessional and unacceptable. Based on the words  used, I believe  the 
comments were  not specific to Mr Y. But, I can still appreciate why Mr Y would have taken 
the comments personally, and accept that he found what was said offensive and upsetting.
Ref: DRN53622482I dont think it was unreasonable  of Lloyds Bank to offer £100 to Mr Y when  resolving the 
complaint initially.  However,  Lloyds  Bank  responded quickly  - within just a couple of days   
so at that time I dont think Mr Y had fully reflected on how he felt about what had happened. 
I recognise that Mr Y thought the comments were personal to him and was genuinely 
offended by them, so Im in agreement with the investigators recommendation that Lloyds 
Bank should pay £250 in compensation. Im satisfied that this amount fairly reflects  the upset 
this experience caused Mr Y. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given its my final decision that I uphold  this complaint. I direct Lloyds 
Bank PLC to pay £150 to Mr Y, which is in addition to the £100 its already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Gemma Warner 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5362248