K820x#14Complaint
Mr H brings a complaint  on behalf  of U a limited  company. Mr H complains Barclays Bank  
UK PLC removed funds  from the companys accounts and then closed the accounts without 
notice or an explanation.
Background
The company held two accounts with Barclays with a credit balance  of over £14,000. In 
November 2017,  Mr H discovered the funds  had been removed from the accounts.  Barclays  
told him the funds  were  removed for operational reasons.
Mr H thought Barclays had given him misleading information which led him to assume issues 
with Barclays systems had caused the problem. Mr H said it also mislead  him when it said 
the funds would be returned  as quick as they could.
Mr H issued court proceedings against  Barclays. Barclays  defended  the proceedings on the 
basis they were following  their regulatory  obligations. Barclays provided the reasons for its 
actions and the proceedings were resolved by agreement.
The funds were returned to Mr H in late December. The bank then gave immediate notice to 
close the accounts.
Mr H said Barclays  acted unfairly  when  it decided to close the account and when it closed 
the account without giving  notice.
The accounts were  also placed into overdraft and Mr H found it distressing that he received  
messages from Barclays telling him the accounts  were overdrawn.
Mr H complained to the bank. The bank  acknowledged the inconvenience it caused and said 
it was unable to confirm why the closure  occurred.
Mr H complained to our service. Our investigator  didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought 
Barclays was entitled to review the companys accounts and it hadnt caused any 
unnecessary delay. So, although this was inconvenient to Mr H, Barclays  did nothing wrong.
Mr H didnt agree. He said hed been  misled by Barclays as to the reason for the funds being 
removed and this had caused  it to go to court and incur costs.  Mr H was still unhappy  
Barclays had closed  the accounts  with immediate effect and he couldnt be satisfied the 
bank had the right to close  the accounts.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have reached the same  
conclusions as the investigator and I will not be upholding the complaint.
Ref: DRN53922932Removal of funds
Ill start by setting out some context for the review  of Us accounts. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses.  Financial institutions  must establish 
the purpose and intended  nature  of a business  as well as the origin of funds, and there may 
be penalties if they dont. This applies  to both new and existing relationships.  These 
obligations override  all other obligations.
Mr H has said Barclays shouldnt have removed the funds from the accounts or put the 
accounts in overdraft. The removal of the funds and putting the account  in overdraft were an 
internal process  which the bank carried out in order to comply  with its legal and regulatory 
obligations. It was done to meet its internal process requirements and isnt something this 
service would normally interfere with as its a legitimate exercise so I cant say this was 
unfair 
I am satisfied Barclays completed the review of the companys accounts in a timely manner. 
So, although  I understand not having  access to this money was inconvenient for Mr H, the 
bank did nothing wrong and returned  the funds as soon  as it was possible to do so. 
Reasons given  by Barclays
It isnt in dispute that Barclays said the funds  were removed for operational reasons. Mr H 
has said this reason is misleading  and contrary to the FCA handbook. Our investigator said 
Barclays is not obliged  to give reasons for the removal of the funds.
Mr H has suggested that had he been  told funds  were removed as a result of a review 
instead of for operational reasons, he wouldnt have issued proceedings against Barclays  
and incurred costs.  After consideration I dont think it wouldve made a difference  how the 
issue was described  as the purpose  of the proceedings  was to force Barclays to return the 
money. It was Mr Hs choice whether he issued legal proceedings and therefore Barclays  
isnt liable for the costs incurred by him. Barclays also isnt obliged  to provide reasons for its 
review  so I cant say it has done  anything wrong by not providing Mr H this information.
Having said that I agree with the investigator  that Barclays could have been clearer in the 
reasons it gave for the removal  of funds  I dont think this wouldve stopped Mr H from issuing 
proceedings against Barclays because, as I have  mentioned, I think  the proceedings were  
issued in order to force Barclays to release the funds.
Mr H has said that Barclays breached the Financial Conduct Authority rules  because it didnt 
communicate with him in a way which was clear,  fair and not misleading. As I have said I do 
think that Barclays could  have been clearer in the information it gave Mr H. I am satisfied 
that Mr H was caused some trouble and upset  as a result.  I think  if Barclays  had been  
clearer it would have  given Mr H a better  understanding  of the situation  and it is likely he 
would have been less anxious  about the state  of his accounts. I also appreciate that Mr H 
would have found it distressing to see the account overdrawn and to be sent requests for 
payment of the overdraft amounts. Having said that as Mr H isnt Barclays  customer, I cant 
award him any compensation for the distress  he may have been caused  by Barclays.
Ive already said that Barclays has procedures it must follow to comply  with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. Im satisfied that is what it was doing  when it reviewed  Mr Hs 
accounts. So, I dont  think it has done anything wrong. But I do think the explanation  
Ref: DRN53922933Barclays gave Mr H was unhelpful. And that Barclays couldve explained things better to 
Mr H. So, I can understand  why Mr H says Barclays hasnt complied with the FCA rules.  
In conclusion I think Barclays could  have given another reason for the removal  of the funds  
particularly it could  have  said that it was reviewing  the companys accounts as its entitled to 
do. But I dont  think that the reason given made  a difference to the actions that Mr H took for 
the reasons I have  outlined above.  I am also mindful that Barclays has no obligation to give 
a reason at all. I therefore dont think the reason Barclays gave had an adverse  impact on 
the actions Mr H took.
Closure of the accounts
After the account  review  Barclays told Mr H on the phone it was closing his account with 
immediate effect.
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of the accounts say that Barclays could close the account with 
immediate effect  in certain  circumstances. Looking at the evidence  I am satisfied Barclays  
were entitled  to close the account with immediate effect.  Whilst Mr H mayve expected to be 
given the reasons for the closure,  Barclays isnt required to give Mr H a specific  reason for 
closing the accounts. So, I cant say Barclays has done anything wrong by not giving Mr H 
this information   as much  as hed like to know
I appreciate the closure of the accounts  caused  Mr H to have to find somewhere to deposit 
his funds at very short notice very close to the Christmas period, but I see he was able to 
open an alternative account  in the new year. 
In summary,  I recognise how strongly Mr H feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating  time. I realise Mr H will be disappointed by my decision, but overall,  based  
on the evidence  Ive seen, I cant say Barclays has acted unreasonably and treated Mr H 
unfairly when it closed his accounts. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H as the 
representative of the company to accept  or reject  my decision before 24 February 2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5392293