K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that CASH ON GO LIMITED  (trading as peachy.co.uk) didnt do proper 
affordability checks before lending  to him.
background
Mr P had four loans  from Peachy  between April 2014 and January 2018 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Due Repayment* Status
1 17 Apr 2014 £50 8d 25 Apr 2014 £58.50 On time
2 25 Apr 2014 £250 5m 26 Sep 2014 £109.92 On time
3 12 Jul 2017 £450 6m 21 Dec 2017 £159.60 Repaid 25 Jan 2018
4 26 Jan 2018 £450 9m 25 Oct 2018 £102.18 Repaid 12 Jul 2018
* Maximum  monthly  repayment over the term of the loan
Mr P says he had other short-term loans and was using the money for gambling.  He says 
that if Peachy  had looked at his credit file or bank statements it would  have seen how much 
he was paying  to other lenders. He adds that he was approved for the fourth  loan even 
though he had difficulty repaying the third one.
Peachy says it asked  Mr P about  his income  and expenses, as well as living  arrangements. 
It says it also checked  his credit file and says the information received  did not suggest Mr P 
was in financial difficulties. Peachy  adds  that bank statements  provided  by Mr P do not show 
the loans were unaffordable as other  short-term loans  were not taking the majority of Mr Ps 
disposable income. Instead they showed most of the expenditure as non-essential spending.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
the checks carried out by Peachy were sufficient  and that they indicated the repayments 
were affordable to Mr P.
Mr P responded to say, in summary, that four loans  in themselves should have been enough 
to show some kind of financial difficulty, especially as he needed to extend loan 3. He adds 
that his borrowing pattern  should have raised concerns and his credit  file would have shown 
missed payments and defaults.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Peachy was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks  to make sure Mr P 
could afford  to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr P was borrowing, and his lending history. But 
there was no set list of checks Peachy had to do.
Loans 1 and 2
When Mr P applied  for his first two loans with Peachy he said his income was £1,500 and his 
expenditure was £250. As Mr P also said he was living with his parents, Peachy did not find 
his low level of expenditure was unreasonable. As the repayment due was a small proportion 
of Mr Ps income, I consider Peachy did enough  checks before approving his first loan.
Ref: DRN50152102Mr P repaid  loan 1 on time and applied for a £250 loan the same day. As repayments were 
spread over five months, the maximum amount due in a month was £110. Mr Ps financial 
circumstances were  unchanged, so I cant see there  was any indication Peachy should have 
carried out further checks. Therefore,  I cant say it was wrong to find loan 2 to be affordable.
Loan 3
It was almost three years before Mr P applied for loan 3 and he declared his income was 
now £2,000, with monthly expenditure of £875, including other short-term loans. As the gap 
between loans 2 and 3 was significant,  its reasonable  that Peachy wouldve assumed Mr P 
wasnt dependent on the borrowing.  The maximum monthly repayment was £160 and, based  
on Mr Ps disposable  income, I cant see Peachy did anything  wrong by approving loan 3.
Loan 4
Mr P made the first five payments on time for loan 3, but extended the loan by a month by 
paying only interest for his sixth payment. So when Mr P applied for loan 4, a day later, Id 
have expected Peachy to have considered this when deciding what  checks  to carry out. 
Peachy asked for Mr Ps income  and expenditure, including other short-term loan payments. 
So Im satisfied Peachys  checks were  proportionate  to the circumstances of the loan.
I say that because the maximum repayment  was a small proportion  of Mr Ps £2,000  income. 
This was only Mr Ps second loan in the loan chain, so I cant  say his borrowing showed a 
dependency on the loans. And, although Mr P had extended the repayment of loan 3, I dont 
find this should  have precluded him from further  borrowing,  especially given the time of year.
As all Peachys checks showed loan 4 was affordable,  I cant say it was wrong  to approve it.
I acknowledge what Mr P says about taking four loans from Peachy. But there was a long 
gap between loans  2 and 3 and Peachy  asked  for the purpose of the loans. As Mr P said the 
loans were for unforeseen expenses or travel, I dont think  its unreasonable for Peachy to 
have found Mr P wasnt dependent on them, and nor was he in financial difficulty.
I accept Mr P says his credit  file and bank statements would have shown missed payments, 
defaults and gambling, but Peachy was not obliged  to obtain such  information as long as its 
checks were proportionate to the circumstances of the loans. In this case,  I find Peachys 
checks went far enough in relation to all four loans, and that there was nothing  in the 
available information  that should  have suggested  the loans were unaffordable,  or that Mr P 
was in financial difficulty. So I cant uphold Mr Ps complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5015210