K820x#14complaint
The Estate of Mr K is unhappy  with how Birmingham  Midshires,  a division of 
Bank of Scotland Plc, dealt with his account  following his death. The Estate says there was a 
freeze on the account which  should have remained in place after Mr Ks death. 
The Estate wants a refund of the money that was released to Mr Ks ex-wife following his 
death. It also wants an assurance from Birmingham Midshires  (BM) that it will put in place 
more secure and appropriate procedures  to deal with account closures. 
The complaint is brought  by Mr R, the personal representative of the Estate of Mr K. 
background
Mr K had an account with (BM). It was opened  as a joint account in the names of him and 
his then wife. But Mr and Mrs K became estranged. Also, Mr K developed  health problems 
which affected his capacity to manage  his affairs. 
A Lasting Power of Attorney (LPA) was set for Mr K. Two attorneys  - Ms K and Mrs R - were 
appointed. The LPA was registered with BM in July 2015. This allowed Ms K and Mrs R to 
act on behalf of Mr K. In August  2015 a freeze was placed on the account. Mr R has said 
that Mr Ks estranged  wife was exploiting the account. Mr K and his wife then got a divorce.  
Sadly, Mr K passed away in September 2016.  His ex-wife informed BM of this soon 
afterwards. She sent in a certified copy of Mr Ks death certificate.  When BM received this, it 
transferred the account into the ex-wifes  sole name.  She then withdrew the remaining funds 
 just under  £400  and closed the account. 
When the Estate of Mr K found out about  this, Mr R complained to BM. He didnt think it 
should have allowed the ex-wife to withdraw  the remaining funds as there was a freeze on 
the account. 
BM didnt agree with this. Briefly, it said the instruction  given to freeze  the account ceased  
when Mr K passed away. But BM did accept it provided a poor level of customer service and 
hadnt given Mr R the information he was looking for. It paid him £110 for this. 
Mr R remained  unhappy. Be brought his complaint to us where  it was looked at by one of our 
adjudicators. He didnt think  the complaint should  be upheld. The adjudicator said that after 
the death of a joint account holder, it was usual practice for the account  to switch to the sole 
name of the surviving account holder. He didnt think BM had done anything wrong when it 
released the funds  in the account to the ex-wife.  
Mr R strongly  disagreed with the adjudicators view. He said hed checked with the 
Office of the Public Guardian (OPG)  about  what happens to an LPA when the donor  in this 
case Mr K  passes away. He said the death of the donor didnt invalidate previous  
instructions already given under the LPA.  
Another adjudicator  then reviewed this complaint. He didnt think  BM needed to do anything  
further. Again Mr R strongly disagreed. He wanted  time to provide further information from 
the OPG.  We agreed  to this. 
Ref: DRN51114292The OPG then confirmed to us that an instruction which was given by the attorney  on behalf 
of the donor  would have remained the existing  position at the point of death  of the donor. It 
also said the donors  share of the account should then have been released to his estate  
and it would have  been for the executors to make  a final decision  over this share of the bank 
account. 
Our adjudicator accepted this. But he still didnt  think  BM needed to do anything. He said 
that as the account in question was a joint account,  it was reasonable that the surviving party  
was entitled to all the remaining funds in the account. 
Mr R didnt accept this. He repeated that BM was wrong to ignore the freeze  on the account 
once Mr K had passed away.  As Mr R didnt agree with our adjudicator,  this complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  and in my own 
words. Im not going  to respond  to every single point  made by all the parties involved. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think is the key issue  here:  
did BM act fairly and reasonably when it released  the funds to Mr Ks ex-wife? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome. 
I would point out here that where  the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive  or contradictory 
(as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I 
think is most likely  to have happened  in light of the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.  
Also, our role is to decide whats  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. To decide that, 
I have to take a number  of things into account  including  relevant law and what I consider is 
good industry practice. Here, this includes the operation of a LPA. 
Ill now turn to the account closure. Mr R has repeatedly said that BM was wrong when it 
disregarded an instruction given to it under the LPA. Indeed, hes provided  information from 
the OPG  which confirms  that any decision made,  or instruction given under the LPA during  
the lifetime of the donor has the same legal  standing as if were  given by the donor 
themselves (assuming capacity).  I accept this. 
Im satisfied that the instruction  given by the attorney to put a freeze  on the joint account had 
the same  standing as if Mr K himself had asked for it to be done, assuming he had the 
capacity to do this. So, Ive thought about what BM should have done when Mr K passed 
away, assuming he himself had asked  for the account to be frozen and had the capacity to 
do so. 
Ref: DRN51114293Mr R has emphasised that his complaint is that BM disregarded the instruction to freeze  the 
account once  Mr K died.  He says its simply a question of was BM right or wrong  to do this? 
He strongly believes  it was wrong. But in the circumstances of this complaint,  I dont  agree.  
As one of our adjudicators  pointed out to Mr R, for joint accounts where one account holder 
passes away, its usual  industry practice  for the account to be changed to the sole name of 
the remaining  account holder. Thats what happened  here. 
It wouldnt be usual to make this automatic switch if there is notice that the joint account  
holders were  in dispute prior to one of them passing  away. BM has told us that it wasnt 
aware of any marital  dispute between Mr and Mrs K. BM said if it had been, it would have 
looked into the situation further, rather than automatically changing the account into her sole 
name. 
But, as above,  BM says it wasnt aware of any marital dispute on this account. So when 
Mr Ks ex-wife  provided a certified copy of his death certificate, BM simply followed its usual 
procedures which then allowed the ex-wife to withdraw the remaining funds and close  the 
account. 
I know Mr R disputes that BM didnt know there was a dispute on this account. When  it wrote 
to him in June 2018 BM stated it hadnt been  told of a dispute prior to Mr Ks death.  Mr R 
replied saying that if the account was frozen,  it was frozen for a reason  perhaps a dispute. 
Mr R also said that one of the attorneys, Ms K, told BM the reason for the freeze  was due to 
divorce proceedings being issued by Mr K. 
Ive looked at BMs records from when the freeze  was added  to the account. These state  it 
wasnt Ms K, but the other attorney, Mrs R, who asked for the freeze  to be placed  on the 
account in early August 2015.  The notes  say that Mrs R requested a hold on the account as 
well as tax certificates for all years  of the account.  The tax certificates were  issued  a few 
days later.  
 No reason at all was noted for a freeze  being placed on the account. Ive looked  at all the 
available notes provided by BM from before the attorneys were appointed to when the 
account was closed. There is nothing in these  notes to indicate that Mrs R, or anybody else, 
made BM aware there  was a marital dispute  between the account  holders before the 
account was closed. 
On balance, Im not satisfied I can fairly  say BM should  reasonably  have known there was a 
marital dispute between  Mr and Mrs K, or that theyd got divorced by the time he passed 
away. It follows that I think BM acted fairly  and reasonably when if followed is usual practice  
after Mr K passed away.  That is, when his ex-wife gave it a certified  copy  of the death 
certificate, it changed the account to her sole name.  
I can see Mr R feels very strongly that BM was wrong to ignore the freeze on this account. I 
accept hes unlikely, on behalf of the Estate of Mr K, to agree with my decision  and hes 
perfectly entitled to disagree. But for the reasons given above, Ive decided BMs actions 
were fair and reasonable. 
Im also aware that Mr R wants an assurance  from BM that it will implement more secure 
and appropriate  procedures to deal with account closures. But its not within the remit of this 
service to tell a business what systems  or procedure it must have. Thats an internal matter  
for individual  businesses. 
Ref: DRN51114294Finally, I will make the following, general  observation. Before Mr K passed away,  he got 
divorced. Who was entitled to the remaining funds in the BM account should  have been part 
of this divorce agreement. Ive not seen any agreement regarding this entitlement   nor did I 
need to when reaching my decision about the actions of BM. 
But if Mr R believes  Mr Ks ex-wife removed funds from the BM account that she wasnt 
entitled to, then, on behalf of Mr Ks estate, he would need to pursue her over this matter  
should he wish to do so. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
This decision marks the end of our consideration of this complaint. This means  well be 
unable to enter into any further discussion  about  its merits.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the Estate of Mr K 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5111429