K820x#14complaint
Mrs P has complained that Zenith  Insurance plc poorly communicated  with her when she 
made a claim under  her car insurance policy. 
background
Mrs P bought a car insurance policy  with the insurer Zenith through a broker. In August 2018 
she was involved in an incident and she made a claim. An engineer said it wasnt  
economical to repair  her car. So Zenith  said it would settle the claim by paying Mrs P the 
market value for it. 
Mrs P said she might  want  to keep her car. So in September 2018 Zenith explained that 
Mrs P would need to provide an engineers report post repair  at her own cost and a new 
MOT certificate.  It also said that it would take a salvage fee from the market value 
settlement. Mrs P said she would think about  what to do. 
In November 2018 Mrs P said she would like to keep her car. So Zenith  confirmed in writing 
what it would  need  as it explained in September 2018. 
In November 2018 the broker provided Zenith with an invoice from a dealership  garage  and 
a new MOT certificate. Zenith promptly confirmed it had reinstated fully comprehensive 
cover for Mrs Ps car. 
In December 2018 Mrs P complained to Zenith. She said that it had told her it would need an 
engineers report  and had caused confusion.  She said shed made many calls to Zenith to 
clarify the claims process  and it had failed to call her back. 
Zenith didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint. It said it had proactively  dealt with her claim and 
clearly set out from early  on what it would  need if she wanted  to keep her car. When  it 
received the documents  it asked  for, it reinstated cover quickly. 
Mrs P remained unhappy  and asked us to look at her complaint. The investigator couldnt 
see that Zenith had caused Mrs P distress  or inconvenience. 
Mrs P didnt agree. She feels weve understated the level of inconvenience Zeniths handling 
of her claim  has caused her. So shed like an ombudsman  to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zenith has provided its claim notes and these show that on 5 September 2018  a week  
after the incident  Mrs P asked about the possibility of keeping her car. The notes show  that 
the agent told Mrs P that she would need  to arrange  repairs  at her own cost and provide an 
engineers report  post repair,  a new MOT and that Zenith would deduct a salvage fee from 
any settlement it pays. 
Mrs P called Zenith and her broker a number of times between September and December 
2018  but I can see that Zenith  either dealt with Mrs Ps calls or it called her back. 
Ref: DRN58985932Its notes show that there were times  when  it tried to speak to Mrs P but there  was either  no 
answer or Mrs P asked it to call her back at another  time as it wasnt a convenient time for 
her. 
In November 2018 Mrs P told Zenith that she wanted to keep her car. So Zenith settled 
Mrs Ps claim promptly and explained in a letter  what it would need in order to continue  
providing fully comprehensive  insurance.  The requirements were  the same  as it explained in 
September 2018. 
There may have been some confusion from 28 to 30 November 2018 between  the broker  
and Zenith. On 28 November 2018  the broker emailed Zenith  the MOT certificate  and said 
that an engineers  report  was on its way. Zenith  emailed back on 29 November 2018 to say 
that it would  need a post repair engineers report. But on 30 November 2018  Zenith  emailed 
the broker to say the documents provided  were  acceptable  to reinstate cover. The broker 
had sent an invoice from a dealership garage instead  of a post repair report.
During this time, I cant see that Zenith contacted  Mrs P. I cant comment on any information 
discussed between  the broker and Mrs P. But from the information available,  it seems that 
Zenith reviewed the documents the broker provided promptly and reinstated cover. Mrs P 
didnt send an engineers post repair report as Zenith requested.  But she sent an invoice 
from a dealership garage instead which said it had carried out an investigation into the rear 
bumper of Mrs Ps car. Zenith accepted this document  without the need for Mrs P to obtain 
an engineers  report.
Its possible that between  29 and 30 November 2018 Mrs P had a discussion with her broker 
where she was told Zenith still needed  an engineers report.  I havent  investigated this as 
Mrs Ps complaint is against Zenith. But I dont think that  even if this was the case   this 
means I should uphold Mrs Ps complaint.  Overall  I dont think  Zenith poorly  communicated  
with Mrs P. It reinstated  cover on 30 November 2018 and told the broker it had done this on 
the same  day. Mrs P wasnt required to obtain anything further. I cant safely  conclude that 
Zenith caused Mrs P distress and inconvenience.  I think Zeniths  request  for additional 
documents to show Mrs Ps car was roadworthy before reinstating cover  was reasonable.
I realise Mrs P will be disappointed. But this means  I dont think  Zenith needs to do any 
more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5898593