K820x#14complaint
Mr B is represented. His representative  says he received unsuitable investment advice from 
Lloyds Bank  PLC.
background
In 1999 Mr B invested £7,000 in a UK Growth  Fund within an Individual Savings Account 
(ISA) upon recommendation by Lloyds. His representative says the recommendation and 
investment were unsuitable because:
Mr B lacked  investment experience  his previous investment experience was limited  
to £500 invested in single company  shares in 1986 which had grown to around 
£4,000 at the time of advice.
Mr Bs investment money  came from a redundancy payment he received the 
previous year, after which he became  self-employed. He should not have been 
advised to expose  the money  to investment  risks  especially given his change  of 
circumstances at the time. 
A high interest  account (which guaranteed  his capital and which  was available  at a 
base rate of 5.5% at the time) ought to have been recommended  to him. Lloyds  
should have also advised him to pay off his mortgage at the time  but it did not.
The medium risk profile  he was given at the time of advice did not result  from a 
proper risk profile assessment and was too risky a profile  for him  so the medium  
risk fund (which was mainly invested in equities) was unsuitable for him.
Lloyds disputes  the complaint. Its position is as follows: 
Mr Bs single company shares  served as previous investment experience;  at the time 
of advice his stated objective was for growth and the recommended fund met that 
objective; he did not lose money  from the investment; his investment  was held for 
longer than the minimum five year holding period and was surrendered around eight 
years later with a gain of around £600.
Fact find evidence shows that he was assessed  as having a medium  risk profile 
(which he agreed) and the fund matched this profile.
Fact find evidence also shows that he did not wish to take advice on paying  off his 
mortgage (this too was stated in the fact find document he agreed);  his outstanding 
mortgage at the time was £4,500 towards  which he paid £90 per month, with a 
relatively short remaining  period  of around 2 years, so he was happy to continue the 
repayments; In addition he had monthly income of around £1,200 and, after the 
investment, he was left with £48,000  in capital  on deposit;  his spare capital  shows  
the investment  (of £7,000) was affordable and that he could  have paid off his 
mortgage after the investment if he wished to.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and concluded that the complaint should not 
be upheld  for reasons broadly similar to those  given  by Lloyds. Mr Bs representative  
disagreed, on his behalf, with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.  In the 
main and in addition to the core complaint arguments, he said the fact that Mr B could afford 
the mortgage repayment was irrelevant as it was incumbent upon Lloyds to have advised 
him about the savings he could have made by paying it off and that affordability of the 
investment was also irrelevant because he ought not to have been advised  to take a gamble 
with his money given  his circumstances  at the time.
Ref: DRN52594542The matter  was then referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not seen evidence to conclude  that the assessment of Mr Bs medium  risk profile  was 
dubious. Documentation of the 1999 financial  interview and suitability assessment 
conducted with him has been shared with us. It is signed by him (and his wife). The 
agreement he signed, within  the document, confirms that he had the suitability assessment 
and recommendation explained to him and that he agreed with them. The document states 
his medium risk profile, so the implication is that he agreed to that description  especially 
given the confirmation that the overall assessment was explained  to him.
I appreciate that an investors overall  circumstances  can sometimes conflict  with an 
assessed (and even  agreed) risk profile.  However,  I do not consider that this applies in      
Mr Bs case. He was not a novice investor. He had previous   albeit limited  experience in 
equities. He sought growth  and understood, as accepted  within his complaint, that this was 
not guaranteed. He also understood that he would need exposure  to risk for this purpose. 
Mr B had a capital reserve of around £48,000 on deposit which  remained unexposed to 
risks, so his exposure to investment  risks (based on the single company shares and the ISA 
fund) was around  18% of his overall  capital  with the majority remainder on deposit.  I 
consider that this established a reasonable capacity  for loss. In this respect I do not suggest  
that he did not care about the prospect of a loss, but I consider that he was aware of the 
risks and that he had the capacity to undertake those risks. Overall and on balance, I am not 
persuaded that Mr Bs medium risk profile  was not properly  assessed.
The ISA fund, which was mainly based  on equities, matched this medium  risk profile and 
provided him with a tax efficient way to invest for his objective of growth. I have  not seen 
evidence to suggest that the equities within the fund were of a higher risk nature.
I understand Mr Bs representatives point about  an alternative investment  in a high interest 
account. However, even  if that was a suitable  alternative it does not automatically  mean  
Lloyds recommendation was unsuitable. For the reasons given above, I do not consider that 
the recommendation was unsuitable. In this respect,  I also do not consider that the change 
in his circumstances at the time made the recommendation  unsuitable. Mr B had been made 
redundant in the previous  year but he had then moved into self-employment, from which  he 
was earning a living. I have not seen evidence that his earnings were insufficient for him. He 
was shortly due to complete his mortgage  repayments, he appears  to have been capable  of 
making those repayments and, as noted  above,  he had a capital reserve of around £48,000 
on deposit.
The fact find/suitability  document has a section in which  Lloyds mentioned Mr Bs mortgage 
arrangements and confirmed that he did not wish to discuss them  as he did not consider 
there was a need to do so. Furthermore,  I agree with Lloyds point that with around £48,000 
in reserve capital on deposit Mr B could have  paid off his £4,500  mortgage  comfortably if he 
wished to  and the implication from the facts,  which supports Lloyds assertion, is that he 
did not wish to. As this was not an objective he wished  to pursue, despite a reminder  in the 
fact find/suitability  document, I do not consider it fair to hold Lloyds responsible  for it. 
Ref: DRN52594543my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 1 December  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5259454