K822xComplaint
Mr S and Mrs K complain  that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS)  failed to 
compensate them properly for a faulty  car.
Background 
In October  2015 Mr S and Mrs K leased an expensive car from VFS. It was used by Mr S 
and he took it for a service shortly before the end of the lease period and the garage 
identified that some safety bolts used to secure  the car when  it was being transported hadnt 
been removed  when it was delivered  to him. These  had caused damage to the rear 
suspension. 
At the end of the lease  period Mr S and Mrs K were  charged £182.40 for damage to two 
wheels and a scratch to the bumper.  VFS says Mr S was concerned that they would be 
charged for the damaged  suspension, but it hadnt  made any charges for this. 
Mr S and Mrs K brought their complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
adjudicators. Mr S said the car was uncomfortable to drive  and he had made limited use of it 
as a result. He also thought he and his family  had been put at risk by the failure to remove  
the bolts. 
Our adjudicator thought VFS should refund the £182.40 Mr S had paid, but he didnt think  
any further recompense  was merited. He said that Mr S hadnt taken the car back  to the 
dealer to address any concerns he had with it. If he had done  so this would have allowed the 
dealer to remove the bolts and ensure Mr S had a more  comfortable driving experience.  Mr 
S didnt  agree.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is unfortunate that the bolts werent  removed. However, if the car wasnt  driving  properly or 
it was noticeably uncomfortable then it is reasonable to presume that Mr S would have taken 
it back to be inspected. As he didnt the garage  wasnt able to fix the problem. I can 
understand that Mr S may not have appreciated why the car wasnt  handling well, but it was 
open to him to have taken some action  to allow the garage to address the problem. 
I recognise that he has said the car wasnt safe,  but I have seen no evidence of this and he 
suffered no accident  as a result of the bolts being left in place.  I agree with the adjudicator  
that it reasonable for VFS to forgo the damages charge to recompense Mr S and Mrs K for 
the inconvenience they may have suffered. However, I dont consider it need do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to refund the £182.40  it has charged Mr S and Mrs K for damages. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my 
decision before  13 March 2020.
Ref: DRN54176582Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5417658