K820x#14complaint
Mrs G says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA)  has taken on that responsibility.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs G bought the PPI at a meeting in August 1999 at the same time as taking a store card.  
She was employed  at the time as a clerk, had been  there 20 years and wouldve got at least  
six months pay for redundancy. She had a little in savings but no work sick pay. I think  it 
likely she was entitled to statutory sick pay. Mrs G was in good health at the time of the sale.
The PPI policy provided cover for disability and unemployment, as well as life cover, subject  
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to pay 15% of Mrs Gs card balance if she couldnt 
work due to disability  or unemployment.  The life cover  would,  subject to its terms, clear the 
card balance on death. The policy cost at the time £1 per £100 of the monthly card balance.  
The premium had to continue being paid during  a successful claim and attracted interest.
The policy also provided purchase protection and price protection. Mrs G hasnt complained  
about this element of the insurance policy so I will not consider  it further  in this decision.
Mrs Gs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf. I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mrs Gs representative says:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs G wouldnt have taken  the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs Gs representatives believe there to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The information Mrs G received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  AXA should have told Mrs G about  
the poor value;  and
Ref: DRN55422412The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs G and the impact  they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me 
for a decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Gs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN55422413Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer  was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992,  and set out standards of good  practice  for the finance  and 
leasing industry. Section  4 of the code  covered  Credit  Protection Insurance. 
As Ive explained, the insurer was a member  of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code 
and its associated requirements. The seller  but not the insurer  was a member of the FLA 
and subscribed  to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller  (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of the insurer.  
So Im satisfied it is right that I should  take these  codes into account when deciding what is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Mrs Gs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required  to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so AXA 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Gs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs G with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN55422414-Whether AXA gave  Mrs G sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to enable  her to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs G, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs G suffered loss or damage  
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs G and AXA, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Gs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs G know she had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. Mrs G says she had no interest in PPI and 
says it was just included as part of the package with her card.  But her credit agreement  had 
a space to sign if the PPI was wanted  and Mrs G signed this space. Her credit  agreement 
didnt say PPI had to be taken or say that Mrs G had to sign for the cover if she didnt want  it. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mrs G knew the PPI was optional  and 
agreed to take it without  undue pressure.
did AXA provide advice?
Both AXA and Mrs G agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. This means AXA 
didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mrs G. Instead, it had to give her sufficient, 
appropriate and timely information to enable her to make an informed choice about  whether  
to take the policy,  including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
the information
AXA has provided us with Mrs Gs credit agreement  showing PPI had been selected.  Ive 
also seen terms and conditions which I accept, on a balance of probabilities,  applied  to 
policies like Mrs Gs. Looking at the information  provided to Mrs G at the time, I dont think 
AXA gave her the information she fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed 
decision about whether or not to take the policy.
This sale took place  at a meeting. I dont know what AXA told Mrs G about the PPI but I think 
it unlikely she wouldve agreed  to take it without  having at least a broad understanding  of the 
cover it provided - i.e. cover in case she was unable  to work due to unemployment, sickness 
or accident - and I think it unlikely Mrs G wouldve thought it was free.
I say this also bearing in mind her credit agreement says cover protects account payments if 
you are unable to work due to sickness, accident  involuntary unemployment or death 
and costs a penny  in the pound of your monthly  balance. Also,  above  where  she signed for 
the cover, it says:  Please debit my Account  with the relevant monthly premium
But it was AXAs responsibility  to draw to Mrs Gs attention the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
Ref: DRN55422415I dont think its likely  AXA did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  its likely the true 
cost of the PPI was made clear  to Mrs G, including the need  to maintain premiums during  a 
claim or that payments would attract interest. In addition, its unlikely AXA adequately drew  
to her attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.
So I dont  think AXA gave Mrs G sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Gs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Gs. I have 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Gs representative  considers  to be poor value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs G about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained  the 
significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Gs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explaining the significance of the limitations  and exclusions in 
the way Mrs G has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and 
standards of good industry practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair 
or reasonable to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mrs G? To what extent did Mrs G suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that AXA did not do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs G. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs G 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs G 
would have still taken  the policy, had AXA done  things  properly.
Mrs G says she would not have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs G had to weigh up in her own mind  the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mrs G chose to take this policy. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
Ref: DRN55422416made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs G thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs G has suffered any loss or detriment.  
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs G ought  reasonably to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But I accept AXA didnt  make clear the on-going  cost information. So while Mrs G didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what she would reasonably have thought from the information she based her decision to 
take the policy on and found  acceptable.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs G thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to health issues  Mrs G knew  or should have known 
about, or for which  she had been advised or treated by a medical practitioner in the 12 
months before the policy start;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mrs G wasnt  
a permanent employee; 
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mrs G be stopped from doing 
her own job, or any similar job, and any paid work her experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified her to do; and
Cover would end when Mrs G retired, but would also end, if earlier, when she turned 65.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs G pause for thought   and may well have  caused her to conclude  the policy was not as 
good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs G from taking the policy.
But, the evidence  about Mrs Gs circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest  she wouldve been  
caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs G didnt have any pre-existing medical 
conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I think she still had some  good reasons 
to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs G might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs G 
from taking the policy,  Mrs G, in her circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it.
If Mrs G had known she could only claim for disability if she were stopped from doing her 
own or any similar job and also stopped from doing any paid work her experience,  education 
or training reasonably qualified her to do, it might have played into her thinking about  what to 
do. And I accept it may have given her pause for thought  although, given her 
circumstances, on balance I think Mrs G would have  still been interested  in taking the cover.
Ref: DRN55422417Mrs G has complained she became  ineligible to claim on the policy during its term when she 
turned 60. Ive thought  about this. Mrs G was in her late fifties when she took the PPI and 
cover would end when she permanently retired but would end at age 65 if earlier.  As Ive 
explained, I think Mrs G understood, broadly, that the PPI provided cover if she wasnt  able 
to work due to disability  or unemployment  - so I think it unlikely she wouldve thought  she 
could claim this benefit after retiring. As she was interested in the PPI despite this, I think  its 
unlikely better information  about when the cover  would end would have changed  her 
decision to take the cover. 
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs G would still have  taken the PPI. The policy was sufficiently  close  to what  she 
thought she was getting and I think it couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult  time, 
notwithstanding her employment benefits and other  means. And in those  circumstances, I 
consider it more likely  than not that Mrs G would have taken the policy in any event.  
Mrs Gs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs G would not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Gs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs G believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs G in the position  she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible that she would not have  taken the policy, I am 
satisfied that, of the two possibilities, it is more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy she 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, 
Ref: DRN55422418to conclude that AXA should  pay Mrs G compensation, as that would  put her in a better 
position than she would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs G thinks AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
AXAs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  AXA gave Mrs G, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1999 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Gs representative  says a court might take if it 
were to find AXA negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs G and about  the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that AXA had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs G in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5542241