K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) wont  pay his claim for theft 
of a laptop from his car.
background
In February 2019  Mr A had his laptop  stolen from the boot of his car. He reported  it to the 
police who asked whether it was a make of car from a particular country. Mr A replied that it 
was; he said the police  advised  that his car might have been hacked that is the thieves 
used a device  to jam the signal, resulting in them being able to access the boot rather  than 
the car itself. When Mr A made  a claim to RSA, it declined it. This was because  there  is an 
exclusion in his policy for theft from unattended motor vehicles unless at the time of the loss 
or damage  force and violence were  used to get into the motor  vehicle. It said the use of such 
a device didnt  amount  to force and violence.
Mr A made a complaint to this service, he felt that there was no difference  as if his phone  
had been snatched off him in the street. He pointed to some decisions  made by this service 
in similar  circumstances to his, where  it was found to be unfair for the insurer  to apply  such 
an exclusion.
Our investigator thought that, in the circumstances of this case there was no evidence of 
forcible and violent entry so RSA was, in his view, fairly  able to apply the exclusion.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The exclusion applied by RSA in this case is:
What we dont cover " - "Theft from unattended motor vehicles - unless at the time of loss or 
damage force and violence  were used to get into the motor  vehicle, and the items stolen 
were out of sight in a boot or closed  compartment."
Mr A believes that an electronic jamming device was used to allow the thief to gain access to 
the boot of his car. He says the police told him that cars from the country where his car was 
made are particularly vulnerable to it.
I dont doubt that it is possible for a thief to electronically hack into a car  the more  usual 
situations would be where the thief was able to hijack the signal from the owners key. Use 
of such a device  is regarded by us as using force, as it overrides the normal way of gaining  
entry to a vehicle.  But it is not violent.
So, in such cases we consider whether it is fair for the insurer to apply such  an exclusion,  
notwithstanding that there was no violence used. I think in order  to decide  that it would have 
to be shown that the use of a device was most  likely the method used to get into Mr As car. 
This could  be where there were a number of thefts  from cars in the local area using such 
devices. Whilst in this case Mr A says he was told by the police that this may have been the 
method used, I havent seen any particular evidence that this was the case. And Im not 
Ref: DRN55533412aware that Mr As car is any more vulnerable to this than any other modern car, no matter  
where it was manufactured.
Items left in cars are vulnerable so insurers apply the exclusion described so as to ensure 
that only cases where cars are actually broken into are covered. Unfortunately  in this case I 
cant find that an electronic jamming device was most likely  used. And with no evidence 
otherwise of force and violence being used, I think it fair that RSA has applied  the exclusion. 
Whilst I understand this will be disappointing for Mr A, this means I cant  uphold  the 
complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5553341