K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs J say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
Background
Mr and Mrs J took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2004. Mr and Mrs J paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them both in case  
either of them  was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Js case. 
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Js PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
I can see Mr and Mrs J signed and submitted an application specifically for PPI, separately 
to applying for the mortgage itself. The PPI was not a condition of the mortgage and Ive not 
seen anything from the sale which wouldve reasonably given the impression they had to 
take it. Mr and Mrs J also set up a direct debit specifically to pay for the PPI, separately to 
paying for the mortgage  the policys cost wasnt part and parcel of the mortgage. So I think  
that Lloyds made Mr and Mrs J aware they had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that they 
chose to take it at the time.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs J, so it had to check  it was right for them. And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like both Mr and Mrs J were eligible for the cover and werent affected by any of its 
main exclusions  or limitations.  While they had benefits through  work, the PPI offered them 
more comprehensive  cover and wouldve paid out on top of those benefits. They  only had a 
small amount of savings  otherwise, and on their PPI application Mr and Mrs J confirmed they 
didnt have an alternative policy in place. Its worth  bearing in mind  that if Mr and Mrs J fell 
behind on their mortgage they couldve lost their home. It looks  like the PPI couldve been  
useful for them  in protecting their home and giving some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs J about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, Mr and Mrs J chose to take out PPI, so it looks  like they wanted 
this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr and Mrs J werent affected by any of the main  
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them in case something 
went wrong. The policy was competitively  priced  given how much it would pay out in a claim, 
and it looks like it wouldve been affordable. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, 
so Mr and Mrs J could cancel it at any time without  a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better 
information was likely  to have put them off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN50847162My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  31 August 2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5084716