K822xComplaint
Mr W complains that he car he acquired  through  a hire purchase  agreement (HPA) with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle  FS) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He complains that 
his request to reject  the car wasnt accepted.
Background 
Mr W entered into a HPA with Oodle  FS in December 2018  to acquire a used  car. He says 
the car was delivered on 20 December and he wasnt  happy  with its condition. He says there 
was a squeaky seat, the alloy wheels were  marked,  the inner wheel hub was damaged and 
he later found that one of the windows  was leaking.  Mr W says that he called the broker to 
ask to reject  the car but was told that there wasnt a 14 day cooling off period.
Mr W also says that no service history was provided  with the car and that he was told the 
deposit was £400 when  the finance agreement  showed it as £600. He says the car smelt 
when it arrived and that he couldnt renew  the tax until the new year because he was sent 
the wrong part of the documentation.  He also says that one of the ball joints is corroding.
Mr W says he raised a complaint with the broker on 21 December 2018 and with Oodle FS 
on 8 January 2018 and while he was promised call backs these didnt happen. He says that 
although Oodle  FS claims the issue with the car are cosmetic he thinks  the car isnt safe. He 
says he was told the repairs would cost in excess of £2,000.
Oodle FS says that Mr W entered  into a HPA on 16 December and on 24 December he 
contacted it to say the car hadnt  been taxed  and he hadnt been  given the necessary 
documents to tax the car and he wanted to reject it. On 3 January Mr W contacted it again to 
say there  were issues with the car and on 8 January he reiterated his desire to reject  the car. 
Oodle says that Mr W did have the right to withdraw from his HPA within  14 days  but this 
would require him to repay the credit  provided  and would still leave him with the car which  it 
didnt think was Mr Ws intention. Instead it thought Mr W wished to reject the car under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015. Oodle  FS says that having spoken to the broker  it understood 
Mr W inspected  the car before entering into the agreements  and that having reviewed the 
information provided it says the issues were cosmetic and not enough to say the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality. As a gesture of goodwill it arranged for Mr W to be paid £100 towards 
the cost of a further valet. It says that the deposit  in the finance  agreement was recorded as 
£600 and that Mr W hadnt  provided  any evidence to show he was told the car would be 
taxed. 
Following Mr Ws referral of his complaint  to this service, Oodle FS agreed to arrange for an 
independent inspection of the car. The inspection report said that there was slight cracking  
of the paintwork on the bonnet area and light scratches on various panels but that these 
were consistent with the cars age and mileage.  It said all tyres  were in good  serviceable 
condition. It did note a slight  rattling  sound  on the road test which  it thought might be the 
exhaust shield or a loose under tray but said this would require further investigation. It said 
that the rattling noise would have been present at the point of supply.
Our adjudicator didnt  think it reasonable that Mr W be allowed to reject the car but he did 
think that Oodle  FS should  carry out further investigation into the rattling noise identified  in 
the inspection  report and carry out any necessary repairs at no cost to Mr W. He also 
Ref: DRN52323052thought Mr W should  be paid £150 compensation for the inconvenience he had been  
caused.
Oodle FS accepted our adjudicators view. Mr W didnt. He said that the car wasnt  fit for 
purpose and he should  be allowed to reject  it. He thinks the car is unsafe to drive.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has commented that he wasnt given  a 14 day cooling off period.  The 14 day 
withdrawal is included  in the HPA, however I think the issue in this case relates to Mr Ws 
wish to reject the car due to the issues  he has recorded.
Mr W acquired a used  car through a HPA with Oodle FS and so under the regulations, 
specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA 2015), Oodle  FS can be held liable if the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and if this is the case  there can be a 
right to reject the car.
Satisfactory quality takes into account  factors such as the age and mileage of the car and 
what a reasonable  person would expect  taking into account all the circumstances. In this 
case the car was first registered in July 2012 and had been driven just under 70,000 miles.
Mr W raised his concerns about  the car within the first 30 days and so under CRA 2055 he 
would have had a short term right to reject  in the event  the car was found to be faulty or not 
of satisfactory quality. 
I have considered the issues  Mr W raised  and looked at the photographs he has provided.  I 
have also considered the comments  in the independent inspection report. Based on this I do 
not find that the issues Mr W raised were sufficient to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory  
quality. There was some cosmetic damage  but given the age and mileage of the car it would 
be expected that there would be some wear  and tear and the report  confirms  the cars  
bodywork was in a condition consistent with its age. It further states the tyres were  in good 
condition and the car was fit for purpose.  I also note the comments  that Mr W had seen the 
car before acquisition  and that the car passed  an MOT in January 2019.
Overall, I think the issues Mr W raised in regard to the cars  bodywork, wheels and the 
squeaky seat were  more  likely due to wear and tear and were what  would be reasonable to 
expect given the cars age. Mr W noted the smell of the car and was given £100 towards the 
cost of a valet which  I find reasonable.
The inspection report did note a slight  rattling  sound  which it said was consistent with a 
loose exhaust  heat shield or under tray. I do not find that this meant the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality but as it was an issue that was identified  as being most likely  present 
from the point of supply I find it reasonable that it is investigated further and, to the extent  
necessary, repaired  at no cost to Mr W. Oodle FS agreed to this recommendation made  by 
our investigator.
Mr W has also raised concerns about  the deposit  amount.  This is recorded as £600 in the 
documents and I have  nothing further  to suggest this was incorrect.  Mr W signed  the 
Ref: DRN52323053documents and without  further evidence of an error  I do not find I uphold  this part of his 
complaint.
I note Mr Ws comments  about the car tax and also the response  from the dealer. I also note 
the point raised  by our investigator  that the car was taxed until December 2019 and given a 
car is usually  taxed for 12 months this suggested  it was taxed at the time of acquisition.  So, 
while I note Mr Ws comments I do not find that there is anything  further  Oodle FS is required 
to do in regard  to this issue.
Mr W was caused inconvenience by the issues he experienced  with his car. There  was a 
rattling noise that was most likely present at acquisition and he had to have  the car 
inspected. Our investigator recommended that Oodle FS paid Mr W £150  compensation and 
Oodle FS agreed to this. I find this reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Oodle Financial Services Limited should, as it has agreed:
carry out further inspection to the rattling  noise identified by the inspection  report  and, 
to the extent required, carry out the necessary  repairs  at no cost to Mr W. 
Diagnostics and repairs to be carried out by a third party  garage to be agreed  with 
Oodle FS; and 
pay Mr W £150 compensation for the inconvenience he has been  caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5232305