K820x#14complaint
Ms W says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  her payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
Ms W applied for a credit card in 2000  and bought PPI at the same time.
The PPI gave Ms W cover for unemployment,  accident and sickness. It cost her 78p for 
every £100  of her outstanding monthly balance. And for each successful claim she made,  it 
wouldve paid 10% of the then outstanding  monthly  balance every month for up to 12 
months.
Ms W says she didnt  know  the PPI was optional, it wasnt suitable and it wasnt  properly 
explained.
The adjudicator who looked at Ms Ws complaint  didnt uphold it. Ms W disagrees and so her 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ws complaint.  Ill explain why.
Although Ms W says she applied for the PPI by post, from information Bank of Scotland  has 
sent us, I think its likely it was sold in a branch meeting with a Bank of Scotland  adviser. 
Bank of Scotland needed to make it clear to Ms W the PPI was optional and it also needed 
to get her agreement to it. I dont know how Bank  of Scotland explained  the PPI to Ms W in 
the meeting. But I do have a copy of the credit card application form Ms W signed at the 
time. I can see it says, under a section headed  Product details, If you want  these services 
please mark the relevant boxes. One of the boxes is for PPI (the other  is for card 
protection). Theres an x in the box for PPI. So I think at the time Ms W agreed to it (even 
though thats not how she now remembers things), knowing she didnt have to. If she hadnt 
wanted it, I think this box wouldve been left blank  and PPI wouldnt have been  added to her 
account.
Bank of Scotland says it recommended  the PPI to Ms W, so it needed  to make sure it was 
right for her in her circumstances. I dont know what steps Bank of Scotland  took to do this. 
But, from what Ive seen  of Ms Ws circumstances at the time and the policy  details Bank of 
Scotland has given  us, I think  it was right for her. I say this because:
Ms W qualified  that is, she was eligible   for the PPI. She wouldnt have been affected 
by some  of the things  the policy didnt cover   like known health issues  or unusual 
employment arrangements.  So there was nothing to stop her claiming the full benefit of 
the policy  had she needed to.
Ref: DRN50412632Ms W says she only got statutory sick pay from her job and didnt have any savings or 
other insurance policies  she couldve used to make her card repayments if things got 
difficult. The PPI couldve helped with these repayments for up to 12 months for each 
successful claim Ms W made.  So I think it gave her useful protection.
I havent seen anything to make  me think the PPI was unaffordable for Ms W or that its 
cost made it unsuitable for her.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for her, Bank of Scotland shouldve given Ms W 
enough clear information  about  the PPI for her to decide if she wanted  to buy it. As before, 
I dont know what steps Bank of Scotland took to do this. Its possible it didnt explain some 
things as clearly as it shouldve done   like the true cost of the cover,  what its benefits were  
and what it didnt cover. But, as Ive said, I think Ms W chose  to take out the PPI and it was 
right for her in her circumstances. And so I think clearer information would only have 
confirmed this to her and wouldnt have made her change her mind.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms W because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  so it shouldve told Ms W about that. Because Bank of Scotland didnt  
tell Ms W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  thats fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms W.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Ms W any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5041263