K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited has refused to pay his claim for 
damage to his car and has cancelled his motor  insurance policy.
background
Mr W reported the loss of his car from his drive  on 17 March  2019. There was no sign of a 
burglary, but his lawn and garden  wall were  damaged. Admiral asked Mr W to provide the 
car keys, but Mr W discovered one set of keys was missing and said he hadnt  seen these  
since February 2019. Mr Ws car was recovered,  damaged and locked on 20 March 2019.   
Admiral said the car showed no signs of tampering.  It said an independent engineer  checked  
the Engine Control Unit and found that only two keys were  programmed for the car and a 
device wasnt used  to recode a key. The engineer said that Mr Ws car cant  be driven 
without a correctly  coded key, and so it must have been taken with one of the two original 
keys. Admiral said its likely the key was taken by someone with access  to Mr Ws home. 
Mr W said he used  to keep his keys inside a box near his front door,  and they may have 
been stolen by someone using a fishing rod. Admiral said because  no spare key has been 
found, and the car was found  locked, it doesnt think it was stolen in the way Mr W 
described. Admiral said this, and inconsistencies in Mr W and his sons  statements meant  it 
relied on a term of the policy  to refuse  his claim and cancel his policy.
Admiral will not pay a claim  which  is in any part fraudulent, false, exaggerated or if You or 
anyone acting for you makes a claim in a fraudulent or false  way, or where we have been 
given any documents  which are false or stolen. Your policy  and all other policies to which 
you are connected through EUI Limited will be cancelled or voided. We (Admiral) will seek  to 
recover any costs that have been  incurred  and will not return any premium. 
Admiral said it hadnt  made  any errors or caused delays in the handling of Mr Ws claim.
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld, saying on the evidence  it 
was fair for Admiral to say Mr Ws car was taken using the spare key. She said theres 
nothing to show that Mr Ws keys were stolen in the way he described and there were 
inconsistencies in his and his sons information.  She said it was reasonable for Admiral  to 
rely on the fraud clause to not pay Mr Ws claim and cancel his policy.
Mr W disagreed  with the investigator and requested an ombudsman  review his complaint. 
He said the spare key is not missing, it has been  reported stolen to the police. He said the 
police hadnt discounted the possibility of theft via the front door but hadnt checked his 
home for signs of theft. He said his son was interviewed nearly two months after the car was 
stolen and so his exact recall couldnt be relied upon.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws policy with Admiral contains terms that allow it not to cover a claim in certain 
circumstances, including  when its not satisfied that the theft occurred in the manner 
explained by the policyholder, or theft by a family  member. Admiral has said this to Mr W, 
Ref: DRN50971652and has relied  on its fraud clause  to decline his claim and cancel his policy.  Our role is to 
look at the evidence the insurer  has relied  upon to reach its decision to see if it has acted 
fairly.
Ive thought about the circumstances of the theft of Mr Ws car. The expert evidence 
obtained by Admiral states that one of the two keys issued  to Mr W must have been  used to 
start the car. And Mr W thinks a fishing rod may have been used to remove  the key from 
inside a key box near his front door. Unfortunately theres nothing to support Mr Ws 
suggestion and he hadnt seen the key for some time before its use. 
I think that when  a car is stolen in the manner Mr W has described  it is not an opportunistic  
theft and its less likely for the car to be damaged by being driven over a garden wall and 
then simply abandoned, and locked. With his spare  key missing and the car found locked, I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for Admiral to question  the reliability of the claim. 
Following its investigation  Admiral said Mr W had made a deliberate  attempt to mislead  it 
and relied on the fraud clause within Mr Ws policy  to decline his claim and cancel the policy. 
It said apart from the circumstances of the theft,  Mr W and his sons  statements were 
inconsistent. 
Ive looked at the statements and Admirals comments. Admiral said Mr Ws son said he had 
only three drinks the night  before, but in his statement he said he had told Mr W hed been 
quite drunk. Mr Ws son said he hadnt  worried the car was missing the next morning 
because Mr W had been up before him. But Admiral said there were tyre marks on the lawn 
and the boundary wall had been  damaged and Mr Ws son said he only noticed  this when 
hed returned  afterwards. 
I have seen that Mr W and his sons accounts to Admiral and its investigator  changed  in 
some respects, and there  are inconsistencies  between the two. I think  that notwithstanding  
the time taken to obtain Mr Ws sons statement  it was fair for Admiral to say that based on 
the statements  and its investigation it would rely on its fraud clause to decline Mr Ws claim 
and cancel the policy. 
Admiral said that the police haven't released their report  yet, but as the police havent 
examined Mr Ws home for theft, I dont think this is likely to add anything. However, if the 
police report provides evidence supporting Mr Ws claim he can ask Admiral to assess it 
again.
Given Admirals  concerns about Mr Ws claim and its investigation, I dont think  it caused  
unnecessary delays in its handling and communications about the claim. Based on my 
findings from this complaint,  Im not going  to interfere with Admirals  decision to recover  the 
money its paid out investigating the claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Ref: DRN50971653Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5097165