K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2005. Mrs S says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Sainsburys  Bank  Plc at the time (BOS) 
mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
I think BOS made it clear that Mrs S didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose  to take it 
out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this. I say this because  Ive seen a 
copy of the credit agreement sent after the Mrs S completed the online application. In order  
to get PPI, a box on the credit card application needed to be selected and a separate  
signature was required.  Having  looked at Mrs Ss credit  agreement I can see that this box 
was ticked and that she signed  separately  for the PPI. So I think this indicates she wanted 
the PPI and agree to take it. 
BOS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs S got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information BOS gave Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Mrs S has said she didnt  need PPI as she would have  received six months  full followed by 
six months half sick pay from her employer if she was too ill to work. But this policy would  
cover 10% of the outstanding balance  of her account for up to 12 months if she was too sick 
to work or she lost her job. And this would be in addition to, and potentially for longer than, 
any sick pay she would receive at a full rate. So I still think  the PPI would have been useful.
This means  BOS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S. But BOS has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because:  
BOS got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because  BOS  didnt  tell Mrs S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs S has said but these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN54758232my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs S any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5475823