K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2004. 
Miss W says Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ws case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Miss W says that she was told to take out PPI in order to get her credit  card.  She also says 
she took out the card and policy over the phone. M&S has confirmed that theres no record  
of a phone  call taking  place, and it doesnt have a copy of Miss Ws credit card application. 
But this isnt unusual  for a sale that took place so long ago, and businesses  arent  required 
to keep records indefinitely. Because of this, M&S has sent in details about its sales 
processes for the ways Miss W couldve applied for her card and policy. 
Having looked  over what M&S has provided  Im satisfied that its likely M&S made it clear 
that Miss W didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she cant  remember this as it was a long time ago.
I say this because  the credit card applications  that were in use at the time presented  the PPI 
as an optional product,  and required  a customer to sign to confirm  that they wanted  to take 
out PPI. And the call scripts that were in use for telephone sales prompted the 
representative to explain that the policy was optional. I also havent  seen anything to suggest  
that M&S  did anything  differently than follow its usual process when it sold PPI to Miss W. 
M&S didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss W so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss W got the information  she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information M&S gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Miss W has said - but these points dont change  my decision,  
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN55004592Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5500459