K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Greenlight  Credit Ltd (trading as Varooma) was irresponsible  when it 
provided him with a logbook loan secured on his car in April 2018.
background
Mr A applied for a logbook loan from Varooma in April 2018. He borrowed £4,500 which was 
repayable over three years through monthly instalments of £350. This meant that he was 
due to repay a total of £12,600 (which included £8,100 interest).  Repayment  of the loan was 
secured by Mr As car: if he failed to meet  the terms of the loan his car could be repossessed 
by Varooma.
Around three weeks after Mr A failed  to make the first repayment, Varooma issued a default 
notice and a few weeks after that it began  its repossession process. The car was 
repossessed in August but before it was sold at auction a family member settled the loan for 
Mr A by paying Varooma £6,568.01 and the car was returned to him.
Varooma said that it acted  responsibly  when it provided the loan to Mr A. Our adjudicator  
looked into the matter and concluded  that Mr As complaint should be upheld. In addition to 
recommending that interest and charges be refunded she also asked Varooma to refund  the 
cost of a hire car (£400) and pay Mr A £100 for his trouble and upset.
Varooma didnt agree with our adjudicators assessment  and sent in some  more information. 
She indicated that the information didnt change her mind. As the matter wasnt  resolved it 
came to me - an ombudsman - for a decision. A few weeks ago, I issued a provisional  
decision in which I explained  why I was minded to agree broadly with our adjudicators  
conclusions: but I thought  that Varooma should do more to put things right than our 
adjudicator had recommended. I invited the parties  to let me have anything  else they wanted 
me to think  about before  I reconsidered the complaint and issued my final decision. 
my findings
Ive once again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Mr As representative tells us he 
accepts my provisional decision. Varooma  has already indicated that it is willing to pay 
compensation to Mr A in the way I explained  in my provisional decision.  In these 
circumstances I see no reason to depart from the conclusions  I reached and explained  in my 
provisional decision.
This is what  I said in my provisional  decision:
At the time this loan was granted Varooma  was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority  
(FCA). Its Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements  applicable to 
all firms authorised by the FCA. 
PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) states that a firm must pay due regard  to the interests of its customer and 
treat them fairly.
The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) sets out the rules and guidance which apply  to 
logbook loan providers like Varooma. CONC 5 provides details of a firms obligation  in relation 
to responsible lending. 
Ref: DRN50275982In particular, Varooma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. It had to carry out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A could repay  his loan 
in a sustainable manner. And it had to consider the potential for the loan commitments to 
adversely impact Mr As financial situation taking into account the information of which it was 
aware at the point the loan was taken. 
Additionally, when carrying  out its assessment  Varooma had to take into account  more than 
simply assessing Mr As ability to repay the credit. It had to be repayable  in a sustainable way 
(CONC 5.3.1G(1)).  
For the loan repayments  to be sustainable Mr A would  have to be able to make his 
repayments without undue difficulties whilst  meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow  to meet the repayments (over  the whole three year term) from 
income or savings.
Proportionate checks could take into account a number of different things,  such as how much 
was being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr As income and expenditure. And what  is 
proportionate depends on a number  of factors. The regulations arent prescriptive about what 
checks Varooma  needed  to carry out. But the checks  needed to be proportionate. In general, 
Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the consumer  of 
not being  able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. 
From what I've seen Mr A began  his application for his loan over the internet. It seems he 
provided some information at that time. Varooma has provided a call recording of the call it 
made to Mr A followingup his on-line application. I've listened  carefully to this.
When Mr A completed the on-line  form he stated  that he was in full time employment, married 
with four dependents and living in rented accommodation. He declared  that his net income 
was £2,220  and that his expenditure amounted to £1,573. He also provided some details 
about his car.
I note that Varooma appear to have assessed the value  of Mr As car before deciding on the 
maximum eligible loan amount available. It recorded two potential values for the car  a trade 
valuation of £6,675 and another of £6,330. From this it assessed a maximum  loan amount of 
£4,539  that being 68% of the higher, trade figure. So, it provided Mr A with the highest 
amount of credit (bar £39) available  given the value of the security he was offering. 
During the call I think its fair to say that Mr A sounded very keen to receive the loan advance  
as soon as possible  preferably that same  day. This impatience and urgency shouldve 
alerted Varooma to ask some questions. I also note that he was keen to borrow  the maximum  
amount available  without it appears any particular sum in mind  and over the longest term 
possible. But I cant see that Varooma ever established the reasons for the loan  this 
question had been left blank in the on-line  form. I accept  that Varooma didnt have to know 
why Mr A wanted  the loan - but as part of a proportionate assessment - given  that the sum 
borrowed was not insignificant  and it was over Varoomas longest term option (three  years), 
some further enquires might have been helpful when carrying  out its assessment.
It also seems to me, from listening to the call, that the tone of the Varooma  representative  
was such that the loan was to all intents and purposes already approved. I dont think he went 
into Mr As circumstances  sufficiently, given  the information  he already had and what Mr A 
told him. And much of what he said suggested that the loan was likely  to be approved and 
that the call was more  of a formality.
I say this because early  in the call when  Mr A was asked how much  he wanted to borrow he 
replied £4,500  or £5,000. The Varooma representative  said that it could go up to £4,500  
that shouldnt be a problem . The Varooma  representative  then explained that he was going 
to take Mr As details over the phone,  adding hed already  done a lot on-line  and then we 
Ref: DRN50275983can look to get you signed off if you like. At this point Varooma had no more information 
about Mr As financial circumstances  than those I've outlined above   provided in the on-line 
form. But this statement suggests that a loan is likely to be agreed.
But the purpose  of the loan aside and the suggestion that the call was a mere  matter of 
formality, I'm satisfied that Varooma didnt do enough to check that Mr A would be able to 
sustainably afford this loan.  
I accept that Varooma asked Mr A during the call about his income.  He said he earned £1,000 
and that his rent was £785.  The Varooma  representative explained that a loan wouldnt be 
affordable on those figures at which point Mr A explained that he received tax credits of 
£1,000 per month and child benefit of £220. Tax credits  are paid to support  families who are 
in work but on a low income from that employment - and they are assessed on the income of 
the whole family. So Varooma was taking into account a benefit  intended to support  low-
income families (aware  that Mr A had four children) in its assessment. Id agree that just 
because a borrower is in receipt of tax credits it may not necessarily mean  that a loan is going 
to be unaffordable. But it was a potential indicator  that Mr As financial situation was not a 
strong one. And so I think Varooma shouldve done more  to verify the income  situation.
Varooma says it did verify Mr As income. It told him to bring evidence  of his income to the 
meeting with its representative later that day  when  the paper  work would  be signed  and the 
spare key and vehicle logbook handed  over.
Varooma has shown us copies of the statements  Mr A provided in order to prove his income. 
The meeting was on 24 April 2018. Mr A provided statements for the months of December  
2017 and January and February 2018. I havent seen anything to suggest  that Varooma 
asked Mr A for his most recent statements  from March  and April. Though I think this 
wouldve been  a sensible  and diligent thing to do  given  what  the disclosed statements 
showed.
Ive rounded the figures for ease of reference. Mr A received the same amount of working tax 
credit into his account  in each of December, January and February - £1,043. In December his 
salary was £1,063. But this reduced to £846 in January. And in February it reduced again  to 
£327. It seems that as his salary had reduced to such a low figure an additional £486 of tax 
credit was paid into his account. I havent seen a reference  to child benefit being credited to 
his account on these statements although Mr A had told the Varooma  representative  that he 
received £220 per month child benefit.
This means  that in these three  months Mr As income  - according to the statements was - 
£2,106 in December,  £1889 in January and £1856 in February. In other words, the pattern 
suggested that Mr As income  was reducing. And Varooma didnt  have any evidence  of his 
income in March. 
Whats more - on this information Varooma had about Mr As expenses - he wasnt going to 
be able to afford this loan if his income was closer  to £1,900 than £2,200.  This is because 
hed declared expenses of almost £1,600.  
It doesnt  seem to me that Varooma can have done any meaningful checks of Mr As income 
even though it says it asked for proof of it. Had it looked into what Mr A had declared and 
what his bank  statements showed, it wouldve realised that there were some significant  
differences and that the pattern of Mr As income  was changing - for the worse. I understand 
from Mr As representative  that in the early part of 2018 he was off work due to ill-health and 
so he began to receive sick pay - which was less than his usual salary:  hence the increase in 
his tax credits. I acknowledge  that Mr A may not have provided wholly accurate figures  so far 
as his income was concerned but the broader picture  and indeed the information Varooma 
actually had, shouldve  led it to make  further enquiries. Had it done what I think wouldve  been 
proportionate it wouldve  realised that Mr A was off work sick and receiving benefits.                                                                                                                                                
Ref: DRN50275984I also have significant concerns about how Varooma  assessed Mr As expenditure when 
trying to check if hed be able to afford the loan.
I think  its notable that in its assessment and calculations Varooma recorded  that Mr A 
received £220 child benefit but didnt  include  any expenses for the children. Zero was 
recorded for child care costs, childrens  clothes/uniform, school dinners/  trips and after school 
clubs. 
I accept that the Varooma  representative covered this in the call  although I think he did so 
very poorly.  He began by saying I know this is quite hard to sum up but do you spend money 
yourself on childrens school  trips, dinners, uniforms  that sort of thing or  And as Mr A 
was working this out the Varooma representative interrupted  and said Thats  more  as and 
when isnt it as opposed  to..  Mr A replied yes and the Varooma representative  continues  
a set amount. Ok. Ill put as and when for that  thats fair enough. 
I dont think it was fair enough  to include in an affordability  assessment income meant for 
the support of the children  in the family and then use a zero figure  for the expenses  related  to 
those children. 
Similarly, the Varooma representative recorded zero for clothes and shoes for Mr A. Mr A 
hadnt given him a figure but said If I need new clothes  Ill spend it when I need to. The 
Varooma representative replied fair enough and entered a zero figure  for clothes. This loan 
was to be over three years.  Had it been  over three months I accept its possible that Mr A 
might not spend any money on shoes and clothes but over three years that was very 
improbable. 
I think  that the information Varooma obtained about Mr As income and expenditure was 
insufficient for the circumstances of this application. And what it obtained  was inadequately  
interrogated and should not have been the basis of an assessment of the affordability of this 
loan over three years. 
We asked  Varooma whether  it carried out a credit file check on Mr A before providing the 
loan. It says it didnt. It explained that this is because of the value of the loan  being  less than 
£5,000 and that no red flags had emerged. It adds that this was standard  practice and it 
didnt feel that it was proportionate to complete credit checks. 
But I think there  were a number of red flags  especially  around  what Mr A declared about  his 
income and expenditure.  On top of that, there was Mr As apparent eagerness to receive 
whatever amount Varooma was willing to lend as soon as possible and over as long a term as 
possible  without an indication of the purpose of this relatively hefty loan (in Mr As declared 
circumstances.) As I say, I think there were a number of red flags - of which Varooma  ought  
to have been  aware - indicating that Mr A was struggling  financially.
If Varooma had done a credit check it wouldve  seen that there  were  recent negative  markers  
on Mr As credit file. A default in the sum of £818 had been recorded  in early  December 2017 
and later that month a county court judgment was entered against Mr A. I appreciate that 
Varoomas business model may involve providing  loans to people who may have a poor credit  
history. But that doesnt  mean it could  lend without ensuring that a consumer could afford a 
loan sustainably. 
I also accept that Varooma  had the security of knowing that if Mr A failed  to repay  his loan it 
could repossess and sell his car. But this didnt  mean it had to do less of a check to ensure 
hed be able to afford his loan. The consequences  for a family similar  to Mr As of losing  its 
car are potentially devastating. The assessment  of affordability  had to be customer-focussed: 
it wasnt about  the risk to Varooma and whether or not it would get its money  back. It was 
about Mr A and his ability to repay the loan without undue difficulties.
Ref: DRN50275985Mr A failed to make his first payment on the loan  due towards  the end of May 2018.  
Varooma issued a default notice to Mr A on 13 June. On 20 June Mr A contacted Varooma to 
say that he had lost his job and that he wasnt receiving any benefits.
Varooma began its repossession process on 2 July. The following day Mr A contacted 
Varooma to say that he had begun a new job and wanted to come to arrangement to pay. It 
told him that it was unable to do that unless a minimum  payment of £450 was made  on his 
account. As Mr A didnt make the payment the repossession process continued. It seems that 
the car was repossessed on 7 August.
Ive mentioned above that Varooma had to treat Mr A fairly.  I think it failed to do this from its 
earliest contact  with Mr A.
I think it acted unfairly when it provided the loan in the first place. Had it done 
proportionate checks it wouldve seen Mr A was in a very poor financial situation and 
realised hed never  be able to repay it sustainably  and indeed he didnt even 
manage to make the first payment successfully. From that point it looks to me that 
Varooma was overly hasty  and unfair in the way it rushed to recover the loan.
Ive also thought  about  Varoomas obligations under CONC Chapter 7 - Arrears,  default and 
recovery (including repossessions). This expressly  refers to Principle  6 stating When  dealing 
with customers  in default  or in arrears difficulties  a firm should pay due regard to its 
obligations under Principle 6 (Customers interests) to treat its customers fairly. (CONC  
7.3.2G).
But CONC  7 proceeds to provide more detail  about how firms should  behave  in situations 
where a customer  is in default or in arrears difficulties.
CONC 7.3.4  states: A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with 
forbearance and due consideration. And at CONC 7.3.5, examples of how a firm could treat 
a customer with forbearance  are provided. These  included consideration of:
suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling further interest or charges, 
allowing deferment of payment of arrears where  the immediate payment of 
arrears may increase  a customers repayments to an unsustainable level  
accepting token  payments for a reasonable  period  of time in order to allow a 
customer to recover from an unexpected income shock,  from a customer  who 
demonstrates that meeting  the customer's existing  debts would mean not 
being able to meet  the customer's priority  debts  or other essential living 
expenses (such as in relation to a mortgage, rent, council tax, food bills and 
utility bills)
More specifically  CONC 7.3.6 states  Where a customer is in default or in arrears  difficulties, 
a firm should  allow the customer reasonable time and opportunity  to repay  the debt.
And CONC 7.3.8 states that a firm is likely  to contravene the fairness principle,  where the 
firm does not allow  for alternative,  affordable  payment  amounts to repay  the debt due in full, 
where the customer is in default or arrears difficulties and the customer makes a reasonable 
proposal for repaying the debt or a debt counsellor or another person acting on the 
customer's behalf makes such a proposal. 
CONC also expressly forbids firms from pressurising customers  
(1) to pay a debt in one single or very few repayments or in unreasonably  large amounts, 
when to do so would have  an adverse impact  on the customer's financial circumstances;
(2) to pay a debt within an unreasonably short  period of time; or
(3) to raise funds to repay the debt by selling  their property, borrowing
Ref: DRN50275986money or increasing  existing borrowing (CONC  7.3.10)
With all this in mind:
I think Varooma  acted  unfairly when it issued a default notice in June 2018. I accept  that it 
may have  been lawful to issue the notice but Mr A had only missed one repayment at that 
point. It doesnt seem  that it managed to contact Mr A during  that period  but issuing  a 
default notice so early is a serious step and one which would  likely have caused Mr A 
significant worry  given that his health had been poor in the previous months.
I think Varooma  acted  unfairly when it refused to agree a repayment plan with Mr A on 
3 July. He had told Varooma that he had lost his job on 20 June and on 3 July he told 
Varooma hed now found work. But Varooma  refused to agree  a plan unless  he paid off a 
minimum of £450.  I think that this was an unreasonably large amount, likely  to have an 
adverse impact on Mr As financial  circumstances. It was aware  of his difficulties but 
failed to treat him with forbearance. As it was unwilling to agree a repayment plan at that 
point it seems to me that it knew that the next step would likely be repossession of Mr As 
car  something that would  cause Mr A considerable difficulties given that  according to 
his representative - his new job was 15 miles  from Mr As home and so the car was 
essential for him to retain that job.
I think Varooma  treated Mr A unfairly when it arranged for repossession  of his car on 
8 August  given what Ive outlined  above. So far as I can see it was inevitable that after 
Varooma refused to come  to a reasonable arrangement  on 3 July Mr As car was going  to 
be repossessed. This culminated in the family car being repossessed  leaving Mr A and 
his wife and four children without a car.
Id welcome  Varoomas  comments on this point but according to the representative, after 
the car was repossessed Mr A was told that a payment of £1,000 would mean that it 
could be released. But she says that when  she rang Varooma on Mr As behalf it told her 
that as Mr A couldnt  afford the loan it wasnt prepared  to enter  into a new agreement  
and only full repayment  would enable  him to have the car returned. It seems that on the 
following day full payment was made by the representative. If this is the case  I again think 
that Varooma acted  unfairly. It seems to me that despite knowing Mr As  circumstances  
including that he now had a job and needed his car, Varooma used the threat  of sale of 
the repossessed  car as a means of pressuring Mr A to settle the loan in full which I think  
was unfair. 
In summary - I think from the outset the loan should not have been provided  and I'm intending to 
uphold Mr As complaint about that. I think  it was wholly  irresponsible  of Varooma  to provide this 
loan  even on the information it had. And had it done what I think wouldve been proportionate 
checks these wouldve  confirmed that Mr A wouldnt  be in a position  to repay  the loan sustainably.  
And following on from providing an unaffordable loan to Mr A it continued to treat him unfairly. I 
think the impact  of Varooma  failing to do the right thing in this respect warrants an additional 
award to Mr A.
Our adjudicator thought that Varooma should pay Mr A £100 for his trouble  and upset. I think  that 
the impact of Varoomas  actions and the way it treated him warrants a higher award.
I've mentioned that Mr A was suffering with his health in the months before he took the loan. I 
accept that Varooma may not have  known  this at the time.  But had it done what it shouldve done,  
it probably wouldve  realised  that something was not as it shouldve been so far as Mr As 
employment was concerned. 
Ref: DRN50275987I understand from Mr As representative that his ill-health was exacerbated by the worry about the 
loan and then the repossession of the car. This led to friction within  the family. The car was 
central to the family  three of the four children were under school age. The representative 
describes how the family was traumatised when  the car was repossessed  especially  as one of 
the children suffers a medical condition which  means he has been hospitalised as an emergency  
on several occasions.  Mr A was not surprisingly caused worry by this: it was one of the reasons 
he hired a car.
Taking everything together I'm currently satisfied that Varoomas actions  caused Mr A 
considerable trouble and upset.  He was already suffering  with his health but the fact that it acted 
as it did - quickly issuing the default notice and repossessing the car and refusing to act in a 
reasonable way to reach a repayment arrangement - led to considerably more  stress for Mr A. In 
these circumstances  I think  and award of £500 is appropriate.
I'm also satisfied  that the cost of the car hire should  be refunded - £400.  I've seen the receipt  for 
this: I think  it was reasonable for Mr A - in his particular circumstances - to hire a car for that 
period. I understand  that Mr A also needed the hire car because hed got a new job and this was 
15 miles from home with no available  public  transport.  
After a week Mr A returned the hire car  his representative explains  that he couldnt afford  it and 
by that point the payment  in full had been made to Varooma to settle the debt and release the car. 
Mr A then had to travel  by bus, train and taxi to collect the car  and he lost a days pay. I think 
that an award of £100 to cover that loss and his transport costs is reasonable and so I intend to 
require Varooma  to pay that too.
In summary,  as nothing  further has been brought to my attention by either Mr A or Varooma 
I'm reaching the same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision and Varooma should 
put things right.
putting things right
Varooma should  not have provided the loan to Mr A and further treated him unfairly when  he 
was unable to meet the repayments.  I understand that it has sent an email to Mr A 
explaining that it will put things right financially in the way I outlined in my provisional  
decision. For the sake of clarity, I require it to make  payments and amend Mr As credit  file 
as follows: 
a)Refund the amount of payment made to settle  the loan over and above the amount of 
the original principal (£4,500).  From what I can see the payment made was 
£6,568.01 so the amount  of the refund will be £2,068.01. 
b)Refund £400 to cover the cost of the hire car
c)Pay £100 towards the cost of Mr A recovering his car
d)To the amounts paid at a), b) and c) pay interest  of 8% simple  a year from 24 August 
2018 until the date of settlement*. I think that this date is a fair one from which  
interest should be calculated
e)Pay Mr A £500 for the additional  trouble, upset and stress caused  to him as a result 
of this unaffordable loan being granted and his unfair treatment after he was unable 
to make the repayments 
f)Remove all adverse information about  the loan from Mr As credit file.
Ref: DRN50275988*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Varooma  to take off tax from this interest.  It must give Mr A a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr As complaint 
and require Greenlight Credit Ltd (trading as Varooma) to put things right in the way Ive 
explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5027598