K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP, trading as Uncle Buck,  (UBF), gave her 
loans that she couldnt afford to repay.
background
Miss L took out two loans with UBF and details of these are shown below.  Loan  1 was repaid  
early and UBF agreed to settle Loan 2 by writing off the outstanding principal of £250.  
Loan number
Date Loan amount
Highest monthly 
repayment amountRepayment date
1. 11/5/2018 £200 £75.78 23/7/2018
2. 25/7/2018 £500 £166.68 Settled on 
12/3/19
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator concluded that Loans 1 and 2 shouldnt have been lent. She said that the 
information UBF gathered  showed that Miss L was having problems managing  her money.  
She said that UBF would  have seen that Miss L had multiple other unsecured  loans taken 
days before  Loan  1 and four were likely to be short term loans.  So it was unlikely that Miss L 
would be able to sustainably repay  Loan 1 and any subsequent loans.
UBF disagreed. It said that the repayments on Miss Ls loans  were  respectively 5.5% and 
12.2% of her income and that Miss Ls disposable income was more  than sufficient to cover 
her loan repayments. UBF also said that Miss Ls declared disposable  income suggested 
that she had significant capital to meet unexpected  expenses. It also said that its credit 
checks before Loan 1 showed no evidence of judgments or insolvencies,  no delinquent 
accounts in the previous twelve months  or defaults in the previous 36 months. UBF also said 
that there  was no evidence of current or outstanding short  term loans before Loan  1 in its 
credit checks summary. There was one other short term loan before Loan 2. In addition UBF 
said that it had previously agreed a settlement with Miss L which included a write off of £250  
on her Loan 2 account. It also asked to see Miss Ls bank statements to verify  her income 
and expenditure.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss L 
and to UBF on 15 January 2020.  I summarise my findings:
I noted that when  UBF lent to Miss L the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
I said that UBF needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Miss L 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
Ref: DRN56912992But certain factors might  point to the fact that UBF should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that UBF was required to establish whether Miss L could 
sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Miss Ls complaint.
I noted that UBF had carried  out a credit check before  each loan was granted  and UBF had 
provided us with copies of its credit checks before each loan. 
I couldnt see that wed received a credit report from Miss L so I couldnt say there were  
entries on her file that shouldve concerned UBF.
Miss Ls first loan with UBF was for £200 with four monthly repayments with a highest 
repayment amount  of £75.78. Miss L had declared  an income of £1,358.56 and expenditure 
of £750. Before Loan 1, UBFs credit check had shown that Miss L had 14 active  credit 
accounts with nine accounts opened  in the previous  six months.  The check  also showed that 
Miss Ls outstanding  loan balance was £1,318. Id also seen  the outstanding loans on the 
check which the adjudicator had referred to. Although there were no defaults  or delinquent 
accounts, I thought  the high number of recent  accounts might have caused UBF some  
concerns. I could see on the checks that there were around eight active unsecured  loan 
accounts with repayments to be made over periods of up to twelve months.  I thought the 
large number of these  outstanding loans shown on Miss Ls credit  check  should  have been  
sufficient to have  suggested that Miss L was having  problems managing her money. So, I 
thought it might have  been proportionate  for UBF to have gathered  some  further  information  
Ref: DRN56912993from Miss L about her other short term loans. Id noted that the expenditure details UBF had 
asked for from Miss L referred to mortgage  payments and credit and store  cards. But there 
appeared to be no specific request for short term loan expenditure. 
I would have normally looked at the borrowers  bank statements and credit  report  to see 
what proportionate checks would likely  have shown. Unfortunately  Id not seen Miss Ls 
credit report  or her bank  statements for the month  before Loan 1. I noted that the adjudicator 
had asked Miss L for her bank statements and credit  report in April 2019 so shed had ample 
time to provide  these. So I couldnt  say that if UBF had completed  sufficient  checks, it would 
have found that Miss L couldnt  afford to repay Loan  1 sustainably. So I couldnt say that 
UBF was wrong to give Loan 1 to Miss L.
Miss L had repaid Loan 1 early but she then took out Loan 2 just two days later.  I thought 
this might have suggested to UBF that repaying  the loan had caused Miss L to need to 
borrow again which wasnt a sustainable situation.  The loan amount had increased to £500  
repayable by six monthly repayments with a highest repayment of £166.68.  
Before Loan 2, UBFs credit check had shown that Miss L had 16 active  credit accounts.  I 
could see that ten accounts had been  opened in the previous six months and that her loan 
balance had increased to £2,456. I could see that there were  around 12 outstanding  loans  
which needed to be repaid over periods of up to 12 months. Overall I thought that UBFs 
credit checks had suggested that Miss Ls financial situation had deteriorated  in the ten week  
period since shed taken out Loan  1. I thought  all this should have suggested to UBF that 
Miss L was having problems managing  her money.  
I appreciated that UBF had asked Miss L for her income and expenditure. But I thought 
Miss Ls rapid request for Loan 2 two days after shed repaid Loan 1, the increased loan 
amount and the adverse  entries in UBFs credit  check  might have suggested that it wasnt 
reasonable for UBF to have relied on the information  provided by Miss L. Again  I thought it 
might have been proportionate  for UBF to have made some more checks such as asking 
Miss L for more information about  her other  short term lending.
Again Id have  normally  looked at a borrowers  bank statements and credit  report  to see 
what proportionate checks would likely  have shown. Unfortunately  Id not seen Miss Ls 
credit report  or her bank  statements for the month  before Loan 2. So I couldnt say that if 
UBF had completed sufficient checks,  it would have found that Miss L couldnt afford to 
repay Loan 2 sustainably.  So I couldnt  say that UBF was wrong to give Loan 2 to Miss L.
Subject to any further representations by Miss L or UBF my provisional  decision was that 
I didnt intend  to uphold this complaint. But I said that my proposed decision might change if I 
received Miss Ls credit report and bank statements for April to July 2018. I also noted that 
UBF had said that it had agreed a settlement with Miss L which included a write off of £250.  I 
said that it would be helpful if UBF could provide more information  about this settlement, 
including any correspondence  around  it, in its response to this decision.
UBF responded to say that Miss Ls debt with it had been sold to a third party  (T) in 
February 2019 and that T had agreed  a £250 settlement with Miss L to close  her account.
Miss L hasnt responded to my provisional  decision.  
Ref: DRN56912994my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
I note that Miss L has agreed a settlement with T. But given that Miss L and UBF have 
otherwise given me nothing further  to consider,  I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  It follows that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5691299