K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr P complain  they were mis-sold  Life and Critical Illness  Cover  (CIC)  plans by 
Thinc Group Limited. 
In short,  they say the plans were unaffordable and unnecessary. 
background
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
short, he said:
There was an onus  on Mrs and Mr P to check and make sure that the business had 
recorded the correct information  about their financial circumstances. 
They had a duty to provide up to date and correct information about  their 
circumstances. 
Despite what Mrs and Mr P say about  the advice and discussions being carried  out 
over the phone, he has seen  the demands  and needs letter  sent to Mrs P dated 10 
July 2007 and Mr P dated 30 August 2007  which make clear  the recommendation 
and the reasons for it. 
Mrs and Mr P had two opportunities to flag up any issues and failed to do so. 
The letters also made reference to the existing provisions and policies that the 
adviser had taken into account  before  recommending the plans.  
Based  on the available information its unlikely that Thinc were aware of any other 
existing policies at the time.  
Its also likely that the key documents wouldve been provided  to Mrs and Mr P. So if 
there was anything missing that theyd previously  told the adviser  they shouldve 
flagged this up. 
Whilst its possible that Mrs and Mr P made  the adviser aware of the circumstances 
in 2007. Hes unable  to safely say that this was the case.  
Mrs and Mr P ran a small family business,  and had two children  under  the age of 10. 
On the face of the evidence hes unable to say the advice was unsuitable.  
Thinc disagreed with the investigators  view.  It said the complaint is out of jurisdiction and if 
not, its advice to Mrs and Mr P was suitable. 
Mrs P disagreed with the investigators view and made the following key submissions:
The investigator has been unfair  by overlooking their poor understanding of English 
at the time. Theyd moved from India only a few years before.  
The sale of the plans is evidence that they didnt understand what  was going on. 
Her English  has only improved as a result of her working in a bank unlike Mr Ps 
which hasnt improved.  Thats  why they wouldnt have understood the documents  
they received   if they received any useful documents at all. 
They were nave  to have signed  a blank document which couldve been used for any 
purpose. 
They only had a single review over the phone on 27 March 2007.  And Thinc  already 
had their details without the need for them to tell them again and thats what they did 
for the subsequent plan for Mr P in August 2007.  
She and Mr P were  the policy holders for each others plans which  they didnt know  
until later. 
Ref: DRN59135012She feels that she and Mr P are being  punished  for their lack of understanding of the 
financial sector and their poor English language  skills. 
This is a case of mis-sold insurance on the basis of a misconduct of their financial 
review. Theyve been in debt management  since 2012 and didnt need this 
insurance. It was in 2017 that it came to light that they were paying a third of the cost 
of their mortgage for protection  policies. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review:
my findings
I
ve considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mrs and Mr P say, I agree with 
the investigators conclusions. Im not going to uphold this complaint. On balance, Im not 
persuaded that the plans  were mis-sold.  
But before I explain  why, I think its important for me to recognise Mrs and Mr Ps frustration 
and strength of feeling about this matter. Theyve  provided detailed  submissions to support 
the complaint,  which Ive read and considered carefully. However,  I hope  they wont take the 
fact my findings focus on what I consider  to be the central issues, and not in as much  detail, 
as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by them and Thinc, and reach what  I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision  based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats  fair and 
reasonable, I must take into account  the relevant law, regulation  and best industry practice,  
but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide,  based on the information Ive been given, 
whats more likely than not to have happened. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think the recommendations were  broadly 
suitable for Mrs and Mr P. 
I note that Mrs and Mr P re-mortgaged in 2007 and as part of this process were  
recommended new life cover. I note that there  was one policy  that was specifically 
associated with the mortgage and has been  considered separately.  
This complaint concerns  two plans that they were recommended for family protection.  I note 
at the time Mrs and Mr P ran a small business  and had two children under the age of 10. In 
the circumstances Im unable to say the recommendation  of itself was unsuitable.  
I also note that the plans  were recommended on an increasing basis so that they would stay 
in line with inflation. I dont think theres  anything wrong with that either.   
Its possible that Mrs and Mr P had other benefits in place at the time, but this of itself 
doesnt mean the recommendation  was unsuitable. It seems to me that some  or all of the 
benefits covered  different aspects of insurance rather  than a simple duplication of cover that 
they already had. 
Even if Mrs and Mr P had some  life and CIC benefits in place at the time, on the face of the 
evidence, and on balance, despite  what they now say, I think its more likely  (than  not) they 
Ref: DRN59135013wanted additional cover  in 2007. Perhaps  its why they still take issue  with not having greater 
CIC in place.  
Theres usually nothing  wrong with wanting or advising greater cover  it generally means 
greater protection  and pay out in the event of a valid claim within  the term of the plans, and 
potentially more money for their beneficiaries (and each other) in the event one died or was 
diagnosed with a specified critical illness. 
I note Mrs and Mr P say that they were sold the plans  on the basis of what would make most  
money for Thinc, and that it wouldve been  obvious  to anyone they couldnt afford these 
plans. 
But I think the affordability and need requirement  are inter-linked to some extent and they 
wouldnt be sold something  they needed if they simply  couldnt afford  it. Such as additional  
CIC which I think they wouldve welcomed.   
I appreciate what Mrs and Mr P say about the information recorded on the fact find. But I 
think that there was an onus on them  to provide the correct details, seek  advice on that 
basis, and generally  make sure their circumstances were recorded accurately. 
I note they would have had two opportunities to do so, in July 2007 and in August 2007 
when they were sent two separate reasons why letters.  Regardless of the same/similar 
information being used they wouldve had two opportunities to spot any potential errors.  
  
I acknowledge its not entirely clear  whats happened,  or how only a term assurance  policy  
and an older decreasing  term assurance policy, has come to be recorded as the only 
protection they had. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to say that the Thinc adviser 
deliberately withheld  information from the fact find in order to sell them  these plans. 
Even if Mrs and Mr P had additional  policies  not just protection  for their mortgage  I cant 
simply blame Thinc for this not being  included in the fact find. As I mentioned before, an 
adviser can only advice  on the basis of the information provided and thats what  I think is 
likely to have happened here.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ps frustration in this case,  particularly in light of the 2008 Financial 
Services Authority (FSA), now the Financial Conduct Authoritys,  findings.  Whilst Im familiar 
with its general findings, on balance Im unable to say the findings  represent what has 
happened here in the case of Mrs and Mr P. 
In other  words the FSAs  findings dont mean that the adviser  failed to record their details 
correctly, because its findings arent  in themselves evidence  that the adviser failed to record  
information correctly.   I think there  are other  explanations as Ive touched  upon  above.  
Despite what Mrs and Mr P say about  the insufficient CIC, Im not persuaded that they 
wouldve been in a position  to be able to afford greater coverage. 
Im aware that the cost CIC on its own can be just as expensive,  if not more  expensive than 
a combined plan, and they were already experiencing financial difficulties.  Im conscious  that 
life cover often is attached  to such plans with nominal cost with most of the premium  going to 
pay for the CIC element of the cover. I think its more likely than not they were advised to 
Ref: DRN59135014take out as much cover as they could afford given their circumstances, even though 
according to Mrs and Mr P, it amounted to almost  a third of their mortgage repayment. 
I appreciate what Mrs and Mr P say about not having a proper assessment of their finances 
and if they had, it wouldve been clear  that these plans were going to be unaffordable for 
them. But I dont think thats necessarily correct as I dont think  that the affordability issues  
subsequently experienced by them, is something  that Thinc couldve foreseen at the time. I 
note it was recorded in the reasons why letter that they were confident the premium is likely 
to remain affordable for the term of the plans providing their expenditure didnt alter 
substantially. 
   
Im mindful of the points Mrs and Mr P make  about  information being altered but Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest this was the case here. 
I note an alternative plan  to the one Mr P had  was slightly  more competitively priced, I 
think its more likely  than not Mr P preferred to have the same provider as his wife for his 
own purposes, despite the slight difference in cost.  If as Mrs P now says only a fool would 
do this, I note it was recorded on the reasons why letter  and neither of them  raised an 
objection. 
Mr and Mrs P make  a number of points  about  their understanding of financial matters and 
the English language. On balance  Im satisfied that neither of these issues affected the sale 
of these plans.   
I think its more likely than not that they had sufficient understanding of financial matters 
having held a mortgage and protection policies in the past. I also think  collectively they had 
sufficient command of English  which  enabled  then to understand the basic nature of the 
plans. 
In other  words, I cant  safely say that their understanding of basic  finances and the English 
language rendered them  incapable of understanding what  was going on in 2007. 
I appreciate Mrs and Mr P will be unhappy Ive reached the same  conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what they want  to hear.
But on the face of the available evidence, Im unable  to uphold this complaint and give them 
what they want.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 November  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5913501