K821x#15complaint
Miss R is unhappy with the poor service, claims handling  and compensation offered by 
Legal & General Insurance Limited.  This is in relation to claim made  under her late mothers 
(Miss C) policy for home  insurance.
Ill refer to Miss R throughout the decision  rather than other  parties.
Ill refer to L&G throughout instead  of its representatives.
background
Miss R and her family suffered a fire. Since then Miss R has felt the service and support 
provided from the start of the claim to her family has been very poor. The claim has suffered 
delays throughout,  a lack of communication has blighted progress and Miss R has raised 
complaints all along in an attempt to get the claim moved along. During the claim Miss C 
sadly passed away. Miss R has highlighted that this left her and her remaining family 
members in a vulnerable  state which shouldve meant L&G did everything it could to 
complete repairs and return them to their family  home as quickly as possible.  Miss R doesnt  
feel that happened. Instead the problems,  issues and delays continued. In the end L&G 
offered Miss R total compensation for distress  and inconvenience of £400. Miss R remained 
unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said there were avoidable delays over a six 
month period  despite their being  a schedule of works. Our investigator accepted there 
wouldve been some  issues over Miss Cs probate. However,  she still felt the service wasnt 
good enough and caused Miss R a great deal of distress. Our investigator said the 
compensation should be increased to £600.  Miss R didnt accept this and asked for the 
complaint to be passed on to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R made the point  in correspondence about how vulnerable  her and her family members 
felt once Miss C died. I completely accept that. In fact to me it heightened an already 
vulnerable situation for all of the remaining family members. I say this because following a 
claim I think everyone is a little vulnerable. But when in a situation away from the family 
home this is definitely  intensified.  Miss R said her, and her family went from home  to a hotel, 
and then from the hotel to rental  accommodation and then back  into a hotel, before they 
were able to move back home. I think this would be stressful for anybody, but I agree  with 
Miss R that in her family situation  this mustve been  extremely difficult  to deal with.
Added to this Miss R has produced details of the medical problems this created for her and 
other family members too. I dont think L&G really  got to grips  with the situation and I accept 
what Miss R said about feeling  like she was having  to project manage the claim herself  as 
the loss adjuster for L&G didnt appear to be getting things done. Miss R was regularly 
chasing the loss adjuster to move  the claim along.
Ref: DRN59848742Its clear to me that the claim  ran on for longer than it shouldve  done, aside from any issue  
around probate. I think its obvious  that this whole circumstance was traumatic for Miss R 
and the whole family. 
I can see that L&G did at least  take steps to make amends by replacing  the whole kitchen. 
But L&G couldve  and shouldve got the family back under the own roof more quickly. I think  
the impact on Miss R means L&G should pay Miss R £600  compensation  for distress and 
inconvenience.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Legal  & General Insurance Limited  to:
Pay Miss R £600  compensation  for her distress and inconvenience.
Legal & General Insurance Limited  must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Miss R accepts my final decision.  If it pays  later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5984874