K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy with a 
store card. The insurer in this case  Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  has 
accepted responsibility for the sale of the policy so I will refer to them  as the seller  to avoid 
confusion.
background
Mrs A took out a store card in December 2000. In July 2001 she was sold a PPI policy which  
wouldve paid 15% of her outstanding balance each month if she couldnt work. 
Mrs A says she didnt agree to take the PPI. 
The adjudicator thought  that Mrs As complaint shouldnt be upheld.  Mrs A disagrees, so her 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs As 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Mrs A didnt select PPI when she first took out the card in store.  It was added the following 
year and FICL has said this would  have happened during a phone  call. I think this is the 
most reasonable explanation. Mrs A says she doesnt recall  any such  conversation,  but it 
did take place  over 17 years ago, so I wouldnt expect her to. The PPI appeared on Mrs As 
statements after that, so if she hadnt  agreed  to take it I think shed have queried it at the 
time.
FICL didnt  give Mrs A a personal recommendation to take the PPI, so it didnt  need  to take 
steps to make sure it was right for her. It did, however, need to make  sure it gave her 
enough information about it so she could make her own mind  up. I dont know whether Mrs 
A received all that information. But this doesnt  mean I should  automatically uphold her 
complaint. I have to consider whether shed have acted differently if shed had all the 
correct information.  I dont think she would have done. I say this because:
Mrs A was eligible  for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the terms which 
mightve made it more  difficult for her to make a successful claim, such  as those 
relating to existing  medical conditions or employment circumstances;
Mrs A had some sick pay, although  she hasnt been clear  about how much  she 
wouldve had. At most it appears  that she may have had six months  full sick pay. 
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to this and couldve quickly  cleared  her 
entire balance  at the point of claim;
Mrs A says she wouldve  got some redundancy pay. But she hadnt been working 
with her employer for long enough  to be entitled  to statutory redundancy pay. Its 
likely that any contractual redundancy pay would  have been modest. And, again, the 
policy wouldve paid out in addition to this, leaving  any pay to cover other uninsured 
expenses;
Ref: DRN58674282The cost of the policy was greater than many policies on the market  around the 
same time. But the benefits were comparatively greater, too. And I havent seen 
anything to suggest it was unaffordable  for Mrs A.
So I dont  think Mrs A wouldve acted  differently  and not bought the policy  if shed had all 
the information she needed.  Which  means  I dont think  Mrs A lost out as a result  of anything  
FICL might have done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs As complaint so Financial  Insurance Company Limited doesnt have 
to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5867428