K821x#15complaint
Ms K complained about the amount of compensation Great Lakes  Insurance SE offered due 
to its handling  of her furniture warranty  claim.
background
Ms K claimed under the warranty for a damaged drawer  runner. It took four visits by one of 
Great Lakess representatives before  the damage  was repaired. There  was another  
scheduled visit that was cancelled at the last minute  because the representative  didnt have 
the necessary  part to do the repair.
Ms K complained about the service shed received  notably  the wasted visits (one of which 
she used her last days annual leave for) and phone  calls not being returned.  Great  Lakes 
accepted the service  had been poor. It apologised for the delays and the inconvenience, and 
it offered Ms K £75 compensation.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think  £75 went far 
enough to compensate Ms K for the trouble shed been put to; she felt Great  Lakes should  
pay £200 compensation (in total). Ms K agreed  with our investigator  but Great Lakes didnt. 
It said the drawer was inspected promptly and a replacement part was needed.  It said it fixed 
the drawer as soon as the part was available. It did nevertheless offer to pay a further £50 
compensation as the drawer wasnt crucial to everyday living.  Ms K didnt accept the 
counter-offer so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this type of complaint there are usually two things for me to decide:
1.whether the financial business did anything wrong and/or treated the consumer unfairly
2.if yes, what  needs  to be done  to put matters  right  including deciding on the appropriate  
level of compensation  (if its warranted).
In this case Great Lakes  has already  accepted that the service  Ms K received wasnt up to 
scratch. So I dont need to decide this issue.  I will nevertheless make two comments:
-it took four visits from Great Lakes  representatives  (plus  the one that was cancelled) to 
diagnose and fix the problem when  theres a decent  argument in my opinion that it ought 
to have only taken  two visits  one to diagnose  the problem and take the part away, and 
one to refit the replacement part;
-Great Lakes said it fixed the drawer as soon as the part was available. Notes on its file 
say the replacement part was delivered  to a technician by 28 September, but my 
understanding is that a replacement part wasnt fitted until 1 November  so nearly five 
weeks later. I dont think that can reasonably  be described as as soon  as the part was 
available.
Any compensation I award is designed to reflect the distress and inconvenience suffered by 
a consumer. Ive noted  Great Lakess comment about the drawer  not being crucial  to 
Ref: DRN56258252everyday living  (like a fridge or cooker  for example) and so the impact of not being able to 
use it isnt as great. But I dont think thats  relevant to the complaint. Thats  because  I think 
the main impact the claim  handling had on Ms K was the distress  at her annual  leave being 
wasted and the inconvenience of having  to be available for all the appointments.
Ms K would  never have been able to use her last day annual leave for something else 
because even if the repair was carried out that day as planned she still would have used the 
annual leave  on that day. However, I think the fact the appointment was cancelled  and 
therefore the day wasted  adds  to the distress and frustration suffered. And I think its an 
inconvenience having to be available for five appointments when two, or three at most, ought 
to have sufficed.
With all the above  in mind, I conclude that the £200 total compensation suggested  by our 
investigator is fair.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Great  Lakes  Insurance  SE to pay Ms K a further £125 
compensation (ie £200 in total taking into account the £75 already offered before Ms K 
brought her complaint  to us).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5625825