K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the information  he was given  by Nationwide  Building Society about 
rates available on maturity of his fixed rate ISA. 
background
On 30 November 2018 Nationwide wrote to Mr W to say his fixed  rate ISA was due to 
mature on 17 December 2018.  Nationwides letter gave  information about some of the new 
rates it offered and also said Mr W could  look at its website for the full range of savings 
options available.  
Mr W later visited a branch and discussed  his options. Mr W says that details of the Loyalty 
ISA werent given to him until he challenged staff about the rates  he was offered. Mr Ws ISA 
moved onto Nationwides Loyalty ISA on 17 December 2018, the day his existing rate 
matured. 
Mr W complained  about the information Nationwide had given him both in its letter  and in 
branch. Nationwide responded on 18 January 2019 and again on 14 February 2019 but 
didnt agree it had made a mistake. Nationwide said information about general products was 
given in its maturity  letter and that the Loyalty ISA isnt mentioned because its not available 
to all customers. Nationwide  also said that its branch staff wouldnt give information  about 
the Loyalty ISA product until they had reviewed a customers account holdings  to see 
whether they qualify.  Nationwide didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint and he referred it to our 
service. 
An investigator looked at the complaint but said Nationwide had taken reasonable steps  to 
give Mr W the information he needed to decide  how to proceed. Mr W asked for his case to 
be referred to an ombudsman so its been passed  to me to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W complains that Nationwide  didnt  make the Loyalty ISA product  sufficiently  clear  in its 
maturity letter. I agree that the letter doesnt  contain  all the products Nationwide offers.  But 
Nationwide has explained that it doesnt  include  details of the Loyalty ISA in that letter 
because its not something all customers qualify for. The letter  isnt tailored to the specific 
customer its sent to (beyond including the existing product and maturity date) and I can see 
it does explain that details of the full range can be found elsewhere.  
Whilst I appreciate why Mr W would prefer to have been given the information about 
Nationwides Loyalty  ISA within  its maturity letter, I dont think its done  anything wrong by 
referring him elsewhere for the full details of its products. 
Mr Ws asked  for Nationwide to pay him interest  he feels hes lost out on after it introduced 
the Loyalty ISA in May 2018. But Mr W was on a one year fixed rate ISA he had taken out in 
December 2017.  That meant Mr Ws ISA was subject to a fixed  rate of interest until its 
maturity date on 17 December 2018.  Even though  Nationwide  introduced a higher paying  
ISA during the period  he had an existing fixed rate ISA, Mr W wasnt  eligible to select  a new 
product until his existing  maturity date. 
Ref: DRN58177772Nationwide has provided evidence to show it introduced the Loyalty ISA product in May 2018 
so Mr Ws first chance to select the product was 17 December 2018 when his existing fixed  
rate ISA matured. 
The systems evidence  Ive seen shows Mr W moved onto the Loyalty ISA rate on 
17 December 2018 so there  was no gap in interest  rates. Whilst I understand Mr W feels  he 
should have been able to benefit before that time,  for the reasons Ive given above, I havent  
found that to be the case. 
I know Mr W has concerns about  how product information is communicated  by Nationwide.  
But the full details of its savings range are available online and in branch. Nationwide says 
that in order for the branch staff to understand what products a customer qualifies for, it has 
to check their account holdings. If Mr W wants Nationwide to provide him with a full list of the 
products he can apply for he will either have to go online or discuss his options in branch so 
staff can check what  products are available.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr W but I havent found  anything to show  hes been  treated unfairly  
or lost out on interest as a result of Nationwides actions. As a result,  Im not telling 
Nationwide to do anything  else to resolve  this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5817777