K820x#14complaint
Mr Es complained that Freeway  UK Insurance Services Limited mis-sold his taxi insurance  
policy.
background
Mr E bought a policy through Freeway. A few months later he had to hire a different vehicle 
after his taxi broke down and couldnt be used. He asked his insurer to change the car on his 
policy. The insurer said it wouldnt cover the hire car on his policy  because  Mr E wasnt  the 
owner or registered  keeper.  Mr E complained to Freeway. He said it should  have made  this 
clear when he bought his policy because  it was usual for taxi drivers  to hire alternative  
vehicles.
Mr E wanted  Freeway to either: suspend his cover until his taxi was back  on the road; cover 
the new vehicle;  or refund  his premium  in full. 
Freeway said it had asked  Mr E if he was the owner and registered keeper of his taxi when 
he bought the policy. And hed said he was. It said Mr E hadnt indicated that he might want  
to change the vehicle on the policy to one he didnt own.  It didnt think it was required to set 
out that the insurer wouldnt cover  a taxi that didnt belong to him. However, it said the 
documents it sent him when  he bought his policy included a list of assumptions  that included  
him being the owner and keeper of his taxi. So, it didnt think  his policy had been mis-sold.
Mr E remained unhappy  and brought his complaint to us. He thought  Freeway should have 
made it clear  the insurer wouldnt  cover  a hire vehicle when he bought  his policy. Our 
investigator didnt  think  Mr Es complaint should be upheld. She thought Freeway had sold 
Mr E a policy that was suitable, based  on the information hed given. She didnt think 
Freeway had mis-sold the policy. 
Mr E didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr E is also unhappy with the finance  company who provided the credit for his 
premium. However, in this decision I can only consider what Freeway might, or might not, 
have done wrong.  Any complaint about the finance company would need to be dealt with 
separately. I also cant comment on the actions of the insurer who refused to cover the new 
vehicle. Any complaint about that would also need to be made to the insurer separately.
Freeway sold Mr Es policy in a non-advised sale over the phone.  When selling the policy,  it 
needed to provide him with information that was clear,  fair and not misleading.  
Ive listened to the call when Mr E bought his policy and I didnt hear him ask about putting  
another taxi on the policy. Freeway asked Mr E if he was the owner and registered keeper of 
his taxi. At that point he was, and Freeway sold him the policy on that basis.  I can see that 
the quotation pack Freeway sent also set out that Mr E was the owner  and registered keeper 
of his taxi. I think this was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Ref: DRN57099432I appreciate Freeway also didnt tell Mr E the insurer wouldnt cover a hire vehicle, but I dont 
think its unusual for an insurer to not offer this. So, I dont think its something Freeway had 
to point out unless Mr E had specifically asked. I also dont think Freeway were required to 
highlight everything  that the insurer wouldnt cover in the event of Mr E needing to change  
the vehicle on the policy.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr E was hoping for, but I think Freeway  provided 
appropriate information about  the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading. And I dont 
think Freeway mis-sold  his policy. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5709943