K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy that St Andrews Insurance Plc has declined a claim for storm damage  
under his home insurance policy.
background
Mr B made a claim to St Andrews  in September 2018 after the lath and plaster ceiling in his 
study room had collapsed following a storm. The study is in the attic part of the house.
Mr B says his roof wasnt leaking before the storm. He said on the night  of the storm rain 
was pouring through the ceiling and hed placed a bucket underneath it before going  to bed. 
He said the ceiling collapsed a few hours  later and the debris was soaking  wet.
Several days later St Andrews sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyor  
inspected the main roof and saw no evidence  of storm damage. He noted  that the roof had 
been repaired previously  and thought it had reached the end of its working  life.
St Andrews  said it wouldnt cover internal damage  due to water ingress where  it appeared to 
have happened  over a period of time and couldnt  be attributed  to a one off event  such as a 
storm.
Mr B had the damage to the ceiling repaired. He said it cost him about  £132.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that as the cost of the repair  was less 
than the £250 policy excess, Mr B wouldnt have been able to make  a claim anyway. He also 
didnt think the damage was typical  of storm damage.
As Mr B didnt agree,  the matter has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B accepts that he isnt entitled to receive  any payment in respect  of his claim because of 
the £250 excess. But he still feels hes been treated unfairly by St Andrews. So Ill look at 
whether it was fair to decline his claim.
Mr B didnt choose to take out accidental  damage  cover for his property. His policy does 
offer cover in the event  that his property is damaged by a storm. But it excludes damage 
caused by wear and tear as do most policies on the market. 
Our investigator established there  had been a storm in the period immediately before Mr B 
made a claim for storm damage.  But the critical issue in this case  is whether the storm 
caused the damage to the ceiling  which  Mr B is claiming for. In deciding this, I usually  rely on 
expert evidence.
St Andrews  first surveyor  noted  a number of maintenance repairs  had been carried out to 
Mr Bs roof and sealant had been  applied between some slates. She thought this suggested 
rainwater had been getting  into the property previously.
With regard to the internal damage  she wasnt sure what the cause was. She said:
Ref: DRN51171282The damage could have occurred due to rainwater ingress or due to the age of the roof it 
could just be a natural  failure of the lath and plaster ceiling.
St Andrews  instructed another  expert  (a chartered  engineer and surveyor)  to review the first 
surveyors report and the claim  documentation. That expert  described the circumstances 
hed expect to see where  a build-up of water  brings  a ceiling down. Amongst  other things he 
said water  would drip through holes formed for light fittings, the insulation  material would 
continue to drip water  and since the wet insulation material rests on timber laths, the laths 
would remain damp. He said drying  out would usually only begin after the sodden  insulation 
material had been  removed.
In Mr Bs case  those circumstances dont appear  to be in place. Photos show  a light fitting 
close by but theres  no mention of water  dripping through it. Theres also no mention of the 
insulation dripping  water through the hole formed in the ceiling. The expert couldnt see any 
sign of mould on the timber laths which  he said hed expect. The surveyor  whod inspected 
six days after the damage happened  had also described the timber laths  as bone dry. The 
photos taken by the first surveyor seem to show  that the edges  of the plaster  ceiling were  
dry.
Lastly the expert said the volume of water  needed  from a one off event to bring a ceiling 
down would usually  be due to a large  hole in the roof directly above  the collapse.  I havent 
seen any evidence of a large  hole in Mr Bs roof.
In conclusion the expert thought the bond  between the laths and the old ceiling had 
broken for reasons unconnected  to a storm or any other insured event. He said it wasnt 
unusual to encounter such a gradual  deterioration  in an old ceiling. 
St Andrews  was entitled to rely on its surveyors opinion to decline Mr Bs claim and I dont 
think that it was unreasonable for it to do so. Although Mr B has described  water pouring in 
through a hole in the ceiling before  the ceiling collapsed, I dont think  hes thrown  sufficient 
doubt on the experts conclusions to make me think that St Andrews should change  its 
position. I think St Andrews has shown  that its more likely  than not that the ceiling had 
deteriorated gradually and/or that the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage. My 
conclusion is that its decision not to settle Mr Bs claim for storm damage was fair and 
reasonable.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5117128