K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the lack of clarity in the travel insurance provided to cardholders by 
American Express Services Europe Limited
background
Mr B is an American Express cardholder and one of the benefits of that is travel  insurance. 
But he says that the travel insurance  terms and conditions fail to inform  customers  that in 
most cases they are potentially not insured for most  of the policy offerings; and that only 
medical cover is applicable when travelling  as a group.  He complained  to American  Express  
in November 2018 but he says that his complaint hasnt been  resolved. So he complained  to 
this service and says that he wants American  Express to:
clarify its response to him;
confirm his cover for his soon to be taken trips;
clarify the above in its terms and conditions; and
train its staff to understand the policies correctly.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that she 
understood Mr Bs frustration that the policy doesn't meet all of his travel needs  but she 
didnt think that American  Express  had acted unfairly. She said that the policy  terms and 
conditions are relatively clear and that American Express did its best to answer Mr Bs 
queries both in writing  and verbally.  And she said that this service doesnt  have the authority 
to ask American Express to change  the terms of the policy or the way that it trains its staff.
Mr B has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says that, at best, 
American Express has poor processes, policies and poor training for its staff and, at worst, it 
flagrantly changes its position as it suits it. And he says that the issue isnt resolved and that 
he will refer the matter  to the Financial  Conduct Authority.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We offer an informal dispute  resolution 
service. We try to resolve complaints by customers about financial businesses  by looking at 
what we consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. We have no regulatory  or 
disciplinary role over those businesses. So Im unable  to require any of them  to change the 
way that it conducts  its business. 
Mr B clearly  feels  very strongly that American Express hasnt properly explained its travel 
insurance cover to him. It sent him its final response letter  in March 2019  which  was after 
Mr B had complained  to this service. In that letter American Express  set out a number of 
extracts from the policy terms and condition to try to explain  to Mr B the insurance cover that 
is provided. And it said:
In summary,  where American Express is accepted, to receive full cover  an American 
Express card must be use, to confirm, the Insurance Benefits also extends to your 
partner. Furthermore, additional  insurance  will need  to be purchased  to cover  the hire 
of an RV, when white water rafting and shooting.
So although  Mr B continues to feel that the policy is unclear,  American Express  has clarified 
its response to him and has confirmed the cover  for his trips. And Im unable  to require 
Ref: DRN56568912American Express to change the terms and conditions of its insurance  policy  or to train its 
staff in any specified way.
I sympathise with Mr B for the frustration that hes experienced.  But Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that American Express has acted incorrectly in its dealings 
with Mr B about the travel insurance  cover.  And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in 
these circumstances  for me to require it to take any action in response to his complaint.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5656891