K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) to 
Mr D. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1996.  Lloyds sold Mr D the 
policy at the same time that he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mr D and his representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think Lloyds made  Mr D aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it 
 although I can understand  if he can no longer remember  this. I can see that the 
form he signed has a box with a tick accepting PPI. Other boxes offering different 
services were left unchecked. So I think its likely there was some discussion about  
PPI and that Mr D agreed to take it. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr D, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. The PPI could have helped  
pay the credit card bill for a period longer  than Mr Ds employer full sick pay; and he 
appears not to have  had other  resources  to rely on. So the PPI was potentially 
useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. And I cant  see any other reason why 
the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Lloyds explained the PPI. Its possible the 
information Lloyds  gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
But I dont think, in his circumstances, full information about  costs and benefits would 
have affected  whether  he took the PPI. And it doesnt look like hed have been 
affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D. But Lloyds 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr D, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN52946622my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, and so 
Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5294662