K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mr G took out with a charge card in 1994. Its been 
agreed that Allianz should take responsibility for the complaint. For ease, Ill refer to 
Allianz in the rest of my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me. Mr G said he had no need for PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide what  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Allianz had to make it clear to Mr G that PPI was optional. Mr G said he wasnt given 
enough information about PPI and didnt need  it.
Allianz has sent us a copy of Mr Gs application form for the charge card. The form 
included a section  on PPI, with a box to be ticked if Mr G wanted to take it out. The box 
is ticked on Mr Gs form and his date of birth and name have been inserted to indicate 
he wants PPI. 
Theres nothing on the form which suggests  the PPI is compulsory and, if Mr G didnt 
want the PPI, he couldve not ticked the box. So I think Allianz did make  it clear to Mr G 
that he had a choice  about the PPI. I think Mr G probably opted to take out the insurance 
knowing he didnt have  to have it.
I dont think Allianz recommended the PPI to Mr G. The card and PPI was taken out in the 
store. This means  Allianz didnt have  to check if the PPI was right for Mr G. But it did have 
to make sure he got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him and he 
wanted to buy it.
Its possible the information Allianz gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But, based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt  look like
Mr G was affected  by any of the main  exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover.  Mr G said he 
wouldve got between  6 and 12 months  worth of sick pay from work. The policy  wouldve 
paid out on top of his work related benefits and for up to 12 months per successful claim.  
Mr Gs not mentioned having any savings or other means he couldve used to make his 
repayments if he wasnt  earning. So I think the PPI would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I cant see that better  
information about the PPI would have put Mr G off taking it out. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN59230572I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
 
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5923057