K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
January 2003  alongside  a credit card. Mr V, who is represented by a third party,  says 
Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Vs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think BoS made it clear that Mr V didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this. From  what  Ive seen 
about the card application process, I think Mr V made a decision to buy the cover.  Ive 
seen that on his application  form a box was marked with an X to show  hed chosen PPI 
 as well as a card protection product hed decided to take. So I think he would have had 
the opportunity  to review his application and discuss the PPI with his BoS representative 
before making  his decision to buy the policy and signing the application form. 
 I think BoS recommended the PPI to Mr V at a meeting in branch  even though  Mr V 
isnt so sure about this - so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt  
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had 
a need for the cover.  
 Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr V about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful to him if something went  wrong. I say this 
given that it would pay out in addition to the existing benefits he was receiving from his 
employer if he was unable to work,  which  were  6 months at full pay followed by 6 months  
at half pay. The PPI would also pay out if he lost his job and alongside any redundancy 
pay he received. So he wouldnt have to rely on other potential sources of funding  to help 
out. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  And although Ive thought  about  the points 
made by those representing Mr V in response to our adjudicators  opinion,  they dont  affect 
my decision.  
So BoS doesnt need to refund everything  Mr V paid for it. But BoS has already offered to 
give Mr V back  some  of the cost of the PPI. And from what  Ive seen, it looks  as if BoS has 
already paid this to Mr V. So I dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Ref: DRN54318622my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5431862