K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) withdrew cover on his legal expenses 
insurance claim.
background
Mr S made a claim on his legal expenses policy. He wanted cover  to take legal action  
against a garage  that he done  some  repairs on his car, which he said had not been  done 
properly. The garage offered  to inspect the car but he wasnt happy about it carrying  out 
more work.
UKI accepted the claim and instructed its panel  solicitors to assess  the case.  The solicitors  
advised Mr S that his case  didnt have reasonable prospects of success  without expert 
evidence showing the garage had failed  to take reasonable  care or use satisfactory 
materials, or that it had caused damage to the car. They said they would consider the case 
further if he provided supporting evidence, and it was for him to decide  whether to incur  the 
costs of that.
The solicitors later advised Mr S that even if he obtained supporting evidence, it was likely 
the offer the garage had made would  still be reasonable.
Mr S obtained a report which confirmed there was a problem with his car engine,  though  it 
wasnt conclusive about what  the cause was. He didnt  wish to accept the offer from the 
garage and was unhappy with the service  hed received from the panel  solicitors. He 
complained to UKI about the way the solicitors  had dealt with the case. 
UKI spoke  to the panel solicitors, who advised  that despite the report Mr S had obtained, 
they couldnt proceed with a court case without evidence confirming the cause of the 
problem. They confirmed  their view that the garages offer to inspect the car was reasonable 
and said Mr S was at risk of being  ordered  to pay wasted costs  if he rejected a reasonable 
offer.
UKI told Mr S it had spoken to the solicitors, who confirmed the offer was reasonable and 
should be accepted. It said Mr S could get a second opinion himself;  if he had legal advice 
supporting his claim it would reconsider. He might then need to get advice from a barrister  
but it would  reimburse  the cost of this if the advice confirmed he had reasonable prospects 
of success.
Mr S was still unhappy. He wrote  to UKI saying he would  like it to appoint new solicitors. UKI 
wouldnt change its decision,  saying the initial legal advice was that the case didnt have 
reasonable prospects; his report didnt confirm  the cause of the problem; and so it was 
reasonable to allow  the garage to inspect his car. And as he didnt accept that advice, it was 
withdrawing cover. UKI again  advised  Mr S he could  get his own legal advice if he 
disagreed. 
Mr S then told the panel solicitors they could  write  to the garage  accepting the offer.  The 
solicitors said they would do this if he confirmed he had no further  concerns  about their 
service but Mr S didnt  agree and said the solicitors were biased. Following this, the solicitors 
said the relationship between  them and Mr S had broken  down and thy could no longer act 
for him.
Ref: DRN51548372When Mr S brought his complaint  to this service, our investigator said UKI was entitled to 
rely on the legal  advice  from the panel solicitors and if Mr S claim didnt have reasonable 
prospects of success,  he wasnt entitled  to cover. 
Mr S disagreed and requested an ombudsmans decision. He said:
He provided more evidence after the case was closed and the panel solicitors  said 
they would  pursue  the case as there were prospects  of success, but their conditions 
were not acceptable  to him.
He accepts UKI are not legal experts but they should have listened to his 
representatives, who sent a letter which UKI simply ignored.
To find out the actual fault, the car needs to be stripped down and inspected properly 
and UKI should  fund that, not put the cost on him.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. in the provisional decision I said:
The policy includes  cover for the type of case Mr S wished to pursue against the garage.  But 
cover is only provided if the claim has reasonable prospects  of success  in other words, 
that hes more  likely than not to win his case. 
The policy terms also say UKI can refuse  to pay further costs if the policyholder doesnt 
accept an offer to settle a claim, which UKI or the appointed representative (in this case,  the 
panel solicitors) consider should be accepted.
Terms like these  are not unusual and can be found  in most, if not all, legal expenses 
insurance policies.  
So to have cover, Mr S had to show he was likely to be successful. And if at any time the 
solicitors advised him to accept a reasonable offer from the other  party, and he refused to do 
so, the terms allowed  UKI to withdraw  cover.
UKIs responsibility was to deal with the claim fairly  and in line with the policy terms. As an 
insurer, it wouldnt have the expertise  to assess the prospects of the legal case. Id expect 
an insurer to get legal  advice on this, and its reasonable  for the insurer to rely on that 
advice, unless its obviously wrong.
There was advice from the panel solicitors,  and their initial advice was the Mr S wasnt likely 
to be successful unless  he had expert  evidence  confirming the cause of the problem. They  
also advised that even if he obtained  supporting  evidence, it was likely the offer the garage 
had made  would still be reasonable.
Mr S is very unhappy with the way the solicitors dealt with the case. Its not for me to 
comment on the solicitors actions  I am only looking at how UKI dealt with the insurance 
claim. From UKIs perspective,  there  was clear legal advice that Mr S wasnt  likely to win his 
case without expert  evidence and in any event,  there was a reasonable offer that he should  
accept. The legal advice  wasnt obviously  wrong  (to the extent that it would have been 
obvious even  to a layman  that it was wrong). Indeed  I note Mr S pursued a complaint about 
the solicitors to the Legal Ombudsman  and, while there were one or two issues with the 
service provided to him, the advice itself wasnt found to be wrong.  
I appreciate that Mr S did get a report  from an engineer  which showed there was a problem 
with his car that might have been related to the work the garage had done.  But the solicitors 
explained that the report didnt confirm the problem  was more likely  than not caused by the 
Ref: DRN51548373garages actions. And while Mr S provided  a letter  from solicitors  he instructed himself,  that 
letter also didnt actually  say it was likely  his case against the garage would be successful.
Mr S says its unfair that he was expected to meet the costs of obtaining evidence  and the 
insurance policy should have covered this. In the first instance,  its for a policyholder to prove 
their claim. So the onus  was on Mr S to show  his case had reasonable prospects  it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect an insurer to cover the cost of a policyholder proving their 
claim.
Mr S is also unhappy that UKI didnt respond to the letter from his solicitors. But as Ive 
explained, that letter didnt show he was likely to win his case. UKI never had clear legal 
advice confirming the case had reasonable prospects of success.
In these circumstances, it was fair and reasonable  and in line with the policy  terms  for 
UKI not to continue  providing cover.
Replies to the provisional decision
UKI has not provided  any further comments in response to the provisional decision.  I have 
however received further comments from solicitors instructed by Mr S. In brief, they say:
Mr S provided an experts  expert  which supported his case  and the cost of that 
should have been  covered by UKI;
having reviewed  the experts report,  they think there is a case for the garage to 
refund Mr S for the work it did, as it didnt  identify the problem correctly  and there  are 
reasonable prospects of success in recovering this money;
the offer that was made wasnt reasonable because there was no attempt to refund 
the charges Mr S paid for work where  the fault doesnt appear  to relate to the work 
done, but to a different issue.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S solicitors say he provided  an experts  expert which supported  his case and the cost of 
that should have been covered  by UKI. But as I have  explained,  its for a policyholder to 
prove their claim and I wouldnt generally expect an insurer to cover  the cost of doing  that.
I have considered the further points made on behalf  if Mr S. I appreciate that his solicitors 
have set out in some  detail why they think the previous advice was wrong and the offer 
wasnt a reasonable one. Looking back at the information UKI had at the time, its still my 
view that its decision was fair, in light of the legal advice it had obtained. It didnt have clear 
legal advice that the whole claim had prospects of success. And in any event, the panel  
solicitors were clear that the offer was reasonable and their advice was that Mr S should  
accept it. On that basis alone,  UKI was entitled  to withdraw cover.
As UKI (and our investigator)  explained,  if Mr S provided further legal advice it would 
reconsider the matter.  Mr S has now provided further advice which  sets out why his solicitors  
consider there are reasonable prospects of success and importantly why the offer made 
wasnt reasonable, meaning  Mr S shouldnt be expected to accept it. If Mr S hasnt already 
done so, he can submit that to UKI and Id expect it to review the matter in the light of that 
advice. If UKI maintains  its position  and Mr S still disagrees, he may make a further  
Ref: DRN51548374complaint. But for the reasons Ive explained, I think the decision UKI made based on the 
advice it had at the time was fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2021.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5154837