K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1993. Mr 
and Mrs M say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs M that they had a choice 
about it. But Mr and Mrs M have said they were  told they had to have the PPI.
There isnt very much  information  available about  the sale. Mr and Mrs M havent given us 
much detail about what was said. And Lloyds hasnt been able to send us Mr and Mrs Ms 
application form for the mortgage, or any other  evidence from the sale showing they chose 
to take the PPI. Due to the amount of time that has passed since  the sale though,  I dont 
think this is unreasonable.
But what  it does mean is that, because of the limited  information available,  I dont think  
theres enough evidence for me to say that Lloyds made Mr and Mrs M think  they had to 
have the PPI. So I think its likely it made  it clear  to them that they had a choice about it. And 
that Mr and Mrs W chose to take it.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for them. And, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example, they dont appear  to have been affected by any of the likely exclusions to 
or limits on the PPI cover.  The policy couldve  paid out for longer than its likely they 
wouldve received  full sick pay. And it wouldve meant they didnt need  to rely on any savings 
they had to make their repayments if one of them wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for them, Lloyds had to give Mr and Mrs M clear information  
about the PPI. Its possible  the information  it gave them wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. 
But a mortgage is a serious  financial commitment, and Mrs and Mrs Ms property couldve 
been at risk if theyd  failed  to make their repayments. So I think  they couldve found  the 
protection the policy offered appealing. And, for the same reasons I think  it was right for 
them, it seems  like the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs M if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put Mr and Mrs M off taking  it out.
Ref: DRN55631802my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 May 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5563180