K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that Vanquis Bank  Limited  declined his claim for compensation under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 in respect of his hire of a wedding venue.  He is 
represented in this complaint by his wife.
background
Mr F hired  a venue for his wedding,  and paid part of the cost with his Vanquis  credit card.  
After the wedding, his wife complained about various problems, but the supplier did not 
agree that it had done anything wrong. It offered her £500  as a gesture  of good will, but 
Mrs F declined that offer and asked Vanquis for compensation  under section 75, whereupon 
she says the supplier withdrew its offer. Vanquis did not uphold  the claim,  saying  there was 
no documentary evidence  of the service which was agreed or the service actually received, 
and that the gesture of good will had been a reasonable offer. So Mr F brought  this 
complaint to our Service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said there  was no clear  evidence that the 
supplier had provided an inadequate level of service. Mrs F asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
I wrote  a provisional decision as follows.
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Section 75 is a law which,  where  it applies,  makes the provider of credit (in this case, 
Vanquis) jointly and severally liable for any breach of contract by a supplier where  the 
suppliers services are paid for (in whole  or in part) with the credit provided. My role is to 
decide whether  Vanquis erred when it decided to reject Mr Fs claim. It is not in dispute that 
section 75 applied to his claim,  so the only issue is whether there was enough evidence to 
prove a breach of contract by the supplier, such that Vanquis should have upheld the claim.
Four days after the wedding, Mrs F complained about numerous problems, which included:
The event manager had also been  supposed to act as toastmaster, but was replaced 
by another person who did not like public  speaking and so would not act as 
toastmaster. The replacement was also absent for much of the wedding.
There were  not enough  staff present  during the day, which caused various issues. 
This meant the magician spent a great  deal of time looking after the guests, which 
was not his role, and so he did not have  time to perform the magic  hed been booked 
to do. Guests  were  not told to go to the reception, so they spent most of their time in 
the hotel bar. There was a general  lack of organisation.
The vegetarian  buffet food was mixed  with the meat items.
Mr Fs son (a toddler) was given a cream cheese  dip even though  the staff had been  
warned that he is allergic to dairy products. He fell ill and had to leave early (at 8pm).
The desserts were burnt  and were inedible.
Bottles of wine and beer were taken away when the tables  were  cleared, and half 
measures of prosecco  were poured.
Ref: DRN56472582When Mrs F asked  the staff to put the wedding cake in boxes for the guests to take 
home, she was told to do it herself.  Instead, cake slices were left out all evening  and 
went stale.
The air conditioning didnt work  and the venue  was too hot.
Their belongings  were  left out unsecure the following morning, so Mr and Mrs F had 
to collect them immediately instead  of leaving for their honeymoon.
In response, the general manager of the venue  told her:
Mr and Mrs F had not complained on the day, or a couple of days  later when they 
collected some more items from the venue. The event  manager recalled that they 
had both told her they had had a nice day.
It had been  agreed  with the replacement event manager that she would be absent 
during the meal, and would return in the evening after speeches.  It had also been 
agreed that the magician would act as toastmaster and make the announcements. 
(However he did not suggest that the magician was supposed  to run the whole 
wedding, or admit  that he did, and so I think this allegation is in dispute.)
He admitted that a dairy product had been wrongly supplied to their son by mistake,  
and apologised. Further training would be given to the catering staff.  But the kitchen 
manager and the chef had both assured him that the dairy food had been  untouched. 
(Mrs F disputes this, and says that her son ate some.) He did not accept 
responsibility for their son being  ill.
He apologised  if any desserts were inedible. He had asked  the kitchen staff about  the 
desserts, and would come back to Mrs F later with his answer about that issue  (but 
I have not seen any follow-up message about that).
The supervisor had assured him that no unopened bottles had been removed.
The venues usual  procedure is to serve wedding cake  alongside the evening  buffet. 
Cake boxes had been left out next to the cake for guests to use if they wished.
It is the venues normal procedure to leave  customers items out to be collected.
Mrs F has described  the events of that day in considerable detail. But most of her account is 
disputed by members of staff at the venue. Vanquis  had no way of knowing the truth of what  
really happened, except  by looking at such evidence as was provided to it. It didnt have to 
take Mr and Mrs F, or the manager, at their word. So I have considered what evidence  
Vanquis was shown to prove the allegations. My role is not to decide  for myself whether 
I believe the allegations or not, but rather to decide  whether  Vanquis  made  an unreasonable  
assessment of the evidence and unjustifiably rejected Mr Fs section 75 claim.
In support of this complaint,  Mrs F has supplied some photographs taken during the meal. 
They show  some prosecco glasses which I agree are not as full as I would expect them  to 
be. But its not possible to tell from the photos whether people have already started to drink  
them or not. Mr F has already begun his speech,  so people may have already begun  
drinking toasts, or just begun drinking. There are photos which  show  unopened bottles on 
the table during the meal, but that does not prove that the bottles were still unopened  at the 
end of the meal, or what was done  with those bottles when the staff cleared the tables.  So 
I dont think these photos prove the allegations made  about  the drinks.
There is also a staged photo of Mrs F posing with a spoon in her dessert  in such a way as to 
suggest that it is difficult to eat, which leads me to think that what she has told us about the 
desserts is probably true. I think Vanquis would still have been entitled  to reach a different 
view about that, and to decide  that the photo  was not convincing,  if the general manager had 
denied that allegation. But I have seen  no evidence  that this issue has been  disputed by the 
venue. The manager simply said that he would  look into it further  and report  back, but 
Ref: DRN56472583I havent seen  a subsequent message from him about the desserts. So the only evidence  
about this subject goes one way. There is an uncontested allegation that the desserts were 
not of satisfactory  quality.  I therefore think that this was a breach of contract  by the venue,  
and that Vanquis  ought to have reached  the same  conclusion since there  was no reason to 
find otherwise. I think that the venues offer of £500 was fair compensation for that issue. 
However, Mr F did not accept that offer and so it has not been paid to him. I will come back 
to that.
There isnt really any other documentary or independent evidence to support  the rest of this 
claim. What Mr and Mrs F have told us is itself evidence, but so is what  the manager  and his 
staff told them. I dont  think I can say that Vanquis  made an error in its overall approach to 
this claim.  It considered  what  was said by both sides, but then decided that there was no 
proof of any wrongdoing worth more than £500.  I cannot find fault with that decision. I regret  
that this will come as a grave disappointment to Mr and Mrs F, as it is very clear in all of their 
correspondence, then and now, that they feel very strongly about  their experience.
I havent seen  any evidence that the suppliers offer of £500  was conditional on Mr F not 
complaining to Vanquis, or that it was withdrawn when he did. But I accept that he did not 
accept the offer at the time, and so the £500  has not been paid to him. That was in 
September 2018, so I presume that offer is no longer on the table. So I am currently  minded 
to say that Vanquis should pay it, since Vanquis is jointly liable for the venues breach of 
contract.
So my provisional decision is that I intend  to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further 
representations I receive  from the parties   I intend  to order Vanquis  Bank  Limited to pay 
Mr F £500.
responses to my provisional  findings
Vanquis accepted  my provisional decision. Mrs F had nothing  to add. So there  is no reason 
for me to depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order  Vanquis  Bank  Limited to pay 
Mr F £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020. But Mrs F may reply  on his behalf.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5647258