K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society  Limited (NFU) 
has voided her horse and rider policy on the grounds of alleged  fraud.
background
On 17 October 2016 Mrs M took out a horse  and rider policy  with NFU. In March 2017  she 
made a claim for vets fees shed  paid in treating swelling on her ponys right fore leg. 
NFU looked  into the claim and appointed  a loss adjuster, who interviewed Mrs M. After  
taking legal advice  NFU told Mrs M it had decided to void her policy  on the grounds of fraud 
and misrepresentation,  and so it wouldnt pay her claim or refund her policy  premium. NFU 
said the injury happened  in October 2016, prior to Mrs M taking out the policy,  and Mrs M 
had taken out the policy knowing of the injury in order to make a claim. It relied on evidence 
from the vet who had treated her horse. NFU said she would need  to disclose the voidance 
to future insurers, and it claimed its investigation costs from her.
Mrs M strongly  disagreed  with NFUs decision. She said she had only noticed  the injury  in 
early November, after she took out the policy. She provided evidence which she said 
supported her position, and suggested the vet had been mistaken.
When Mrs M brought her complaint to us our investigator didnt think it should  be upheld.  He 
said NFU had made a fair decision based on the evidence it had received. Mrs M didnt 
agree, and asked  us to review again the evidence shed provided.
The complaint was passed  to an ombudsman who issued a provisional  decision saying she 
intended to uphold the complaint. She thought it was reasonable for NFU to investigate  the 
claim, as the vet said on the claim form that the injury occurred in October 2016, before the 
policy started. But she wasnt minded to conclude that it was fair and reasonable for NFU to 
decline the claim, void the policy  and claim its investigation costs  from Mrs M.
The ombudsman said the vets evidence was the main reason  NFU gave to void the policy  
and refuse  the claim and Mrs M had raised detailed points  which  called into question  the 
accuracy of that evidence.  In particular, she said there was evidence that Mrs Ms horse had 
taken part in an event  on 15 October 2016 and completed a clear round. Even if she were  to 
accept that the vets note should not be interpreted literally but to mean around four weeks 
earlier, she still felt there  was some doubt about  the sequence of events. She also referred 
to a statement  from a witness  who supported  Mrs Ms account. So the ombudsmans  initial 
view was that the policy should be reinstated, and NFU should  consider the claim in line with 
the policy terms and remove  any records of the alleged fraud.
NFU did not accept the ombudsmans provisional  decision and provided  further  detailed  
comments. In particular, NFU said it had investigated the claim thoroughly  and its decision 
was based largely  on the documentary evidence from the time, particularly the clinical notes  
dated 9 November 2016, and the clear,  unambiguous evidence from the vet. And it said that, 
as fraud  was such a serious matter, it had taken  into account the relevant legal standards  
applied by the courts.
NFU also said it hadnt seen some of the evidence the ombudsman relied on; a statement 
given by a vet employee was in fact some  emails; and the information in those emails simply 
confirmed information  given to the vets practice by Mrs M and didnt indicate the actual date 
Ref: DRN57395332of the injury. NFU provided a further  statement from a colleague of the vet, supporting what 
the vet had said.
The ombudsman issued  a second  provisional decision  after considering NFUs further 
comments. She said NFU had had the opportunity to review  and comment on all the 
evidence and, having done so, hadnt  changed its view.  She thought it was fair for her to 
consider all the evidence, in line with our inquisitorial  remit when considering evidence. She 
considered the witness who had supported Mrs M was impartial  and it was right to take her 
evidence to account, even though it was given some  time after the event.  The ombudsman 
noted NFUs  point that some of the issues referred  to in its investigation were no longer 
relevant, but said it referred to all the issues in its investigation, its final decision  letter  and its 
submissions to this service. So she thought NFU did intend to rely on that information when 
reaching its decision and it was relevant.
Finally, the ombudsman referred to evidence NFU had provided, which  she accepted in 
confidence to protect  the identity of the vets colleague. She said this evidence  corroborated  
the treating vets account that the injury  had occurred before the insurance had been taken 
out; the treating vet had been shocked  about  this and felt she needed  to discuss it with 
someone at the practice. Having reviewed everything, she now thought the weight of the 
evidence overall  was in NFUs  favour.  She said there was nothing to suggest  there  was any 
motive for the vet to express  concerns  about Mrs Ms decision to take out the policy and as 
there was evidence that the vet did discuss her concern with a colleague  at the time,  it would  
be unfair to conclude that the vets recollection was inaccurate or mistaken  even taking 
into account the other evidence that Mrs M had provided.
For these reasons, the ombudsmans view was that it would not be fair to uphold the 
complaint.
NFU accepted the ombudsmans  second provisional decision but Mrs M did not. She 
provided further detailed comments explaining  why. I have summarised as follows what 
Mrs M said:
The documents she has provided  show her pony competed at an event on 15 
October 2016, completing a cross country  course. The pony was sound after doing 
so. There was no injury in October 2016  and there was no reference to any such  
injury in her discussion with the vet.
She contacted  the vets practice on 4 November 2016 after noticing the injury and 
made an appointment for 9 November. The receptionist advised  on the time to wait 
before seeing  the vet after she gave details of the injury, including  the date.
If her actions  were fraudulent, it wouldnt make sense for her to tell the vet that shed 
taken out the insurance after noticing  the injury.
There were  two other horses  kept at the same yard and their owner visited  every 
day. If her pony had been injured, that person would have noticed. That person has 
given a statement  that supports her, and has no motive to provide misleading  
evidence.
NFUs  case  is that the crucial  documentary evidence which they state was written  
concurrently after the vets visit on the 9 November 2016 is accurate and 
unambiguous. But the clinical notes confirm  the visit was scheduled and took place at 
11.30am on 9 November 2016.  It lasted for at least an hour. The notes for that day 
are logged  and timed by the vet at 10.21am  - which  is before she came out to visit. 
The vets practice has confirmed that the time shown  next to the clinical  notes refers 
to when the notes were actually written. This means the notes cant be notes of her 
visit.
Ref: DRN57395333The vets notes  from that date describe her animal as a Horse  but she wasnt a 
horse, she was a pony. Theres a considerable height difference between  a pony and 
a horse,  which  any vet would acknowledge.  The vet correctly  refers to a Pony in her 
clinical notes on 15 February 2017,  which also refer to the correct timeline for the 
injury date - three months post injury.
Its likely  the clinical notes added  at 10.21am on 9 November 2016  before the time of 
the vets visit refer to a different  horse (not a pony) but with a similar injury. Even if 
thats not the case, the notes  can still not be unambiguous  (as stated by NFU) or an 
accurate account,  if they were written  before  the examination took place.
The type of injury suffered required a delay of three months before a re-scan  and 
before the pony  could be slowly  brought  back into work.  Her position that the vet was 
scheduled to come out three  months  post-injury is confirmed by the initial  scheduled 
appointment date of 7 February  2017,  as shown in the vets notes. She disputes a 
"degree of approximation" on dates   the notes  show that her timeline would have 
been accurate.
She wrote to the vet in August 2018, asking her to read through the evidence and 
comment on her clinical note taking  errors,  as well as a number of other genuine 
questions. The vet refused to reply and asked her not to write to her again  as she felt 
she had answered  all the questions. The vet also threatened that if she made  further 
contact, she would  provide more evidence, and copied in NFUs lawyer. She found 
this threatening  and unprofessional and considers this to be against the veterinary  
code of conduct which says vets must respond promptly, fully and courteously to 
clients complaints and criticism. She believes the vet knew she had made a number 
of mistakes and was not willing  to admit she had.
Further evidence provided by the vets colleague  is also inaccurate.
Her own evidence  has been consistent, and is corroborated by another person  and 
by dates in later clinical notes. She had no motive to make a fraudulent  claim  the 
costs of treatment and the value of the claim were  not significant.  She has shown 
that the clinical notes are not accurate and its probable they relate to a different 
horse or the vet was mistaken in her recollection. The vet and her colleague have a 
motive to discredit her rather  than accept that they may be mistaken.
After considering Mrs Ms response, I requested some further information  from NFU about 
the timings on the clinical notes  from 9 November 2016. NFU says this was put to the vet 
who has said the practice has had various system  upgrades and changes over the last few 
years; any discrepancy  could be related  to the transfer of data between systems or to how a 
laptop synced  to the system. It says the vet is very clear that the notes are accurate about 
what was said to her and about her examination; she is certain  of what  was said and stands 
by the evidence she has given.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. in the provisional decision,  I said:
This complaint has been passed  to me after the ombudsman  who was dealing  with it left the 
service. Her provisional decisions set out the background and the parties arguments in 
some detail and both parties  are familiar with everything that has happened.  I havent set 
everything out again in great  detail,  but have summarised the key points, in particular the 
additional points  received  since  the last provisional  decision. Although I have reviewed 
everything very carefully,  I will focus  on the key points.
The policy provides cover for treatment costs. In refusing  to pay this claim, NFU has relied 
on the general conditions of the policy, which say that if a claim is in any way fraudulent,  or 
supported by a fraudulent declaration or statement,  or if the policyholder  intentionally 
Ref: DRN57395334misrepresents or withholds  any material fact, it will not pay the claim and the policyholder will 
forfeit the benefits of the policy. It has also quoted  the general exclusions that it wont  pay 
any claim which directly  or indirectly  arises from or is connected with any illness,  disease or 
condition which first appeared  before  the start of cover.
The decision  turns  on whether it was reasonable for NFU to reach the conclusion it did, 
based on the vets evidence, or whether Mrs Ms evidence should  have carried  more weight. 
Other points have been raised  but in my view, this is the crux of the matter and so I have  
focused on this.
NFU says the evidence  shows this was a fraudulent claim, and relies in particular on the 
vets clinical records and further comments made  by the vet. Mrs M says the records are not 
accurate, the vet is mistaken in what  she has said, and the vet has since  tried to discredit 
her rather  than accept she was mistaken.
NFU has referred to the test used by the courts  that when assessing the weight of a 
witness evidence, the court  should  look to other evidence to see whether it supports  or 
undermines what the witness says, as well as considering witnesses motives and the overall 
probabilities. It says the only direct evidence from the time does not support  Mrs Ms version 
of events, and theres no reason to criticise the vet  she has no motive in providing  her 
evidence and in fact, her involvement has caused  her inconvenience and distress.  I think 
these points carry some weight.
The evidence at the time supports the vets version of events, not Mrs Ms, and is 
corroborated by evidence from a colleague.  I find it unlikely the vet  who has no motive for 
doing so  would invent  a version of what  happened and pretend that she told her 
colleagues about this.
I have considered Mrs Ms point about the timings  on the clinical notes and put this to NFU. 
It has provided further comments from the vet, providing an explanation and reiterating that 
she stands by the evidence shes provided.  Mrs M refers to the use of the word  horse  
instead of pony  in that note to suggest it was about  a different animal. But the vet had also 
described her pony as a horse in a note dated 15 February 2017, and Mrs M doesnt dispute 
that this entry refers to her pony. So I dont think the use of different terms means this note is 
not about her pony.
I agree  theres  no evidence to suggest  the vet had a motive to express concerns about 
Mrs Ms decision to take out the policy. The only possible  reason would be  as Mrs M 
suggests  that she made an error  in the first place, didnt want  to admit she had done so, 
and that both the vet and her colleague  had a motive to discredit  Mrs M rather  than accept 
that they might be mistaken. I dont find that argument convincing.  The vet had no interest in 
the claim herself and, if she had made  a mistake, it does not seem likely that she would then 
go to the lengths of inventing a narrative and persuading a colleague to go along with that, 
given that it would serve no benefit  to her but would instead cause her inconvenience.  In my 
view it would have been simpler for her to have admitted her recollection was incorrect, if 
that were the case.
Ive also considered the evidence given by the witness who supported  Mrs Ms account. I 
agree theres no reason to say she is not impartial. And she is an equine professional. So its 
right to take this into account. But her evidence was given some time after the event and I 
dont think its enough to override the contrary evidence, which seems persuasive for the 
reasons Ive given.
Ref: DRN57395335Looking at all the evidence, I consider it was reasonable for NFU to rely on the clinical notes 
from the time, supported by the evidence from the vet. She has been  consistent throughout, 
and her evidence  is corroborated  by a colleague.
Mrs M says her pony couldnt  have  been  injured before  the policy started  since she 
competed in an event  on 15 October 2016 without any sign of injury.  On balance,  I wouldnt 
say theres enough  evidence  to conclude that the vets evidence is incorrect or mistaken. 
Theres evidence that Mrs Ms pony completed the event, though  I note it was some minutes 
slower than other horses taking part. Evidence  of completing the event  isnt necessarily 
enough to confirm the pony had no injury; the injury could have been caused during that 
event, later that day or the next day. The information  recorded in the contemporaneous 
notes has been  confirmed by the vet, and in my judgment this is persuasive evidence that 
the injury happened around  that time, with symptoms manifesting after the event on 15 
October. This is also supported by the vets statement that Mrs M had taken out the policy 
(which she bought on 17 October)  after noticing the pony was lame.
Looking at all of this in the round, I am satisfied that it is more likely than not the injury was 
sustained before the policy started. And Im satisfied that it is more likely than not that Mrs M 
was aware of the injury and didnt disclose  it. NFU made its decision after taking legal 
advice. In my judgment it was reasonable for NFU to conclude that when making her claim 
Mrs M made  a false statement about  the injury. In these circumstances it was fair and 
reasonable for NFU to invoke the fraud clause and to refuse the claim and void the policy.
For these reasons I did not intend  to uphold  the complaint.
replies to the provisional decision
NFU has not provided further comments for me to consider  but Mrs M has. Again, I wont set 
these out in full but the key points include the following:
She called  the vets practice on 4 November  2016 and was told the visit would need 
to be delayed as there  needed to be time for the swelling to reduce. If the injury had 
happened in October  there would have been no need for the visit to be delayed.
The vet made an error  in her notes on the 9 November 2016  or an error  in her 
recollection of the injury  date,  or has misunderstood the conversation  about  the date 
of injury and when she took out the insurance.  
She did tell the vet she had taken out insurance within  the last four weeks but 
certainly did not tell her that this was after the injury as that is not true.
The evidence from the colleague  contradicts the vets evidence.
It needs to be questioned  when  the vet actually  had the conversation  with her 
colleague.
Mrs M has also provided further information  from the vets practice showing the clinical notes 
were not written on the day of the visit in November 2016, but the following day. She says 
this supports her belief  that the vet didnt recall  the discussion and dates correctly  and why 
she has not given  this information  to date, even when specifically asked by NFU. Mrs M says 
this provides further evidence of motive for the vet to cover up her mistake.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I havent  changed  my 
provisional decision and do not uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN57395336Mrs M contacted the vets practice and obtained  information indicating the clinical notes  
were not written on the day of the visit. She says this shows the vet has not been truthful 
when saying she recorded her notes straightaway,  it calls into question how accurate the 
vets testimony is, and is further  evidence of a motive for the vet to cover up her mistake.
If the notes  were not written straight  after the visit, its possible the vet was mistaken about 
when she wrote them. I cant be sure about that. But the evidence about  when  the notes 
were signed  is contradictory. On the one hand, Mrs M has previously said the vets practice  
has confirmed that the time shown next to the clinical notes refers  to when the notes  were  
actually written, and that means the note was written  before the visit. But the further 
information she has provided says the notes were in fact written the following day. In any 
event, I have to decide  on the balance of probabilities whats more likely. While its possible 
that what Mrs M says about  this is correct, on balance I still dont think its more  likely that 
the vet would have invented a story  to cover up a mistake. 
If she had been  mistaken,  it would  have been  easier for her to correct that  she had nothing 
to gain personally from this. Both she and a colleague signed statements for NFUs  solicitors  
confirming what they said. So to accept what Mrs M says about this, I would have to accept  
not only that the vet invented a version  of what happened and put this in signed statements, 
but also that she persuaded one of her colleagues to go along with this and do the same.  On 
balance I dont think thats likely. It would have been  simpler for her  and saved her a lot of 
time and trouble - to have  admitted her recollection was incorrect.
For these reasons, and the reasons set out in the provisional decision above, it remains my 
view that NFUs decision was in line with the policy terms  and was fair. 
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 March 2021.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5739533