K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complained that the National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) turned down their agricultural vehicle insurance claim. 
background
Mr and Mrs W claimed on their policy after their plough was damaged  by the wheel of a 
tractor it was attached  to dropping into a hole. NFUs engineer said the headstock  broke 
away from the plough  and this was a known weakness. He said this was mechanical  failure  
rather than damage caused by the hole. NFU turned  down the claim for the headstock as it 
said that wasnt covered  by the policy but it paid another  part of the claim for the resulting 
damage to the ram. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  think this was fair and provided information from an engineer who said 
the damage was caused by the accident. NFU referred  the claim to another engineer who 
agreed it was mechanical failure. Mr and Mrs W complained to NFU about its decision.  
NFU thought its decision was in line with the terms and conditions of the policy but accepted  
there had been  some  delays in responding to the claim. So it paid Mr and Mrs W £100 
compensation for that. 
As NFU still wouldnt pay Mr and Mrs Ws claim they brought their complaint to us. They  also 
provided a report from another engineer who said the damage had been caused  by the 
accident.
Our investigator didnt  think NFU had acted fairly and reasonably in turning  down  Mr and  
Mrs Ws claim, as she didnt think it had shown the damage to the headstock  was caused by  
mechanical failure. So she recommended NFU pay the claim, adding 8% simple interest. 
NFU didnt agree. It said while it didnt  dispute the plough had fallen into a hole, the damage  
had occurred because  of its age. It said a plough  should be able to withstand dropping into a 
hole without parts of it breaking. It also said it could have relied  on the exclusion in the policy  
that says it wont pay a claim for damage, where the cause  of that damage is wear and tear. 
But it didnt do that because it felt it was reasonable for it to rely on the exclusion for 
mechanical failure, and in doing so that meant  the policy would  still cover  the other  part of 
the claim for the damage to the ram. It said paying  Mr and Mrs Ws claim would mean that 
the plough would be repaired to a better condition than it would have been before the 
accident, which wasnt what the policy was designed  to do. It asked for an ombudsmans  
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it.
Mr and Mrs W have  a comprehensive policy that covers them for damage to their plough. 
And there doesnt  seem to be any dispute  that the tractor wheel fell into the hole and that 
event caused  damage to the plough. So any resulting damage would be covered unless an 
exclusion applied. The terms and conditions of the policy contain an exclusion that says NFU 
wont pay for any damage thats  caused by mechanical failure  or breakdown. It also says it 
Ref: DRN51515942wont pay for damage caused  by wear and tear. But in order  to apply these  exclusions fairly  
NFU is required  to show they apply, its not for Mr and Mrs W to show that they dont.
NFUs engineer said the headstock breaking  was a known weakness on ploughs. He said 
the plough should have  been able to withstand the incident and the circumstances of when 
the final separation  happened arent  relevant. I dont think  this explains why the damage to 
the plough was mechanical failure.  I can see a more  senior engineer from NFU agreed  with 
the conclusion  and didnt think the claim should  be paid. But he didnt provide any further 
explanation or reasons for this. So, while NFU has provided engineers  opinions,  those 
opinions arent  supported  by evidence clearly explaining their rationale. So I dont think  NFU 
has done enough to show that it was fair and reasonable for it to rely on the exclusion for 
either wear or tear or mechanical failure. 
Mr and Mrs Ws first engineer said the damage  happened due to the force  of the tractor it 
was attached to dropping into the hole. However that report  also doesnt explain how the 
engineer reached  that conclusion.
The second  engineers report Mr and Mrs W provided said there wasnt  any evidence  to 
suggest the headstock  main axle had been  fractured prior to the breakage.  He said there 
was no evidence of significant wear on the axle. He said he was unable to pinpoint the exact  
cause of the failure but it would have  needed significant force to break. He said the age of 
the plough might be a relevant factor but another factor was an event which exceeded the 
structural capability of the headstock.
I appreciate that the plough is around  13 years old. But I havent seen evidence that its age 
meant that it had lost structural integrity. And there  wasnt any evidence  to show  the part 
was broken before the accident. So it seems most likely the accident  was the cause of the 
damage and if the accident hadnt  happened  then the plough  wouldnt have broken. And 
while Ive noted  NFU said the force  of the accident shouldnt  have  caused  this to happen I 
dont think its explanation, without supporting evidence, is enough to fairly show  the 
exclusion applies. 
NFU said to pay the claim for the headstock would put the plough in a better condition than it 
was before the accident. But Im persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ws engineers report that said 
the part wasnt fractured  before the accident. So it seems more likely the part wasnt  
damaged before the accident  and seems to have been operating effectively. Which means 
by NFU paying the claim Mr and Mrs W will be put back  in the position they were in before 
the accident, as they will have a functioning plough. 
As Ive said above,  I dont  think NFUs done enough  to show it can rely on the exclusions for 
mechanical failure or wear and tear. To put things  right I think the fair and reasonable 
outcome in this particular  case is for NFU to pay Mr and Mrs Ws claim in line with any limits  
or excesses  on their policy. If this provides Mr and Mrs W with a cash  settlement NFU 
should add interest  to the settlement amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
the accident to the date it makes payment. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require The National Farmers Union 
Mutual Insurance Society  Limited to pay Mr and Mrs Ws claim in line with any limits or 
excesses on their policy. If this provides W with a cash  settlement NFU should  add interest  
Ref: DRN51515943to the settlement amount  at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of the accident to the 
date it makes payment1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
1 If NFU considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs W how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr and Mrs W a 
certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN5151594