K821x#15complaint
Ms W complains Nationwide  Building Society  hasnt provided advice when it shouldve done 
and hasnt provided the service that she has paid for.
background
Ms W saw an adviser in 2016  as she wanted to invest  some of the lump sum she had 
received from a pension.  She had no previous experience of investing. She was advised  to 
invest in a Unit Trust  and ISA. She was invested with a risk profile  of two  up to 40% in 
equities on a scale of zero to five. 
Her portfolio was changed in 2017 as a result  of her risk profile  being  changed  to three   up 
to 60% in equities. She saw an adviser and the advisers manager  in 2018 and wanted to 
reduce her risk profile back to two. But the adviser refused because  he had assessed her as 
a no-risk investor. This is what has led her to complain, although her complaint is wider than 
just what happened  in 2018.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint a copy of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. In short I made the following findings:
I was satisfied that Nationwide had provided  the review service Ms W had paid for.
Nationwide had provided advice to her at various times.
I didnt think the adviser had to provide any further information  about possible Capital 
Gains Tax on the sale of her home.
I wasnt satisfied that the adviser  had identified the risk she was willing to take when 
she was originally advised in 2016  and Nationwide should compare the return  on her 
investment with the average return on five year fixed rate bonds.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding. Nationwide  calculated that there  was no 
loss based on comparison with the average  return for five year fixed  rate bonds and 
provided no further response. Ms W responded and in summary said the following:
Her reviews have always been in the office, not over the phone,  because  she 
complained.
The fact Nationwide  only want to have a quick call and dont  want to be contacted  
unless there are changes  in a clients circumstances means  they are never advising 
as they are never seeing their clients.
The adviser charges  deducted from her investment by the provider are huge when 
she may never see her adviser and all the time paying adviser charges. She is 
paying for something she isnt getting.
The advice in 2018 to move her money into an ISA wasnt to benefit her but to stop 
her complaining and she couldve  put her money in a cash ISA herself  without 
advice.
She tried to speak  to the adviser about  selling her house but all he said was about 
giving it a lick of paint. Is that advice?  
She asked if changing  risk levels would cost her money and was only told it might  or 
might not.
When she was at risk level two £20,000  was put into an ISA but when she changed 
to risk level three the amount  was £17,701.  She queried this but was rebuffed.
All adviser charges she has paid should be repaid to her.
Ref: DRN53540862She has now opted out of the service  charge making her even more  eligible for a 
refund of all monies she has paid for the past three years.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the various points made by Ms W but she has provided no new evidence  
or information which would lead me to change  my findings. 
Im still satisfied that Nationwide did provide advice and an ongoing service to her and I gave 
examples of this in my provisional  decision.  
I note Ms W refers  to the adviser not providing  advice about  the sale of her house. But the 
service she was paying for was for investment  advice and it is understandable that the 
adviser didnt want  to advise about  something outside of his remit.
I also note she is unhappy the adviser wouldnt advise her whether changing risk levels 
would lose her money. But increasing her risk level increases the risk of losing money but 
also has the potential  to give greater gains. Im not persuaded  he did anything  wrong 
because he wouldnt tell her whether  she would  end up being worse off or not.
I note that she has opted  out of the ongoing  service charge as she is entitled to do. But that 
isnt a basis for saying  she should be repaid charges  she has already paid for this service.
Ms W has decided to keep her investments and has been given the information  she needs to 
change the risk of these  if that is what she wants to do. 
What Nationwide should do to put things  right.
Nationwide should  compare the return Ms Ws investments  have actually made with what  
she wouldve received  if she had invested  in a fixed rate bond for five years and received a 
return of 2.27% each  year and pay the difference to Ms W  although I note it has already 
carried out a calculation that indicates Ms W has suffered no loss as things stood at the time 
of its calculation.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision. Nationwide  Building  
Society has to pay any redress it calculates  is due based on what  I have  set out above.
Ms W should be aware that although  I have upheld  her complaint on the basis  and for the 
reasons I have set out she is unlikely to receive  any redress given  Nationwide  has already  
carried out a calculation indicating no loss has been suffered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN53540863COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms W complains Nationwide Building  Society hasnt  provided advice  when it shouldve  done and 
hasnt provided the service  that she has paid for.
background
Ms W saw an adviser in 2016 as she wanted  to invest some of the lump  sum she had received from a 
pension. She had no previous experience of investing. She was advised to invest  in a Unit Trust and 
ISA. She was invested with a risk profile of two  up to 40% in equities in a scale of zero to five. 
Her portfolio  was changed in 2017  as a result of her risk profile being changed to three  up to 60% in 
equities. She saw an adviser and the advisers  manager in 2018 and wanted to reduce her risk profile  
back to two. But the adviser refused because he had assessed  her as a no-risk investor. This is what  
has led her to complain,  although her complaint is wider than just what  happened in 2018.
 
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint.  It said the adviser  Ms W had seen in October  2018 had 
provided suitable  advice based on the information she had given him. It explained the adviser hadnt 
been willing to change Ms Ws risk level to the one she wanted  because he wasnt satisfied she was 
willing to take any capital risk based on what she had said.
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  He said he 
wasnt able to comment  on the altercation/disagreement  that occurred in the branch in October  2018 
as there are no records of this. He said the initial advice fee was something Nationwide  was entitled 
to charge as it had provided advice. And he had seen nothing to show that it hadnt  carried out the 
annual reviews Ms W was paying for. 
The adjudicator also indicated the adviser  had done  nothing  wrong  because he hadnt reduced her 
risk profile to a lower level based on the information he had. He also didnt think  the adviser had done 
anything wrong because he hadnt provided more detailed advice about  Capital  Gains  Tax (CGT) as 
he wasnt being paid for tax advice.
Ms W didnt agree with the adjudicator. In short  she made the following  points:
There was no altercation this has been suggested  to make the situation appear worse than it 
was.
She receives investment  reports from Aegon not Nationwide.
She did ask for Aegons telephone  number but this wasnt to change her risk rating from three 
to two.
She went to Nationwide  to help her plan for her retirement but isnt able to ask them  anything. 
If they arent providing advice what is she paying fees for?
Everything is left to the client to decide but she went to them  because  she didnt have  a clue 
and needed help.
Yearly reviews werent carried out initially, only after she pointed  out these werent  being  
done.
Any adviser  should  know something about tax and her questions  werent complicated.
She was told she shouldnt be investing in anything that involves risk but this is a little late 
when she had already  invested through Nationwide.
All she wanted  from the meeting in October 2018 was for the adviser to change  her risk 
rating.
As Ms W didnt agree with the adjudicator  the matter  has been referred  to me for review. 
my provisional  findings
Ref: DRN53540864Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W appears to be unhappy generally with the service  she has received from Nationwide but has 
made a number of specific points.
I note there is some issue over whether there was some sort of altercation when Ms W met with an 
adviser and manager in 2018. I make no finding on this as there is no evidence available to indicate  
whether this happened  or not and I dont consider it is a significant issue in this complaint.
Ms W says yearly  reviews werent  carried  out initially. But there was a review in June 2017 and she 
was contacted about  the review in 2018  which  then led to her complaint and her meeting  with an 
adviser and manager. The documents indicate the review is normally carried out over the telephone 
and is to ensure her investments still meet her needs. Where this isnt the case a further discussion 
would then take place,  as it did in 2017. So Im not satisfied Nationwide wasnt  providing the review 
service she had paid for.
Ms W has said that Nationwide  hasnt provided advice and she has questioned what she is paying for. 
But I dont agree  she hasnt  been advised. She clearly received the initial advice to invest in the Unit 
Trust investment and ISA in 2016 and received further advice in 2017. 
And in 2018 she was advised to move her money out of her investments  and into a cash-ISA - 
because the adviser thought she wasnt willing  to take a capital risk based on what  she had said to 
him. I acknowledge she may not have agreed with the advice  in 2018 but Im satisfied she was 
actually being advised.
I note Ms W is unhappy  she wasnt  given  further advice about CGT in 2018, in respect of the possible 
sale of her home. But I dont think  the adviser  had to do more  than provide her with basic information  
about CGT which I think he did. The government website  he showed her makes clear  CGT isnt 
payable on sale of a main  residence if five simple  criteria  are satisfied. Im not sure what further 
information the adviser couldve provided  to Ms W that would  have explained  this any better.
Although Im satisfied  that Ms W was provided  with the service she had paid for in terms of being 
provided with reviews and advice, Im not satisfied the actual  advice she was given was suitable.
I think  the contrast between what the adviser recorded in 2016 and 2017  as against what  the adviser 
noted in 2018 is significant.  I think it brings  into question whether Nationwide actually  got to know 
their customer  at the outset in 2016 and gave her suitable advice at the time.
Ms W didnt have any previous investment experience when she invested. That doesnt of itself mean 
she couldnt  invest in a product that had up to 40% in equities if she understood the risk of this and 
was willing and able to take that risk. But Im not satisfied that she did.
The advisers  notes from 2018 made clear his view that Ms W had only a simple financial 
understanding and that she struggled  to process all the information.  I think  this is more  likely than not 
to have been  the same in 2016.  I also note that Ms W stated that she went to Nationwide  because 
she didnt have a clue. 
The suitability letter sent in 2016 included statements  such as:
You appreciate that different asset classes perform differently at different stages  of the economic 
cycles and in different political  situations
And:
We discussed the concept  of Correlation. Simply put this means whether different  assets in your 
portfolio gain or lose value at the same time. A badly diversified portfolio  means  when one of your 
Ref: DRN53540865assets is performing  badly  so is your whole portfolio. Diversification helps to minimise this by reducing 
correlation between  your assets.
I think  it is very unlikely that someone who only had a simple understanding of financial matters is 
likely to have understood what statements such as this actually meant.
 
I also think  it is of note that in the risk profile  questions in 2016 Ms W; strongly  agreed with the 
statement that she wanted  her money to be safe even if it meant lower  returns; strongly  agreed she 
wanted small  certain gains over uncertain ones; tended to agree with the statement that she would  
prefer an investment that was safe and grows slowly  but steadily even  if it means lower growth 
overall. 
I acknowledge she gave other  answers which  indicated she was prepared  to take some risk but I think 
these have to be considered in light of her only having a simple financial understanding and no 
previous investment experience. In other words Im not sure she understood fully what  her answers 
actually meant.
In short Im not satisfied she was actually prepared to take the risk she would  lose some of her money 
when she invested  in 2016. 
Even if the advice in 2016  had been suitable Im not satisfied that Nationwide was right to recommend 
Ms W change  her portfolio  in 2017 in line with a risk profile of three on the basis she was now more 
experienced. She only had a year of experience of investing  in what Nationwide had recommended  in 
2016 and hadnt suffered a loss in that year. 
This doesnt seem to me to be a reasonable basis for changing her risk profile when the questions 
she answered  showed she still had a risk profile of two. I think the fact she wanted to increase  her risk 
profile after only a year shouldve  rung warning bells with the adviser that she didnt really  know what  
she was doing.
I would also comment that it is hardly  surprising that Ms W feels  Nationwide shouldve reduced her 
risk profile to two from three in 2018  given it had been happy to increase her profile from two to three 
the previous year despite  her actual profile not changing from 2016.
I accept that a customers risk appetite can change. But I think  when the evidence is looked at as a 
whole the changes she wanted to make to her risk profile  shows a lack of understanding on her part 
as to what these mean, rather  than an informed choice on her part as to the risk she was willing to 
take. 
In summary the adviser in 2016 had to have a reasonable belief that the recommendation he made  
was one that the customer  had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks of. 
Given what I have said above it follows that I dont think there was any reasonable basis on which the 
adviser could consider that Ms W had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the 
risks of the investments he recommended.
That doesnt  mean  I think  Ms W wouldnt have invested at all. I think it is clear that she was happy  to 
invest for at least six years, didnt need access  to her money whilst it was invested and wanted her 
investment to do better than if she simply kept it in an ordinary deposit account. But Im not satisfied 
that Ms W was willing  to lose any of her capital. 
I note that Nationwide has already carried out a calculation comparing the return  on Ms Ws 
investments to the average rate of return for a one year fixed rate bond  in line with the benchmark  we 
use for someone who doesnt want any risk with their money. Its calculation shows that Ms W has 
suffered no loss on that basis.
I think  using fixed rate bonds  as a benchmark is the right approach. But given Ms W wanted to invest 
over the medium term Im not satisfied that using  a benchmark based on the average rate for a one 
Ref: DRN53540866year fixed rate bond is the right comparison  to make. I think it would  be more appropriate to use the 
average rate of return for fixed rate bonds of five years instead  being the longest term widely  
available at the time.
I note from Moneyfacts that the longest term fixed rate bond offered by Nationwide at the time was 
only three years so it wouldnt have  been  able to offer her a five year fixed rate bond, so she might 
have had to have gone  elsewhere for advice on this.
Although Ms W saw the adviser in February 2016 she didnt apply for her investments until April 2016. 
So I have considered  the various five year fixed term/bond rates that were available in that month as 
shown in Moneyfacts. I have  calculated an average rate of return of around 2.27% each year.
Nationwide should compare the return Ms Ws investments have actually made with what she 
wouldve received if she had invested and received a return  of 2.27% each year and pay the 
difference to Ms W.
my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons  I have  explained.  Nationwide Building  Society has to pay Ms W 
the redress  it calculates  is due as set out above.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5354086