K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr and Mrs N say Yorkshire Building  Society  (Yorkshire), trading at the time as 
Norwich and Peterborough, mis-sold them  the PPI.
background
I sent Mr and Mrs N and Yorkshire a provisional decision saying I thought the PPI wasnt 
mis-sold and that Yorkshire had to repay  some of the PPI cost.  I said Id consider  anything 
else Mr and Mrs N or Yorkshire wanted to give me, so long as I received  it by 28 February. 
Yorkshire didnt reply.  Mr and Mrs N replied and didnt have anything new to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs N took the PPI when they took a mortgage. They havent suggested that they 
werent given a choice about taking the policy. And Yorkshire thinks  that to take it a separate  
form was used. The insurer  no longer has a copy,  so I dont know  what this looked like. But 
with all Ive said above in mind, I think Yorkshire  likely made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs N didnt 
have to take the PPI and Mr and Mrs N chose to take it.
I understand the policy was in joint names. The cover was on Mr N. Yorkshire  recommended  
the policy to Mr and Mrs N so it had to check the policy was right for them. From  what  Ive 
seen of their circumstances at the time,  I think the policy was right for them. For example, 
Mr N wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the cover. And his work sick pay 
would reduce to half pay after six months.  For a successful claim the policy  would pay out for 
up to two years for accident or sickness  up to twelve months for unemployment - on top of 
Mr Ns work  benefits. So with all this in mind,  and although Mr and Mrs N have told us Mr N 
also had a pension,  Mr and Mrs N seem  to have had a need for the PPI cover they took.
Mr and Mrs N have told us theyre  unhappy  with the PPI because they were led to believe it 
would cover payments  for the entire  mortgage indefinitely   rather than just for the two year 
or twelve month periods Ive mentioned above.  But I havent  seen  anything  else to show that 
Yorkshire mightve misled  Mr and Mrs N about how long the benefit  payments could last. 
And the sale took place some years  ago. So I wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs N to recall all the 
details vividly. Taking all this into account, I havent  seen enough to make  me think  Yorkshire 
did mislead Mr and Mrs N about  how long the PPI benefit would last.
I dont know exactly what Yorkshire told Mr and Mrs N about the PPI cover. Its possible the 
information Yorkshire gave them wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But, for the reasons 
Ive given above, it seems  like the benefit the policy  would provide wouldve been  useful  for 
Mr and Mrs N if something went wrong.  It also looks like the cover  was affordable. Taking  
everything into account, I dont think better information about  the PPI cover or benefit would 
have put Mr and Mrs N off taking the cover.
Ref: DRN51985582What Ive said above means Yorkshire doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs N. But Yorkshire will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs N 
because: 
Yorkshire got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs N about that. Because Yorkshire  didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs N, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Yorkshire has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Yorkshire has to pay back to Mr and Mrs N any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Yorkshire  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs N any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Yorkshire should pay back to Mr and Mrs N the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Yorkshire should 
also pay Mr and Mrs N 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Yorkshire has to take basic rate tax off this interest.  Mr and Mrs N can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society doesnt  have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs N.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs N any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5198558