K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  Lloyds  Bank General Insurance Limited has delayed  settling her buildings 
insurance claim following  a flood in May 2018.
background
Miss B has her Halifax home insurance  with Lloyds. In May 2018 her property, along with a 
number of others in the area,  suffered flooding.  Miss B submitted a claim to Lloyds who 
arranged for a loss adjuster to visit the property. 
It agreed a list of works and a contractor was appointed. Whilst this was ongoing  Miss B 
stayed with her sister.
Contractors started work on the property. However  in August 2018 Miss B asked for the 
contractors to be removed  because of substandard work, they had left her property unlocked 
and had been unhygienic. They had also left radiator caps unlocked causing more  water 
damage and had left radiators  out in the garden. 
Lloyds agreed  for Miss B to obtain quotes from her own contractors for the work. This took 
Miss B some  time because of other buildings in the area needing work and that some 
contractors were unwilling  to work  on insurance  jobs. However, she managed to obtain  two 
quotes and sent these  to Lloyds in October 2018.  Lloyds needed a breakdown of the work 
quoted for to ensure  it matched the work it was liable  for under the policy.  Only one of     
Miss Bs contractors was willing to provide  this. Lloyds  considered  the quote but felt it was 
too high and offered to cash settle Miss Bs claim at £23,600. 
This figure was far lower  than that quoted by Miss Bs contractor and so she complained 
about the offer. She also complained about  the delays experienced, the delays in getting her 
alternative accommodation costs (contributions to her sisters  household bills) and that being  
out of her home  was exacerbating her existing  medical conditions.  
Miss B contacted our office  and asked for help but as this was before Lloyds time to 
respond to the complaint had expired, we couldnt get involved. Lloyds considered the 
complaint and upheld it. It agreed  to increase the settlement offer to £31,800 inclusive  of 
VAT and an additional £1,200 for further accommodation costs (based on its estimate  of how 
long it would take to complete the work  required). It explained it agreed with the works but 
not the cost. As an alternative  Lloyds also offered to arrange another contractor. It also paid 
Miss B £200 for the inconvenience caused. 
Miss B wasnt happy with the outcome as she wanted to proceed  with the work using her 
own contractor and the settlement offer from Lloyds wasnt enough to do that. So she asked 
us to continue  with her complaint. 
One of our investigators  initially upheld the complaint.  He didnt find £200 was sufficient for 
the distress and inconvenience  this matter had caused  Miss Bs medical  conditions  had 
been affected and there  were some delays  in considering the quotes  provided. So he asked 
Lloyds to increase  this to £500.  He also felt, because of the issues  with Lloyds contractors, 
and that Miss B was told to get quotes, that Lloyds should honour the quote she obtained. 
Lloyds agreed  to increase the compensation payment  to £500. But it didnt  agree it should  
settle in accordance with Miss Bs quote  as its costs are the limit of its liability.  It said Miss B 
Ref: DRN55898242was the party that wanted different contractors and its sure she was offered an alternative  
contractor earlier in the process (although  it has no evidence of that).  And although Miss B 
initially agreed with the investigators findings,  after Lloyds didnt agree, she no longer 
believed £500  was sufficient compensation for the distress caused. 
Another of our investigators considered  the matter and concluded Lloyds  offer of another  
contractor was a fair way to settle  the matter. But Miss B didnt agree and so the matter has 
been referred to me for a decision.  
Before reaching a decision I needed  further information from the parties:
Miss B  was she the only resident at her property  as renewal  information  suggested  
two parties? Miss B confirmed it was just her. 
Lloyds  I asked  it to point to where  in the policy document  it allowed it to cash  settle 
at the amount it would  cost it. Although it pointed to a section on how it settled 
buildings claims this didnt  expressly  provide for cash settlement at its costs.
Miss B has accepted  my decision. She made a couple of points about not being  offered 
alternative accommodation and that she couldnt  face being in a hotel long term. She says 
its now been confirmed  that she can have a six month let as alternative accommodation. 
She continues to suffer with her health conditions and there was no offer to help mitigate  the 
seriousness of the situation. She explained that none of this affects her acceptance of the 
decision.
Lloyds also accepted the decision and the proposed redress I set out in my provisional 
findings. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties have  accepted my 
provisional findings, I see no reason to alter them aside from making  them final.
I would like to reassure  the parties  that although  I have only summarised  the evidence  and 
background above, I have read and considered  everything provided in its entirety in reaching 
my findings.  
Lloyds has accepted the claim. It has also accepted that all the work quoted for by Miss Bs 
contractor needs  doing. So I dont need to make any findings  in relation to those points. The 
only thing left for me to decide is whether Lloyds  has offered a fair settlement amount and 
whether the compensation of £500  it has agreed to is fair and reasonable.
I turn firstly to the settlement of the claim.  Lloyds  liability under the policy is to return Miss B 
to her pre-loss position as far as it is reasonably possible. Lloyds has said its liability is 
limited to what it would  cost it to carry out repairs. But I dont agree  with that  Lloyds needs 
to indemnify Miss B for her losses. 
Lloyds initially appointed a contractor to complete  the works. But, quite understandably,  
Miss B lost faith in the contractors following a number of issues  which included leaving the 
property unlocked, causing more damage and not being considerate around the property (to 
the point of being unhygienic). 
Ref: DRN55898243Although there is no persuasive evidence that Lloyds offered an alternative contractor before 
it issued its final response, Im not persuaded Miss B is acting unreasonably in declining that 
given her previous  experience. And I do need  to bear in mind that it was Lloyds that told 
Miss B to obtain alternative quotes for it to consider, in the knowledge that any quote she 
obtained was likely  to be higher than it could complete the work for.
Ive also considered the policy terms. These  explain at How we settle  claims under your 
Buildings covers that:
We will pay the cost of rebuilding or repairing the part of your home  which is 
damaged (using suitable equivalent  material wherever possible) but not more  
than the cost of completely rebuilding in its original  form.
We have the option  of giving you a money  payment instead of repairing or 
rebuilding your home. We will either:
oPay the cost of repairing the damage less an allowance for wear and 
tear or;
oPay the difference between the open market sale value of your home  
prior to the damage and is open  market sale value after the damage. 
We will not make a deduction for wear and tear or depreciation if the buildings 
are maintained in a good state  of repair
If it is necessary to repair the buildings we will also pay for:
Architects, surveyors and legal fees where  these are necessarily incurred  
with our prior approval;
Clearing debris, demolishing buildings or making  them safe;
The cost of complying  with building regulations, local authority or other 
statutory requirements, unless the need to comply  with any of them was 
advised to you before the insured damage  happened or if the requirement  
relates to undamaged  parts  of your buildings. 
Lloyds acknowledges  that its terms and conditions dont expressly  provide  for it to cash  
settle at an amount it would cost it to carry out repairs  but it remains  of the view that its 
contractor can carry out the work in accordance with its costs  and so this is the limit of its 
liability. It also considers  this fairly standard in the insurance industry. I do agree that cash  
settlements, when an insurer is willing to carry out repairs, is generally accepted to be at an 
amount it would cost it. But other home  insurance  policies Ive seen expressly  provide for 
this in the terms of the policy and Lloyds policy doesnt. 
But even if that was expressly provided  for (and it isnt) I would  still need  to consider whether 
the application of such a term would  be fair. And here I need to consider whether,  without  
such a term, its fair for Lloyds to settle on this basis. 
Having thought about this carefully, and acknowledging that Lloyds has offered to send in an 
alternative contractor, Im not minded to find it fair not to meet  Miss Bs contractors quote.  
When reaching this conclusion Ive borne in mind  the terms and conditions  of the policy   the 
basis of the contract  between Miss B and Lloyds. Ive also considered that Miss B has had a 
bad experience with Lloyds  previous contractors to the extent that she has lost all faith in 
Lloyds. Given that Miss Bs property was left unlocked and that further damage was caused, 
Im not surprised that Miss B is reluctant to have any of Lloyds other contractors complete 
Ref: DRN55898244the works.  In the circumstances and because  something went wrong, I find it fair that Lloyds 
meets the cost of Miss Bs quote.  
I turn now to the compensation payment our investigator recommended and which Lloyds 
accepted of £500. 
I understand Miss B is unhappy  that she is continually chasing  Lloyds to pay for her 
alternative accommodation. And she is unhappy that she has now been  at her sisters since  
last June which has been difficult as her brother-in-law works from home. I can see that her 
family suggested she move in to start with, and it isnt clear  from the file whether Lloyds 
offered to find any other alternative accommodation for her at that time. But I do know that it 
has offered since, and that when Miss B needed  to be somewhere else,  hotel or B&B 
accommodation has been provided. So it seems  to me that it has been  Miss Bs choice to 
remain at her sisters while this matter  is settled when she could have had accommodation  
elsewhere. That said, as this is a payment that Lloyds knows it is paying it should be able to 
make these payments  on a regular basis rather than Miss B needing to chase for this. 
Miss B has since said Lloyds never offered alternative accommodation, although it has now 
offered a six month  let. As it wasnt clear from the file that Lloyds had offered alternative 
accommodation this doesnt affect my findings. Im happy to see a six month  let has now 
been offered.  
Miss B has existing medical conditions which she says have been exacerbated by this 
situation. It is difficult to know with any degree  of certainty whether or not her conditions  
have been made worse  or been  triggered by Lloyds  in/actions, by the distress of the flood 
itself or something she would have suffered anyway (neither of which Lloyds is responsible  
for). But I accept it is plausible that the stress of still not being in her home  will have 
impacted on Miss Bs wellbeing that I should fairly take account of this.
Having looked  through the file although  some delays have been out of Lloyds control, I do 
have to bear in mind  that Miss B waited some  time for it to let her know  if her quote had 
been accepted. And Im mindful that Miss B was only put to this trouble because  of the poor 
behaviour and workmanship of Lloyds contractors.   
Taking all of this into account,  I do think Miss B should be fairly compensated for the 
additional distress  and inconvenience  she has suffered.  And taking everything into account I 
find the amount  recommended by the investigator  to be a fair reflection of that - £500.  
how Lloyds need  to put this right
As I have upheld this complaint, I require Lloyds  Bank General Insurance  Limited to:
Pay Miss B the amount shown in her quote - £36,405.90   so that she can get the 
work completed on her property using her contractor. 
Pay Miss B any additional amount of VAT on the above quote, on provision of 
evidence that the quote is subject to VAT and that it has been paid.
Pay Miss B £500 of compensation for the distress and inconvenience  this matter has 
caused. 
Pay Miss B £1,200  to cover the alternative accommodation costs (as offered in its 
final response). 
These payments  should be made  within 28 days of Miss Bs acceptance of my final decision.
Ref: DRN55898245my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and require Lloyds Bank  General 
Insurance Limited to redress this complaint in accordance  with the above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5589824