K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund  a payment, debited  from his credit card 
account, to an online  ticket resale website (the website).
background
In June 2018 Mr M wanted two event tickets. He went  to the website. He says he thought he 
was paying £119 per ticket, plus a delivery fee, so he thought  hed be charged about £245.  
He paid using  his Santander  credit  card. He says when he received the booking  confirmation 
he found hed been charged £328.55, about £90 more than he expected.  
Mr M contacted Santander to ask it to cancel the payment. Santander  said he would need  to 
contact the website. The website wouldnt help, so he asked Santander  to help. Santander  
considered a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) but it 
didnt think the necessary  arrangement was in place for a valid claim. This was because  the 
party supplying the tickets (the ticket seller) was different to the party  Mr M paid (the 
website). 
Mr M remained of the opinion Santander should refund him the money hed been charged 
above what he expected. He brought  the complaint to this service.  I issued a provisional 
decision saying why I didnt think complaint  should be upheld. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
This complaint is about Santander,  as Mr Ms credit card account provider. Its not 
about the website, which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within 
my remit. Im only considering whether  Mr M authorised Santander to debit the 
account with the value  of the transaction, and whether it could help with his dispute  
with the website.
relevant considerations
The regulations relevant  to this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. 
These explain that a payment out of someones account  can only be authorised if the 
payer has consented to it. The payment service provider (here,  Santander)  must also 
show the payment  was authenticated. But its not enough for the car issuer  to simply 
rely on the fact that the card and PIN, or the personalised  set of procedures  needed  
to initiate a payment, were used; that doesnt necessarily mean  that the payment was 
authorised by the account holder.
Whether a payment has been authorised or not is important because, very broadly 
speaking, under both the Payment Services Regulations and the account terms and 
conditions the account holder is liable for payments theyve  authorised  and the 
banks liable  for unauthorised payments. 
did Mr M authorise Santander to debit  the account with the value of the transaction? 
For the payment  to be authenticated card details needed to be entered. Mr M 
accepts he entered  the details on his credit  card, and the order  went through,  so Im 
satisfied the payment was authenticated. 
Ref: DRN53437052Mr M argues, effectively, that he cant be said to have consented to the payment 
being made (and therefore to have  authorised  it) if he was charged  more than he was 
supposed to be. He says he wouldnt have proceeded with the purchase of the 
tickets if hed known  the total and final cost before the payment was made.
Im not persuaded, however, that Mr M wasnt aware, or that he didnt have the 
information which should have made him aware,  of the value of the payment. Ive 
noted all that Mr M has said about how the website functioned when he was 
accessing it. Ive seen the steps someone needed to follow to buy tickets on the 
website in June  2018. The sales process, in brief, was as follows:
-The buyer chooses the event  and date they want the tickets for.
-The buyer selects how many  tickets they want,  and then chooses the tickets  
they want. The location (section and row) and price per ticket  are shown.  A 
summary pops up, and to continue, a buyer  clicks Buy. 
-The buyer enters their personal  information. At the top left-hand side of the 
page, the number of tickets selected and the price per ticket  are shown. It has 
a note below  this which says Not Included: Handling  Fee, VAT and Booking 
Fee.
-The delivery method  is confirmed,  and at the top left-hand  side the number of 
tickets selected, the price  per ticket and handling fees per ticket are shown. It 
has a note below this which says Not Included:  VAT and Booking Fee.
-The buyer selects the payment method, and at the top left-hand  side the 
number of tickets selected, the price per ticket  and handling  fees per ticket  
are shown.  It has a note below this which  says Not Included: VAT and 
Booking Fee.
-The buyer enters their payment details (name  on card, card number, expiry 
date and card security code). At the top left-hand  side the number of tickets 
selected, the price  per ticket,  handling fees per ticket, and VAT and booking  
fee per ticket are shown.  Also included is the total price, in capitals  and in 
bold.
-The buyer completes  the purchase. In the centre  of the screen the number of 
tickets selected, the price  per ticket, handling fees per ticket,  and VAT and 
booking fee per ticket  are shown. Also included is the total price,  in capitals 
and in bold. The buyer then has to click, at the bottom of the page, to 
complete the purchase.  
Mr M bought  the tickets  in June 2018.  So I think the process Ive described above is 
most likely the process Mr M would have followed.
The Advertising Standards Authority (ASA)  issued a ruling against the website last 
year. It said that the ad for the tickets (the start of the process where a buyer 
chooses the tickets  they want) didnt make  clear the total ticket  price including  the 
booking fee, and didnt make clear  the applicable  delivery fee, so it concluded that 
the ad was misleading. I can see why the ASA came to this conclusion. But I dont  
Ref: DRN53437053need to comment  on the ad. Instead, I need  to consider the information available to 
Mr M when  he chose  to complete the transaction. 
As Ive explained above, the full price wasnt shown at the start of the process. But 
from what Ive seen,  by the time a buyer was asked to input their payment details 
(which Mr M accepts  he did) the full price was shown. And it was shown on the final 
page before  a buyer completes the transaction. I think this must have appeared on 
Mr Ms screen, as his order was placed. So I think the full price  was available to 
Mr M. And I think he completed the transaction. 
Overall, given my conclusions as to what I think - on balance - Mr M is likely to have 
seen when he was on the website, I conclude  Mr M should have been aware of the 
value of the transaction to be made - and that it was about to be made - and 
therefore consented to and authorised it. It follows that I cant fairly and reasonably  
say Santander  wasnt entitled to debit  the account on the basis  that the transaction 
wasnt authorised.
could Santander  help with the dispute with the website? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant,  as Mr M 
does here,  Santander  (as the credit  card issuer) can attempt a chargeback.  
Generally we say its fair for a card issuer  to attempt a chargeback  - or to challenge a 
payment - if theres a reasonable prospect of success, for example where goods 
arent received or it appears that the payment wasnt  properly authorised by the 
cardholder.
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features  to this one, where 
chargeback has been  successful. But it doesnt necessarily follow  that Santander 
should have attempted one here. What I need to decide is if, in the particular  
circumstances of this complaint, I think it should  have. But I dont think  Santander 
couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr M didnt properly authorise the 
transaction, given  the conclusions Ive already set out.
And Mr M received the tickets and attended the event.  So I dont think Santander  
could have challenged the payment on the basis that he didnt  get what he paid for 
either. 
how about Section  75?
As the payment was made using a credit  card, I have also taken  into account how 
Section 75 applies  to Mr Ms circumstances. Santander argues that Mr M cant have 
a valid claim in this case  because of the arrangements involved in the transaction.  I 
dont agree. 
For a valid claim  under  Section 75 there must  be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place.  Santander argues that the debtor is Mr M, the creditor  is 
Santander, and the supplier is the ticket seller.  This means that because  the payment  
went to the website, not the supplier, it doesnt  think the necessary arrangement  
exists. I can see where Santander is coming  from as the websites terms and 
conditions say:
Ref: DRN534370541.2 Ticketing Exchange.  [websites name]  provides a service that allows  members  
who want to buy tickets  ("Buyers") to find members who want  to sell tickets 
("Sellers"). [websites name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual 
transactions are between  the Buyers and Sellers.
But as the above says,  the website provides a service. And for this it charges buyers 
a fee. In regard  to the fee, the website says it:
charges  a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed  in the check-
out process and covers  the cost of maintaining the [websites name] platform, 
guaranteeing tickets  and providing customer service.
So in effect,  there is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between Mr M, 
Santander and the website, albeit  not for the direct  provision of the tickets 
themselves. Instead,  the website provides a service.  The service  consists  of two 
main things - the platform and the guarantee. So I think the website is responsible  for 
how ticket information  (such as venue, date, time, seat location and the asking price) 
is displayed to buyers. And I think, under the guarantee, its responsible  for providing  
replacement tickets or a refund if the seller doesnt  fulfil their obligations around 
supplying the tickets.  
That being  said,  for a valid claim under Section 75 the service provided by the 
website must have a cash price  of more than £100. In this case, I havent  seen a 
breakdown of the amount  Mr M paid. But he was charged £328.55. And says he 
expected to pay about £245 for the tickets and delivery fee. So I think  its more likely 
than not the websites fee for its service in this case  was less than £100  (£328.55  
minus £245 is £83.55). This means Mr M cant have a valid claim under Section 75.
Lastly, for a valid claim Mr M would need  to show  a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the website. But the website  did what it agreed to do here - 
namely, to arrange  for the seller of the tickets to deliver them to Mr M. And as Ive 
already concluded, I think  the information  the website displayed showed  how much  
Mr M would be charged. So even  if the cash price of the service  the website provided  
was over £100, I dont  think  Mr M would  have a valid claim under  Section 75.
other 
Mr M doesnt feel the delivery  fee was value  for money as he was charged £10 for 
what he describes as two small pieces  of paper to be delivered. But I think he knew - 
or should reasonably have known - how much he would be charged, and the delivery  
took place. So I dont think Santander  could  help with this through  a chargeback.  And 
as Ive said, Section  75 doesnt apply unless the cash price is over £100. Besides 
that, whether  or not a cardholder got value for money isnt grounds  for a claim under 
Section 75 to be successful. 
Mr M thinks he was overcharged for the tickets because they had a face value of £50 
each. I dont think theres a reason Santander could have used under the chargeback  
scheme rules to get Mr Ms money  back on the basis that he was for being  charged 
more than a tickets face value. As Ive said, the provision of information by the 
website is something  Section 75 could apply to. But its the seller which sets the price 
of the tickets, not the website. This means  the difference between the face value of 
each ticket, and what Mr M paid for each ticket, went to the seller, not the website. 
Ref: DRN53437055So Im still satisfied the cash price of the service the website provided was less than 
£100, meaning Section 75 doesnt  apply  here.
Mr M says he called Santander to cancel the payment before it debited  his account, 
but Santander wouldnt cancel it, and said he should  contact the website. I think 
Santander was correct in saying the payment couldnt be cancelled  because it had 
been authorised.  I also think Santander  suggesting  that Mr M attempt to resolve his 
dispute directly with the website was reasonable. I say this because generally 
speaking, a merchant  and a customer are best placed to resolve a dispute between  
themselves.
whats my conclusion?
I have a good deal of sympathy for Mr M. Its clear he feels  strongly that the website  
has acted poorly, and that hes lost out as a result. But as Ive said,  I cant decide a 
complaint about  the website. I can only decide  whether  I can fairly require Santander 
to refund Mr M in the particular circumstances of this complaint. 
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think Mr M authorised Santander to debit the 
account with the value  of the transaction. And I dont think it could help with his 
dispute with the website,  or should  have accepted his claim under Section 75. It 
follows that I dont  think I can fairly  require  Santander to refund all or part of the 
payment.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained Im not intending  to uphold this complaint.
Mr M and Santander responded to say theyd  received my provisional decision. Neither had 
any more comments or evidence for me to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done, and as no more comments  
or evidence  has been  provided  since my provisional decision, I see no reason  to change my 
mind. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.  
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5343705