K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  with their home insurer Ageas Insurance Limited  in relation to a 
claim they made to it after a water leak occurred at their home.
background
There was a leak on 20 August 2018. A loss adjuster was appointed and straightaway it 
was meant  to appoint  an agent to find Mr and Mrs H, along with one of their daughters  and 
her grandson who normally live with them, somewhere else to live. An agent was appointed 
but not until 5 September after Mr H had chased up the appointment. As they were  going 
on holiday  for a few weeks it was agreed  that a hotel would  be booked for their return. On 
the day they returned home the hotel still hadnt been booked. Ageas apologised and 
resolved the issue  later that same  day.
Mr and Mrs H also decided theyd all stay with their other daughter  during  the first half of 
the week and at the hotel  the rest of the time.  They later asked Ageas to cover the cost of 
their second  daughters expenditure for having  them stay which  Ageas refused. Ageas said 
it had paid a disturbance allowance (for covering  extra costs incurred as a result of living 
somewhere other than your home) to Mr and Mrs H of £30 a day for the whole period the 
family were out of their home. It said it was up to them to decide  how to spend  that.
The floor coverings were  removed in the property  in mid-September. Drying equipment 
wasnt put in place until 1 October 2018  but the property was found to be dry by
22 October 2018. Work was booked to start on 19 November  and when Ageas asked Mr H 
to pay the policy excess on 9 November he did so. However, work couldnt start until large  
appliances were  removed to storage. When the storage company came to remove  the 
appliances there was a partition across  the hallway. Mr H said hed remove it to allow the 
large items to be removed. However,  the storage company removers  noted the state  of the 
stripped floor and said they couldnt move  the items with the floor as it was. Ageas sent 
contractors to the property to improve  the floor and the items  were removed with the start 
date for the main  remedial works being  pushed back to 26 November 2018.
On 4 December  2018 the contractors left the job and said they wouldnt continue  the work.  
They said Mr H had behaved  in such  a way they couldnt reasonably continue with the 
reinstatement contract. Mr H and his family, they said, would turn up unannounced and 
wander around  the property. The contractors, loss adjuster and Ageas had asked Mr H to not 
do this as the house was a work site  but Mr H pointed out that hed also been asked to 
attend his home to meet contractors and the like. He felt the advice  received  was contradictory 
and that there was no real safety  risk as the contractors werent ever wearing personal safety 
gear. He felt the contractor was making trouble because  hed accused it of poor work.
Ref: DRN56416732Mr H noted the contractors had caused  damage to his toilet,  and that mould had appeared 
in the bedroom. He said that was because thered been no heating on. The loss adjuster 
said thered been  no heating on as the boiler hadnt  been commissioned, none of that was 
its fault. Mr H advised Ageas of the damage and in doing so made a remark which Ageas 
felt was inappropriate. Ageas included reference  to this in a final response letter  it sent 
Mr H when he complained  and Mr H said that was unfair.  He said Ageas had taken things 
out of context. Ageas provided  some  call recordings  to Mr H which  it felt showed him 
exhibiting bad behaviour. It noted what its contractors  said and their refusal to complete 
their contract. Ageas said it would  settle  for the outstanding work, including  the damaged  
toilet and mould, in cash. By this point  it was already December 2018 and Ageas said it 
would pay Mr H to allow him and his family to stay in the hotel until mid-January 2019, 
along with continuing the disturbance allowance  for that period.
Mr H accepted the settlement Ageas offered, this was paid on 12 December 2018 and Mr H 
completed the repairs himself. He told Ageas  his intention  was to be home for Christmas 
and in February 2019 he told us the family had moved home 17 December 2018  after hed 
fixed the shower and toilet.
Mr H made  a further complaint to Ageas as he remained unhappy with how the claim had 
been handled to that point. He said if hed known  the boiler needed commissioning he could  
have arranged that. And if the claim had progressed  more quickly theyd have  been  living  at 
home before the cold weather began anyway  meaning the whole mould  issue  would have 
been avoided.
Mr H said as well as his daughters costs, hed been  paying for things he hadnt  had the 
benefit of whilst not living at the property, like council tax and the TV service. He said Ageas 
had never  updated him unless hed chased  it  hed made in excess  of 30 calls to it during 
the claim and he didnt accept hed behaved  inappropriately  certainly not so bad as to 
justify Ageas having reneged on its contract  to repair  his home.  Hed done the work but this 
hadnt been without stress, not least as hed had to do it in the run up to Christmas.  He 
didnt think Ageas had taken  into account the emotional distress it had caused.
Ageas issued its final responses  to Mr and Mrs H in respect of complaints theyd made  to it 
during the claim  and shortly after settlement of it. It didnt feel its level of communication  
had been poor  rather, it said, Mr H had called it every week,  not giving it a chance to call 
him with updates. It acknowledged there had been  one or two short  delays  such as seven 
days when the fridge-freezer couldnt  be removed. It apologised for those but didnt think  
there were any continual delays such that would reasonably require monetary  
compensation. Overall  it didnt think it had acted unfairly.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to this service. Our investigator felt Ageas had been 
unreasonable to say Mr H couldnt visit his own home and that it had caused delays  
particularly in drying the property. He felt this delay had caused the mould.  He noted thered 
been a problem with the hotel booking at one stage  and whilst this had been resolved 
quickly, there had been  significant distress caused to Mr and Mrs H. He said Ageas should 
pay £250 compensation and recompense Mr and Mrs H for any bills theyd had to pay for 
their home during  the period of delay.  But regarding the costs for Mr and Mrs Hs daughter,  
he felt Ageas refusal to pay for these had been  fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs H indicated they were  pleased with some of what  the investigator  said. And they 
sent in copy bills so an exact figure for recompense  could  be set. But they remained 
unhappy that Ageas wouldnt need to pay anything  in respect  of their daughters expenses.
Ref: DRN56416733Ageas indicated it didnt intend  to object to our investigators findings. It asked to see copy  
bills and confirmed it had paid £195.15  to Mr and Mrs H for electricity  used  during the 
drying process. Copy bills were sent to Ageas.
The complaint was passed  to me and whilst  I felt Ageas could have handled things better, 
I also felt it had paid Mr and Mrs H sufficient  money  to compensate  them for any trouble 
and upset, as well as any loss of use of services.  I explained I wasnt minded to make 
Ageas pay them anything more. My provisional findings were:
I think  there were  elements of this claim which Ageas could have handled  better  stripping 
and drying could have been  arranged earlier and the contents could have been  removed  
before that work commenced,  thus avoiding around  six weeks  of delay.  And Id remind  
Ageas that it doesnt need to be shown that there was a continuous/prolonged delay for this 
service to say compensation should  be paid.  A delay of a week  here and a few days  there 
might be sufficient  depending on the circumstances and context. But also things like a 
failure to book a hotel  room  as happened  here  even  if the failure is noticed quickly  and 
the matter is resolved, might mean a payment of compensation is reasonably due. That is 
because a quick resolution or only short delays dont mean that no distress  or 
inconvenience was caused. Lack of communication can also cause upset and generate a 
need for compensation to fairly and reasonably be paid.
But it is also important to remember that a policyholder shouldnt benefit from a claim. An 
insurer needs to make up for their financial loss, and, where appropriate  compensate them  
for upset  caused by its failures. However, there  shouldnt be any net gain beyond  that 
reimbursement/payment.
Ive listened to a call between Mr H and Ageas from, I think, 11 or 12 December 2018.  In 
that call Mr H is clearly  frustrated and he does ask for compensation of around £10,000. 
The call handler explains that isnt something  Ageas would look to pay. The conversation 
continues and the discussion becomes, in essence, one about what Mr H would accept to 
settle everything finally. The handler  is aware that Mr H intends  to do the work himself  and 
to move home before Christmas. She notes because Ageas is looking to settle in cash for 
repairs it could also pay for alternative accommodation and a disturbance allowance for the 
period the repair  work is expected to take.  She says shell look at a figure and Mr H says if 
she comes back  with something he is happy  with hell walk away satisfied. The handler 
then sent an email on 12 December 2018  explaining that the offer is £12,189.86  and 
includes the cost of alternative  accommodation  and a disturbance  allowance  (for costs 
incurred for living  somewhere other  than your home), through into mid-January; £4,320 and 
£1,740  £6,060  in total.
In my experience insurers dont  pay costs for living  elsewhere lightly.  My assessment of this 
conversation is that Ageas agreed  to add these costs in so that the claim and complaint 
could be settled. Im also satisfied that having  listened to the call Mr H didnt intend to settle 
for the repair cost unless  he was happy with the figure overall.  Mr H then accepted the 
settlement and did the repairs.
The hotel booking  Ageas  made ended on 17 December 2018. Mr H initially told us the family 
moved home  then.  He recently told us the family didnt move home until 22 January  but 
they didnt stay at a hotel after 17 December 2018, rather  they stayed with their daughter.
Ref: DRN56416734So when I look at how Ageas handled  the claim and consider  whether it should  pay 
compensation to Mr and Mrs H for the upset it caused, I cant reasonably ignore the fact 
that Mr and Mrs H have  been paid at least £4,320 for the cost of a hotel which they havent 
spent on staying in a hotel. Im not persuaded, especially  given the settlement conversation 
Ive listened to, that I can fairly or reasonably award compensation on top of that.
Ageas didnt pay for the daughters expenses of having the family stay with her. But it did 
pay a disturbance allowance for the whole  period  Mr and Mrs H were out of their home,  
including the days they stayed with their daughter. An allowance  like this is normally paid to 
account for extra costs  incurred  living  somewhere other than your home.  For example  
somewhere like a hotel where you cant cook your own food or do laundry. But I also see 
insurers pay it to policyholders to allow them to stay with family and pay them something for 
the extra costs  they have  of putting the policyholder  up. Thats because if you are staying in 
a house you wont  have extra costs but will most likely want  to reimburse any incurred by 
your family.
Im also mindful that Mr and Mrs H chose to split their time between their daughters  and the 
hotel. This wasnt something Ageas requested they do. And there  was no agreement  or 
request at the outset for Ageas to pay the daughters costs.
I think Ageas  has responded reasonably on this issue. I dont intend to make to pay 
anything more.
Mr and Mrs H were still having to pay their bills at home while out of their property. But they 
didnt have additional bills to pay for the places they were  staying  not like theyd have  had 
if theyd been  living in a short-term rental property. It is true they didnt have  the benefit of 
the use of some of the things they had to pay for  such as their TV package. But some  
costs are ones that Mr and Mrs H still benefitted from regardless of the claim or delay   like 
council tax. Even if I was minded to make  Ageas pay some compensation for the services 
which provided pleasure which were of no use (because the family werent there), any 
figure would likely be small  as it would be proportionate to the annual  cost against the 
period of delay.  And, as I explained above,  Mr and Mrs H have  already  had the benefit of 
the £4,320 paid by Ageas.
I know there were some other issues of concern for Mr and Mrs H, most notably that they 
were told they couldnt enter their home and that an agreement was made regarding  
flooring which  was then reneged on. I think better  communication could have avoided both 
of these issues arising. In short, a policyholder  is entitled to enter their home  but it isnt 
unusual for contractors to not want policyholders  arriving unannounced  and this is 
different to a policyholder being  required to attend  site to progress the claim in some way. 
Mr and Mrs H were only entitled  to flooring like that they had before  one contractor  may 
have agreed to consider other  flooring options  but the flooring company Ageas appointed 
was instructed with a view to setting what cost Ageas was liable for under the claim. And 
that was flooring like that Mr and Mrs H had before.
I fully appreciate that this was a distressing time for Mr and Mrs H. And I accept that Ageas 
could have acted  better  and if it had, that would  have  avoided some of the frustration that 
occurred. Having considered everything  though,  and for the reasons set out above, Im not 
going to require Ageas to pay Mr and Mrs H anything more.
Ref: DRN56416735Ageas said it had no further  comment to make. Mr and Mrs H said they felt let down and 
disappointed by my findings. They made several  points  which,  in summary, were:
The investigator awarded compensation so how can the ombudsman  say Ageas 
doesnt need to pay anything?
They took the cash settlement as they didnt want to be in the hotel over Christmas.
Ageas  knew before  they accepted the cash settlement  that they were going to complain 
to us. 
They got back into the house  after Christmas day and had to do some  re-plastering  
before new year.
They had to move  back  out because there was no shower, basin or flooring down and 
they couldnt get materials until the new year.
They called the insurer  because the on-line  claim  tracking  system  was always  wrong  and 
each time they called they spoke to someone different so had to explain everything again.
Mrs H, who takes their grandson  to school, would park outside  the house  everyday from 
9am to 3pm so this is how they know no-one attended the house  or did any repairs for a 
period of six weeks.
The home services werent  cancelled  as they didnt know theyd be out of the house  so 
long  and they couldnt cancel without certain  penalties.
Council tax and water rates still had to be paid and whilst electricity used during drying 
has been refunded,  the cost of gas used  hasnt been.
Theyd been told theyd get £40 a day for the four of them  to live away from home but 
when they asked for breakfast to be included in the room  price for the hotel, the 
allowance was cut to £30 a day. And when they queried why theyd only get £30 to live 
on for the time at their daughters  home they were told that is all theyd be paid. If theyd 
known the sum was going to be so low theyd have booked the hotel for seven days  a 
week, instead of four.
All telephone  call recordings were requested from Ageas,  but it only chose to provide 
those it felt were relevant   all the other 30 or so calls should have been provided by it 
and listened to.
Doing  work was stressful and affected their grandson who has asthma.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate my view on this differs from that set out by our investigator.  And I note that its 
upsetting for Mr and Mrs H, which is regrettable. But I am not bound to follow the 
investigators findings. Rather it is my job to review  a complaint afresh  and reach my own 
decision about what is, in all of the circumstances, a fair and reasonable outcome. And 
when I do that and my thoughts differ from those of the investigator, as they did here, 
I issue a provisional  decision to share my provisional findings  with both parties. My findings  
supersede those reached by the investigator.
Whether Ageas knew or not of an intention to complain  I remain of the view that it made  
the offer and payment  it did with the intent of resolving the claim and complaint. Im also still 
of the view that the offer and payment was generous given it knew  of Mr and Mrs Hs intent 
to move home before Christmas. 
Ref: DRN56416736From all the differing  information Mr and Mrs H have given, Im not sure when they moved 
home or when they moved back out again.  But what they have  been  clear about is that they 
didnt, after 17 December  2018 when the booking Ageas had made ended,  move  back into a 
hotel. So whilst they received over £4,000  from Ageas  for the cost of staying in a hotel, they 
didnt incur a cost in this respect. So theyve received a benefit  from Ageas of £4,320. That 
isnt an insignificant sum and I cant fairly or reasonably ignore it when considering  whether  
to make Ageas pay compensation  for either trouble and upset or loss of use of services. 
I did note that Ageas,  at times, didnt handle this claim well, and that it caused delays. And 
I accept an amount of distress and inconvenience  was caused as a result.  Mr and Mrs H 
also continued to pay for services at their home during the period of delay and I accept they 
had no real choice  but to keep incurring those charges.  But Im not minded to think that 
awarding any amount  of compensation in addition to the £4,320 Mr and Mrs H have already 
received from Ageas  would be fair or reasonable. In saying that I bear in mind that most 
compensation awards for distress and inconvenience made by this service dont amount to 
more than £1,000, and awards in excess of £2,000  are rarely made.
Whilst I note Mr H says they havent been reimbursed for gas used to dry the property, it 
isnt clear to me that the heating was ever put on to dry the property. I say that because  the 
property was declared dry on 22 October  2018.  And after this (around  26 November 2018) 
mould was found  in the bedroom  and Mr H felt Ageas had caused this damage because  the 
winter months had ensued without  work  being  completed and without the heating  having 
been switched  on. He then turned on the heating (around 3 December  2018)  and Ageas 
notes record that the contractor  had some concerns because the system hadnt  been 
recommissioned following  the leak. So it seems the heating  may have been used to abate 
the mould that had appeared. But it also seems it was switched on because  it was winter 
and the house needed warming (and protecting from frost). And that would have been the 
case whether the family were there or not. So any costs incurred didnt arise as a result of 
the claim.  So they arent payable by Ageas  under the claim. 
Mr and Mrs H were told, before the period of accommodation started that theyd get £30 a 
day whilst  in the hotel  and reasonable extra costs would be paid for the days they stayed 
with their daughter.  As Ageas was paying for breakfast  as part of the room  rate, £30 per 
day for the family for extra costs  doesnt seem unreasonable. Within a week of the 
accommodation arrangement starting Mr H asked again about costs for staying with his 
daughter and Ageas agreed (on 20 October  2018) to pay the £30 per day. If Mr and Mrs H 
were unhappy  with that, they could have  changed  the accommodation arrangements  then. 
Mr H asked for call recordings and Ageas treated this as a subject access  request. Mr H 
says he wanted  all recordings, Ageas provided three and said hed asked for calls which it 
felt showed he had behaved badly.  We dont govern the provision of information given as 
part of a subject  access request. That is the role of the Information  Commissioners  Office.  
In terms of the complaint Mr and Mrs H made  to this service, Im satisfied by the evidence  
made available to me and Im not persuaded I need  to ask for any more calls.  I dont 
dispute what Mr H says  that he called a lot and always  had to set out his story again.  
I dont need to hear further calls to understand that Ageas sometimes failed Mr and Mrs H 
and they suffered as a result. 
Ref: DRN56416737But Im also satisfied that settling the claim in cash, on this occasion, seems  like it was the 
only fair and reasonable option for both parties.  I appreciate that doing the repair  work  was 
stressful for Mr H but Ageas contractor wasnt minded to continue the contract and 
Mr and Mrs H werent  really happy  with how the claim was being  handled.  Im not 
persuaded that Ageas offering to continue the repair by use of another  contractor  would 
have seen the claim resolve and the repairs complete  any easier or quicker than how they 
eventually did.  
Having reviewed everything, and whilst  I know  this will cause further upset  for Mr and Mrs H 
which is regrettable,  Im not minded  to make Ageas pay anything to them,  the benefit of 
£4,320 sufficiently compensates for any upset  or loss of use of services  caused. My 
provisional findings havent changed,  they,  along  with my additional findings set out above, 
form the findings of this, my final decision.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Ageas  Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 May 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5641673