K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the customer service hes received from Bank of Scotland  plc. In 
particular hes upset  that Bank of Scotland didnt give him enough notice of their intention to 
close his business  banking account and also didnt complete the account switching process 
for his account. Hes also concerned that Bank of Scotland  closed the account in question 
earlier than it agreed to.
background
An investigator has already considered this matter.  Upon  looking at all the evidence, she 
wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. 
In light of Mr B not agreeing to this, the complaint has now been referred to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I too have decided not to uphold this complaint, for reasons in line with those  already 
expressed by the investigator. 
I fully accept that when  Bank of Scotland initially wrote to Mr B there was an error with the 
dates they provided.  However I note quickly afterwards they re-issued  this notice of their 
intention to close Mr Bs business  bank account.  The letter was written on 12 July 2018 and 
explained they intended to close the account on 15 September  2018. Whilst Ive carefully 
considered the issue with the time it took for Royal Mail to deliver this notice to Mr B, and the 
deemed service time frames in Bank of Scotlands terms and conditions, overall I do still 
think this notice was valid. For even though Bank  of Scotland  said theyd close Mr Bs 
account on 15 September 2018, as I understand the account actually remained open  until 10 
October 2018. There has been no actual loss to Mr B. Just like the investigator  has already 
explained, a bank can make a commercial  decision as to who it chooses to do business with. 
Im satisfied that Bank of Scotland was unable  to use the current  account switching service 
for Mr Bs particular business bank account.  I accept  that this account  wasnt  technically a 
current account (but rather a niche deposit  account) and as such not suitable for the 
switching service.
I cant see that there was any agreement  between Mr B and Bank of Scotland for Mr Bs 
account to remain  open beyond 15 September 2018. As such I cant say that any missed 
credit card payment is the fault of Bank  of Scotland. 
Overall I dont consider  that Bank of Scotland has taken an unreasonable  length of time to 
resolve this matter. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2020.
Ref: DRN52910022Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5291002