K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) unfairly 
declined a claim they made on their home  insurance policy for damage to their property  
caused by subsidence.
background
I issued a provisional decision in September 2020  explaining that I was intending  to 
partially uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background
There have been  several businesses involved in this complaint who acted on behalf 
of RSA. For ease of reference, Ill refer only to RSA by name in this decision, even 
when referring to the actions of its agents. Similarly, Mr and Mrs C are now 
represented in their complaint. But Ill only refer to Mr and Mrs C in this decision,  
even when referring to arguments put forward by their representative.
RSA has underwritten Mr and Mrs Cs home insurance policy since 2010.  In 2018 
Mr and Mrs C contacted  RSA about  significant  cracking at their property. RSA 
appointed a loss adjuster to visit the property and assess  the damage.
The loss adjusters report states  that Mr and Mrs C confirmed they have owned the 
property since 1970 and have been  regularly having cracks filled or repaired every 
two to three  years since they purchased it. The loss adjuster noted extensive 
longstanding cracking, previous repairs and bulging of some  of the walls. The report 
attributed the damage to a combination of lateral restraint  problems, long term 
deterioration of the stone  walls and subsidence.  It referred to the proximity  of nearby 
vegetation as the likely  cause of any subsidence.
In October  2018 the loss adjuster wrote to Mr and Mrs C and declined  their claim on 
behalf of RSA. It stated  the damage was clearly longstanding and had occurred prior 
to the inception of RSAs  policy in 2010.  It referred to an exclusion in their policy  for 
any loss arising from an event occurring before the insurance period starts as the 
reason for declining their claim.
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the decision to decline their claim.  When RSA 
didnt uphold  their complaint,  they brought it to our service where it was looked at by 
one of our investigators. She initially  thought RSA had fairly declined  the claim,  
taking into account  the exclusion it relied on. But she referred Mr and Mrs Cs 
subsequent arguments to RSA for consideration. She also arranged for the complaint 
to be passed to an ombudsman (myself)  to decide.
Ref: DRN56962172In response to our investigators assessment, Mr and Mrs C argued that their 
property is a stone  house dating  from 18th/19th century. They said they have always 
accepted that ownership of such a house would require more robust maintenance 
than a more modern house might. They said they have periodically arranged  for 
areas of repointing, but say they had no idea that there may be a more  significant 
problem until dramatic movement started  in 2018. They said RSA didnt  properly 
investigate whether any damage was caused after the inception  of their policy and 
highlighted articles  from our website stating our approach to similar  cases. 
RSA has since referred  the complaint back to its loss adjuster for consideration. It 
now accepts that because the issues were  reported  in the long,  hot summer of 2018, 
that it should have done more to establish whether the movement had started  and 
stopped before inception  of the policy, or whether the property was still moving. It 
suggested that it would carry out a period of monitoring to establish  this, before 
making a further  decision on claim liability.
I asked RSA whether  in addition to carrying out monitoring now, it felt any 
compensation should be offered to Mr and Mrs C  to compensate them  for the 
delays theyd experienced. RSA responded to say that it didnt  think it was 
appropriate to offer any compensation before  it is in receipt of the monitoring results.  
Mr and Mrs C feel they have provided  enough  evidence  in the form of photographs 
and comments from their representative  a Chartered  Engineer  to show  that the 
property continues to move.  Based  on this, they think  RSA should accept the claim. 
However, they have  confirmed they will allow RSA to begin monitoring.
my provisional findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
partially uphold  it.
From what  Ive seen, RSA initially investigated  Mr and Mrs Cs claim as I would have 
expected  by instructing a site visit from a loss adjuster specialising in subsidence 
claims.
The loss adjusters report highlighted several structural  issues in addition to 
subsidence damage. He stated that the damage appeared to be longstanding due to 
the evidence of previous repairs. He also stated that Mr and Mrs C confirmed they 
carried out periodic  repairs  every two to three  years. 
RSA, through its loss adjuster,  declined Mr and Mrs Cs claim based  on a policy 
exclusion which states:
This insurance does  not cover
..
EXISTING AND DELIBERATE DAMAGE
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind occurring, or arising 
from an event occurring,  before the insurance  period starts.
Ref: DRN56962173In the letter  sent to Mr and Mrs C to decline their claim, the loss adjuster stated that 
further investigation of the damage at their property was beyond their brief.  And 
despite now recognising that it should  have carried out further investigations at the 
time to establish whether the property was still moving, it doesnt feel any 
compensation should  be due until the monitoring has been  completed. I dont agree 
that this is fair. Ill explain why.
The insurance industry, and our service, considers the Association of British Insurers  
(ABI) Domestic Subsidence Agreement as good industry practice. This agreement 
sets out which insurer should be responsible for subsidence claims where damage  
may have occurred during different periods of cover underwritten by different  
insurers.
When coming to a decision on what is fair and reasonable,  Im required to take into 
account good industry practice.
Before considering whether the ABI agreement  is relevant in this case, it needs to be 
established whether the damage to Mr and Mrs Cs property started and stopped 
before RSAs  policy started, or whether some  subsidence related damage has 
occurred since it came on cover. If the latter, then the ABI agreement  will apply, and 
RSA will be responsible for stopping the cause of subsidence and putting right any 
damage caused by the subsidence  during the time it has been on cover.
This is a well-established  approach, so I dont think  it was reasonable for RSA to 
decline Mr and Mrs Cs complaint without carrying out appropriate investigations to 
establish whether  the property was still moving and suffering damage. Particularly  as 
the report  seemed to suggest that nearby trees could be causing subsidence 
movement, and those trees hadnt  been  removed. I think  RSA ought to have  offered 
to carry out monitoring from the outset. And had it done so, I think its likely that 
Mr and Mrs C would not have been left living with their home in its current  state for 
such a long time with their claim not progressing. So, I dont think  the outcome of the 
monitoring is relevant  to the distress  and inconvenience RSAs mistake  has caused  
them.
Ive thought carefully about everything  Mr and Mrs C have said about  the impact  
RSAs decision to decline the claim has had on them, as well as the delays it has 
caused. Based on everything Ive seen and been  told, I think  RSA should  pay Mr and 
Mrs C £700 compensation for the distress and inconvenience theyve experienced as 
a result of its failure to complete appropriate investigations from the outset.
Ive also thought  about Mr and Mrs Cs argument  that the evidence  theyve provided 
should be sufficient to prove ongoing movement and damage without the need  for 
further monitoring.  But I also need to consider that the loss adjuster noted several 
non-subsidence related causes of damage such as lateral restraint  issues and 
deterioration of the stone  walls  which arent covered by their policy.  I dont think  the 
evidence currently available is enough to confirm that the property is continuing to 
experience damage as a result of subsidence.  So, I think RSAs  offer to complete a 
period of monitoring  in order to establish liability is a fair and reasonable way to move  
forward with their claim.
Ref: DRN56962174I said I was intending  to direct RSA to carry out a period of monitoring, to establish  whether 
Mr and Mrs Cs property was still moving, before making a new decision on their claim. I said 
I was also intending  to direct it to pay them  £700 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its errors had caused  them.
I asked both sides to provide  any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to consider 
before I reached a final decision.
RSA accepted my provisional decision.  But Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with my findings. In 
summary they said:
Completing monitoring  two years after the fact  when climatic conditions are likely to 
be very different   will not prove whether the property was moving in 2018
The natural  moisture content of the underlying strata may well have been restored by 
now, and drying  related shrinkage  reversed and if so, no movement will be recorded
The above points  mean my decision  to allow monitoring is unfair
I havent made any reference  to potential drainage problems which might be 
influential in the movement of the property furthest  away  from the trees.  They feel 
RSA should have investigated  this before  declining the claim
They welcome the suggested compensation, but also feel I should direct RSA to 
cover the professional  fees they have incurred for the services of their representative.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also carefully  considered all the 
new comments and evidence sent in response  to my provisional decision. 
In this decision I have  made two additional  findings in favour of Mr and Mrs C, taking into 
account their response to my provisional decision.  Where I have made  such a finding,  I have  
already shared it with RSA and offered it the opportunity to comment  before proceeding with 
this final decision.
Mr and Mrs C have again highlighted that monitoring should have been completed  at the 
outset. I agree, which is why I provisionally decided to award compensation to Mr and Mrs C. 
But as I explained  in my provisional decision,  I dont think there  is enough evidence,  
currently available, to determine whether the property has suffered ongoing subsidence  
movement since the inception of Mr and Mrs Cs policy with RSA. 
I accept that climatic conditions are likely to be different  now than they were in the summer 
of 2018. But it isnt unusual in claims like this for monitoring to take place over a period of 
time, so that the impact  of all of the seasons can be observed.  I would expect  RSA to 
monitor the property  for an appropriate  length of time before  making  any new claim decision. 
To be clear, this means  I would expect the monitoring to continue into the driest months of 
the year before the results  are assessed and a decision is made  unless ongoing 
movement is recorded sooner  than that.
Ref: DRN56962175Mr and Mrs C have reported  worsening  damage throughout their claim. So, it seems likely to 
me that if, as they suggest,  this damage was caused  by ongoing subsidence  movement, that 
similar movement  will be captured by an appropriate period of monitoring. Ultimately, I 
remain of the view that a period of monitoring is a fair way to progress Mr and Mrs Cs claim.
Mr and Mrs C, through  their representative,  have suggested that its likely there are two 
causes of ongoing movement at their property  clay shrinkage caused  by tree roots  and a 
potential drainage issue. Theyve said a downpipe is discharging water directly into the 
ground and that RSA didnt complete any drainage  surveys before issuing its initial  report  
and declining  their claim.
It doesnt appear that any potential drainage issues were  highlighted to RSA at the time the 
claim was made. In fact, the record of questions asked, and answered, at the time of the 
claim suggest Mr and Mrs C reported  no known drainage issues. However, it is accepted  
that RSA ought  to have done more  to investigate the claim from the outset. And had it done 
so, this issue may well have been looked into already. In light of Mr and Mrs Cs concerns, I 
have confirmed with RSA that it will investigate this as a potential cause/contributory factor in 
addition to completing the monitoring.
Mr and Mrs C have asked that I make an additional  award to reimburse them for the services 
of their representative. Ive thought carefully about  this request. It isnt usual for our service 
to award these costs,  given that our service  is free to use and doesnt require the services of 
representatives. However, in the particular circumstances  here I do think  that RSA should 
cover the costs of Mr and Mrs Cs representative.  
I say this because  it is accepted  that RSA hasnt  handled  the claim as it should have done. 
And because it hasnt Mr and Mrs C felt they had little alternative  but to appoint their own 
expert. It was only after being  provided  with the report completed by Mr and Mrs Cs 
representative, that RSA accepted that more ought to have been done  to investigate the 
claim from the outset. So, I think its fair to say that RSAs  position changed, at least  in part, 
due to the involvement of Mr and Mrs Cs expert.  In these circumstances, I think  it is fair and 
reasonable for RSA to pay the costs incurred by Mr and Mrs C to get to this point. I 
understand these  costs  are £300.
It's not clear whether  this amount remains outstanding  or if Mr and Mrs C have already 
settled it. If the former,  RSA should  pay Mr and Mrs C £300 to cover this cost.  If the latter, 
RSA should reimburse  Mr and Mrs C and pay 8% simple  interest  on that amount from the 
date Mr and Mrs C were  without their funds until the date they are reimbursed.
I should be clear that I am only awarding the costs incurred by Mr and Mrs C to get to this 
point. Im not suggesting that RSA would  need  to cover the costs of their representative 
moving forward, should Mr and Mrs C choose to maintain  the services of their representative 
for the remaining duration of their claim.
Ref: DRN56962176my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold 
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  in part. 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc must:
Carry out a period  of monitoring on Mr and Mrs Cs property, to establish whether it is 
still moving and suffering  damage due to subsidence, before making a new decision 
on their claim
Investigate  the potential  drainage issue
Pay Mr and Mrs C £300 to cover  the cost of the services of their representative, 
including adding  8% simple interest* if Mr and Mrs C have  already  settled  the cost
Pay Mr and Mrs C £700 compensation for the distress and inconvenience theyve 
experienced as a result of its failure to complete these investigations from the outset
*If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs C it should  tell them how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs C a certificate showing this, if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 November  2020.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5696217