K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained that Lloyds  Bank  PLC mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 1995.
background
The bank doesnt have a record of how the policy was taken out. Mrs M has told us that she 
thought it was over the phone. But in her original complaint submission to Lloyds she said 
she thought it might have  been done in branch.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint  and Ill explain why.
Lloyds has no paperwork available from the time of the sale,  which  isnt surprising given how 
long ago it took place. But it does make  the case more difficult  to decide. Therefore in 
reaching my decision I have considered the evidence that we do have, and what  I consider 
is most  likely  to have happened. Ive also thought about how long ago the sale took place 
and how this may have  affected Mrs Ms memory  of events.
Mrs M says she would never have taken  out PPI as she had never  taken it with other 
lending. She says she doesnt  remember being asked about PPI and that she would have  
refused it if she had been offered it. She is therefore  saying that Lloyds added  the policy 
without her knowledge or consent.
Although we dont  have  the actual paperwork for Mrs Ms sale, we have seen copies of the 
sort of forms that Lloyds  were using at the time. Based on what we know  about the way that 
Lloyds sold mortgage  PPI, I consider it is more likely than not that there would have  been  a 
discussion about the policy as part of the wider conversation about Mrs Ms mortgage needs.  
Overall I think  its likely that the policy was presented as optional.
Ive no doubt that Mrs M has provided her honest  recollection of events. But the sale 
happened a very long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs M has little memory of 
it, especially  as the buying of PPI isnt a particularly memorable event. Ive thought very 
carefully about what Mrs M has said, but on balance I think  that she probably  decided to buy 
the PPI, knowing  that she didnt  have  to, even if she no longer  remember doing so.
Lloyds says that it advised  Mrs M to buy the PPI. Therefore in recommending the policy, it 
needed to ensure that it met her needs.  And from what I know of Mrs Ms circumstances at 
the time,  I think the policy was suitable.
Mrs M would  have  received sick pay from her employer of six months full pay, followed by 
six months half pay. But the policy  would  have paid out in addition to this and potentially for 
Ref: DRN59335392longer than Mrs M would  have received  full pay for. And Mrs M didnt have any savings that 
she could fall back on (besides a relatively small amount that was earmarked for a holiday). 
So she had a need for the policy and could have  benefitted from it. And the policy  was 
affordable for her. So it was reasonable of Lloyds to recommend the policy  to her. A 
mortgage is a significant financial commitment and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs M had 
an interest in protecting her repayments.
Its possible that Lloyds  didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover.  But Mrs M wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think Mrs M had an interest in the policy and decided  to buy it, I dont think  
that more information would have  caused  her to change  her mind. So she isnt any worse of 
as a result  of anything  Lloyds may have done wrong, so there is nothing that Lloyds needs to 
do to put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5933539