K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out to cover a 
catalogue shopping account in 2005.  Ms M says Freemans Plc mis-sold  her the PPI. 
background
In 2005 Ms M applied  for a catalogue shopping account. A couple of months later she took 
out a PPI policy to cover  her repayments.  This policy would provide cover if Ms M was 
unable to work due to accident or sickness and also included unemployment cover.  
In 2008 Ms M took out a new catalogue  account  and PPI was automatically added. Our 
adjudicator upheld the mis-sale complaint for this policy added in 2008 and Freemans 
agreed with this outcome. I understand that it has already given a full refund to Ms M for this 
account. As this part of the complaint has already been resolved, I wont be referring to this 
in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Freemans had to make it clear that the policy was optional and Ms M had to agree to take it 
out. Ms M says she was not made aware that she had PPI attached to her catalogue  
account. In situations like this I need  to decide  what I think is more  likely to have happened.
It seems  that the PPI policy was taken out during a phone  call. Due to the time that has 
passed since the sale, Freemans  no longer  has a copy  of the call recording  I dont think  
this is unusual or surprising. So I cant say for certain what  was said to Ms M during the 
phone call. But I have  seen copies of call scripts from around that time which  Freemans says 
its staff would have  used when selling PPI. Based on what we know  about the way 
Freemans sold these policies around this time,  and as I dont have any strong evidence to 
persuade me otherwise,  I think  its likely that the Freemans representative  followed  that 
script. The script does  make it clear that the representative had to obtain Ms Ms permission 
to add the PPI to her account.
Ive also considered that Ms M had already  had the catalogue account set up for a couple of 
months before she took out the PPI. So I think she would have known that she didnt need to 
take it out in order  to get the credit.
And from what we know, the charge for the PPI would have shown as a separate charge on 
her account  statements.  So if Ms M didnt  know what this charge was for, or hadnt agreed to 
take it out, I think she would have questioned this with Freemans sooner than she did.
So based  on what Ive seen, and what I know about  the way Freemans sold the PPI, I think  
its more likely that Freemans made it clear the policy was optional and Ms M chose  to take it 
out, knowing she could  refuse it if she didnt want it.
Ref: DRN53918792Freemans says it recommended the PPI to Ms M so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
her  and based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover  I have noted she couldnt  recall if she would have 
been entitled to any sick pay and didnt  have any other means with which  to make her 
repayments if she wasnt earning.  
Its possible the information Freemans gave Ms M about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But as Ive mentioned above, I think she chose to take it out - so it looks  like 
she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.  
Which means Freemans doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
But Freemans will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms M because: 
Freemans got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms M about that. Because Freemans didnt tell Ms M, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Freemans has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium from 6 April 2007  this is the date when 
Ms Ms lending became  regulated  and we became able to look at a complaint about the 
credit. I think that offer is fair in this case. 
Ive thought about everything Ms M has said, including what she has said about not needing  
the policy as she could have relied  upon her family  for support. While I appreciate  her family 
would have wanted to help, such support cant always be guaranteed  as their circumstances 
can also change,  meaning they are unable to provide this type of financial assistance.  So 
this doesnt change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Freemans has to pay back to Ms M any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premiums paid on or after 6 April 2007. Freemans should also pay back  
to Ms M any extra interest she paid because of that.
Freemans should re-work the catalogue  shopping  account and pay back to Ms M the 
difference between  what  Ms M owes and what she wouldve  owed if the commission  and 
profit share it got on or after 6 April 2007 hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. 
Freemans should also pay Ms M 8%* simple interest if she paid off the account at some  
point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms M can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Freemans  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of the cost 
of the PPI to Ms M.
Ref: DRN53918793But Freemans Plc does  have to pay back to Ms M any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums paid on or after 6 April 2007. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2019
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5391879