K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that he has been unfairly  charged by Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited (VWFS) for damage to a car he handed back  when he voluntarily 
terminated his hire purchase agreement.
background
In April 2015  Mr P acquired a new car via a three year hire purchase agreement  with 
VWFS. In March 2018 Mr P decided he wished to voluntarily terminate the agreement  and 
hand back the car.
It was arranged  for the car to be inspected by an independent third party and for a report  
to be prepared outlining  the condition of the car, including whether there was any damage 
found. This report would  include photographs.
Mr P says that as he was due to collect a new car he arranged  with the dealership  to drop 
off his original car before the date of the inspection. He also says that he arranged with the 
dealership that an independent repair company  would  rectify any cosmetic damage that was 
identified before the car was handed  back.  Mr P says he pre-paid the sum of £300 to cover 
these costs.
Mr P wasnt present  when  the car was inspected, though a member of staff from the 
dealership was. The inspection revealed a number of faults  with the car which  were  noted 
in the report. VWFS  says a copy of the report was left with the dealership.  The car was 
collected one week later.
Mr P says he only got a copy of the report when he chased it up around two weeks later. 
By then the car had been collected and VWFS  invoiced  him £259.20 for refurbishment 
costs to the car.
Mr P complained to VWFS that as he hadnt  received the condition  report  as promised 
hed been unable  to challenge  the dealership as to why the car hadnt  been repaired as 
agreed. He requested  that the invoice for the damages be waived as a gesture of 
goodwill.
VWFS partially upheld  Mr Ps complaint. It said that on reviewing the report it had reduced 
the outstanding invoice  for the damage to the car as there wasnt  evidence to support two 
of the items raised as needing repair. This had reduced the amount owing to £190.80.
However, VWFS said there was no evidence the car had been  repaired  while  at the 
dealership before collection  so it couldnt  take into account any arrangement Mr P may 
have had with the dealership. VWFS offered  to raise a complaint for Mr P with the 
dealership. Mr P declined  this offer and said he would do so himself.
Mr P complained to this service. Our investigator  didnt  recommend that Mr Ps complaint 
should be upheld.  He said that on reviewing the inspection report  the charges of £190.80 
for damage  to the car were valid and in line with industry standard  set by the British  Vehicle 
Leasing and Renting Association (BVRLA).
The investigator said he appreciated the dealership had told Mr P he could leave the car 
with them  for inspection  and collection and that Mr P had paid £300 to get any cosmetic 
Ref: DRN52830922damage repaired before collection. But the dealership was a separate  entity to VWFS. So it 
wasnt fair to hold VWFS responsible for the dealerships failure to undertake the repairs.
Mr P disagreed with our investigators view. He said that due to not getting a copy of the 
report, as he shouldve, he hadnt been aware the car hadnt been repaired as agreed.  
Had he been aware then he couldve challenged the dealership and the third party  
repairer. He was now being  asked  to pay twice  for the damage.
As the parties  couldnt agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines. 
It was agreed that when the car was handed back there was damage to it that was more 
than fair wear and tear. Mr P said he had an agreement with the dealership  that before the 
car was handed back any cosmetic damage would be fixed. He said he prepaid  for this 
service.
Id seen from the voluntary termination  paperwork sent out by VWFS that a vehicle is 
inspected one week before collection. It also said that a report will be provided on the 
condition of the car as well as being  sent on to VWFS. And that the week gap before 
collection was to allow you the opportunity to carry out remedial work prior to the collection 
of your vehicle. Any repairs however must  be undertaken  by an approved repairer.  VWFS 
said that it encourages  its customers  to be present for the inspection  and had Mr P been 
present then he wouldve been able to challenge  the inspectors findings  at the time. Mr P 
said as the dealership recommended the initial repair work be done  before the inspection,  
and agreed the car could be left with them prior the inspection, hed felt reassured by this 
arrangement. By not receiving the report he wasnt alerted that this arrangement  hadnt 
been followed.
VWFS said that it was informed that a copy of the report was left at the dealership.  From the 
report it appeared that a member of staff had been present at the inspection  but had refused 
to sign it. However, I didnt think the lack of this signature meant the report wasnt valid as 
the photos of the damage were clear. There could have been  several  reasons why it wasnt 
signed such as the dealership not thinking  it was in their remit to do so.
Id seen that VWFS had provided a copy of the report to Mr P when he queried  the invoice. 
This was just over two weeks after the car had been inspected  and after it had been  
collected. He told VWFS  that had he received it earlier  he wouldve visited the dealership to 
inspect the car himself  and challenge  the lack of repairs. But I thought it wouldve been 
reasonable for Mr P to have chased  up a copy  of the report  earlier  than he had and check  
the dealership had arranged the repairs. I thought this arrangement showed that Mr P was 
aware the car had damage  beyond normal wear and tear. And from the information 
provided to him it was clear the report was important and would  have been available on the 
day of, or shortly after, the inspection.
I was aware that Mr P had believed his arrangement with the dealership  would mean the car 
would be repaired before the inspection  and this hadnt happen. But I didnt agree that the 
delay in receiving  the report  meant he wasnt now able to complain to the dealership and 
the third party  repairer about what had happened.
Id not seen any details about  what was exactly agreed between  Mr P, the dealership and 
the third party  repairer. But I think its likely that if it was agreed by them that Mr P had been  
let down then the most  likely outcome  wouldve been him receiving his money back  rather 
Ref: DRN52830923than the car being repaired.  However even if the car was then repaired by this third party 
its unclear whether they were  an authorised  repairer.  And this is important because 
VWFS would be entitled to ask for proof the car had been repaired as per the agreement,  
and if it hadnt  it wouldve  been entitled  to reject  the repairs  as unsuitable and have  still 
claimed for the damage.
Mr P said as the dealership had made this arrangement with him hed had no reason to 
think it wouldnt be in line with the terms of his agreement. But VWFS and the dealership  
are two separate entities and Mr Ps complaint  wouldve been with the dealership and not 
VWFS if the repairer  wasnt authorised.  VWFS  wasnt  responsible if the dealership  had 
misled Mr P about the pre-inspection repairs.
I didnt agree  that Mr P had lost the opportunity to make a complaint to the dealership about 
the arrangement  hed had with them. He had the report  which  provided photographic 
evidence of the condition  of the car at the time of the inspection. He could  use this report  to 
challenge that the arrangement he had made was breached in that the damage had not 
been repaired as agreed, and paid for.
So although  Mr P hadnt received a copy of the report I didnt think this had resulted in 
VWFS causing him a loss. I thought VWFS had acted fairly and reasonably in invoicing  
Mr P £190.80 for refurbishing  the car. And I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr Ps complaint.
Neither Mr P nor VWFS  has asked me to look at any part of my provisional decision again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my view about  Mr Ps complaint. So for the reasons given above Im not 
upholding his complaint.
my final decision
As set out in the reasons above  Im not upholding  Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  1 June 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5283092