K820x#14complaint
Mr E and Mrs E have complained that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1999.
background
The policy was taken  out at the same time that the mortgage was arranged. The benefit was 
split so that Mr E was entitled to 75% of it, whilst Mrs E was entitled to 25%.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. She has commented  that when the 
policy was taken out, she believes that she was too young to understand it. Mrs E has also 
said that she was young enough to continue working  and paying off the mortgage.
Mrs E has recently provided  further details relating to the savings she held when sold the 
policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr E and Mrs Es case.
Santander has provided a copy of the PPI application form that was completed in 1999.  In 
the form, the benefit split of 75% for Mr E and 25% for Mrs E was confirmed. The total 
benefit level was also chosen. Mr E and Mrs E signed this application form.
I cannot be certain about what exactly was discussed between  Mr E, Mrs E and Santander 
at the time that the policy was taken out. In the circumstances I must determine  what  I 
consider is most likely to have occurred, based on the available  evidence. It seems to me 
that as Mr E and Mrs E had to complete a separate  PPI application form, on balance  this 
made it clear  that PPI was a separate and optional product to the mortgage. In addition,  my 
view is that by signing this form, Mr E and Mrs E made it clear that they wanted to take out 
PPI.
Santander accepts  that it advised  Mr E and Mrs E to take out PPI. It therefore  had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the advice it gave  was suitable. It also had to give clear, fair and 
not misleading information  about  the PPI so that Mr E and Mrs E could make a properly 
informed choice.
Having looked  at Mr E and Mrs Es circumstances when the policy  was sold, my view is that 
the recommendation to take out the policy was suitable for the following reasons:
Mr E and Mrs E have not been  able to confirm the benefits they were entitled to from 
their employers  if they were not working. Mrs E has provided details of her savings at 
this time. However, the PPI policy would have  made  a payment in the event that either  
Mr E or Mrs E had been unable to work  due to disability or unemployment, and this 
would have been in addition to any other  benefits that they were entitled  to. I am also 
Ref: DRN58337782mindful of the importance of maintaining mortgage  repayments. Overall my view is that 
the PPI did provide a useful benefit to both Mr E and Mrs E.
Both Mr E and Mrs E were eligible for the cover, and wouldnt have been affected by any 
of the main things  not covered by the policy  that might make it unsuitable for them.
The policy looks to have been affordable.
I acknowledge Mrs Es comments  that she considers she was too young to fully understand 
the terms of the contract when PPI was sold to her. I also consider that there might have 
been other areas in which Santander  didnt  give Mr E and Mrs E as much information as it 
should have done. But for the same  reasons  that Ive decided  the policy  was suitable  for 
them, my view is that better information would not have put Mr E and Mrs E off taking out the 
PPI.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr E and Mrs E paid on their PPI  and whether 
Santander treated  them  unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr E and Mrs Es PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Santander has been  working  this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr E and Mrs Es commission  was 
less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them  about 
the commission  so I dont think Santander treated them unfairly.  This means  it doesnt  
need to pay Mr E and Mrs E back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5833778