K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs F says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy of Mrs Fs signed credit  agreement  which  has a section  which  asks 
applicants to tick the relevant box if they want PPI cover  or card protection.  There  is a 
printed cross in the box next to credit  card repayments cover.  I can see that the credit 
agreement also includes pre-printed  personal details for Mrs F, as well as details of her 
employment. From what I know of how Halifax sold policies around this time,  I think  its 
likely the printed cross and the other details on the form wouldve only been  added after 
a conversation between  Mrs F and Halifax. Mrs F has signed  the application  form, and if 
the PPI wasnt something that she wanted I think Mrs F couldve questioned this at the 
time. 
So thinking carefully  about  everything Ive seen, I think its more likely  Halifax made  it 
clear that Mrs F didnt  have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out. But I 
can understand why she might not remember that now given how long ago the sale took 
place.
Halifax has said it recommended  the PPI to Mrs F, so it had to check that it was right for 
her  and based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover 
and she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible  the information Halifax gave Mrs F about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think she chose  to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted this type 
of cover. And it seems like it wouldve  been useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
wouldve put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs F has said, including  what shes  said about the sick pay 
she had. But the PPI would have paid out for longer than Mrs F has said her full sick pay 
would have lasted.  So with this in mind,  I still think the PPI could have provided her with a 
useful benefit.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs F paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs F back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mrs F.
Ref: DRN57408912my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5740891