K822xcomplaint
Mr P has complained about the following matters relating  to his mortgage account  with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC:
despite asking  Barclays  several  times, the bank  failed to provide  him with terms and 
conditions showing legal costs could be added to his mortgage  account;
Barclays legal costs  are not justified;
at times Barclays was un-co-operative, but at other times rushed Mr P into making 
decisions;
Barclays failed to recognise that Mr P was suffering from depression
Barclays threat of possession action breached the Pre-Action Protocol for mortgages.
(The full title of the Mortgage Pre-action Protocol is the Pre-Action Protocol for Possession 
Claims based on Mortgage or Home Purchase Plan Arrears in Respect of Residential  
Property. I will refer to it throughout as the Protocol.)
Mr P is asking  Barclays to remove all legal costs added to his mortgage account, with 
interest. He also wants Barclays to pay him compensation for distress,  inconvenience  and 
the detrimental effect on his health which he says Barclays has caused.  
Mr P also wants  Barclays to refer itself to the relevant criminal investigative authorities (for 
example, the City of London Police) for theft of money from his mortgage account and for 
acting deceptively by giving him false information  as if the mortgage terms and conditions 
authorised Barclays  to take money from his mortgage account.
Mr P also complained about other  issues but an ombudsman has decided that those matters 
are not within  our jurisdiction. This final decision is limited to the matters listed  above.
background 
Mr P had a mortgage account with Barclays originally taken out in 1996.  The mortgage 
reached the end of its term on 16 April 2015.  Part of the mortgage was on an interest-only 
basis. Mr P had two endowment policies to cover the interest-only element of the mortgage, 
but on maturity of the polices there  were  insufficient funds to pay off the mortgage in full, 
leaving a shortfall  debt owed to Barclays of about  £30,000.
Over the next two years there was correspondence  between Mr P (and his solicitors) and 
Barclays (and its solicitors) about  the shortfall debt and about legal action Barclays was 
intending to take if the debt wasnt repaid
In August  2018  Mr P paid off the debt (by that point  just over £33,700).
In October  2018 Mr P complained to Barclays about legal costs added  to his mortgage  
account. He said the costs  were unjustified and that Barclays was not entitled  to add them  to 
his mortgage debt. Mr P was also unhappy at Barclays customer service  in relation to the 
way the bank had responded to him.
When no response was received from Barclays, in December  2018  Mr P complained  to us 
about what had happened.
Ref: DRN53410112On 20 February 2020 an ombudsman  issued  a decision about which parts  of Mr Ps 
complaints we could  consider. Thats because Barclays thought Mr P had left it too late to 
complaint about  some  of the matters  he was concerned about.
The ombudsman was satisfied that we couldnt  consider Mr Ps complaints about legal costs 
debited to the mortgage account, and about the upset this had caused Mr P. Thats because 
Barclays had issued  a final response  on those issues in September 2017. Mr P was outside 
the six-month time limit specified in that letter to complain to us, and the ombudsman was 
satisfied there were no exceptional circumstances to allow the time limits to be waived.
The investigator looked at the other  issues Mr P was complaining  about and reached  the 
following conclusions:
Mr P would have been provided with a copy of the mortgage  terms and conditions at the 
time he took out the latest product in 2008.  The investigator said that, even though Mr P 
asked repeatedly for the terms and conditions  to be sent,  he concluded that Barclays  
failure to do so was not crucial. Thats because Barclays had provided this information  to 
Mr P with his annual mortgage statements.  He didnt uphold this part of the complaint.
The investigator was satisfied that charges for legal work applied  to Mr Ps account on 6 
March 2017, 6 April 2017 and 26 July 2017  totalling  £1,956  had been  reasonably  
incurred and that Barclays was entitled  to debit them to the mortgage account.
The investigator noted that Barclays had reviewed the legal charges and found that a 
charge of £960 had been debited to the account  in error on 13 June 2018. Barclays  
agreed to refund  this in full. He thought  Barclays should pay statutory interest of 8% per 
annum simple on this amount from the date the charge was debit up to the date it was 
refunded in full.
It was noted that this had been a difficult and challenging time for Mr P, but overall he 
thought, given the length of time since the mortgage account matured, Barclays  actions 
in relation to legal  action were justified.
The investigator asked Barclays to pay Mr P compensation of £250 for trouble and 
upset.
Barclays agreed to the investigators recommendations, but Mr P did not. Mr P has made 
some additional  points in which he expresses his dissatisfaction both with Barclays and 
about what he considers to be the dishonesty  of the Financial Ombudsman Service.  Mr P 
says that Barclays has not addressed his complaint about its failure to obey the Protocol.
Mr P says that the fact Barclays didnt pay him 8% interest on the £960  shows  that Barclays 
is a dishonest and thieving business. Mr P says that he is prepared to pursue matters  in 
court in relation to the Protocol and for compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same reasons.
Ref: DRN53410113Dealing first with the Protocol, I must explain to Mr P that the Protocol only applies to 
mortgage accounts where the mortgage term has not come  to an end. That is not the case  
here. Mr Ps mortgage expired in 2015.  So although I dont doubt Mr Ps strength of feeling 
about this issue,  he is mistaken in his belief that Barclays has breached  the Protocol  
because it is not applicable in his circumstances. Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Im satisfied Mr P has been  provided  with information throughout the term of the mortgage 
detailing Barclays entitlement to debit  legal and other costs  to the mortgage account. When  
Mr P switched to a new mortgage product  in 2008, the terms and conditions would have 
been provided to him. Mr P was also given this information in his annual mortgage  
statements. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied Barclays was entitled to debit legal costs to Mr Ps 
mortgage account. I agree with the investigator that the legal fees debited in March, April 
and July 2017 (totalling £1,956) have been legitimately charged by Barclays. Im not 
upholding this part of the complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service doesnt  audit accounts, but I note that on an internal 
review Barclays  acknowledged that it shouldnt have  debited  legal fees of £960 to Mr Ps 
account in June 2018. Barclays  has now reimbursed  Mr P. I agree that its fair that Barclays  
should pay Mr P interest at 8% per annum simple  on the £960, from the date it was debited  
to the date it was repaid.
Mr P says that Barclays failed to take account  of his depression and that he was caused 
distress by the banks  failure to communicate  properly  with him. I appreciate Mr P is 
unhappy at how he perceives the bank to have treated him, ignoring  his correspondence and 
failing to address  his concerns. But Barclays wasnt under  any obligation to continue  to reply 
to complaints that had already been  answered  in previous final response letters,  or where  a 
complaint had been referred to us. 
I accept Mr P is unwell, and Im satisfied  Barclays didnt  ignore this. But I dont  think 
Barclays contact with Mr P has been  inappropriate or insensitive.  Mr P has, since  the 
mortgage expired  in 2015, been  in contact with Barclays throughout the period up until the 
mortgage was repaid  in August 2018  (and in the time since  then). I also note that Mr P has 
been in contact with us in relation  to various matters  since the time the mortgage  expired. 
Given this, Im not persuaded he was too ill to deal with this matter.
But I accept that Mr P was upset  by the threat of legal action in 2018, particularly as 
Barclays was in correspondence with Mr Ps solicitors and that Mr P was attempting to 
negotiate a settlement. I think  Barclays could have done better here. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that a payment for trouble and upset is warranted. I think  
£250 is fair and reasonable  for this.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr P wanted. I acknowledge that he feels  very strongly, not just 
about Barclays but about the Financial Ombudsman  Service.  Mr P has said that he is 
thinking of filing a small claim against  Barclays  in the County Court, for breach of the 
Protocol and for reimbursement of all the legal fees debited to his account. Mr P might want  
to take some  legal  advice  from a solicitor before embarking on any legal action.
Ref: DRN53410114my final decision
My decision  is that I partly  uphold this complaint.  In full and final settlement, Barclays  Bank 
UK PLC must do the following:
in addition to the refund of £960  already paid to Mr P, Barclays  Bank UK PLC must  
pay interest at 8% simple  per annum on £960  from the date the amount was debited  
to Mr Ps mortgage  account  to the date of reimbursement;*
pay compensation of £250 for trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
* If Barclays considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold
income tax from any interest,  it should  tell Mr P how much  it has taken off. Barclays should 
also give Mr P a tax deduction  certificate if requested, so the tax can be reclaimed from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5341011