K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy Nationwide Building  Society wont refund numerous transactions made
online using  his debit  card.
background
Mr S is disputing  numerous transactions made on a games console  and online retailer 
between October and December 2017. The purchases appear to be mostly for one particular 
game.
Mrs S who has been representing Mr S, has said that Mr S did play the game in question, 
but his games  console was password protected so he could only make  purchases on it when 
his father  entered the password for him. She also explained that he had an account  with the 
online retailer but had only used it for a couple  of purchases for trainers  and a belt.
Mrs S on behalf of Mr S is also unhappy with the service Nationwide  provided. Shes
explained that it caused delays, provided incorrect information and incorrectly  took Mr Ss
account overdrawn when  re-debiting the disputed transactions.  She is particularly unhappy
that Nationwide told her it would sort everything  out when she reported  the disputed
transactions in January 2018, so she didnt approach the games console provider about 
getting a refund. Because Nationwide took so long Mrs S approached the games console 
provider in April 2018, but they told her they could only go back  90 days.  By April 2018 that 
meant it could only refund  £51.99.
Nationwide raised  a chargeback for the disputed transactions. When  it received a response
from the games console provider and online retailer, it decided to hold Mr S liable  for the 
spending as the information provided  by the merchants suggested it was carried  out by 
Mr S. It hadnt credited Mr Ss account whilst  it investigated so following  the result  of the 
chargeback it incorrectly  debited the money from Mr Ss account, taking it overdrawn. In its 
final response, Nationwide confirmed it would  be holding Mr S liable for the disputed 
transactions, but admitted  it made  an error in re-debiting his account. It corrected Mr Ss 
account and paid him £100 for the service hed received.
Mr S remained unhappy  with Nationwides refusal to refund the disputed  transactions  so
brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint
should be upheld.  In summary,  he felt Mr S had authorised the transactions. He based  this
on the information Nationwide had provided from the games console provider and online 
retailer, pointing to the fact the transactions were carried  out from Mr Ss general location. 
He also pointed out that the IP address  of some of the disputed transactions matched 
genuine activity.
Mrs S, on behalf of Mr S responded,  reiterating that Mr S didnt authorise  the transaction and
believes it was done by someone  who hacked Mr Ss games console. She pointed to the fact 
that her cards, which  had been  used  on the games console previously, also had disputed 
transactions carried out on them.  Mrs S emphasised that Mr S wouldnt have carried out the 
transactions as he needed to use the money  to buy equipment for his hobby.  The complaint 
has therefore been passed  to me to consider.
my provisional decision  
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 11
Ref: DRN53317532March 2020. I provide  a copy of my findings from that decision below. Ive anonymised the 
names of the retailers involved  for publication  purposes:
The disputed transactions
Generally, Nationwide can hold Mr S liable for the disputed transactions  if the evidence
suggests that its more  likely than not that he made or authorised them  himself.  The relevant
regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2009  (the PSRs 2009).  Im
satisfied the genuine card was used in order for the disputed transaction to take place. And
despite what Mr S has said, Im persuaded he carried out the transaction.
The games console provider has confirmed transactions  were  associated with Mr Ss profile 
which was set up in February 2016. The profile  is in his name and linked to his address. The 
purchases made were  for a particular  game.  Mrs S on behalf of Mr S has told us she 
believes Mr Ss console  couldve been  hacked.  Shes mentioned the console provider told 
her this was a possibility.  Ive considered  the possibility the console was hacked,  but I dont 
believe this is the most  likely scenario and Ill explain  why.
The online retailer  has provided information to show the account the purchases were made 
from is in Mr Ss name and linked  to his genuine email  address. The purchases through  the 
retailer were for the same game  as the purchases on the games console. In order to make 
the purchases through the online retailer, the person wouldve needed  access to Mr Ss 
account. This means along with the games console  being hacked, Mr Ss online retailer 
account would also have needed  to be compromised.
Mrs S said that her son didnt use online banking and would definitely not have  been  logging
in on Christmas Day. However, the evidence provided by Nationwide  doesnt  support this. It
shows that he did log in on 26 November 2017  and 25 December 2017. Also,  the online 
retailer was able to confirm what IP address  was used  when  making some  of the purchases 
and this matches the IP address used to log into online banking  on 25 December 2017. This
suggests to me that the same person making  the online retailer  purchases was also logging 
into Mr Ss online banking.  Therefore, if this was a hacker, they wouldve now had access  to 
Mr Ss games console, online retail  account  and online  banking.  Whilst not impossible, it 
seems unlikely especially  when coupled with the evidence Nationwide  has provided around  
the text messages it sent Mr S.
Mr S acknowledges he received text messages  from Nationwide regarding  some
transactions. He says he opened the text messages but didnt respond.  Nationwide  has
been able to provide evidence that these  text messages were sent on 9 and 16 November
2017. They  were  in relation to two transactions to the online retailer for £35 and £30. The 
messages asked Mr S to confirm whether the transactions were made by him or not. The 
evidence suggests  that Mr S responded to the text messages confirming the transactions  
were genuine.  The transactions didnt go through, but the card was unblocked to allow 
further use.
Because of this evidence, I dont believe it was an unknown hacker who carried  out the
transactions.
Given all the evidence  I think  the most likely  scenario  is that Mr S carried out the
transactions. Despite  what Mrs S has said, its entirely possible that Mr S knew  the password
Ref: DRN53317533for his games console, and this wouldve enabled  him to make  purchases whenever he liked, 
both with the cards already stored on the console  belonging  to Mrs S, and his own card 
which he couldve added himself.
He acknowledges  receiving the text messages from Nationwide and there  doesnt  appear to
be anyone else close to Mr S who wouldve had access to his card,  games console, online 
retail account, online  banking and phone.
Based on this, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Nationwide to refund the transactions.
Customer service
Nationwide has admitted the service  it provided  fell below  what is expected. It incorrectly
debited Mr Ss account following the outcome of the chargeback. It sent misleading letters
around this and caused the account  to go overdrawn. Whilst I understand the frustration  this
caused, I think the £100 Nationwide has paid is sufficient.
I appreciate Mrs S is unhappy as she feels Mr S couldve got a full refund of the games 
console transactions if theyd gone to the console provider sooner  and only didnt do this 
because Nationwide  assured her it would resolve the situation. I understand Mrs S 
frustration around this and I think she shouldve been told she could contact the console 
provider too if she wished. It is possible the console provider may have refunded all the 
transactions to Mr S. But Mrs S has told us that she did contact console provider initially,  
before going to Nationwide. So, its reasonable to assume the console  provider couldve 
acted at that point  but didnt.
In any event, because  on balance Im satisfied Mr S authorised the transactions,  it wouldnt
be fair for me to ask Nationwide to take any further  action in relation to this, even if I was
satisfied the console provider wouldve refunded all the transactions.
So subject to any further representations from Mr S or Nationwide  I was minded to not 
uphold the complaint. 
Neither Mr S or Nationwide responded to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As Mr S and Nationwide  havent made  any more  comments, or provided any further 
evidence, my findings on this complaint havent  changed.  
It follows that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint against Nationwide Building  
Society. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Ref: DRN53317534Sarah Brimacombe 
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5331753