K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains about the valuation The Society  of Lloyds  offered for his car under his motor 
insurance policy after it was stolen. He wants the correct  valuation.
background
Mr Ks car was stolen  and not recovered. Lloyds first offered him £6,500 for its market value 
but it increased this to £15,500 after Mr K provided evidence of the cars value. Lloyds 
waived his £350 policy excess as compensation for delays in settling the claim. But Mr K 
thought his car was worth  nearer £20,000  due to its rarity.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought Lloyds had 
relied on independent engineers to value the car. But he thought  it should  have checked the 
market guides  and it hadnt shown  that the car wasnt in the excellent condition  Mr K stated. 
He checked the motor  trade and specialist  guides  and found  higher valuations for similar 
cars. So he thought  Lloyds  should pay Mr K a further £4,500, with interest, in settlement of 
his claim.  He also thought Lloyds should  pay Mr K interest for the period before it paid him 
£15,500. But he thought waiving the excess was fair and reasonable compensation for the 
delays.
Lloyds replied that Mr K hadnt shown that the car had been in excellent condition. It thought 
its offer recognised  that the car had been in very good condition.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has explained this services approach  to car valuations in that we dont 
provide valuations for cars but seek to assess whether the insurers  offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we obtain  valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second  hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive,  largely because their valuations are based  on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available  evidence into account,  for example, engineers  reports.
Mr Ks policy  provides the market value at the time of its loss for his car. Lloyds said it 
wasnt able to find a valuation for Mr Ks car in the motor trade  guides.  But our investigator 
did and he provided  this information to Lloyds but it didnt change its valuation. It said that it 
placed greater  weight on the engineers report as Mr K hadnt provided sufficient evidence of 
the cars  condition and provenance to warrant a higher valuation. 
But I dont agree. I think Lloyds should have first considered  the motor  trade  guides  in 
keeping with our approach. I cant see the source of the research the engineer used to arrive 
at his valuation.
Ref: DRN53605222Ive looked at the valuations the investigator found  in the motor  trade guides. These took into 
account the cars make, model, mileage and very good condition. I think the general  guides 
place a value  on Mr Ks car between £17,896 and £18,950.  But a specialist guide  for classic 
cars provides a valuation of between £17,500  and £22,500. 
Mr K provided advertisements of similar  cars to his, albeit with higher mileage, for higher 
prices. But we dont  find advertisements particularly persuasive as these  are essentially 
asking prices and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as 
they provide evidence of likely  retail  selling prices. So, whilst these ads might  provide a 
guide, I dont think they show evidence of market prices. 
Lloyds said Mr K hadnt provided  evidence that his car was in the excellent condition  that he 
claimed. But I cant see that there was a requirement of his policy to maintain such  
information. I can see that Mr K provided evidence from a qualified engineer in an 
established garage of the cars  condition.  Lloyds engineer discussed  the car with him but 
didnt revise his opinion as the garage  wasnt specialist. 
But I dont think Lloyds  asked Mr K to provide evidence from a specialist garage.  So I think  it 
was unfair  for it to dismiss this evidence. Mr K was also able to provide further, more  recent 
photographs for Lloyds to consider. And I think these also provide  evidence of the cars 
condition that Lloyds should  have  considered.
Lloyds final offer to Mr K was for £15,500.  But I dont think this represents the market price 
for Mr Ks car as shown by the trade guides  for a car in excellent condition as evidenced  by 
Mr K. So I think  Lloyds  hasnt paid Mr K the cars  market value at the time of loss. 
I agree  with the investigator that the guides place this at about £20,000. So I think Lloyds 
should offer Mr K £4,500  further in settlement of his claim. And as Mr K has been without his 
money for some time, I think it should add interest  to this amount  and the earlier increase in 
its payment. 
Mr K said his cars value  has increased  further  recently. But I can only reasonably  consider 
the cars  value at the time of its loss. I think the addition of interest should compensate  him 
for any further financial loss. I think Lloyds  waiving of the £350  policy  excess  was 
reasonable compensation for its delay in resolving the matter. I dont require it to increase  
this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require The Society of Lloyds to do the 
following:
1.Pay Mr K a further £4,500 in settlement of his claim,  adding  interest at 8% simple  per 
annum from the date of the first offer in February 2018 to the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN536052232.Pay Mr K interest at 8% simple per annum on the £15,500 from February  2018 to when 
this payment was finalised in August  2018.
3.HM Revenue & Customs  requires Lloyds to withhold income tax from that interest.  It 
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much its taken  off if he asks for one.
4.Waive the £350  policy excess in compensation for Mr Ks inconvenience caused by the 
delay in settling  his claim.  
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5360522