K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers  Motor Finance, wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr D under a conditional  sale agreement with Close  Brothers 
that he electronically signed in December 2018.  The parking sensors stopped  working n 
February 2019 and the dealer repaired them.  But Mr D says that theyve  stopped working 
again so he complained to Close Brothers.  It said that the parking sensors had been 
repaired to the correct standard. Mr D wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained to 
this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
Close Brothers chance to repair the car was unsuccessful so she believed that rejection 
would be a proportionate resolution. She recommended that it should: unwind  the agreement  
and collect the car; compensate Mr D with £100 for the inconvenience; refund any deposit 
he paid, with interest; remove any adverse information from Mr Ds credit  account and refund 
10% of his monthly instalments  due to impaired usage.
Close Brothers has asked  for this complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in 
summary, that it accepts  rejection of the car but feels  that a repair would be more  
appropriate. It says that, if the car is rejected, a refund of the full deposit and 10% of the 
instalments isnt reasonable - the deposit  should  be refunded on a pro rota basis  and it fails 
to understand  how Mr Ds usage of the car has been impaired by 10% of his total usage  
based on the rear parking sensor  intermittently not working.
Mr D has provided a diagnostic report about the parking sensors  and says that he should be 
refunded for the cost of that report and the cost of an MOT test on the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Close Brothers, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr D. Whether or not it was of satisfactory  quality 
at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and 
the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mr D was about eleven years  old, 
had been driven  for 147,500 miles and had a price of £4,995.  Satisfactory quality also covers 
durability which means  that the components within the car must be durable  and last a 
reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend on a number of 
factors. 
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that there was an issue  with the cars parking sensors 
after it was supplied to Mr D and that the dealer  repaired the fault.  Mr D has provided  video 
evidence to show that theres  still a fault with the parking sensors and a diagnostic report 
which says that the sensors arent  working.  Close Brothers now accepts that Mr D can reject 
the car but it says that a repair would be more appropriate.
Ref: DRN52629542There was a fault with the cars  parking sensors which was repaired and the sensors  still 
arent working properly.  I consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances for Mr D to be able to reject  the car. I dont consider that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Mr D to accept a further repair  of the car.
I find that Close Brothers should  end the conditional sale agreement and arrange for the car 
to be collected  from Mr D  both at no cost to him. The agreement  shows that Mr D made  an 
advance payment of £2,000 for the car. Close Brothers says that any refund of the advance 
payment should  be on a pro-rata basis. But I consider that, as far as possible, Mr D should 
be put back into the position  that he would have been in if he hadnt  entered into the 
agreement and I dont  consider that a pro-rata refund of the advance  payment would be fair 
or reasonable. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Close Brothers  to refund to Mr D 
the advance payment that he made  with interest.  He can then use that refund as a deposit  
for a replacement car if he chooses to do so.
I consider that Mr Ds use of the car will have been adversely affected  by the issues with the 
parking sensors  and I agree with the adjudicator that it would be fair and reasonable for 
Close Brothers to refund  to him 10% of the monthly  payments that hes made under the 
agreement as compensation for his impaired  usage.  The diagnostic report  shows that Mr D 
had driven less than 7,000 miles in the car between December 2018 and February 2020. 
Mr D paid £48 for that report and I consider  that it would be fair and reasonable for Close 
Brothers to reimburse him for the cost of the report.
Paying for an MOT test is a normal running cost of a car and Im not persuaded that it would 
be fair or reasonable  for me to require Close Brothers to refund to Mr D the cost of the MOT 
test for the car. Bur these  events will have caused  him distress and inconvenience and I 
consider that it would be fair and reasonable for it to pay him £100 to compensate him for 
that distress and inconvenience.
Ive seen no evidence  to show that Close Brothers has recorded any adverse information  
about the agreement on Mr Ds credit file. But if it has recorded  any such information, I 
consider that it should remove it.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint and I order Close Brothers  
Limited, trading  as Close Brothers Motor Finance,  to:
1.End the conditional  sale agreement  and arrange  for the car to be collected  from Mr D 
 both at no cost to him.
2.Refund to Mr D the advance payment of £2,000 that he made  for the car.
3.Refund to Mr D 10% of the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement to 
compensate him for his impaired  use of the car.
4.Pay £48 to Mr D to reimburse him for the cost of the diagnostic report.
5.Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple  from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN526295436.Ensure that no adverse  information  about  the agreement is recorded on Mr Ds credit  
file.
7.Pay £100 to Mr D to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Close Brothers to deduct tax from the interest  payment 
referred to at 5 above. Close Brothers  must give Mr D a certificate showing how much  tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5262954