K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that in 1988 he was wrongly  sold a plan with Phoenix Life Limited.
background
Mr K said he took out a pension plan in 1988  which wasnt appropriate  for him. The business  
that sold it was no longer  trading but mustve received  a commission  payment for the sale 
from Phoenix. He said they mustve acted as its agent in providing  the advice and Phoenix 
was responsible for it. The plan was clearly not suitable as it was sold as a self employed 
plan and at the time he was employed.
Phoenix said that Mr Ks plan had been  sold to him by another business in June 1988. It said 
it didnt provide any advice and Mr K needed to complain to the business that gave the 
advice at the time.
The investigator said the business  that sold the plan in 1988 isnt covered by this service and 
we couldnt consider the complaint. He didnt think Phoenix was a party to the sale of the 
pension plan and couldnt be held liable for the actions  of the broker. The application form 
lists a third party as responsible for the sale and there was no evidence  Phoenix was 
involved in the sale. Just because that third party was no longer trading didnt mean Phoenix 
was now responsible for their advice.
Mr K didnt agree.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks case  rests on the argument that Phoenix is responsible for the advice given by 
another business in 1988. While this complaint may be out of time for consideration by this 
service, Phoenix has given its consent for us to consider it.
I cannot be certain whether the other business was paid commission  at the time of the sale 
of the plan, but the copy file notes  suggests  that some  commission may have been paid. But 
even if it was, that wouldnt automatically  mean  the other business  was giving advice as a 
representative on behalf of Phoenix. 
I have also seen a copy of the proposal  data sheet and application form. There  is no 
suggestion on these  that the business was acting  to give advice on behalf  of Phoenix.
So having  considered the papers presented  to me, I dont think  there  is reasonable evidence  
to show that the other business  was acting on behalf  of Phoenix.  As a consequence I cannot 
hold Phoenix responsible  for the advice given at the time. 
I cannot uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN54868902Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5486890