K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about the repairs that Advantage Insurance Company Limited made  to his 
car under his motor insurance policy.  He wants the repairs completed and compensation for 
the delays.
background
Mr M first complained  to Advantage about  the time it was taking to repair  his car after an 
accident. Advantage offered him £150  compensation  for this. But when Mr M got his car 
back, he wasnt satisfied  with the repairs. Advantage had an independent  assessor look at 
the car and further rectification work  was done.  But Advantage didnt acknowledge or 
respond to this further complaint. Mr M remained  unhappy.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought Advantage 
had caused initial delays in the claim as it wrongly recorded Mr Ms car as driveable and 
didnt provide him with a courtesy  car in this time. Then Mr M was provided with a small car 
and the repairs  took almost  three  months.  Mr M continually chased  for updates in this time. 
After an independent report,  the car was taken back for further repairs.  Mr M asked for a 
larger car and this caused five days delay. The repairs then took a further three months due 
to problems with matching  the paintwork and obtaining parts. Mr M then found a further  
problem which he had repaired independently.  Advantage  reimbursed  him for this cost.
The investigator thought Mr M had to obtain  updates about the repairs. He was given 
incorrect completion dates. He was without his car for six months and had a smaller car for 
three of these, which caused  him inconvenience. She thought Advantage should pay Mr M a 
further £400 compensation for the trouble and upset  caused him by its level of service.
Mr M agreed  with this. But Advantage didnt respond to the investigators view.  So the 
complaint has come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage acknowledged Mr Ms concerns  with the delays in the cars initial repairs. It 
agreed that these  were  unacceptable.  It said he hadnt been kept updated and hed been 
provided with incorrect  completion dates.  And so it offered  him £150 compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused up to this point.
But Mr M complained again when his car was returned and rectification work was required.  
Advantage arranged for the rectification work, but I cant see that it responded to Mr Ms 
further complaint.  I think the new concerns are part of the ongoing  complaint.  I think 
Advantage had sufficient  time to respond  to Mr Ms complaint  and our investigators prompts. 
So Ill consider Mr Ms complaint as a whole. 
Ref: DRN56804162Advantage has provided us with little information about what happened between  the cars  
return in June 2018 and its eventual return three months later. I can see that the 
independent assessor identified that extensive further repairs were required.  And I can see 
that there  was a further note that Mr M was happy  with the repairs  three months later (apart 
from the issue he had repaired  separately). 
Advantage has told us that it provided  Mr M with a like for like replacement car during this 
period, after a short delay. But it hasnt explained  why it hasnt considered further  
compensation for the inconvenience caused  to Mr M by the further delays. 
Advantage offered Mr M £150  compensation for its initial  delays. But I dont think this was 
fair and reasonable compensation for the inconvenience Mr M suffered. I can see that 
Advantage tried to keep Mr M updated on progress,  but Mr M also had to contact the 
repairers to see what was going on. He was given incorrect completion dates which  I can 
see caused him frustration. 
Mr M was without  a courtesy car for seven days due to Advantages error whilst his own car 
was undriveable.  Then Mr M was provided with a small car for the next three  months. 
Advantage said a courtesy car wasnt  provided  under Mr Ms policy but was provided by the 
repairing garage. But Mr M was deprived of his own more suitable car for longer than 
needed. Hes explained the inconvenience this caused him. And so I think  this should be 
recognised in a compensation  award. 
I think Advantage reasonably agreed  for an independent assessor  to inspect the cars  
repairs. I also think Advantage reasonably instructed the garage to provide  Mr M with a like 
for like courtesy car for the duration  of the rectification work. And it reasonably allowed Mr M 
to have the final issue completed  at his own garage  and refunded  him this cost.
But Advantage hasnt acknowledged  the further inconvenience  Mr M was caused  by the 
poor repairs and the three months  it took for these to be made good. Mr M had to chase  for 
updates in this time.  And he had to arrange  his final repairs himself.
The investigator thought Advantage should  pay Mr M £400 further compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused by this and the initial delays. I agree as this is in keeping with what 
Id award in similar circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr M a further £400  (£550 in total) compensation  for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by its level of service.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 19 March 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5680416