K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc have unreasonably refused to 
pay their claim  under  their travel policy when they had to cut short their holiday due to Mrs W 
becoming ill.
background
Mr and Mrs W booked  a 25-day special holiday costing just under £20,000 leaving in 
January 2019.  In November 2018, Mrs W became ill with sinus issues and was treated with 
antibiotics by her GP. Her GP believed her symptoms  were abating and decided  she was fit 
to travel.
Mr W phoned AXA and explained  her illness to AXA before they departed  and updated it on 
other health issues they had. AXA confirmed all these  issues were covered.  
On arrival at their first destination of their holiday, Mrs W became ill again with the same  
sinus and sickness issues. They were due to travel onto their second destination a few days 
later but Mrs W felt too unwell to continue with their trip. So they contacted their tour 
operator who was able to arrange  a return flight home for another cost of £1,529.
Mr W then phoned AXA to explain the situation. He said he would prefer to make his claim 
when he got home. AXA agreed  on the phone that he could  do this.
When Mr and Mrs W got home, they made their claim  to AXA.  AXA refused to consider it 
because it said Mr and Mrs W didnt contact them whilst abroad to request medical 
assistance and have their decision  to curtail  their holiday approved as per the policy  
conditions
Mr and Mrs W complained, but AXA wouldnt change its stance. So they brought  their 
complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that it should be upheld. AXA disagreed  so 
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint, Ill now explain  why.
I consider that its crucial  that Mr W phoned AXA whilst still abroad to explain what  was 
happening and that the AXA adviser confirmed he could make  his claim when he got home. 
Mr W then relied  on that to his detriment,  as AXA didnt  believe it was responsible for the 
advice and assurances its adviser  gave him. I dont  consider thats  either fair or reasonable.
I also consider it irrelevant that Mr W chose the wrong number listed  in his policy  
documentation. He didnt want medical assistance so its understandable he didnt phone 
that number. But what he did do was phone AXA whilst still abroad to explain the situation.
So given the contents of that call with AXAs adviser, from his perspective he did obtain the 
approval required by the policy as its very clear the adviser  thought he could make  a claim 
for the curtailment of his holiday when he got home.  
Ref: DRN52972262This is because the adviser said and Mr W said the following from the transcript  provided by 
AXA, which mirrors the contents  of the actual  call recording:
Mr W: Um Im on holiday in [name of country]  and my wife has been taken poorly 
and I have just arranged to fly back home so were just involved [sic] and the holiday 
is terminated before its hardly started.
Adviser: Oh goodness,  sorry  about the situation there Mr W, was you looking to put 
in a claim today?
Mr W: Can I leave  it until I get home and sort it out then?
Adviser: Yes, of course thats absolutely fine for you do that on this policy  there.
Mr W: OK I just wanted to let you know the situation. 
The adviser is clear and confident in the call the recording that it was perfectly fine for Mr W 
to make his claim when he got home.  Indeed, she was pleasantly  sympathetic and very 
reassuring. 
Therefore, I dont consider its reasonable for AXA to have refused his claim given the 
contents of this conversation. Further given this adviser was a sales assistant and obviously 
advising on the sales of these policies, she also ought to have known what  the contents of 
the policy she was dealing with actually said. And I consider what she did say to Mr W, 
induced him to continue with his arrangements to come home early as he had just arranged.
AXA has made much of the fact that he had already  bought  the tickets to come home, but I 
also dont consider thats relevant either. Had he been appropriately advised in this call, he 
may well have been able to cancel  them. Theres little or no evidence to show  such a 
cancellation would have been impossible  in these particular circumstances, given he had so 
recently bought  the flight home.
So on this basis, I consider its fair and reasonable that AXA pays  Mr Ws claim in 
accordance with the remaining policy terms and conditions,  adding interest of 8% simple  per 
year from the date Mr W submitted his claim to the date of AXAs  payment.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do the following:
Pay Mr W and Mrs Ws claim in accordance with the remaining policy terms.
Add interest of 8% simple per year from the date Mr W submitted the claim to the 
date of its refund.  If income tax is to be deducted from the interest,  appropriate 
documentation should be provided  to Mr and Mrs W for HMRC  purposes.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 June  2020.
Ref: DRN52972263Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5297226