K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that his home buildings and contents provider Lloyds Bank General
Insurance Limited (LBGIL)  didnt do enough to assist him when he made a claim for a water
leak which damaged  the ceiling in his home.  Mr B states that he was given misinformation
and that Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited  showed no empathy for his situation.
background
Mr B had a leak which caused  damage  to the ceiling in his home. He has buildings  and
contents insurance with LBGIL.  When he purchased this policy,  he also purchased a Home
Emergency Cover (HEC).  However, although  Mr B purchased the HEC from the LBGIL
website, it wasnt underwritten by LBGIL, but another  insurance  underwriter, who I will refer
to as Company  B.
Mr B found  water  coming  through his ceiling. There was a two-foot crack in the ceiling and
the ceiling  plasterboard was damaged by the leak. He initially  contacted Company B. He
was told that unless he could directly see where  the water  was coming from, they could not
come out to assist him. Company B advised  Mr B to contact  his buildings  insurer LBGIL to
get - Trace  and Access - permission, as this would  allow Company B to cut a hole to find
and repair  the leak.
Mr B phoned  LBGIL. As it was out of business  hours, he got a recorded message asking him
to call another number.  When  he spoke to LBGIL on this number he was told that they
couldnt authorise trace and access and Mr B was advised to call back  the following day.
Mr B phoned  friends for advice as he didnt know what he should do to safeguard  his home
from further damage. Friends  provided advice and it was this advice that allowed him to turn
off his mains water  supply  and drain the water system. They also advised Mr B to turn off the
electricity using the fuse box. As he had no water, heat or electricity, Mr B left his home and
went to stay at an alternative  address some  45 miles away.
The following  day Mr B travelled back to his home address and phoned LBGIL again. He
again explained that company B would not come out unless Mr B had permission to cut a
hole in the ceiling to fix the leak. The call-handler told Mr B that as the ceiling plasterboard  
was already damaged by the escape  of water, he could cut a hole in it to fix the leak. And 
that as the plasterboard  was already damaged, this would be covered  under the escape  of 
water section of the policy and not the trace  and access section. The handler advised Mr B 
to take photos  of the damaged areas  and to send them  to LBGIL. She also advised Mr B that 
he could get his own quote  to have the roof repaired or LBGIL could come out and assess  
the damage themselves. The handler said to Mr B that if he needed to cut a hole in a part of 
the ceiling  that wasnt already damaged by the escape of water, then he should  call LBGIL 
back to have that cleared first.
Mr B contacted company B again. They said that they would not come out to assist Mr B
until LBGIL contacted them directly and gave  them  permission to cut a hole in the ceiling.
Mr B called LBGIL  again,  this time he spoke to a different handler. The handler  said to Mr B 
that LBGIL  had not given  him permission to cut a hole in the ceiling. She stated that if the 
ceiling only needed  filling and painting then that was all LBGIL would be liable  to do.
Ref: DRN50401442The handler provided a lot of information  to Mr B about hypothetical situations relating to
his claim.  She said that if Mr B was to cut a hole in the ceiling and find that this was not
where the leak was coming from, then Mr B would need to contact LBGIL again. And that
they may be able to agree cover  to trace and access the leak for Mr B. This handler read
the notes of the previous  call and looked at the photo provided  by Mr B. Mr B said that this
information was contrary to what he had been  told earlier and said that he was confused  by
what the second handler was saying.
The second  handler did confirm that if the ceiling plasterboard was damaged by escape  of 
water then it would  be covered anyway as it would need to be replaced. However, the
second handler told Mr B that the cost of repairing the ceiling would initially  need to be
addressed to Mr B, until LBGIL had further information about where the leak was coming
from.
Mr B explained that the area was already damaged  and referred  to the staining and the
crack in the ceiling.  The handler stated that she wasnt  an expert and that one of their
consultants would assess the claim. The handler agreed to contact company B and give
them permission to cut a hole in the ceiling to repair the leak. An hour later Mr B called
Company B who stated  that LBGIL hadnt  contacted them. As it was now late, and cold Mr B
decided that he didnt want to wait until late in the night for company B to attend so he said
that he would get his own plumber to repair the leak. Mr B left his address again  and
travelled to an alternative address some  45 miles away.
Mr B got his own plumber  to fix the leak and plasterboard. However,  this wasnt completed
until Monday, some  three  days later. Mr B complained to LBGIL. He was unhappy that no
one helped him on the Thursday evening when he found the leak causing him to have to
leave his home and travel  45 miles to an alternative address. He was also unhappy that the
following day when he returned to his address, he was unable to get the leak fixed and had
to source a plumber himself, causing him to be out of his address  till Monday.
LBGIL contacted Mr B and offered  him £25 for the miscommunication during his claim. Mr B
wasnt happy with the offer, so he brought a complaint to our service. Mr B wanted LBGIL to
pay him compensation for the nights he had to spend  away from home, the numerous  calls
he had to make, his lost wages, LBGILs  failure  to speak  to third party companies on his
behalf, miscommunication and misinformation  from the handlers, the stress of having  to
arrange his own plumber and a lack of empathy.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Bs complaint and didnt uphold  it. The investigator
said that the onus was on the customer to check the event was covered under their policy
terms before  contacting  the insurer. The investigator  listened to the calls and didnt think the
customer care team  showed  a lack of empathy. The investigator thought  that the
compensation offered by LBGIL was fair and reasonable and didnt ask LBGIL to do
anything further.  Mr B didnt accept  the investigators  view and asked for an ombudsman  to
decide.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN50401443Having reviewed the evidence and considered the accounts of both sides,  I intend to partially
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
I have read Mr Bs Home  Insurance Ultimate  Buildings and Contents policy schedule and
booklet from LBGIL.  It states that a 24-hour emergency  helpline  is included and provides a
phone number.
Mr Bs buildings insurance policy with LBGIL covers  him for the escape of water  and for
trace and access. Under the escape of water section of Mr Bs policy, it states, cover is
provided for damage  caused by escape  of water  as a result of, for example, if a pipe joint
burst. Under the trace and access section of the policy  it says; if your buildings are damaged
due to an escape of water, LBGIL will pay the reasonable cost of removing and replacing
any other part of your buildings necessary to find the source  of the leak and making  good .
When a home insurer is contacted by a customer after their home has been damaged, Id
expect them to assist  their customer by making reasonable efforts to deal with the claim
promptly and fairly.  Id also expect the insurer to provide reasonable information on its
progress. Ive reviewed  the contact  notes and communications between Mr B and LBGIL,
this has given me a good understanding of the timeline of events. Its also provided a
timeline of communications between Mr B and LBGIL.
The policy booklet  states that LBGIL  will guide you through your claim from start to finish,  it
says theyll  take the details  of the claim and let the customer know  if their covered for the
loss or damage and any excess  that applies.  LBGIL say that under their buildings cover,
they have the option  of giving the customer a money payment instead  of repairing the
damage.
When Mr B first noticed  that there  was a water leak, he called LBGIL asking for assistance.
He was told to call back the following day as it was outside business hours. I dont  think this
is good enough and does  not meet the service  offered in the buildings  and contents policy
schedule re LBGILs  24-hour emergency helpline.
If LBGIL had helped  Mr B when he first called them on that Thursday evening Mr B could
have had his leak repaired  that evening and been spared any further  distress  and
inconvenience. I would have expected LBGIL to have helped Mr B during that first call. They
could have taken  details of his claim and offered him advice on what he needed to do to get
the leak and his ceiling repaired.  Instead Mr B had to take advice from friends  to turn off his
electricity and drain his water system  before driving  45 miles to an alternative address. I
accept that this caused Mr B distress and inconvenience.
The following  day  Friday  he returned to his address and contacted  LBGIL again.  Having
listened to the calls I think that although  both handlers were empathetic towards Mr B,
neither took ownership of Mr Bs issue. The second  handlers advice was not clear or
specific, and I thought Mr B was left feeling let down and confused. The second handler
had access to the photo sent in by Mr B. Although she did tell Mr B that LBGIL  would cover
repairs to the ceiling that had been  damaged by the escape of water,  she also mentioned
that if the ceiling could  be filled and painted then that would be all LBGIL was liable for.
Ref: DRN50401444Mr B had water dripping through  his ceiling, there was a two-foot crack along  the
plasterboard in the ceiling. Mr B made  this clear verbally and provided a photograph.  Filling
the crack  and repainting the ceiling was never going  to be an option. LBGIL themselves
accepted that the damaged plasterboard  would have to be removed and replaced and the
joists underneath would need to be treated. The second handler said that she wasnt  an
expert and that claim would have to be decided by a consultant. If that was the case,  given
Mr Bs predicament  then I think that the handler  should have  asked a consultant  to decide 
that day so that Mr B could get the leak fixed and stay in his home.  I think  that if LBGIL had 
done this then Mr B wouldnt  have had to leave his address for a second  night.
Mr B purchased his buildings, contents  and home emergency cover  from LBGIL. Although
the home emergency cover is underwritten by Company B, I think LBGIL  should  have
contacted Company B on Mr Bs behalf  and worked with Company  B to get Mr Bs leak fixed
and his ceiling repaired, so that Mr B could  return  home  as soon as possible. I accept that
not all the delays were  down  to LBGIL and that they had no control  over Company B.
However, Mr B was left in the middle trying to co-ordinate between  LBGIL and Company B. I
think that LBGIL should have taken  ownership.  If they had I think  that Mr B would have been
spared further  distress  and inconvenience.
I can totally understand how stressful it must have been for Mr B to have to leave his
address for a second  day in a row, having  been unable to get the leak fixed.  I dont think it
was good enough for LBGIL to distance themselves from Company B and leave it to Mr B to
liaise by himself. LBGIL have told Mr B that they are making efforts  to make improvements in
relation to communications with Company  B and I welcome that.
I know Mr B would like LBGIL  to pay him £150  as he took a day off work  to deal with the
leak. However, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to expect an insurer  to
compensate for loss of earnings  every time a customer takes time off work  to have repairs
completed by their insurance company and this is not covered in the policy.
I accept that Mr B accumulated costs as a result of having to leave his address. Mr B could
not be expected to stay in his address without services. Once  the leak was fixed the house
would have been inhabitable again.  I dont think that Mr B was given  sufficient advice or
assistance by LBGIL.
The Thursday and Friday  in question were cold evenings. Mr B decided to drain his system
himself and turn off the electricity, which I agree  was sensible to prevent further  loss. It also
left him with no heating  or access to hot water. He had to spend four nights at an address 45
miles away. He travelled back to his address  on Friday (day 2) and spent  that day there
seeking assistance from LBGIL and Company B, before driving  45 miles back  to an
alternative address.  I think that Mr B has tried to mitigate his costs by staying at the address
of an acquaintance. I think LBGIL should pay Mr B £100 to cover his travel,  petrol and extra
costs. I think that £100 is a fair and reasonable amount  and reflects  the costs incurred by
Mr B whilst his home was uninhabitable.
However, I also agree that the handling  of this claim has had an impact  on Mr B. He had to
leave his home address and spend four nights  away worried that the water  damage  could
get worse. He took precautions by turning off the electricity, water and drained the system
but had no idea what further  damage  may be caused in delaying the repairs.  As the
electricity was off, he also feared that his home security alarm wouldnt  work.
Ref: DRN50401445I can totally understand how stressful it must have been for Mr B to be in the middle trying to
co-ordinate everything  himself to get the leak fixed and how disappointed  he must have
been, having taken the day off work, to spend all day Friday  at his home  trying  to get the
leak repaired, only to have to leave again Friday evening in the knowledge that he would
have to source a plumber  and get the leak and ceiling fixed  himself.  I think  that LBGIL
should pay Mr B £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he
experienced.
the response to my provisional  decision 
LBGIL agreed  with my provisional decision. 
Mr B agreed with my decision  that LBGIL should pay him £100 to cover  the costs that he 
incurred whilst his home was uninhabitable. He also accepted that it would be unreasonable  
to expect LBGIL to pay him £150  for lost wages. However, Mr B felt that £100 wasnt a fair 
amount for LBGIL to pay him for his material distress and inconvenience. 
Mr B has also asked  me to take into account the entire length of time it took LBGIL to settle 
this claim,  the fact that he was out of his house over a bank holiday weekend and had to 
cancel a planned visit from family and friends.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive had a useful conversation with Mr B, this conversation gave me a real insight into the 
issues he experienced over that bank holiday weekend and beyond. 
Mr B has asked  me to take into account  that he had to cancel a visit from family and friends. 
Ive considered this. In my provisional decision I considered  the inconvenience caused  to   
Mr B when he had to stay at an alternative address for the weekend. I dont think  that Mr B 
should be paid a further payment for the fact that he had to cancel plans  with his family and 
friends as Ive already considered compensation for the fact that Mr B had to stay at an 
alternative address.  The fact that Mr B wasnt  able to host family and friends at his home  
address that weekend  was a direct result  of his house not being  inhabitable. And Im still 
satisfied that £100  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Mr B did ask me to look at another issue, however as this hadnt been raised with LBGIL  yet, 
Ive asked Mr B to raise  it with them in the first instance.
Based on everything  that Ive seen in response  to my provisional decision, I see no reason 
to reach  a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN50401446my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I partially uphold Mr Bs complaint.
I direct  Lloyds  Bank General Insurance Limited to 
Pay Mr B £100 to cover the costs he incurred whilst his home was uninhabitable.
Pay Mr B £100* for his material distress and inconvenience.
*Lloyds Bank General  Insurance  Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days from
when we tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this, it must also pay
interest at 8% simple  a year on the compensation and costs from the date of my final
decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Anthony Coyne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5040144