K822xcomplaint
Ms P complained about a number of loans she took out with a company called 
Provident Personal Credit Limited,  trading as Satsuma. She says Satsuma lent to her 
irresponsibly and this caused her financial problems. 
background
We now know Ms P took out 5 loans, between January and October 2017. Ive attached a 
summary of the borrowing  at the end of this decision. 
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in March  2020 about this case,  
comprehensively setting  out why I thought the complaint should  be partly upheld  from the 
point of loan number 4, rather than loan 5, as our adjudicator had recommended.  I asked 
both parties to provide any further  submissions  or information to me within one month.  
my findings
Ive now reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Neither party has added anything new. Theres therefore no reason for me to change  the 
findings I previously  set out. I uphold this complaint in respect of loans 4 and 5, fully in line 
with my provisional decision.
In order to put things  right for Ms P, Satsuma  should:
refund  all interest and charges Ms P paid on loans 4 and 5; 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 4 and 5 and treat any 
payments Ms P made towards this loan as payments towards the capital;
if reworking Ms Ps loans 4 and 5 account  as Ive directed results  in her effectively  
having made payments above  the original capital borrowed, then Satsuma should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated  on the overpayments,  
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date of settlement.  
If reworking Ms Ps loans 4 and 5 account  leaves  an amount of capital still to be paid, 
then Satsuma should take a sympathetic view when  seeking  to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Ms P for the remaining capital;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Ms Ps credit file in relation to loans 4 
and 5.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest.  It must give Ms P a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I partly uphold this complaint  and I direct  Provident Personal 
Credit Limited to pay Ms P the above compensation.
Ref: DRN56062742Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN56062743summary  provisional  decision
Ive considered the relevant  information about this complaint. Based on what  Ive seen so far Im 
thinking about  still partially upholding the complaint, but to a greater extent than our adjudicator 
recommended. 
Ill look at any more  comments and evidence  I get by 30 April 2020 but unless the information 
changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines. Final decisions are 
published on our website. So that the consumer cant be identified, Ill call her Ms P.
complaint
Ms P complained  about a number of loans  she took out with a company called  Provident Personal 
Credit Limited, trading  as Satsuma. She says Satsuma lent to her irresponsibly and this caused her 
financial problems. To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Satsuma.
background
We now know  Ms P took out 5 loans, between January and October  2017. Ive attached  a summary 
of the borrowing at the end of this decision.
One of our adjudicators  looked  into the complaint and said they thought it should  be upheld in respect 
on loan 5 only. Satsuma didnt agree  and so Ive been asked to make an ombudsmans decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  Ive 
followed this approach when  thinking about Ms Ps complaint.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Ms P 
could repay  the loans she was given  in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have taken  into 
account a range of different  factors, such as the amount being lent, the total repayment amount  and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate. However,  certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should  
have fairly and reasonably  done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during which 
a customer has been given  loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.  So Satsuma was required to establish  whether  Ms 
P could sustainably  repay the loans, not just whether  the payments were affordable  on a strict pounds  
and pence calculation.
Ref: DRN56062744Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis  might be an indication that Ms P could 
sustainably make  the repayments. But it doesnt  automatically follow that this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being  without undue difficulties  and in 
particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting  other reasonable 
commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments. So, it follows that a lender  
should realise,  or it ought to have fairly  and reasonably  realised, that a borrower wont be able to 
make their repayments sustainably if they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing 
further.
Satsuma told us it carried  out certain checks before  agreeing to lend to Ms P, including assessing  her 
income, expenditure and creditworthiness. It says that all this information showed that Ms P would be 
able to make  all the loan repayments she was committing to.  
Taking into account what Ive said above, about the length of the lending relationship, I think  the 
financial checks Satsuma  carried out would  have  been  quite basic ones, but they would  have 
nevertheless also been considered by Satsuma  as proportionate to the situation for loans 1 - 3. And 
given the income Ms P herself declared  during  the first 3 loan applications,  I think Satsuma  would 
have thought  it was safe to lend her money. I dont think it was unreasonable to make these 
assumptions and I dont  think theres enough evidence to say it was wrong  to lend her loans  1  3.
However, Im afraid I dont agree with our adjudicator in respect of loan number  4. This is because  I 
think any reasonable assessment by Satsuma of the basic loan application data would  have clearly 
shown much more care  and thorough  financial checking  was required. At the point of loan 4, Ms 
Ps reported income dropped substantially  from well over £4,000 per month to just £1,300.  This,  
together with expenditure  figures which in my view merited  much greater scrutiny,  showed that Ms P 
was in financial difficulty. Also, the fact she was applying for loan 4 so soon after loan 3, exacerbated 
the level of risk. I note also that she had other debts still outstanding at the time and her loan 4 
application was for a vastly  increased sum. 
These obvious signals were  missed and therefore represented a failure by Satsuma to act responsibly 
and check what was evident   that Ms P was in financial difficulty. 
For loan 5, the same  situation existed and by this point it would  have been clear she probably 
wouldnt be able to sustainably repay the loans. I therefore intend to uphold  the complaint earlier in 
the lending chain. It was wrong  to lend both loans 4 and 5. 
my provisional  decision
I intend  to partially  uphold Ms Ps complaint and direct Provident Personal  Credit  Limited to put things 
right for Ms P as set out above. Ill look at any more comments I get before issuing a final decision  
providing I get them  by 30 April 2020.
Appendix
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 19/01/2017 14/07/2017 26 £150.00 £44.20
2 03/03/2017 09/10/2017 52 £310.00 £47.44
3 14/07/2017 07/09/2017 13 £100.00 £44.04
4 08/09/2017 Outstanding 12 £530.00 £87.98
5 31/10/2017 Outstanding 12 £530.00 £87.98
Ref: DRN5606274