K821x#15Complaint
Miss W and Mr F are unhappy with how their buildings and contents  insurance claim was 
dealt with by Legal & General Insurance Limited  (L&G).  
Background
The following  is intended  to be a summary of the events. The claim process took a number 
of months and included numerous exchanges  between the parties.  Whilst I have considered 
all of these, all parties to the complaint are aware  of them  and I do not consider  it necessary 
to repeat them here. Similarly,  whilst  I have  considered all of the complaint points raised,  I 
have focused  the content of this decision on those I consider  to be key.
Miss W and Mr F had a buildings and contents  insurance policy  with L&G.  Elements of the 
cover given by the policy were provided  by other firms. But as this complaint relates to the 
service provided by L&G, it is not necessary  to refer to these further.
In February 2018,  Miss W and Mr Fs home  experienced an escape  of water.  They 
contacted L&G and the claim process  commenced.  At this point they were informed that the 
average timescale for a claim of this nature  to be resolved was 90 days. 
Due to the extensive damage to their property,  Miss W and Mr F, along  with their young  
child, had to move to different accommodation.  For the first night this was with family before 
moving into a hotel and then an apartment. But after six weeks, Miss W and Mr F decided  to 
move back  in with family. They remained with family until returning  to their home.
Inspections of the property by L&Gs contractors revealed the presence  of asbestos in the 
building. And they concluded that this needed  to be removed before the property could be 
dried and the damage repaired. 
The majority of the asbestos was removed within a few weeks. But further  testing was 
needed to confirm this. Additionally, debris from the property was left in Miss W and Mr Fs 
garden and it took some  time for this to be removed  after being raised as an issue.  
Further delays then occurred as a result of additional contents  of the property needing  to be 
removed, including  plasterwork. Ultimately, drying  equipment was not installed in the 
property by L&Gs contractors until April 2018.  
Miss W and Mr F had by this point raised a complaint  about  how the claim was being  
handled, including the level of communication they had received. Their understanding  was 
that L&G had arranged for them to have a specific claims handler,  but that when they tried to 
contact L&G they had to speak to other  individuals who were  not aware of their case. They  
were also unhappy  that they had to chase  for updates and were not receiving call backs.
L&Gs final response  letter in relation  to the complaint apologised for the issues  with 
communication, delays  with the claim and inconvenience caused. L&G offered Miss W and 
Mr F £150 in recognition  of this, but they remained unsatisfied.
Issues continued though  in relation to a number  of aspects. These included  the 
arrangements for the removal of further material from the property, the details of items being  
claimed, and general communication  problems  with Miss W and Mr F not receiving the level 
of service they expected.
Ref: DRN58663112The property was dried by the start of June 2018,  and estimates were obtained for the repair  
works  with Miss W and Mr F opting for a cash settlement for these. Ultimately these were  
agreed in late July and Miss W and Mr F were able to move back  into their property in late 
September 2018. L&G paid them the disturbance allowance, and settled their claim. 
Miss W and Mr F had by this time brought their complaint  to this service. L&G agreed that 
we were also able to consider, as part of this complaint, the events after the final response 
letter had been issued. And taking  all of the events into account, our investigator  felt that the 
complaint should  be upheld.  Due to the amount of avoidable delays that occurred, and the 
issues experienced with communications, she felt that L&G should  pay Miss W and Mr F an 
additional £150 (a total of £300) compensation. 
L&G agreed to this, but Miss W and Mr F remained unsatisfied and the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W and Mr F, along with their young child, have been through  what was no doubt  an 
extremely distressing experience. However, when considering  this complaint I need to 
mindful that the initial cause of this experience was the escape of water.  And that having to 
make a claim of this nature is distressing in of itself.
L&G agrees  that it did not handle this claim as well as it could have though, so this will have 
added avoidable  trouble  and upset to Miss W and Mr Fs experience. As such, I need to 
consider the impact of L&Gs mishandling.
I should also note that the majority  of the issues experienced were not actually as a result of 
L&G directly.  And the involvement of a number  of different contractors  seems  to have 
caused its own issues. But L&G is responsible for the actions of its contractors in these 
situations, so it does bear the liability for any of their mistakes.  And L&G should have 
ensured that there was suitable  oversight of the claims process.
Miss W and Mr F were out of their home for about  seven  and a half months. That is a 
significant period,  especially with a small child. It is also significantly longer than the 90 day 
period referred  to at the start of the claim. However,  the 90 day reference appears  to have 
been to an average  timescale for an escape of water claim. It would not have  taken into 
account the presence of asbestos in the property, and it would not have been  based  on the 
claim being resolved  by cash settlement.  
The issues  with the asbestos did extend the minimum time it would have been possible to 
resolve the claim. But, even so, I do not consider  that the earliest point the driers should 
have been installed  was April 2018. With better communication between  L&Gs contractors, I 
think the driers should have been installed several  weeks prior to when they were.  And that 
the drying process itself would likely have been  quicker had all the required materials been 
removed promptly. 
Ref: DRN58663113Similarly, I do not think that the turnaround time for assessing the quotes  Miss W and Mr F 
provided was as quick as it could have  been. So, I think a settlement should  have been 
agreed and paid earlier than it was. 
Had these issues proceeded as they should  have,  Miss W and Mr F would most likely have 
been back in their property a substantial period before they were in fact able to return.
I note Miss W and Mr F have referred to further  issues with the settlement of their contents 
claim. But whilst items  should  not, for example,  have  been mistakenly left off list of the 
settlement, it is not uncommon for some exchanges  between claimant  and insurer to be 
necessary to agree suitable replacements   particularly where exact replacements  are not 
available.
There were though numerous issues with the communication provided by L&G and its 
contractors. And these exacerbated the situation  further. 
That said,  whilst I can appreciate Miss W and Mr Fs desire to have had a high level of 
communication, and also that such a high service  level would have made their already 
distressing experience more bearable, I must  also take into account what  level of service  
L&G were  expected to provide.
L&G didnt always meet its own standards and this is an issue I will come onto. But the 
standards L&G set itself,  as well as those I would generally expect to see provided  by 
insurance companies in such  situations,  are not as high as Miss W and Mr F desire. Whilst I 
appreciate Miss W and Mr Fs comments, I cannot  impose a service  level on L&G that this 
service would not expect  a similar insurer to be held to.
For example, I understand the frustration  experienced by having to repeat the details of a 
claim to a different  individual each time a call centre is contacted. But it is not common for an 
insurer to ensure a customer is able to speak to the same individual  each time a call is 
made. It is common  for a specific  person to have overall ownership  of a claim, but that does 
not guarantee that this person can be contacted directly.
Nevertheless, L&G does  set itself service  standards and did make certain assurances to 
Miss W and Mr F. L&G did not always keep to these  however. And this caused  them  distress 
and inconvenience  that otherwise might have  been  avoided.
Taking all of these points, as well as the rest of the evidence, into account it is clear that this 
claim was not handled  as well as it should have been. And I think  L&G should compensate 
Miss W and Mr F for this. But, although  I appreciate this may come as a disappointment for 
Miss W and Mr F, I do consider that £300  total compensation is fair and reasonable in this 
particular case.
Ref: DRN58663114My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Legal & General Insurance Limited should 
pay Miss W and Mr F £300 compensation, if it has not already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W and Mr F 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2020.
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5866311