K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complained about the amount  Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) charged 
him when  it cancelled his motor insurance  policy.
Mr C is represented in this complaint by his grandmother. But for ease Ill refer to all actions 
and comments as being those of Mr C.
background
Mr C bought a policy  online  through an aggregator website and paid his premium in full. His 
policy required him to have a telematics box fitted  that monitored his driving.  After  a couple 
of months RSA cancelled  his policy  due to unacceptable speeding events. RSA charged     
Mr C 42% of his premium as it said that was in line with its terms and conditions. It said the 
costs were higher  due to it being  a policy with a telematics box.
Mr C didnt think that was fair as it meant  hed paid £989.52 for two months cover. He 
thought he should have  received a pro rata refund and brought his complaint  to us.
Our adjudicator thought RSA had acted reasonably and in line with its terms and conditions.  
He thought RSA had made the cancellation  terms clear when Mr C bought his policy.  And he 
thought RSA had shown  why it didnt provide a pro rata refund.
Mr C didnt agree. He referred  to cancellation costs  from other insurers and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it.
Mr C hasnt complained  about his box being  cancelled so I havent  considered  whether it 
should have been. Ive only looked  at the premium RSA charged  for the time he had his 
policy.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Cs policy contain  a table setting out the cancellation terms 
over the 12 months  of the policy. This table says if the policy is cancelled in the second 
month the policyholder will be charged  42% of the premium. This means the cost of the 
policy is weighted towards the beginning rather than being equally spread across the year. I 
can understand Mr Cs frustration at not receiving a pro rata refund and its for that reason 
Ive looked carefully  at whether RSA has acted fairly  and reasonably  in the premium  its 
applied. 
Ive seen a screenshot of what Mr C would have seen when buying his policy. Theres a link 
to a charges and fees page,  so Im satisfied the cancellation terms were  available  to him 
before he bought his policy. I can also see that they are shown in the welcome information 
RSA sent him. 
However my decision that its fair for RSA to keep 42% of the premium isnt just based on 
the cancellation terms being set out in the policy. Thats because Id expect the amount  RSA 
charged Mr C to be proportionate to the cover and service  its provided. 
Ref: DRN51587892It might help for me to explain that what Mr C has been charged isnt purely the 
administrative cost of cancelling a policy. The higher weighting at the beginning of the policy 
reflects the fact that its more  likely  that a policyholder will make  a claim in the earlier months  
of the policy  compared to the later ones.  So the risk isnt equally spread across the year.  I 
can see RSA also incurred costs  in providing the telematics box. RSA has provided 
information from its underwriter to show how it calculated the premium. And from that 
information Im satisfied the amount  RSA charged  Mr C is proportionate to the cover  and 
service its provided.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to Mr C but Im not going  to interfere with the 
amount RSA charged when cancelling his policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN5158789