K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) shared her personal details with other 
parties after she made a claim on her motor insurance policy.  Shes  also unhappy with the 
time it took for her car to be repaired. She wants compensation for this and for the cost of 
changing her phone number, the time spent  answering calls and the breach of her personal 
data.
background
Mrs Bs car was damaged and she made a claim. She then received unsolicited  calls from 
accident management companies  on her mobile phone number. Mrs B thought this had 
been passed on by UKI, but it said it had not. These calls continued until she changed her 
number. UKI arranged for Mrs Bs car to be repaired. But Mrs B was unhappy  with the 
quality of the repairs and that it took 73 days for them to be completed.  UKI agreed that this 
had taken too long and it paid Mrs B £250 compensation. But it didnt pay her £70 that she 
would be entitled  to if repairs werent  completed  within seven days. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. He explained that 
data about claims could be collected from the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). He 
didnt think there was evidence that UKI had passed on Mrs Bs personal  information. But he 
thought UKI hadnt justified paying Mrs B the £70 and that it hadnt  compensated her for her 
stress and anxiety caused by the delayed  repairs.  He thought  UKI should  pay Mrs B an 
additional £150 compensation in total for these.  
Mrs B replied that she would take her data protection concerns to the Information  
Commissioners Office  (ICO). She said the proposed compensation wasnt  enough  to cover 
her loss of earnings  and other costs  due to the repairs.  UKI said sufficient compensation and 
an apology had already been given. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that it must have been  very frustrating  and annoying to have frequent calls 
from accident management companies.  Mrs B has explained that only UKI had access to her 
mobile number and thought that its data management  must have been poor. UKI said that it 
hadnt passed on Mrs Bs data. 
As the adjudicator has explained, we dont have evidence that UKI acted wrongly on this 
point. And so I cant hold it responsible for the costs  Mrs B incurred as a result.  UKI 
suggested that she contact the ICO to report the nuisance.  Mrs B has told us that she has 
done this. So I wont consider this concern further here. 
UKI accepted that Mrs B had received  poor service and repairs from its approved  garage. I 
can see that it apologised for this and offered Mrs B £250 compensation. Our adjudicator 
thought this should be further increased,  to account  for trouble and upset and not having the 
car back within seven days. Mrs B thought  further compensation was due for a spoilt holiday 
and the effect  of the stress on her health.  UKI thought it had already sufficiently 
compensated Mrs B.
Ref: DRN54720752UKI said its compensation was for:
Further and repeated rectification work  following the initial repairs.
Poor service  and rudeness from the garage.
Having to collect the car when the garage  couldnt deliver it, and so losing a days  
holiday.
Service from UKIs inspecting engineer.
I think this is fair and reasonable compensation for these points. UKI said Mrs B had had a 
hire car throughout, so she hadnt  been without transport. It also said the repairs  had taken 
less time to complete than the adjudicator stated. But I disagree. I can see from its file that 
Mrs B returned the hire car 73 days after the accident when UKIs engineer authorised  her 
own garage to make  the repairs.  
The adjudicator thought  Mrs B was entitled to £70 for not having  her car repaired within 
seven days. I cant  see that UKI considered this in the complaint response.  It did later say 
that it should be included within the £250  offered. But I dont think this is fair and Ill now 
explain why I think this.
UKI also said the car had been  first returned  after two days  and so the £70 entitlement 
wouldnt apply. But I disagree.  The car wasnt offloaded at the time. Mrs B wasnt able to 
accept it due the poor repairs  and new damage. So I think  its fair and reasonable that UKI 
pay her the £70 promised in addition to the earlier compensation. 
I think UKI has already  considered the loss of the days holiday. But I think  it hasnt looked at 
the effect of the delays on Mrs B. Mrs B told them frequently of her existing health problems 
and that these were  exacerbated by stress.  I think the handling  of the repairs caused her 
avoidable stress. And so I think UKI should reasonably compensate  her for this. The 
adjudicator recommended  that it should pay Mrs B a further £80 for this. I think thats  fair and 
reasonable as its what Id require in similar circumstances.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require U K Insurance Limited to pay 
Mrs B a further £150 compensation in total for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by its 
handling of her claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5472075