K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O are represented by T, a company. They  are unhappy with the amount offered 
to them  by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) as cash settlement of their home 
insurance claim in respect of a water leak. I know some correspondence took place with Ts 
associated claims consultant but for convenience Ill refer to T throughout.
background
In November 2018 Mr and Mrs O suffered a water leak at their home.  They instructed T, who 
are a building firm but who work in conjunction  with a claims consultant, to act for them.  T 
drew up a quotation for the works and passed  this to RSA. A site meeting was set up 
between T and the loss adjusters following which a scope of works  was prepared. RSA 
advised T of the amount  it would be prepared to pay to cash  settle. This was considerably 
less than the amount of the quotation. Further correspondence ensued when T asked for a 
further meeting  at the property with RSAs appointed contractors. RSA declined such  a 
meeting but said it would arrange a further  meeting with the loss adjusters, who were 
responsible for pricing.
Following this RSA accepted additions to the scope  of works and made a revised offer of 
settlement. T persisted with its proposal  to meet up with RSAs  nominated  contractors at the 
property. RSA confirmed  it wouldnt agree  any meeting with the contractors unless they were  
appointed to carry out the repairs. As the parties couldnt agree RSA sent a cheque for the 
sum it had proposed for the revised  cash settlement, less the excess, to Mr and Mrs O.
Mr and Mrs O made a complaint to this service, and attached a further quote for the work, 
still considerably  more than RSAs offer. Following  this RSA asked its contractor network to 
review the costs against the revised scope of works, it agreed with the original costing.
Our investigator reviewed  the matter and found  that RSAs  position was reasonable.
T disagreed  and pointed  out that RSA had issued a cash settlement without Mr and Mrs Os 
authority so had to pay at their contractors rates.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a preliminary point  I note that there is now a second claim for escape of water. I should 
make it clear  that Im only considering RSAs  actions in respect of the first claim. If the 
situation has changed concerning the appointment of contractors thats not something I can 
deal with, as Mr and Mrs O will have to raise  a further complaint to RSA. Also, for Mr and 
Mrs Os benefit I should  also say that this decision concerns only this complaint and not the 
wider issue of whether  RSA should be entitled  to allow its contractors  to charge at rates 
which are perceived to be too low for consumers to be able to match them.
cash settlement
Under the terms of the policy, under buildings cover in respect of settling claims, it says:  
Ref: DRN50019292We will pay for the cost of work  carried out in repairing
or replacing  the damaged  parts of your  buildings and agreed
fees and related costs
The amount  we will pay where repairs are carried out will not
exceed the lesser  of:
The cost of the work had it been  completed  by our
nominated contractor or
The cost of the work based upon  the most competitive
estimate or tender from your nominated contractors.
Ts argument is, as I understand it, is that RSA hasnt been  able to show that its costs are 
those of its nominated  contractor. The costs  were assessed by the loss adjuster after 
drawing up a scope  of works in a visit with T. They were revised after correspondence  with 
RSA. And RSA repeatedly asked T what further issues  it wanted  to raise. T insisted that it 
the works  couldnt  be valued properly without a meeting with the contractors, which RSA 
refused unless those  contractors were appointed to do the work. But RSAs contractual  
arrangements with its repair network are that its loss adjuster draws up the scope of works 
and assesses the price. So I think that RSA has complied with the policy terms and set out 
what the cost of the work would be had it been  completed by its nominated contractor. Its 
had the costing agreed by its contractor network.  Whilst this was done  without a site visit 
RSA had confirmed  that if any issues arose in the course of the work it would consider 
further payments.
Our position is that RSA would only be able to offer a cash  settlement on that basis  if it was 
prepared to carry out the work using its contractors . And it has reiterated  several  times  that it 
would be prepared to do so. T has pointed out that RSA sent a cheque to Mr and Mrs O for 
the value of its proposed settlement so had changed  its position and is no longer prepared  to 
carry out the repairs. Thus it should pay a settlement based on Mr and Mrs Os nominated  
contractors rates.
Mr and Mrs Os position, which has been  confirmed several times is that they didnt ever 
want RSAs contractors to carry out the work.  Indeed  having  instructed T who is essentially a 
building company it would be expected that it would  arrange for the work  to be carried  out. 
So as there never was any intention that RSA carry out the work, Mr and Mrs O were  always  
going to be asking for a cash settlement in which case RSA is entitled to pay under the 
above policy provision  at the rate its nominated contractor would carry out the work for. I 
appreciate that its considerably lower than the costs Mr and Mrs O have been  quoted,  but 
thats in part likely to be because the contractors  appointed work to bulk contracts and RSA 
gets substantial  discounts. Thats not unfair  in itself,  as long as the basis  of settlement is 
made clear in the policy terms.
I dont agree that RSA has changed  the terms of the settlement. It made a number of 
attempts to negotiate with T and to ask if Mr and Mrs O would unequivocally say whether 
they wanted to instruct  its nominated contractors. After T declined to do this, it sent a cheque  
in settlement less the excess and VAT (which it would pay on production of an invoice). It did 
this as it considered  it to be the maximum of its liability. It was of course  aware that it could 
be required  to add interest and that was a consideration Ive noted it took into account. Ive 
also noted that in correspondence with T, it had threatened RSA with proceedings asking for 
damages for late payment and said it would be pursuing a claim for interest.  RSA made  it 
clear that it was paid without prejudice  to the claim or Mr and Mrs Os complaint. T has 
Ref: DRN50019293recently told us that the cheque wasnt banked, thats a matter between it and Mr and Mrs O. 
I dont think that the offering of a cheque in settlement changed the terms of it.
refusing to arrange a meeting with the contractors
T asked several times  for a meeting with the contractors at the property. RSA advised it was 
quite prepared to set up another meeting with the loss adjusters, who had full authority to 
agree the price. But it wouldnt  agree  for the contractors  to meet up with them unless and 
until they were appointed  to carry out the work.  It confirmed  its contractual  arrangements  
with its contractors namely that they had no authority to discuss  or agree pricing. 
This has been put to us as a refusal to allow  Mr and Mrs O to meet up with their contractors. 
But as Ive pointed  out there never  was any intention, on Mr and Mrs Os part, to allow  those 
contractors to be appointed. The reason for T wanting to meet with the contractors was in 
order that I may meet with them on site and they can explain how they will carry out these 
works at a loss, and discuss  their financial position  based on their connection with RSA.  In 
light of that I think RSAs position was reasonable. It was prepared  to instruct contractors 
and have a pre-start  meeting, if Mr and Mrs O wanted it to carry  out the work. 
tone of correspondence
Mr and Mrs O complained  about the rude tone of all the emails from RSA to their 
representatives There was an aggressive  litigious tone to Ts correspondence.  And the 
managing director  of T took personal  offence  at some of the comments made by RSAs 
claims handler. But bearing in mind  the nature of the correspondence, which  wasnt  directed 
at Mr and Mrs O, I cant say that RSAs responses  were inappropriate or affected Mr and 
Mrs Os claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 November 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5001929