K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about the way a claim has been recorded  under his motor insurance  
policy held with UK Insurance Limited (UKI).
background
Mr H was involved in an accident. Mr H has explained that, following an unrelated incident, 
his car and a third-party car needed  to be manoeuvred. Mr H had a discussion with the other 
driver where they agreed Mr H would move  his vehicle allowing the other  driver  to turn 
around. He would then move into the space where the other  car had been.   
Mr H moved his car and gave the officer several  minutes to perform his manoeuvre.  Mr H 
said he then checked  it was safe to move into the space as agreed.  And as he was unable to 
see any other vehicles, he reversed his vehicle. 
Unfortunately, the other car was in the space Mr H was attempting  to move  into and he 
collided with it. 
UKI considered a claim under Mr Hs policy and settled it as a fault claim. It said Mr H had a 
responsibility to make  sure it was clear behind him before reversing.
Mr H has explained that he doesnt  think he was at fault for the accident and that the other 
driver was at least partially at fault. Had the other driver moved their vehicle as agreed,  or 
had their lights on, the accident never would have happened.
Our Investigator  considered Mr Hs complaint and thought  UKI had acted  fairly  when  settling 
his claim.  Mr H disagreed  as he still felt the other driver was responsible for the accident, so 
this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Hs motor  insurance  policy allow UKI to manage any claim 
on Mr Hs behalf. It states:  
We are entitled to:
take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement  of any claim in your name, or 
in the name  of any other person covered by this policy;
We dont decide  whos at fault for an accident,  as this is the role of the courts. Instead, we
look at whether the insurer acted in line with the policy terms and whether its decision to 
settle the other drivers  claim  is fair and reasonable.
UKI explained that Mr H reversed his car into a stationary vehicle. As he had a duty of care 
to make sure the path was clear before reversing, the claim was settled as a fault claim 
against him.
I can understand why Mr H feels that the other driver at least  contributed to the accident by 
not having their lights on, and not performing  the manoeuvre as it had been agreed with 
Ref: DRN55534632Mr H. But even so, Mr H was still responsible for making sure the path was clear  before he 
reversed his car. And if he was unable to see the path behind him it would  be his 
responsibility to carry out further checks.
Having considered the circumstances of the accident  I think  UKI has settled the claim 
against Mr Hs policy reasonably, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy he 
held with it. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5553463