K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the way Barclays Bank  UK Plc dealt with the transfer  to it of the funds 
in his ISA from another broker. 
background
In October  2017 Mr S contacted Barclays  because  he wanted to transfer the two funds he 
held in his ISA with another broker (the original broker). The transfer  wasnt  completed until 
February 2018 and although he wanted  to transfer  the funds in-specie they were sold and 
transferred as cash.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint a copy of which  is attached to, and forms 
part of, this final decision. In short I made the following  findings:
I wasnt satisfied that it is reasonable to use a period  of 12 weeks as being a 
reasonable period to transfer as this isnt the normal timescale  and it wasnt 
suggested the cause of delay  was high volumes  or the complexity  of funds which  
might justify  a longer  period  for transfer.
Barclays had provided no explanation  of what caused the delay between  the original 
brokers providing a valuation and it confirming acceptance of the transfer some 10 
weeks later.
A period of six weeks  for transfer from when Barclays  received  the transfer form was 
reasonable.
Barclays explanation  that the original broker couldnt do partial transfers so had 
encashed both his funds even though one could  be held on Barclays  SmartInvestor 
platform wasnt consistent with the evidence.
I was satisfied both funds were encashed because  Barclays had requested this.
Mr S had signed a form that gave authority to sell the funds but had no reason to 
think this would  be necessary as there  was nothing to indicate Barclays couldnt  hold 
the funds.
Barclays should pay £400, including the £150 it had already offered, for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused by the delay in transfer  and for providing misleading 
information.
It isnt appropriate  to award anything for the funds being  encashed  as Mr S has not 
reinvested this money but kept it as cash.
Any loss for delay in the money from his funds being received in his account is going  
to be small and I award £25 for this.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding to my provisional  findings. Barclays said it 
agreed with my provisional  decision. Mr S also said he agreed  with my findings but 
explained why he had not reinvested the money from his encashed funds.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given both parties have agreed with my provisional  decision there  is no need for me to make 
any further findings. I note Mr Ss explanation  as to why he didnt reinvest his encashed 
funds. I acknowledge  he had good  reason to take a more passive approach to investment 
after the transfer, although this doesnt  affect my findings.
Ref: DRN58442462my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons I have  explained  above and in my provisional 
decision. Barclays Bank UK PLC has to pay Mr S £425 for the distress  and inconvenience 
caused to him, to include the £150 it has already  offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN58442463COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr S complains about the way Barclays Bank UK Plc dealt with the transfer to it of the funds in his 
ISA from another broker. 
background
In October 2017 Mr S contacted Barclays because he wanted to transfer the two funds he held in his 
ISA with another broker (the original broker). The transfer  wasnt completed until February 2018 and 
although he wanted to transfer the funds in-specie they were sold and transferred as cash.
Mr S made a number of complaints about the transfer.  He was offered £50 for not being able to use 
the webchat facility when trying to find out what was happening with his transfer. He was offered a 
further £150  for delay and not being informed about the encashment of his funds. In its responses to 
his complaints Barclays referred to the 12 week  period for transfer allowed for in the SmartInvestor 
brochure.
Mr S then complained  because  he felt he hadnt been given an explanation  for the delay and he 
thought the wrong amount  had been transferred.  In its FRL dated 9 April 2018 Barclays apologised  for 
not providing  Mr S with a reason for the delay. But it referred to the terms of the transfer form which 
Mr S signed,  which included his authority to Barclays to sell any investments  that couldnt be 
transferred.
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint but thought that Barclays had dealt with it fairly. The 
adjudicator said Barclays had been responsible  for delay but he calculated Mr S was better off as a 
result because the unit price  of both investments had gone up over the period of delay.
The adjudicator also said that Mr S couldve purchased back the units  that were sold at a lower price 
because the market  had fallen - although noted Barclays could only hold one of the funds   but that 
Mr S decided to keep  his funds as cash instead.
Mr S didnt agree  with the adjudicator. In short he made the following points:
Both funds were shown on his Barclays account and this indicated  to him that there wasnt a 
problem with his funds being transferred in-specie.
The adjudicator hasnt commented  on it being widely  known at the time that the new 
SmartInvestor platform was experiencing considerable difficulties.
The form he signed  made it clear  that he didnt want  a cash transfer of his funds  so he doesnt 
accept the adjudicators view that Barclays took reasonable steps to make clear that it would  
sell funds  it couldnt  transfer.
Barclays shouldve notified him if it was unable  to transfer his funds as he wanted,  but the 
adjudicator hasnt commented on this oversight.
The adjudicator said that Barclays hadnt done anything that wouldve caused him to worry 
about his money being safe. But at the time Barclays were in meltdown with its platform  
issues and his holdings were well over the allotted  time for transfer and he had no access. 
This was a major concern to him at the time.
The adjudicator has simply accepted what Barclays has said about not receiving  the signed 
transfer form until 6 November 2017.
He has maintained the funds shouldve been available at the beginning of February  2018.  The 
adjudicator has said the funds were  available from 20 February  2018 because Barclays 
couldnt pick them up before this as they were wrongly  assigned -but no loss to the client is 
mentioned.
Barclays customer service hasnt just been  poor, as the adjudicator  stated.  It has at times 
been obstructive, non-existent and with no factual information  just excuses. 
Ref: DRN58442464The adjudicator used calculations to the end of January 2018 to work out if he had suffered a 
financial loss when his funds  werent available to him until mid-March.  The adjudicator also 
didnt calculate  the cost of re-entry and loss of interest for February and March 2018.
As Mr S didnt  agree  with the adjudicator the matter has been referred  to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I think  it is clear that Mr E is unhappy not just about the delay that has occurred in the transfer but 
also about the sale of his two funds. The specific issue of not being  able to contact Barclays through  
its webchat facility isnt something  I am considering in this complaint. I note Mr S raised  an issue 
about the wrong  amount being received in his account but has confirmed this was a misunderstanding 
on his part  and I dont  think this affects anything.
The delay in transfer
There is no dispute that Barclays took too long to transfer Mr Ss funds  but the period of delay it 
should be responsible for and what redress it should  pay isnt agreed.
Barclays acknowledges that the normal maximum period of time for transfer of a stocks and shares 
ISA for the industry  is generally 30 working days. There are of course  occasions  when it isnt possible 
to keep to this for reasons beyond the control of a business. 
The SmartInvestor terms and conditions refer to a period of four to six weeks for transfer - which  is 
consistent with a period  of up to 30 working days. But they also allow that a transfer can take up to 12 
weeks in times of high demand or with more complex funds.
Mr Ss transfer was a couple  of months after Barclays had changed to its new SmartInvestor platform 
and the problems for customers that resulted from that have been well publicised.  But I have seen no 
evidence or explanation that the reason  for delay was because of the particular problems caused by 
the change to the new platform. 
The first FRL on 4 January 2018 simply  referred to the 12 week timescale in the SmartInvestor 
brochure. In the second FRL of 16 March 2018 Barclays said that the transfer took longer because  
there was an issue with Mr Ss holdings. It then referred  to not being able to hold one of his holdings 
on its platform  and the original broker not being able to do partial transfers.
There are a couple of issue about this. Firstly Im not satisfied it is reasonable to use a period of 12 
weeks as being a reasonable period  to transfer.  This isnt the normal timescale for transfer and the 
FRL doesnt suggest that the cause of delay  was high volumes or the complexity of the fund - the 
examples given for when a transfer may take longer than the normal  four to six weeks.
The only issue with the funds  as far as I am aware  is that Barclays  couldnt  hold one of these  and told 
the original  broker to sell both funds. This was around 10 weeks after Barclays received the 
completed transfer form so there had already been delay by this point and the need to sell the funds  
didnt cause any significant  additional delay. 
Barclays has provided  no explanation  of what caused the delay between the original broker providing 
a valuation on 9 November 2017 and Barclays confirming  acceptance of the transfer on 19 January 
2018  a period of 10 weeks. In the circumstances  I think its is reasonable to allow an overall period 
of six weeks  for transfer  from when Barclays received the transfer form.
Mr S completed the transfer form on 31 October 2017. Barclays  cant say when this was received but 
asked the old broker for a valuation on Monday 6 November 2017, so had the form by that date. I 
Ref: DRN58442465note that Mr S has said the adjudicator has simply  accepted what  Barclays has said about  when it 
received the transfer  form. 
I understand why he feels what Barclays has said shouldnt be taken  at face value but although it may 
have been received before  this there isnt any evidence  it was. And given Barclays was chasing for 
the form on 2 November  2017   only two working days  earlier  I think  it is reasonable to use the 6 
November 2017 as the date of receipt and the date from which time should be calculated so the 
transfer shouldve completed around 18 December 2017. 
Should the funds have  been  encashed?
I note Barclays told Mr S when he complained  that one of his holdings couldnt be held on its platform  
and that the original broker  proceeded  to sell the holdings as it wasnt able to do partial transfers.  This 
isnt consistent with the documents I have seen,  in particular an email  from Barclays  dated 19 January 
2018 to the original broker asking it to encash the funds as it couldnt hold either of them.  
The original broker has also confirmed there is no reason it wouldnt have transferred one of the funds  
in-specie if that is what it had been asked to do. So Im satisfied the reason  both fund were  encashed  
was because Barclays  specifically requested  this. 
There is no issue  that Mr S wanted to transfer his funds in-specie as he ticked that he wanted to re-
register the funds, rather than cash them in, on the transfer form. Barclays  points to the client 
confirmation on the transfer form which  includes the following:
I accept I am giving you authority to sell any investments that cannot  be transferred and the proceeds 
will be transferred as cash instead.
This statement is just above the signature box so is something  Mr S shouldve been  aware of. But he 
has said the funds showed on his account with Barclays during the transfer process  so that he had no 
reason to think these wouldnt be transferred.
I think  the information  Barclays provided  to Mr S couldve  been clearer. Whilst he gave authority to 
sell the funds  he had no reason to think that this was something that applied to his transfer as there 
was nothing to indicate to him that Barclays couldnt hold the funds.
What should Barclays do to put things right.  
The delay obviously caused  Mr S distress  and inconvenience. He has been awarded £150 for the 
time taken to transfer and because it hadnt communicated that the original broker hadnt been able to 
do partial transfers and had sold his holdings  because of this  although as I have said this isnt what 
happened.
I dont think £150 is sufficient for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S. He had cause to 
contact Barclays a number of times both by phone and email to try and find out what  was going on. 
He was sufficiently  concerned that he complained  a number of times and actually asked Barclays to 
cancel the transfer on 31 January 2018  being unaware  that his funds had already been sold by that 
time  before changing his mind. 
As well as the delay Barclays has provided misleading information to Mr S about the reason for sale 
of his funds which I think has caused additional distress and inconvenience.  And his funds were sold 
when he didnt want this to happen. I think an overall  award of £400 for distress and distress and 
inconvenience is appropriate  in the circumstances, inclusive of the £150 already offered by Barclays.
There is then the issue of his funds having been cashed in when he didnt want this to happen. Mr S 
may well not have gone ahead with the transfer  if he had known this was going to happen. But given 
he kept the money in his account as cash and didnt reinvest in the funds  or any alternative  
investment Im not persuaded it is appropriate to award  anything  for the funds  having been encashed.
Ref: DRN58442466If the transfer had gone ahead and the delay  hadnt happened the funds wouldve been sold sooner. 
But the unit values of both funds  were lower  in November  and December 2017,  so he hasnt suffered 
a loss resulting from sale of the funds in January  2018.
Mr S has suggested the money shouldve been in his account at the beginning of February  2018.  I 
note there  is reference to the cheque being returned on 7 February 2018 because  the detail didnt 
match expectation. It isnt clear what this is referring  to and Barclays hasnt provided an explanation  
why it wasnt possible to encash the first cheque. If it had been the money wouldve been in Mr S 
account a couple of weeks earlier.  Any loss resulting from this delay is going  to be small and subject 
to any representation on this point  would  simply award  £25 for this. 
I note Mr S has indicated he wasnt made aware the money  was in his account until March 2018 but 
he could see what was in his account  by checking  online.
my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons  I have  explained above. Barclays Bank UK PLC has to pay 
£425 to Mr S.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5844246