K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance plc (RSA) is responsible for poor 
service in connection with a home  emergency insurance policy.
background
Mr S had a policy branded with the name of an insurance intermediary. The policy  covered 
central heating,  electrics,  plumbing and drainage.
RSA was the insurer responsible for dealing  with claims. Where I refer to RSA I include the 
intermediary, engineers  and others  insofar as I hold RSA responsible  for their actions.
Mr S called RSA for help with his central  heating. RSA arranged visits to his home.  
But Mr S complained that his heating wasnt fixed.  In its final response of 1 March 2019 RSA 
acknowledged delays  and offered £60.00.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  that there 
had been unacceptable delays. He didnt think that the £60.00  was enough  compensation. 
He recommended that RSA should  pay Mr S an additional £100.00 for the trouble and upset 
caused.
Mr S accepted the adjudicators opinion.
RSA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review  the 
complaint. It says, in summary, that:
The fault only affected one room of the property. There was heating  throughout the 
rest of the property.  
There was an initial delay.
It offered  a fair and reasonable compensation amount.
The customer is responsible for later delays.
RSA offers to increase the compensation to £100.00.
£160.00 compensation in total is disproportionate to what  has happened. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From RSAs file, I see that it used  a number of different  firms of engineers.
I see that Mr S had a number of visits in about October 2018. I mention this only because he 
came to recognise the engineer from this first firm.
Ref: DRN51351652Around Christmas 2018 Mr S reported a problem and RSA used a second firm. From what  
Mr S has said, the engineer did some work in the lounge. 
Mr S says the radiator  still wouldnt heat except if the thermostatic radiator valve (TRV)  was 
on its highest setting.  But  due to his work  commitments - It was about 23 January 2019 
before Mr S contacted RSA again. 
RSAs file shows that it used a third firm. I accept Mr Ss statement that the engineer said it 
would be necessary to drain the system. Mr S wanted to know  who the second firms 
engineer was. That caused a couple  of days delay.  
In late January and in early February  2019  RSA didnt visit when it should have. And Im not 
satisfied that RSA communicated properly about  its response to the complaint and actually 
fixing the problem  with the radiator.
I accept Mr Ss statement  that on 18 March there was an unproductive visit. I also accept his 
statement that it was 21 March 2019  when  RSA finally fixed the heating  issue.
I can understand that Mr S felt that from Christmas to 21 March, the heating  issue  was 
increasing his energy  bill. But RSA wasnt responsible for delay for all that time. And Mr S 
hasnt provided  enough  evidence to show an identifiable  financial loss.
I dont doubt that RSAs  delay, broken appointment and poor communication caused Mr S 
some distress and inconvenience. That included worry about the effect on his energy  bill of 
the uncontrollable radiator.  I dont think £60.00  was enough compensation. I agree with the 
investigator that a further £100.00 is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Royal 
& Sun Alliance Insurance plc to pay Mr S  in addition to its payment of £60.00  a further  
£100.00 for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5135165