K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy that HDI Global Specialty  SE wont pay his home insurance claim for fire 
damage to his home and has voided  his policy back  to its start.
background
In September  2017 Mr B made a claim to HDI following  a serious  fire at his home. After 
assessing the claim some tests  for asbestos were done and Mr B was told he would need to 
find alternative accommodation. But after that the claim was referred back  to HDI. It carried 
out some  checks and found  that Mr B had had a policy cancelled in January 2015. It further 
found that Mr B had had a claim for escape  of water in September 2014, with a pay-out of 
over £4,000. 
In his application for the policy over the phone in December 2016 Mr B had said he hadnt 
had a policy cancelled  and that the claim was five years ago. HDI advised  Mr B that it 
wouldnt have offered a policy as the claim was in the previous  three  years  while  Mr B had 
said it was five years old. It also doesnt offer policies to customers who have had policies 
cancelled/voided. Mr B advised he was suffering from serious  illness at the time and he 
couldnt remember when  the claim was. He also said he had no memory of a policy being 
cancelled although  he did then tell HDI that that policy  had only been going for two months 
so he had assumed  it had never  existed. He told HDI that he didnt receive the policy  
documents after making the application. He was first aware of them  when they were sent to 
his wifes phone at the time of the claim. He advised that some time later those documents  
were found  in a drawer
Mr B referred his complaint to this service. He felt that HDI hadnt  taken account of his 
situation and that it would have discovered when the claim was if it had carried  out due 
diligence when processing his policy.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. Whilst he sympathised  with 
Mr Bs situation he said Mr B had clearly  made  a misrepresentation when taking out the 
policy which  entitled HDI to void the policy and return the premiums paid.
Mr B didnt agree. He had paid for all the repairs to his property himself and felt that HDI had 
a moral and legal obligation to pay his claim.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In respect of buying  insurance the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and Representations)  
Act 2012 (CIDRA) applies. Under this act It is the duty of the consumer to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation to the insurer.
In assessing whether  reasonable  care has been taken certain  matters  have to be taken  into 
account. The relevant matter  is:
how clear, and how specific, the insurers questions were.
Ref: DRN58258722In December 2016 Mr B contacted HDI to get a quote for a new policy.  During that call the 
adviser asked Mr B a number of questions. One of those questions was:
Have you or any other proposer or person  at the property had an insurance policy refused, 
cancelled, terms applied  or been  asked  to take extra precautions  by an insurer?
Mr B answered no and went on to explain that he had had a claim on his contents policy 
about 5 years ago in respect of a water leak from the mains.  The adviser further asked  him 
to confirm that it was five years ago and he replied  yes.
The adviser then went on to ask Mr B if he had had continuous insurance for the last nine 
years. Mr B replied that he had. The adviser  then asked him if, apart  from that claim he had 
had any other claims in the past nine years  Mr B replied that he had had a storm claim about 
twelve years  previously.
Finally Mr B was asked if he had any losses or incidents (whether or not claimed for) in the 
last three  years.  Again  Mr B replied no.
In fact Mr B had had several claims, in 2011, 2012 and 2013 but the relevant one was the 
escape of water which had in fact happened  in September  2014, just over two years prior to 
the phone  call. He had also had a policy cancelled in January 2015 in respect  of an 
application made though  the same  agent,  for failing to disclose claims.
In respect of cancellation,  I think the question asked  was clear in so far as it related to 
whether Mr B had had a policy cancelled. And in a follow-up phone  call in January the same 
question was asked  and Mr B repeated the answer  no. While he told HDI he had no 
recollection of the cancellation he did then say that he knew  about it but interpreted  it as 
being cancelled  such it had never  having existed. I understand that at the time of the 
cancellation he was warned that he would need to disclose the it in any future insurance 
application.
As for the previous claim. Mr B has explained  that he was suffering serious ill health at the 
time, so couldnt remember  when  the claim was. He mentioned the claim a couple  of times 
and maintained it was five years previously. I sympathise with him  when asked  about  a 
claim I appreciate that it is difficult to remember exactly when it was. But its clear from HDIs 
underwriting guide  that it wont offer policies where the claim is in the last three years and is 
for more than £1,500 and/or is for escape  of water. Had this been  five years I wouldve 
expected it to question Mr B further about a claim that was about five years  old. But where  
the cut-off is three years, I dont think it needed  to question Mr B any further.  Rather Mr B 
should have taken care to give HDI the correct information.
Mr B did receive the policy documents where  his answers to the questions were set out. And 
whilst he initially  said he hadnt received them its clear that he did as he said theyd later 
been found in a drawer. Insurers  have  to follow certain processes to make  sure the applicant 
is giving  accurate answers  to questions. These  include sending  the policy  documents  out 
and giving the consumer the opportunity  to read through them and check they are happy  
with their answers and the policy offered. While  I appreciate  Mr B and his wife may have had 
other things  on their mind, it was his decision to buy the policy. And as he had had previous 
experience of an insurer cancelling a policy because of non-disclosure of claims I would 
have thought he would be alert to that.
 
Ref: DRN58258723So Im afraid  that I do think that Mr B failed  to take reasonable  care not to make a 
misrepresentation. This means that HDI is entitled to use the remedies set out in CIDRA. In 
the case of a careless misrepresentation  it can void, or cancel back to the beginning,  a 
policy if it wouldnt have issued one, had it known the correct answers to its questions. It 
should return any premiums, which it has done. HDI doesnt issue policies to applicants who 
have had policies  cancelled or had a claim for escape of water  or for over £1,500, in the 
previous three years.
I understand that Mr B expected HDI to carry out due diligence when  he applied for the 
policy. But insurers dont generally  search  for previous claims or cancellations when a 
consumer applies for a policy. Thats because the nature of insurance contracts as set out in 
CIDRA is that the customer is relied upon to give accurate information. Had Mr B been 
unsure of anything  he had opportunities to query  it.
Im aware that Mr B had extensive repairs done to his property. And HDI did have an 
asbestos test done  which  left a hole in the ceiling. But that test was essential and he would 
have had to have it done any way. As for the rest of the repairs, and the cost of alternative  
accommodation, I cant find that HDI is liable for these. As the policy was cancelled  it was 
treated as never  having existed, so any claim made  under it isnt covered. I think  HDI acted 
fairly and reasonably.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5825872