K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Everyday Lending  Limited (EDL) lent irresponsibly to him. He is
also unhappy about the amount outstanding on his loan, despite  repaying more than the
original capital sum that he borrowed.
background
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint  in January 2021 that I summarise below.
Mr S was given a loan of £4,000 by EDL in September 2012. He was also sold Life Cover
on credit  at the same time, the cost of which was added to his loan which  had to be repaid in
46 monthly instalments  of around £205. The total amount payable,  including  interest, was
just over £9,706.
Mr S had difficulties repaying the loan. EDL says it rescheduled the loan in January 2014, 
but an outstanding balance remains. Mr S thinks he shouldnt  have  to repay the remaining 
balance as he says he has already  repaid over and above the capital sum he borrowed, and 
he can no longer  afford the repayments.
EDL initially  thought that part of Mr Ss complaint had been brought  too late, outside of the
time limits allowed. But it then agreed  that this Service could investigate  his complaint about
the loan he took in 2012.
During the adjudicators investigation, it emerged that Mr S had also taken a previous loan
from EDL in 2011. EDL said it didnt  agree  to this loan being  investigated  and it didnt
seem that Mr S had complained to EDL about  this loan.  So, my provisional decision only
related to the complaint  that Mr S made about the loan he took in September 2012,  and
his complaint about the outstanding loan balance.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks  that 
EDL needed  to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. 
I said that EDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr S 
irresponsibly. And that EDL had to carry out proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that he 
could repay  the loan in a sustainable way. 
I carefully considered  all the evidence, arguments and information Id seen about  this
matter in order to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. 
EDL carried  out some  checks before it lent to Mr S in September 2012. This included  asking
for details  of his income and expenditure and carrying out some credit checks. EDL also
checked Mr Ss salary from a payslip  and it asked to see a bank statement.
Id seen a summary  of the information gathered  by EDL at the time, including  Mr Ss credit
report and the bank statement he provided. I didnt  think there was anything  in the
information gathered  by EDL at the time that ought to have caused the lender any additional
concerns about  Mr Ss financial position.
The credit report showed one live loan and two revolving accounts. Mr Ss bank statement
shows he was overdrawn for part of that month, but he remained within his overdraft limit. I
Ref: DRN54044172didnt think the bank statement showed  any signs of significant financial distress that ought
reasonably to have  been  of concern to EDL - such as regular gambling, frequent borrowing
from other short-term or payday lenders or regularly  returned requests for payment - all of
which might  have indicated that Mr S was having  severe financial problems.
Mr S says he wasnt in the right frame of mind  when he applied  for his loan and that he was
suffering from high levels of anxiety  and stress.  But Id not seen anything  which  suggests
that EDL was most  likely made aware that Mr S might be a vulnerable customer  when he
applied for his loan,  or that it shouldnt  lend to him.
From what  Id seen, I thought the checks that EDL carried out before lending to Mr S were
reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances. 
Overall, I didnt  think EDLs reasonable and proportionate checks  would have  raised any
additional concerns for the lender about Mr Ss financial position or his ability  to repay  the
loan sustainably when  he applied for the loan in 2012. And I hadnt  seen  anything  which  I
thought should have  led EDL to reasonably conclude that Mr Ss loan application should  be
declined.
As Ive explained above, Mr Ss first loan from EDL was taken in 2011. The affordability of
this loan had not been investigated. But I considered whether there was anything  about
the way that Mr S repaid  his first loan that ought reasonably  to have made  a difference  to
EDLs decision to lend to Mr S for a second  time in 2012. I could see from EDLs records  
that Mr S appeared to have  repaid his first loan in a reasonable manner for the first year or 
so until he applied for his second  loan in September 2012. Mr S appears  to have used part 
of his second loan to consolidate his debt to EDL and pay off the remaining  balance on his 
first loan. But having considered everything  in the round, I didnt  think it was unreasonable or
unfair for EDL to lend to Mr S for a second  time when  it provided the loan to him in
September 2012.
Has EDL treated  Mr S unfairly  in any other  way?
Mr S feels  that EDL ought  to have been prepared to reduce the amount he owes because
his circumstances  have  changed, and he can no longer  afford the EDL loan repayments. He
says he has repaid more  than he borrowed  in the first place and that the amount  needed  to
settle the loan was unreasonable. Mr S wanted  to freeze his loan repayments whilst his
complaint was investigated, but EDL didnt  agree  to do this.
Mr S has told us about his financial and personal difficulties, and I am sorry that he has
experienced such a difficult  time. But from what Id seen, Mr S took other loans and credit in
the years  after he took his loan from EDL. So, I couldnt fairly  say that EDL has been 
primarily responsible for his financial problems.
I thought EDL was entitled to continue charging  interest on the loan whilst  Mr Ss complaint 
was being investigated and it wasnt obliged to reduce the outstanding  remaining balance, 
when Mr S found himself  in financial difficulties. 
I said that I expected  EDL to bear in mind that it should continue to treat Mr S positively and 
sympathetically. If an outstanding balance remains, then EDL should try to arrange  a 
repayment plan that is affordable for Mr S.
I am sorry  that Mr S finds himself in financial difficulties, and that he is suffering from poor
Ref: DRN54044173health, but overall, I couldnt say that EDL had acted  unreasonably or unfairly towards Mr S. 
So, I wasnt intending to uphold his complaint.
I asked both parties to send me anything further they would like me to consider. I havent  
seen new evidence from either Mr S or EDL. The deadline for further  comments has now 
passed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information  that has been provided about  this matter.
Given that Ive not received any further  evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm  the conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision. 
I know Mr S will be disappointed by my decision,  and that he feels strongly about his
complaint. But I would like to reassure him I carefully considered  everything  that both
he and EDL told us and all the information  provided. Having done so, I do not uphold Mr Ss 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Everyday Lending  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2021.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5404417