K820x#14complaint
Ms D says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a regular payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover her store  card repayments.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 19 April 2019,  a copy extract  of which is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was not proposing to uphold Ms Ds complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision. 
Both FICL and Ms D have confirmed they have each received my decision and neither FICL, 
or Ms D have added  anything further.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows  that I do 
not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained previously, I do not uphold Ms Ds complaint against Financial 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
copy extract of provisional decision
background
Ms D took out a store card in 1994. At the same time she took out a PPI policy to cover her card 
repayments. The policy cost £1 per £100 of the balance on Ms Ds store card. A successful claim  on 
the policy  wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding  balance  on the store  card if Ms D was unable to work 
due to accident  or sickness or lost her job. The benefit would continue to be paid until Ms D returned 
to work.
Ref: DRN58129262Our adjudicator thought Ms Ds complaint should be upheld because Ms D told us she was self-
employed when she brought the policy and her employment  status meant it wouldve  been harder for 
her to make  a successful  claim under the policy.  
FICL disagreed. It says it requested further information about the circumstances surrounding Ms Ds 
employment at the time she took out the policy, but because she didnt respond it wasnt able to 
conclude she was self-employed.
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ds complaint.
Im currently  considering not upholding Ms Ds complaint because  on the information  I have been 
given I dont  think I can safely  conclude Ms D was self-employed at the time the policy  was sold. 
The PPI was applied  for in store when Ms D applied for a store card. Theres  limited information 
available to me about what  happened at the time of sale. Because of this, I dont know what may or 
may not have  been said. So I have to decide whats more likely  to have happened based on the 
information Ive been given.
Ms D says she knew nothing about the policy and it wasnt made  clear it was optional. But Ive looked  
at the credit agreement that she signed  and I think  it was clear  the PPI was optional  and that Ms D 
chose to take it.
I say this because I can see that in the section that deals with PPI theres  a tick next to the Yes to 
select PPI. If she didnt  want  PPI she couldve  selected the No box below. Ms D has also signed  the 
agreement for the store card itself. 
I dont think FICL advised Ms D to take PPI. What  this means  is that FICL  didnt recommend PPI to 
Ms D, they just gave her information about PPI. This information  needed to be given  in a way that was 
clear, fair and not misleading so she could  make an informed choice about buying PPI.
FICL say that sufficient information wouldve been provided at the point of sale to allow Ms D to make 
an informed choice on whether to add PPI to her account.  But I cant  say whether  this information  was 
good enough.  That being said even if FICL did give all the information  Ms D needed  to make an 
informed choice on taking  out the policy, I think she wouldve still taken the policy because  at the time 
of sale:
She was eligible for the PPI.
Ms D has told us that she was self-employed when  she bought the policy. But she failed to 
provide further  information  to FICL about this when asked. So although it may have been harder 
for a self-employed person to claim  on the policy  than an employed person  without further 
clarification about  the type of work  she did as a self-employed person I dont  think  I can uphold 
Ms Ds complaint on this point.  And it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the 
other main exclusions in the terms and conditions  of the policy which  couldve made  it difficult to 
make a successful  claim.
At the time of the sale Ms D says couldve relied on savings  and her family to make her 
repayments. But theres  no guarantee her family would be able to help and a successful claim on 
the policy wouldve  paid out on top of any savings. So I think  the policy  still wouldve provided  a 
useful benefit for Ms D in her situation  and I cant see how knowing this information wouldve 
changed her mind.
Ref: DRN58129263Theres  nothing to suggest the policy  wasnt affordable to Ms D and she could  cancel the policy  if 
she no longer  wanted  it.
So I dont think it wouldve made  a difference in how the information was given to Ms D on the PPI. 
I think  she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to her.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I currently do not intend to uphold Ms Ds complaint  against Financial  
Insurance Company  Limited.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5812926