K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that certain  underwriters at The Society of Lloyds have unfairly 
declined a claim they made under  their buildings insurance for an escape of water.
background
Mr and Mrs H have their insurance through the Society  of Lloyds and have done so for a 
number of years. They have  let their property out since 2008 when they moved abroad. On 
28 February 2018 the tenants finally moved  out of the property,  having  been gradually 
removing their contents in the weeks leading up to that. 
Mr and Mrs Hs letting agents  were  due to complete a final exit inspection  on 2 March 2018 
but were unable to due to extreme bad weather and snow. Over the course of that weekend, 
temperatures dropped substantially. On 5 March 2018 a neighbour contacted the letting  
agent to inform it of an escape of water at Mr and Mrs Hs property. 
The letting agent attended the property and discovered a substantial escape of water.  They 
let Mr and Mrs H know, who subsequently  contacted  the underwriters to submit  a claim. A 
loss adjuster was sent out to inspect the property.  The report,  dated  16 March  2018, shows 
burst pipes in the attic and garage. It also recorded the water system hadnt  been drained 
down, although  they had been informed the central heating had been left on at 22C.  
The loss adjuster told Mr and Mrs H that no cover  was provided under the policy  as escape 
of water claims are excluded if the property is unfurnished. Mr and Mrs H therefore 
complained about the claim being declined, particularly as the policy allowed for properties 
to be unoccupied for 30 days. The Society  of Lloyds didnt uphold their complaint for the 
same reasons as the loss adjuster gave Mr and Mrs H. It referred to the exclusions and 
policy schedule showing cover isnt provided.  
Not happy with that, Mr and Mrs H asked us to look into the matter.  Initially  our investigator  
upheld the complaint. Lloyds  on behalf  of the underwriters - hadnt provided  a satisfactory 
explanation for how a property being  unfurnished increased the risk of an escape of water,  
so it wasnt clear what risk the insurer wanted to minimise. And although the investigator had 
asked for an explanation, Lloyds referred  to the property being  unoccupied  but as the 
exclusion for unoccupancy didnt apply  for 30 days,  and this property had only been 
unoccupied for a matter of days, it wasnt relevant.  And so our investigator upheld  the 
complaint and asked  the underwriters to reimburse  Mr and Mrs H for their cost of repairs. 
Lloyds didnt agree  and the investigator  was persuaded to change  her outcome when it 
explained the lack of furnishings meant the risk of an escape of water  had increased.  Mr and 
Mrs H didnt agree this was fair and so the matter was referred to me for review and 
determination. 
On review of the file, I didnt think Lloyds had provided an adequate explanation as to why a 
property being  unfurnished meant  the risk of an escape of water was increased, and so 
something the underwriters had decided to exclude. To date I had felt Lloyds had conflated  
unfurnished and unoccupied to the extent that I couldnt separate  out what  risk the property 
being unfurnished and not unoccupied the underwriters were looking to mitigate. I received a 
response which explained, in summary:
The risk of an escape of water  doesnt  generally  increase just because  a property is 
unfurnished. 
Ref: DRN56709032If a property is unfurnished, it is highly unlikely the property is being lived in or 
occupied, so this could increase the risk of burst pipes and particularly could have 
implications for the severity of any loss. During winter months heating  may not be 
used as frequently which  could lead to pipes freezing  and subsequently bursting 
when the temperature rises.  And if the property is unoccupied  no action can be taken 
to mitigate loss and so the loss could  be substantially  higher. 
Mr and Mrs H have suffered a significant  escape of water  which  may not have been 
as severe if the property  had been furnished with a bed and household furnishings  
and the tenants were  still in occupation.  
I issued my provisional decision on 8 October  2019, explaining why I was minded to uphold 
this complaint  I wasnt satisfied the claim had been declined  fairly.  Mr and Mrs H havent 
responded to my provisional findings  despite sending further copies of the provisional 
decision to them by e-mail. Society of Lloyds did respond, disagreeing with the outcome. It 
has now provided a statement  from the underwriter about the exclusion.  
In summary,  it said:
The exclusion is clearly outlined in the policy and policy  schedule  and is not unusual  
for this type of policy. 
Unfurnished properties do represent  a higher risk. Having the exclusion on the policy  
provides protection for escape of water  claims between days  1-29,  as the property 
isnt classed as unoccupied until day 30. The exclusion bridges the gap for the first 
29 days and insurers want to minimize their exposure to certain losses  from the point 
the property is vacated. 
Once a property reaches 30 days of being  unoccupied then this would need to be 
declared and endorsements applied  such as draining down the water  system. 
As Society  of Lloyds  provided new information from its underwriters, I issued a second  
provisional decision on 6 January 2020.  Society of Lloyds hasnt provided  any new 
information to me to consider. Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  with the outcome and would  still 
like their claim paid.  They  are unhappy because they say every time we receive information 
from Society of Lloyds the outcome  changes. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that the outcome to the complaint has changed 
again. Unfortunately this can happen  when new evidence or information is provided. This 
doesnt mean we havent considered the matter impartially (as we are not on either partys 
side) just that we have  considered whether the new evidence makes a difference.  The same 
process and consideration would take place if Mr and Mrs H had provided new information 
for my consideration. 
As Mr and Mrs H know, we had asked Society  of Lloyds for information about  its exclusion 
clause throughout.  And because I didnt think it had provided sufficient explanation,  I 
reached a different outcome  to that of the investigator. Under our rules,  where  I am reaching 
a different outcome, I am required  to let the parties know  the reasons for my findings in 
advance of reaching a final decision. This is so both parties understand the outcome Im 
minded to reach and provide further evidence if they wish. Society of Lloyds used this 
Ref: DRN56709033opportunity to provide a more detailed  explanation  for the exclusion clause. It was right for 
me to take that into account just as I would if Mr and Mrs H had provided  new information. 
I understand Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that I have found Society of Lloyds is entitled to rely 
on the exclusion clause  contained within the policy.  Exclusions clauses can be found in 
almost all insurance policies and having exclusions of itself isnt unfair. So my consideration 
was in relation  to whether  the exclusion has been applied fairly. And I found it was. Although  
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  with the outcome, they havent provided  any further evidence or 
arguments for me to consider. I therefore  see no reason  to depart from my latest  provisional  
findings and I set these out again  below. 
Mr and Mrs H have clearly been  through a stressful time, particularly as they had to deal with 
this matter from a distance.  But I can only require the underwriters  (through  Lloyds)  to do 
something if I find that they have done  something  wrong  in this case  if they were wrong to 
decline the claim. 
The starting point  for any complaint about a claim is the contract between the parties  the 
policy of insurance  and the policy  schedule.  The policy schedule sets out the cover provided  
by the insurance  and the policy booklet sets out the terms and conditions,  definitions and 
any exclusions which apply. Both need to be considered  in conjunction with each other when  
deciding whether or not cover is provided. 
The policy is not an all-risks policy which means it doesnt provide cover  for all 
eventualities. The only events it provides  cover  for are the insured perils  listed  within the 
policy document. These include, amongst others,  theft or attempted  theft, malicious  acts or 
vandalism, and escape of water. 
Lloyds and/or the underwriters have referred to both the policy document excluding  the 
claim and the policy  schedule setting out that cover  isnt provided when the property is 
unfurnished. 
Attached to the policy schedule is an endorsement appendix. This explains:
These are the endorsement(s) applicable to your policy. Please read these carefully 
as they affect  the cover  provided under your policy. If you have  any questions, please 
contact your insurance adviser without delay. 
The endorsement appendix goes on to list a number  of endorsements  to the policy in 
respect of unoccupied  properties. This says:
1)                                If the private  residence  is unfurnished:-
There is no cover under  Section 1: Buildings and Section 2: Contents  for insured 
events 10 (Theft or attempted theft), 11 (Malicious acts or vandalism) and 13 
(Escape of water or oil), Extra Benefits 1 Accidental breakage, 5 Accidental 
damage to underground services  or 8 Trace  and access. 
Unfurnished is defined within the policy as:
Where  the private residence is not furnished enough to be lived in.
Unoccupied is defined within the policy as:
Ref: DRN56709034Where the private  residence has been left without an occupant  for more  than 30 days 
in a row.
It wasnt clear  exactly when the escape of water occurred. But we knew  it was between 28 
February 2018, when  the tenants left the property, and 5 March 2018  when it was 
discovered. This was a space of only five days and meant the property was only unoccupied 
for five days  at the most  at the time of the event. At this point in time Mr and Mrs Hs 
property wasnt classed  as unoccupied  for the purposes of the policy  as that only applied if 
it had been left without an occupant for 30 days in row. As the endorsements to the policy 
applied to unoccupied properties, and as in accordance  with the policy  definition  the property 
wasnt unoccupied,  then I wasnt satisfied the endorsements applied  to Mr and Mrs Hs 
claim. It followed  that I was satisfied  Mr and Mrs H were claiming  for an insured event. 
I turn now to whether or not it is fair for Lloyds  underwriters  to rely on an exclusion within the 
policy. What is covered sets out the insured perils under the policy,  which includes:
13 Escape of water or oil from any fixed domestic  water or heating installation,  
swimming pool, hot tub, jacuzzi, spa, aquarium, washing machine or dishwasher.    
The loss adjuster reported burst pipes  in the attic and the garage and so Mr and Mrs Hs 
escape of water occurred  from a fixed water installation. 
What is not covered sets out the exclusions which apply to each peril.  And for 13 Escape of 
water the policy  says:
The first £250 of every claim unless  stated otherwise in the policy schedule.
Loss or damage:
while the private residence is unfurnished 
Lloyds and the underwriters have relied on this exclusion to decline Mr and Mrs Hs claim as 
the property was unfurnished at the time.  Whilst  I do accept that it is a legitimate 
underwriting judgment  for an insurer to decide  the terms and conditions  of its policy  and to 
decide what risks it does and doesnt  wish to cover, it nevertheless  needs  to apply its terms 
fairly. I am mindful of the rules and guidance in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance:  
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS)
ICOBS 8.1.1R says:
An insurer  must:
(1)handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2)provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress;
(3)not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  
and
(4)settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed. 
Further guidance is provided at ICOBS 8.1.2AG  cases where rejection of a consumers 
clam is unreasonable: contracts on or after 1 August 2017. 
(2) The Insurance Act 2015  sets out a number of situations in which  an insurer may 
Ref: DRN56709035have no liability or obligation to pay. For example:
(a)section 10 provides situations in which an insurer  has no liability under a policy  
due to a breach of warranty;
(b)section 11 places  restrictions on an insurers ability to reject  a claim for breach of 
a term where the compliance is aimed at reducing  certain types of risk; and
(c)sections 12 and 13 provide for the extent  to which a firm is entitled to reject  
fraudulent claims. 
Mr and Mrs H rented out their property.  It wasnt entirely clear  they would be considered  a 
consumer in relation to this under the FCAs definition (Glossary  to the Financial Conduct 
Authority Handbook ). But I noted  there was no reference to consumer claims in ICOBS 
8.1.1. I considered it appropriate to take into account the other guidance  as at the very least 
it represented good industry practice.  And I noted  that section 11 of the Insurance  Act 2015 
didnt only apply to consumer contracts. 
The underwriters declined  the claim because the property  was unfurnished. However, 
through their own consideration  of this and our investigation they conflated  unfurnished with 
unoccupied. I fully accepted that a property being  unfurnished  may increase the risk of 
certain events which the insurer  might  not want to accept, such  as malicious damage (e.g. 
an empty-looking house might attract the attention of vandals or squatters). But at the time of 
issuing my first provisional decision the underwriters hadnt  provided a clear  explanation as 
to why an unfurnished property increased  the risk of an escape of water. I pointed out that 
the insurer was willing to accept the risks of a property  being unoccupied for 30 days   a 
period in which a great deal of damage  could occur. 
Lloyds has now provided a clearer explanation for the declination of Mr and Mrs Hs claim  
specifically the exclusion surrounding the property being unfurnished. As explained  above,  
an insurer is entitled to decide what risks it does  and does not wish to cover   and this isnt 
something I would  generally  interfere  with, unless I found an exclusion had been applied  
unfairly. I accept the explanation from the underwriter that they were looking to minimise the 
damage that can occur in days  1-29.  Indeed, this was something I had referenced as a 
possibility in my provisional  decision.  And I take its point that with rented properties or 
holiday homes, this is something  that can frequently occur. 
I know this is very disappointing  for Mr and Mrs H. But Im satisfied that the underwriters 
have provided  adequate  explanation for the risk they were looking to minimise, such  that I 
dont find it was unfair to decline the claim.  The property was unfurnished at the time of the 
escape of water even  if it was for only a matter  of days. And the policy does have  a clear 
exclusion for escape of water claims where the property is unfurnished. As such the claim is 
excluded from cover. That means I dont require Society of Lloyds to reimburse their costs  
for repairing the damage. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2020.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN56709036
Ref: DRN5670903