K821x#15complaint
Miss P complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC T/A Barclaycard  failed to send her paper 
statements since April 2017. 
background
Miss P had a credit card account with Barclaycard and set up a direct debit to cover  the 
minimum monthly repayments. In June  2017  she complained to Barclaycard because it had 
reported missed payments to the credit  reference  agencies (CRA).  She also complained 
that she wasnt receiving  paper statements.
Barclaycard responded to Miss Ps complaints with letters  sent in September  2017, May 
2018 and January 2019. It stated it had been  obliged to report  information about her account 
to the CRAs, and was her responsibility to make the monthly payments on the account, 
refusing to refund any interest  or fees,  or to make any amendments to her credit file. It 
insisted it had been sending paper statements to the correct address since September 2017, 
and it had also sent letters advising her about the position with her account. It agreed to 
refund one late payment fee as a goodwill gesture, and offered a total of £150 compensation 
for poor customer service,  including the fact she hadnt been kept updated about the 
progress of her complaints. 
Miss P remained dissatisfied  and so she complained to this service.  She explained she 
hadnt received  any paper  statements since April 2017, and had complained  about  this on a 
number of occasions, without a satisfactory  response. She had told Barclaycard about a 
change of address  in September  2017, but this wasnt  updated  on the system until June 
2018. She also said shed transferred £15,000  to her credit  card,  but Barclaycard returned it 
to her account without  telling her. She explained shed previously paid money to the account  
without using the long card number as a reference.  
She wants her statements to be sent via post,  compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience shes experienced as a result of not having been  sent paper statements, for 
the poor service  shes received and for the time shes spent chasing Barclaycard, including  
the cost of calls.  She doesnt think the CRAs should  have been told about the late payment  
charges and wants these  charges to be refunded. She also wants her credit file to be 
rectified and for a letter to be sent confirming  the removal  of late payment/over credit limit 
charges from her credit file.
Barclaycard explained Miss Ps address has been correct since  September  2017. Her 
account was set up for her to receive paper statements which were sent on a monthly  basis  
(apart from February 2018 when no statement was sent due to a change in the statement 
billing date) and the address was changed  in September 2017, contrary  to Miss Ps 
suggestion that it wasnt done  until June  2018.
Ref: DRN50019962Our investigator noted Barclaycard had confirmed the system showed  an update in June 
2018, but the account was correctly  set up for her to receive paper statements to the new 
address from September 2017. But she didnt  think Miss P would have continued to call 
Barclaycard if she had been receiving the statements. So, she accepted she hadnt been 
receiving them. But she didnt believe Barclaycard needed to refund the charges  it had 
issued for late payments  because even though Miss P hadnt been receiving paper 
statements, she was still obliged to make the minimum payment each month.  And 
Barclaycard had been required  to tell the CRAs  about any defaults  to the account, so it 
didnt need to do anything else.
Our investigator noted the £15,000 payment had been rejected as the long card number 
wasnt included as a reference. Barclaycard didnt accept it had previously accepted  
payments into the account without the long card number, and she thought  Miss P shouldve  
checked whether  the payment was successful. 
Finally, she didnt accept  Barclaycard had failed to respond to Miss Ps complaints,  but she 
accepted there were  instances where  her concerns hadnt been  fully addressed or when 
Barclaycard hadnt  responded  when  it said it would. Taking that into account, and the fact 
Miss P hadnt been receiving paper statements, our investigator recommended Barclaycard 
should pay a further £550 compensation (in addition  to the £150 it had already offered).
Miss P has asked for her complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman. Shes said she had 
an arrangement with Barclaycard to pay £250  a month into her account, but she wasn't 
receiving statements and so didnt know the minimum  payment had been  increased. She 
feels the bank  has treated  her poorly and has explained this has affected her health  and left 
her feeling  very stressed.
Barclaycard accepts there was poor customer  service, but it argues Miss Ps already been  
compensated for that. Its commented that Miss Ps account of events is unreliable, and 
argues it wasnt given enough  time to investigate  her concerns before she contacted it again. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard responded to Miss Ps complaints in three letters  between  September 2017 and 
January 2019,  so I dont accept it failed to respond to Miss Ps complaints. We dont 
normally comment on complaint handling  as thats  not a regulated  activity,  but Ive taken 
Barclaycards communications  with miss P into account in my overall  assessment of the 
service shes received.
Im satisfied Barclaycard  had Miss Ps correct address from September 2017, and that her 
account preferences  were set up for her to receive  paper statements. And Ive seen the 
statements for the relevant period and so Im satisfied the statements were generated. 
Barclaycard has also explained theres  no record of any technical issues  with statements 
being posted. However, it doesnt trace statements once theyve been produced and 
despatched, so it was unable to provide  evidence to show the statements were posted. 
Ref: DRN50019963Barclaycard has suggested  that Miss Ps account  of events  is inconsistent.  For example, she 
said shed made  payments quoting the same  reference that was quoted on the rejected 
payment for £15,000.00, but it has provided evidence  that she hasnt, and that it cant  
process payments  unless  the full card number is quoted. She also claimed her online 
banking was blocked when she wasnt even registered for online banking.  
I accept that where  an account is set up for paperless statements to be sent, they normally 
are. However, Barclaycard has been unable to show the statements were  sent,  merely that 
they were generated. Miss P told Barclaycard in June 2017 that she wasnt receiving 
received paper statements  or letters, and she continued to report the problem after that. 
Considering the number  of times  she contacted Barclaycard to complain about  the issue, 
and the fact she was seemingly unaware the minimum payment had increased, Im satisfied 
that, on balance,  its likely  she wasnt receiving  the paper statements. 
Ive accepted above that Miss P wasnt receiving paper  statements.  But that doesnt mean 
she wasnt required to pay the minimum payment each  month,  because  she was required to 
do this under the terms and conditions of the account. It was Miss Ps responsibility to make  
the required minimum payments, and, as she wasnt receiving statements, she shouldve 
taken steps to confirm  she was paying  enough  each  month, for example by registering for 
internet banking, or simply  calling to check the amount due. Because  of this I dont consider 
Barclaycard needs  to refund any of the late payment charges or review  the information  it 
sent to the CRAs.
Barclaycard has explained  the most  likely reason the £15,000 payment was rejected is that 
the correct full card reference wasnt used, and that, if an invalid number is showing,  
payments will be automatically  rejected. I think this is a reasonable explanation. Miss P told 
our investigator shed been  able to make payments to her previous card using the last four 
digits and Barclaycards  systems could identify  the newer linked card number, meaning 
payments were successfully applied  based on the last four digits  of the old card. She said 
she used the same reference  to make the transfer for £15,000 and had expected  it to be 
credited to her account.
While I understand Miss Ps frustrated because she thought shed  made the payment, it 
wouldve been wrong for Barclaycard to have credited the payment into the account without 
the correct reference.  And I consider it would probably have been responsible if the money  
had gone to the wrong account. Miss P shouldve have  taken  steps to check  the payment 
was successful and I dont consider Barclaycard acted unreasonably or that its actions 
resulted in any loss or unfairness to Miss P.
compensation
I agree  with our investigator that Miss P should be compensated  for distress and inconvenience 
associated with Barclaycards failings and that £150  isnt fair compensation. Barclaycard has 
argued Miss P has been sufficiently compensation, but she spent a lot of time and money 
engaged in calls to Barclaycard trying to resolve  the fact she wasnt receiving paper statements, 
and while  I dont accept  it failed to respond  to her complaints,  there were instances  when Miss P 
was told shed be kept updated and that didnt happen. I also consider that, while Barclaycards 
systems showed the account preferences were  set up for paper statements to be sent, it was 
clear there was a problem  and I think it couldve done more  to help Miss P resolve a situation 
that was clearly causing her a lot of stress  over a long period of time.  
Ref: DRN50019964Overall, Ive considered  the impact Barclaycards failings had on Miss P and I think an 
additional £550 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and I direct Barclays Bank  UK PLC T/A Barclaycard to pay Miss P 
£550 compensation in addition to the £150  its already  offered.  The compensation is to be 
paid within  28 days of the date on which we tell Barclays Bank  UK PLC T/A Barclaycard 
Miss P accepts my final decision  (if she does).  If it pays  later than this it must also pay 
interest* on the compensation from the date my final decision to the date of payment,  at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February  2020.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5001996