K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains about advice she was given by Lighthouse Advisory Services  Limited 
(Lighthouse). She says the advice to start contributing to a personal  pension plan is likely to 
impact adversely on her annual pension allowance and lifetime  allowance. 
background
Ms H sought  advice about planning for her retirement from Lighthouse in 2015. She was 
working for the NHS,  and was a member of the NHS pension scheme. She was advised  to 
start a personal pension  plan, and contribute £500  net a month.  This would also assist with 
Ms Hs wish to pay off her mortgage, as the tax-free  cash from the plan could go towards 
this. 
In March 2017, Ms H complained to Lighthouse. She said she thought  the personal pension  
plan had been mis-sold,  as this meant shed exceeded her annual allowance. Also, it was 
likely that paying  into the plan would  cause her to exceed her lifetime  allowance  by the time 
she came  to retire. 
Having reviewed the advice in light of Ms Hs complaint, Lighthouse said it didnt think  
recommending a personal pension plan was appropriate. As such, it was willing to pay Ms H 
£5,000. This represented the potential  tax charge that may result because  of the payments 
shed made  to the personal pension. 
Lighthouse said it didnt think Ms H had breached her lifetime allowance, and nor was she 
likely to do so in the future. So it didnt uphold this part of her complaint. 
Ms H remained dissatisfied, and referred  the matter to us.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. He noted Lighthouse had accepted 
that Ms H shouldnt have  been advised  to start the personal pension. He thought  the offer of 
£5,000 Lighthouse had made was fair in relation to the tax liability for Ms H exceeding her 
annual allowance  and a possible loss of investment opportunity. 
But the adjudicator thought Ms H should  also be compensated in relation to the lifetime 
allowance. He accepted that Ms H hadnt yet breached this, but didnt think  it was possible to 
say that she wouldnt  in the future.  The adjudicator  thought  a fair way to address this would 
be for Lighthouse to provide Ms H with an indemnity for the liability  she could incur as a 
result of being advised to start the personal  pension. Lighthouse would have no liability  in 
excess of this, and Ms H should also take reasonable steps to reduce the potential  for future 
harm. 
Lighthouse didnt agree  with the adjudicators  proposal that it should provide Ms H with an 
indemnity. It said there were a number of variable factors that could affect the position before 
Ms H retired.  For instance, changes to lifetime  allowance may be made in future Budgets,  or 
circumstances could  change as a result of the UK leaving the EU. But Lighthouse said that 
in order to resolve the case amicably, it was prepared to pay Ms H the sum of £4,875.  It 
thought this was a fair sum to compensate her for the potential  tax liability if she exceeded 
her lifetime  allowance because of the personal pension plan. This was in addition to the sum 
of £5,000 it had offered previously. 
Ref: DRN50829892Ms H confirmed that she agreed with the adjudicators assessment. She didnt wish to 
accept Lighthouses further monetary  offer. She said shed discussed  this with her current  
pension adviser,  and didnt think it fully covered the loss she was likely to have when she 
retired. She accepted  that the indemnity should  continue until her intended retirement  date. 
The complaint has now been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lighthouse has accepted  that the advice  for Ms H to start a personal pension plan in 2015  
was unsuitable.  So the matter that remains outstanding is how she should  be compensated 
for that advice. This largely  concerns  the impact this policy has had, or may have, on Mr Hs 
annual allowance  and lifetime allowance. 
Starting with the annual allowance, Lighthouse has offered to pay Ms H £5,000. I note this is 
intended to cover both the breach of her annual allowance caused by the contributions Ms H 
made, and the possible  loss of investment opportunity. 
On the whole, I think the sum Lighthouse has suggested is fair and reasonable, and I note 
Ms H seems  to find this acceptable. 
Turning now to the potential effect  of the personal pension plan on Ms Hs lifetime 
allowance, its not possible to say at this point what this will be. I appreciate Lighthouse has 
tried to quantify this, and made Ms H a monetary offer accordingly. But Ms H says the sum 
offered is insufficient.  In the circumstances, Im unable  to say with any certainty that the offer 
is fair. As such, I agree  with the adjudicator that the most appropriate  way to compensate 
Ms H is for Lighthouse  to provide her with an indemnity. 
Ive noted the points  Lighthouse has made about possible changes to the rules  affecting 
lifetime allowance  that may occur before Ms H retires. But the key issue is that Ms H has 
been put in the position  where she may be affected  by these as a result of the unsuitable 
advice she was given  by Lighthouse in 2015. 
I appreciate Lighthouse would prefer to have this matter settled now, rather than it continuing 
until Ms H retires. But as I understand it, Ms H expects to retire in 2021,  and shes accepted 
that the indemnity should only run up to this point. So this is not long in the future. As such,  
providing an indemnity  is not a long-term  commitment for Lighthouse. Overall,  I dont think 
this is an onerous burden for the company.  
I therefore require  Lighthouse to provide  Ms H with a legally-binding indemnity.  This should 
compensate Ms H for any loss caused  by her exceeding her lifetime allowance as a result of 
contributing to the personal pension Lighthouse recommended in 2015.  Lighthouse is not 
liable for any breaches of the lifetime allowance  which are caused by Ms Hs other pension 
benefits, such as her membership of the NHS scheme. Lighthouse should  pay any legal 
costs involved in drawing  up the indemnity. 
Ref: DRN50829893my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Lighthouse Advisory Services  Limited should pay Ms H the sum of 
£5,000. Lighthouse Advisory  Services Limited  should also provide Ms H with a legally-
binding indemnity as explained  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5082989