K821x#15complaint
Mr C complained about Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe  SEs (Aioi Nissay) 
handling of his car insurance policy. 
Reference to Aioi Nissay includes their agents.
background
Mr C took out a telematics (commonly known as a black box)  car insurance policy with Aioi 
Nissay in September 2016. He gave Aioi Nissay the address hed be living at and said that 
was where the car would be kept overnight. 
Mr Cs car was damaged  during an accident  in April 2017 so he claimed on his policy. When  
Aioi Nissay checked the data from the black box, they saw that Mr Cs car was hardly ever 
kept at the policy  address. When they questioned  him he said that due to personal reasons 
he had been staying at another address (the other address)  temporarily.  Aioi Nissay said 
that had they known  about the other  address, and that the car would  be kept there  almost  all 
the time,  his policy would have cost around £3,500  more than what he was originally 
charged. Aioi Nissay said that Mr C had an obligation under the policy  to keep them  
informed of any change  in address. They also said that if they paid out on his claim it was 
likely they would only do so on a proportional basis. What they meant by that was they would 
only pay the claim in the same proportion of the premium he had paid to what it would have 
cost him at the other  address. Sometime around  May 2017, Mr C told Aioi Nissay that he 
had moved back to his original policy address.
Mr C complained, but Aioi Nissay didnt uphold his complaint. They said that while they 
accepted his reason for moving address, in order for them to allow the policy to continue, 
they asked him to formally  change  his policy address to the other address. But Mr C said he 
was back living at the original policy address. Aioi Nissay  said he would  have to change his 
policy address to the other address first, and if he wanted to change  it back to his original 
policy address he would have to prove he was living there when his black  box data showed  
his car was at that address for a month.  But Mr C said he couldnt prove that through the 
black box because the car was at the garage awaiting repair. Aioi Nissay said that if he didn't 
change his policy to the other address it would cancel his policy,  which  they did in June 
2017. 
In the meantime, as the other  driver accepted being at fault for the accident, Mr C didnt 
claim on his policy but claimed directly  against  the other drivers insurer.  So Aioi Nissay  
didnt have an outlay  in relation to Mr Cs accident.
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. He said because Aioi Nissay cancelled  the policy, 
and because he wasnt able to get a no claims bonus (NCB) year for his time on cover with 
them, his new policy with another insurer had a very high premium. One of our adjudicators 
looked into the complaint. He felt that Aioi Nissay hadnt treated Mr C fairly. He said that Aioi 
Nissay should have  given  Mr C the opportunity to cancel the policy rather  than cancel it 
themselves. He suggested: Aioi Nissay should correct all records  to remove any reference  to 
the policy being cancelled; once the cancellation  marker was removed from his record, Mr C 
could inform his current insurer,  which would likely  result in his premium  being recalculated 
and Mr C be due a refund. Aioi Nissay  should pay interest at 8% on any such  refund; Aioi 
Nissay should award Mr C a years NCB; and Aioi Nissay should pay Mr C £100  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  he suffered.
Ref: DRN55545742As Aioi Nissay  didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 11 February 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
I must decide if Aioi Nissay have handled  the claim in a fair and reasonable way.
Aioi Nissay have suggested that what Mr C did amounted to, what is known in the 
insurance industry, a careless misrepresentation. And theres  specific  legislation  - the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  that sets 
out what insurers may do in such a situation. It says that insurers  may:
 cancel the policy; or
 tell the consumer that it will settle  any future claims on a proportionate basis  
(or apply other  exclusions  or limitations  it would otherwise have  applied).  But 
if the consumer  isn't happy  with that approach, they can cancel the policy 
themselves.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer  to simply charge an additional premium, although 
we think its fair for the insurer to give the policyholder the option  of them paying the 
additional premium  for the insurer to then settle  the claim in full instead of settling the 
claim proportionately. But that can only happen if the policyholder is happy with that.
CIDRA does give the insurer the option of cancelling the policy where there  has been 
a careless misrepresentation. But, before it does so we think its fair for an insurer to 
explain to the consumer theres a problem and give them the option of paying  the 
additional premium  in order to keep the policy going or otherwise to cancel the policy 
themselves. Thats because the insurer cancelling  the policy will have serious  
consequences on the policyholder as they will have to declare it when they want to 
take out insurance later on. And many insurers will see a customer  whos  had their 
policy cancelled by an insurer  as being a high risk.
In Mr Cs case, Aioi Nissay said that had they known of Mr Cs correct address they 
would have still insured him, but that they would  have charged him around  £3,500  
more. I can see that Aioi Nissay correctly told him that they would only deal with his 
claim on a proportionate basis, which CIDRA allows  them  to do. But they went on to 
cancel Mr Cs policy because he didn't change the address on it to the other address. 
Our adjudicator said they wrongly cancelled  the policy  as they should have given him 
the option of cancelling  it himself. But Aioi Nissay have told us that they didnt cancel 
the policy under CIDRA, they cancelled  it in accordance with the policy  terms and 
conditions which give them the power  to cancel  where Mr C doesn't co-operate with 
them. 
But I dont think Aioi Nissay dealt with Mr C fairly. Mr C didnt follow through  with his 
claim on his policy and instead he claimed for his damage directly from the other  
drivers insurer.  So Aioi Nissay didnt have an outlay and they didnt  have to deal with 
the claim on a proportionate basis.  
Ref: DRN55545743Aioi Nissay said that they cancelled Mr Cs policy because he didn't change the 
address on it to the other address. But while its correct that for around seven months 
Mr C and his car were at the other address,  sometime in May 2017  he told Aioi 
Nissay that hed moved back to the original policy address. But it was at that point  
they told Mr C that he should  change the policy address to the other address - even 
though he no longer  lived there. And because he didn't do it they cancelled his policy,  
which I think they were wrong in doing.  Aioi Nissay effectively told Mr C to update his 
policy with an address that they knew he was no longer living at. In other words, they 
asked Mr C to breach the terms  and conditions of the policy by saying he was living  
at an address he knew he wasnt actually living at. 
While I think Aioi Nissay  should have given  Mr C the option of having any future 
claim settled  on a proportionate basis, they could have calculated that proportion 
based on the amount Mr C actually paid for his policy, against the total amount the 
premium would have  been if Aioi Nissay  had charged him at the higher rate for the 
period he lived at the other address and allowed the policy to continue.  
Aioi Nissay have said they cancelled the policy under  the policy terms and conditions 
and not CIDRA.  But Mr Cs policy placed an obligation on him to provide accurate 
information and to tell Aioi Nissay  of important changes in his circumstances, such  as 
a change of address. The policy says Aioi Nissay can cancel the policy in certain 
circumstances, including  where you have withheld  information  and where Mr C has 
made a misrepresentation. But Aioi Nissay cancelled the policy  because  Mr C 
refused to update his address and pay the additional  premium.  Ive already said 
above that Aioi Nissay were wrong  to do that as they were  asking  him to update his 
policy with inaccurate  information, namely to say he was living  at the other address 
when in fact he was back at the policy address. So it wasnt fair for them to cancel 
the policy on that basis.
So I think Aioi Nissay should have  applied the remedies available  to them  in 
accordance with CIDRA, but they didnt do that. So I think  Mr C has to be put back  
into the position he would have been in had Aioi Nissay not wrongly  cancelled  the 
policy and I have to look back  to see what I think Mr C would have done. I think  if Aioi 
Nissay invited Mr C to cancel the policy and explained that if he cancelled,  as 
opposed to them cancelling, there  wouldnt be any adverse consequences for him, 
then I think he would  have  cancelled the policy himself. So I intend  to require Aioi 
Nissay to: 
Correct the insurance database records to show that the policy was cancelled by 
Mr C and not by Aioi Nissay. They should provide Mr C with a letter  explaining 
that.
Refund to Mr C pro-rata the premium for the period he wasnt  on cover from the 
date they cancelled the policy. This should include interest at 8% simple  from the 
date of cancelation until the date payment is made to him.
Pay Mr C £200 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience he has 
experienced.
Once the records are corrected, Mr C can then approach his current insurer and ask 
them to look at recalculating his premium  to take into account the fact that he didnt 
have a cancelled  policy, which  in most  cases causes a premium to be higher. If that 
was the case  with Mr Cs policy  I would anticipate a return  of some of his premium. 
Im not intending to ask Aioi Nissay to pay interest on any refunded premium Mr C 
Ref: DRN55545744may get from his current insurer  as my intended  award of compensation has taken 
that into consideration.
Finally, Im not intending to ask Aioi Nissay  to award Mr C a years NCB. A policy  
holder only accumulates  a years NCB after they have completed a full year with an 
insurer without having had a fault claim.  As I think Mr C would have cancelled the 
policy had he been given the opportunity that would mean he wouldnt have achieved  
a full policy year with Aioi Nissay, which means he couldnt have got the benefit of a 
NCB year.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mr C accepted  my provisional decision.  
Aioi Nissay didnt comment. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold the complaint  and require Aioi Nissay Dowa  
Insurance Company of Europe SE
Correct the insurance database records to show that the policy was cancelled by Mr C 
and not by Aioi Nissay.  They should  provide Mr C with a letter explaining  that.
Refund to Mr C pro-rata the premium for the period he wasnt  on cover from the date 
they cancelled  the policy. This should include interest at 8% simple  from the date of 
cancelation until the date payment is made to him. 1 
Pay Mr C £200 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience he has experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Mr C has accepted my final 
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
 
1 If Aioi Nissay consider that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, they should tell Mr C how much they have taken off. They should also give him a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN5554574