K820x#14complaint
Mrs C, on behalf of the late Mr C, has complained  that Nationwide  Building Society mis-sold 
Mr C a personal loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
The loan and PPI were taken out just by Mr C in 1999. The policy covered Mr C for accident, 
sickness and unemployment. It also had life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagrees with the adjudicators decision  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Nationwide says that, due to the passage of time, it can no longer  tell what the sales  channel 
was. Mrs Cs original recollection was that the loan and PPI were arranged  during a meeting. 
On balance I consider  that it probably was during  a meeting, although  this doesnt make a 
great deal of difference to my decision as, from what we know,  Nationwides  phone and 
meeting sales processes  were very similar.
Mrs C says that Mr C was led to believe that hed have a better  chance of getting the loan if 
he agreed to the PPI. Ive seen a copy of the loan agreement  which Mrs C has also 
signed, even though  the loan was only in Mr Cs name. There is a table of financial 
information that includes a separate column  for Optional Credit Insurance.  This details the 
cost of the PPI premium,  interest payable, the total amount payable and the monthly cost.
From what  we know of Nationwides sales process, there would have been some discussion 
about PPI and then the loan agreement was printed out afterwards.  If someone  didnt want  
PPI then there would  be no mention of it on the loan agreement. 
Ive no doubt that Mrs C has provided her genuine  recollection of events. But the sale 
happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if her memory of events has 
faded. Ive thought very carefully about  what Mrs C has said.  However,  based  on the 
available evidence I consider that it is more likely than not that there  was some discussion of 
the policy. It seems to me that Mr C (with Mrs C present) probably decided  to buy the policy,  
knowing that he didnt  have to.
Nationwide didnt advise  Mr C to buy the policy, so it didnt need  to ensure that it met his 
needs. But it did need to provide enough information for him to make an informed decision 
about whether  or not the policy was right for him.
I consider that Mr C would  have  known something  about the policy  that it would have 
covered his loan repayments if he was unable to work   because I dont think hed have  
decided to buy the policy without knowing anything at all about  it.
Ref: DRN56700552Mr C would have received some sick pay from his employer.  But the PPI would have paid 
out in addition to any sick pay and potentially  for longer  than Mr C would have received full 
pay for. And Mr and Mrs C didnt have any other means, such  as savings, to fall back on. 
Mrs C says that Mr C could have relied on his wages,  but of course  the insurance was there  
to cover the loan repayments if Mr C was unable to work due to accident, sickness  or 
unemployment and so wasnt receiving an income.  It also provided life cover.  Mrs C says 
that she was also working  and so could have covered the repayments. But she has also said 
that they were  experiencing financial difficulty,  even when there were two salaries  coming in. 
From what  Mrs C has said, if Mr C had been  unable to work, they would have quickly come 
to the point where they would have  found  it difficult to meet the loan repayments. Therefore I 
consider that they had a need for the PPI and could have benefitted from it at what  would 
have been a difficult time.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information about the PPI as it should 
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr C wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I consider that he had an interest  in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information  would have caused  him to change his mind. So he wasnt  
worse off as a result of anything Nationwide did wrong, so theres  nothing  that Nationwide 
needs to do to put things  right.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint  on behalf of the late Mr C.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C, on behalf  of 
the late Mr C, to accept or reject  my decision before 21 December 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5670055