K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc turned down  his cancellation claim under his 
travel insurance policy. 
My references to AXA include its agent,  which is a travel agent.  
background
Mr C and his wife Mrs C took out travel  insurance with AXA, via a travel agent, for a holiday 
they booked at the end of March 2018. Unfortunately  Mr C was diagnosed with a brain  
tumour the following  month and couldnt travel so they cancelled the holiday. 
AXA paid Mrs Cs claim but wouldnt pay Mr Cs claim. It said Mr C had been undergoing  
investigations for memory loss in February  2018, and it had made  it clear  to him when he 
bought the policy that it wouldnt cover him for any medical conditions. It paid him £75 
compensation for delay and because hed had to speak to a number of different people.  
Mr C didnt think AXAs claim decision was fair. He didnt know he had a brain  tumour  when 
booking the holiday. He came to us.
Our adjudicator thought AXA had made a fair decision to turn down the claim. He said Mr C 
had answered  some  medical questions before taking  out the policy. As he was under 
investigation for memory loss when he took out the policy AXA made it clear it wouldnt 
cover Mr Cs medical conditions. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said hed answered  the insurers questions with utmost good faith. 
He never  suspected he had a brain tumour, with the symptoms developing rapidly. He asked 
why AXA hadnt  put anything in writing until September 2018 and why hed had to speak to 
11 different people before it responded. He asked why there  was no mention of settling his 
wifes claim under the same policy whilst denying his claim until September 2018. He 
referred to a case on our website, quoting the legal  case of Cook  v Financial Insurance  Co 
Ltd. He cant see a difference with his situation, where hed booked a holiday and rapidly 
deteriorated after that. He said AXA is responsible for the failure of its agent (the travel 
agent). 
Our adjudicator responded to Mr Cs points  and also said an ombudsman  would review  the 
case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it.
Mr C hasnt disputed that he and Mrs C were asked some questions  by AXA (via its agent) 
when they took out the policy.  They answered yes to two of its questions including  one which 
asked whether they had any medical problems  for which  they were  awaiting a diagnosis, on 
a waiting list for, or were aware  of the need for surgery, treatment or investigations. Both Mr 
and Mrs C told AXA about other medical conditions, and Mr C told AXA about the memory 
loss. 
AXA says it followed a script, and told him that it was important he understand that if hed 
answered yes to the above question then claims for any related medical  problems would 
Ref: DRN57570822not be covered  by the policy. It also meant that he would not be able to include cover for any 
medical conditions  meaning all conditions would be excluded, including  any hed declared 
under the previous questions. It said unrelated claims  for accidents and new illnesses or 
injuries remained covered. 
Mr C has told AXA he understood  about the memory loss investigations at the time he 
bought the policy. He explained that the GP had thought it might  be the onset of dementia.  
He didnt know about the brain tumour at the time he booked the holiday and bought the 
policy. 
I accept that Mr C couldnt have known about  the brain tumour before  April 2018. It wasnt  
diagnosed until then, following a scan arranged by the memory clinic. I also entirely accept  
that Mr C answered AXAs questions with reasonable care and to the best of his knowledge  
and belief. 
But having  considered all the evidence  I consider  it likely that AXA made it clear to Mr C that 
it wouldnt cover  any of his medical  conditions because he was having investigations into 
memory loss. At that time the GP suspected dementia not a brain  tumour. But an insurer  is 
entitled to decide the risks its prepared to cover.  And in this case  it wouldnt cover Mr C for 
any medical conditions  related  to the investigations  for memory loss. 
The medical evidence  from the hospital  which treated Mr C lists the memory loss as part of 
the history of his condition, and includes the referral  to the memory  clinic and the 
subsequent tests he had to undergo. The GP has said in the medical  certificate that the 
symptoms of the brain tumour  began in December 2017 with Mr C first consulting  the GP on 
17 February 2017. So I think the medical evidence is that the memory loss was directly 
related to the claim. AXA had not agreed to cover Mr C for a medical  condition  related to the 
memory loss investigations.  
Ive had regard  to the legal case of Cook v Financial Insurance Co Ltd, which  Mr C has 
mentioned. That case concluded that symptoms were relevant only if it was understood that 
they related to a serious condition, even if not formally  diagnosed.  The Law Lords  decided  
that the insurer couldnt fairly rely on a pre-existing condition exclusion clause if the 
consumer couldnt  have reasonably known that the investigations were for a serious  
condition. But its notable  that the facts  in Mr Cs case  are markedly  different. In particular, in 
Mr Cs case AXA had told him at the outset that it wouldnt cover the condition  for which  he 
was currently under investigation. That didnt  happen in the case of Cook.  So I dont think  its 
fair to draw  a comparison between the two. 
Ive also thought about the case study Mr C has mentioned  in deciding whats  fair and 
reasonable in this case. Having done  so I still think AXA was entitled  to turn down Mr Cs 
claim. In Mr Cs case AXA is saying that he was never  covered  for his medical conditions 
because of the investigations  he was undergoing.  And it made that clear  to him when he 
bought the policy. I know  Mr Cs GP and in turn Mr C thought  his memory loss might  be 
dementia, and Mr C couldnt have known about  the brain tumour when taking out the policy. 
But he did know he was having  investigations for a serious condition  and that AXA wouldnt 
cover him for anything related to that condition.  And Mr Cs subsequent claim was entirely  
caused by a condition AXA had already told him was excluded from cover. And that remains 
the case even  if the eventual  diagnosis  was different from the condition the doctors originally 
suspected. So I think it could fairly  turn down  his cancellation claim.  
Ref: DRN57570823AXA has accepted  it should have responded to the claim earlier  than it did and that Mr C had 
to speak to many different people. It paid compensation  of £75 for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by its poor service, and I think that was fair. AXA did pay Mrs Cs 
claim under the same policy (probably because she cancelled due to a close relatives 
illness) but I dont think that means it had to pay Mr Cs claim as well, for the reasons Ive 
explained. 
my final decision
Despite my natural  sympathy with Mr C, for the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5757082