K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that an appointed representative of Quilter  Wealth  Ltd (formerly Intrinsic 
Wealth) unreasonably failed to act on his instructions to withdraw a pension  commencement 
lump sum (PCLS) from his pension  savings.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
December 2020.  An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  Both Mr S and Quilter have 
provided me with some  further information. Although I am only summarising here what both 
parties have said, I have considered their entire responses carefully before writing this 
decision.
Mr S has confirmed  that the sole reason  for his original engagement with Quilter  was to gain 
access to a PCLS when  he turned 55 in February 2019. He says that despite his change  in 
circumstances that objective remained unchanged. He points out that the appointed 
representative of Quilter was a personal  friend. Therefore the appointed representative was 
fully aware of Mr Ss circumstances and could have verified those  to Quilter if needed.
Mr S confirms that he didnt consider himself  vulnerable when he gave his instruction. And 
he doesnt consider  that any legislation or regulations suggest  he must be treated in that way 
as a result  of his circumstances.  He is disappointed that he needed  to obtain a power of 
attorney document, at a considerable cost, in the hope that Quilter would implement his 
instructions to release the PCLS payment.
Mr S has reiterated the urgency of releasing the PCLS payment. He says that the appeal 
process he wished  to use was time limited, and without the funds from the PCLS  payment 
he was unable to make his appeal in time.  He doesnt think that the payment I have 
recommended for the trouble and upset he was caused in any way reflects  the severity of 
that impact.
Quilter has provided us with some  recordings of voicemail messages that Mr S left for its 
appointed representative in January and February 2019. It says that those messages clearly  
indicate that at that time Mr S was still engaged with the firm, and expecting  it to service his 
pension account.  And it says that is further supported by conversations  that it had with 
Mr Ss partner,  who explained both that they didnt want  to terminate the relationship,  and 
that there  might be a delay in wanting to access the PCLS.
Quilter says that it was important that it dealt with Mr Ss complaint  before it could proceed to 
provide advice to his nominated power of attorney about the release  of the PCLS.  But even 
so it still considers there was sufficient time for Mr S to have released his PCLS. Quilter 
doesnt consider  it appropriate that the release of the PCLS should  have  taken place without 
it providing new advice  to Mr S.
Quilter does not know why it took so long before Mr S received his PCLS. It thinks  it most  
likely that delay was due to Mr S deferring  his decision to release the payment. It says the 
SIPP provider confirmed  that payment would normally take 5 to 10 working  days. And it says 
Ref: DRN51986832that in the period of time leading up to Mr S terminating his relationship it continued to 
provide servicing  of his pension savings  so it is reasonable  that it retains the advice 
charges that Mr S paid.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having  done so Im not minded 
that I should change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. But I think  it right 
that I respond here to the additional points that have been raised by Mr S and by Quilter.
Quilter has provided me with recordings of some voicemails left by Mr S for its appointed 
representative. I think those recordings merely  confirm some of the information that Mr S has 
provided to us. It is clear  that Mr S saw the appointed representative as a friend,  and was 
frustrated that it appeared Quilter was delaying  the implementation of his instruction. But 
what is equally clear is that Mr Ss only objective was to gain the release of the PCLS  
payment at the earliest opportunity. It seems to me that he would  have taken whatever steps 
were needed  to release those funds.
I think that conclusion  is supported  by Mr S deciding to put a power of attorney document in 
place. I appreciate that Mr S now feels that was unnecessary given his decision to instruct  
the SIPP provider  directly. But, given his circumstances, I dont think  that the document 
would only have use for his relationship with Quilter   I think he might find it useful in any 
dealings with other organisations. So whilst I appreciate the not inconsiderable cost of 
obtaining that document I dont think that cost should form part of the redress  I am directing 
Quilter to pay.
I dont however consider that the voicemails that Mr S left, or the instructions given by his 
partner to Quilter, indicate any degree of satisfaction  with the servicing  that was being  
provided on his pension savings. He was merely  retaining the advisor as a means  to effect 
the release of his PCLS. And that is supported  by his stated intention to cancel the 
arrangement once the PCLS  had been paid. 
I dont think that, from the outset of Mr Ss change in circumstances, Quilter engaged with 
him in a constructive manner. It is clear  that Quilter had serious reservations about a 
servicing relationship  being provided to someone  in prison. And that no doubt  left the 
appointed representative in a difficult position   trying to balance the needs of his client,  and 
friend, with the restrictions being  imposed by Quilter. And I think that tension led to a long 
period of inaction following Mr Ss initial request, and subsequent complaint.
The instruction that Mr S had place before Quilter was time critical. I dont think  it was in 
anyones interest to pause  the implementation  of the instruction whilst  the complaint was 
being investigated. That simply added further  delays to the process.  I think  it would have 
been entirely reasonable for the two activities  to run in parallel. Quilter could very easily have 
set out the new terms on which it was willing to assist Mr S, whilst dealing with his complaint 
about whether  those  new terms  were necessary.
Ref: DRN51986833As I explained in my provisional decision I cannot  fairly say that these delays have resulted 
in Mr S spending longer in prison than he might have done. I appreciate that the appeal 
process was time limited. But even if Mr S had been able to lodge  an appeal in time that 
doesnt mean it would  have  been successful. That is unfortunately now something that we 
will never know  and so it wouldnt be right for me to hold Quilter liable for the appeal  not 
being made, or succeeding.
I dont know the background to why Mr S told Quilter he might want to delay taking the PCLS  
as time went  on. And I think that Quilters assumption that this might  have been part of the 
reason the PCLS  wasnt taken until May is reasonable. But I dont think  that can absolve 
Quilter from the responsibility  for the delays I explained in my provisional decision in the two 
months following  Mr Ss original instruction. And I think  it is quite possible that those early  
delays might have contributed to Mr Ss later decisions  it might have been too late by then 
for him to use the PCLS as hed originally  intended.
On balance I think Quilter reached a point when it found out about Mr Ss incarceration that it 
would have great concerns about acting  on his behalf. Whilst I appreciate  the circumstances 
were difficult, and meeting with Mr S might have presented some challenges, I dont think it 
provided him with the services I would expect  for the on-going  charges he was paying. So 
I remain of the opinion that those  charges should be refunded.
I understand why Mr S feels  that the £500  I have  awarded for his trouble and upset doesnt 
reflect the gravity of the situation. But I need to balance  how far I can safely  conclude  that 
Quilters actions caused his upset,  against the wider circumstances of his incarceration.  
Ultimately I still think that £500 is a fair reflection of Quilters responsibilities.
putting things right
For the reasons  I have  set out above, and in my provisional decision,  I dont think Quilter has 
treated Mr S fairly. So Quilter should;
Pay the sum of £500 to Mr S in respect  of the trouble and upset he has been  caused.
Pay simple interest  at a rate of 8% per annum for a period of 2 months on the 
amount received by Mr S as a PCLS in May 2019. HM Revenue  & Customs requires 
Quilter to take off tax from this interest. Quilter must give Mr S a certificate showing 
how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Refund any ongoing servicing  fees that have  been received in relation to Mr Ss 
pension savings since 11 November  2018
This part of the compensation relating to the servicing fees should  be paid into Mr S's 
SIPP. The amount paid should  allow for the effect  of charges and any available  tax 
relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with 
any existing protection  or allowance. 
If Quilter  is unable  to pay the total amount into Mr S's SIPP,  it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable  income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr S's actual or expected  
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. I expect Mr S is likely  to be a 
basic rate taxpayer so the reduction  should equal the current basic rate of tax. 
Ref: DRN51986834However, as Mr S would  have been able to take an additional tax-free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
my final decision
My final decision, for the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, is that I uphold 
Mr Ss complaint and direct Quilter Wealth Ltd to put things right as detailed  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN51986835EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr S complains that an appointed representative of Quilter Wealth  Ltd (formerly Intrinsic Wealth) 
unreasonably failed to act on his instructions to withdraw a pension commencement lump sum 
(PCLS) from his pension savings.
background
Mr Ss relationship was with Craven Slater & Associates, an appointed representative of Quilter.  
Although Mr S had no direct contact with Quilter, it is that firm that is responsible for his complaint. 
And for ease  I will refer to Quilter, rather than the firm Mr S dealt with, throughout this decision.
In 2017 Mr S received  advice from Quilter regarding the transfer of his pension savings  from an 
occupational pension scheme, and two personal pensions, into a new self-invested personal  pension 
(SIPP). Mr S hasnt complained about that advice  and I am not making any findings in this decision  
about its suitability. And for the avoidance  of doubt, I havent been provided with sufficient information 
about those transfers to form any opinion  about the suitability of that advice.
One of the objectives that Quilter noted at the time it gave  the advice to Mr S was that he wished to 
take a PCLS from his pension savings  as soon as he was able  when he turned 55 years of age in 
February 2019. Quilter  noted that Mr S intended to use those funds to assist  with the purchase of a 
house. Quilter  received  a one-off fee for the advice it provided and Mr S entered  into an on-going  
agreement with the firm for the future servicing of his pension savings.
On 11 November  2018  Mr S wrote to Quilter  to request  it start the process  that would allow the 
payment of the PCLS the following February. And given the possible volatility  in the investments he 
held, he asked  Quilter to move his pensions  savings into a cash fund so that their value would  be 
protected in the lead up to him taking his PCLS. But in that letter Mr S also made Quilter  aware of a 
significant change in his circumstances. He had been convicted of a criminal offence and had been 
jailed as a result. He provided the details of his partner who he said he was authorising to deal with 
his financial affairs.
Quilter wrote back to Mr S on 21 November.  In that letter it confirmed it had completed Mr Ss request 
for his pension savings to be moved into cash. But it told Mr S that since he was now imprisoned  it 
was obliged to treat him as a potentially  vulnerable client. It said that it would need to liaise  with him in 
conjunction with another individual, that it understood should be Mr Ss partner,  and that it couldnt  
start his request for a PCLS without gaining  a full update on his current  circumstances, objectives and 
financial position. It noted that Mr S would be required to sign a number of forms unless  he had a 
power of attorney in place.
The letter went on to say that Quilter thought it would be helpful if it could discuss Mr Ss situation and 
his request with his solicitor.  It asked for his contact details and Mr Ss authority for those discussions 
to take place.
Mr S responded to Quilter on 25 November. In that letter he rejected Quilters assessment of him 
being vulnerable. He confirmed  that he required  the PCLS to be paid on his 55th birthday so that he 
could repay  a loan to a friend, and use the remainder as he had always  intended to purchase a 
property. He stressed that he had no intention  of instructing a solicitor  to liaise with Quilter on his 
behalf. Quilter  didnt  respond to that letter.
On 28 December  Mr S again wrote  to Quilter  making  a formal complaint about  its lack of action on his 
request, and its failure to reply to his letter of 25 November. He confirmed he was having  a power  of 
attorney drawn up and asked that the relevant  paperwork  be prepared  in readiness for his PCLS 
withdrawal the following  month.  And on 3 January  Mr S left a voicemail message for his financial  
advisor repeating that request..
Ref: DRN51986836Quilter sent its final response to Mr Ss complaint on 18 January. It sent the response to Mr Ss 
partner. In that letter  it rejected his complaint and said that in order to provide advice to a client an 
adviser must carry  out a formal review of their personal  and financial circumstances to ensure  that 
any recommendations made are in the best interest of their clients.  They  cannot  simply  follow 
instructions given by a client. And it said that given its assessment of Mr S as potentially  vulnerable it 
would only take his instructions following a face to face meeting.
Quilter told Mr S that it had sought advice from its compliance department. And following the guidance 
of the Joint Money Laundering Steering Group it required confirmation of his incarceration from a 
prison officer.
Quilter then advised Mr S that should he wish he could  dispense with the services  of its appointed 
representative and deal with the SIPP  provider directly. That would  then enable him to request the 
withdrawal of the PCLS payment after confirming  he had not received any advice in respect of the 
transaction. But doing  so would terminate his ongoing servicing arrangement  with Quilter. It noted that 
since Mr Ss 55th birthday wasnt until the following month the payment of his PCLS hadnt been 
delayed at that time.
Mr S did ultimately  choose to terminate  his relationship with Quilter and dealt directly with the SIPP 
provider to withdraw  his PCLS. I understand that process took some time, and so the payment wasnt 
finally made until May 2019. At that point Mr S brought his complaint about Quilter to this Service.
Mr Ss complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. Ultimately he thought  that the 
additional measures that Quilter had put in place to protect Mr S had been reasonable. And he 
thought Quilter had provided Mr S with the information he needed should he wish to deal with the 
SIPP provider direct. So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr S didnt agree  with that assessment. So, as the complaint  hasnt been resolved informally, it has 
been passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. I have  also carefully  considered the submissions  that have been  made 
by Mr S and by Quilter.  Where the evidence  is unclear,  or there are conflicts, I have made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what  evidence  we do 
have, and the surrounding circumstances,  to help me decide what  I think  is more  likely to, or should, 
have happened.
At the outset I think  it is useful to reflect  on the role of this service. This service  isnt intended to 
regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a business. 
Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things right by 
placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position  they would have  been if the problem  hadnt 
occurred.
In the background section  above I have deliberately set out, in some detail, the communications  that 
Quilter has provided to us regarding the interactions it had with Mr S. But I note that in its final 
response letter it also references  other voicemail  messages and phone  calls that it says Mr S made to 
his financial advisor, chasing its response and explaining that his PCLS  monies were required 
urgently to help with his court appeal  costs.
Ref: DRN51986837I think  it would make  sense to deal with the matter of Mr Ss intended appeal against his conviction 
and/or sentence. Mr S clearly feels very strongly that the delay in receiving  his PCLS  prevented him 
from making a successful appeal against the Courts findings and as a result he will spend a 
significant time in prison. Whilst I entirely  understand his feelings on this matter, the likely outcome of 
any appeal isnt something that I can allow to influence  my decision. The result of that appeal  would  
be a matter for the Courts.  And so I cannot  conclude with any degree of confidence  that any delays to 
the payment of his PCLS have affected the amount of time Mr S might need to spend  in prison.
The request that Mr S made to Quilter in November  2018 was not for any advice. He clearly  set out 
the steps that he wished the firm to take. And I am persuaded  that those steps were entirely in line 
with the discussions that Quilter had with Mr S the previous year when it advised him on the transfer 
of his pension savings.  In fact I think it would be reasonable to conclude that the ability to take a 
PCLS at age 55 was one of the factors  that was most attractive to Mr S when  considering the transfer. 
So I dont think that Mr Ss request should have come as any surprise  to Quilter.
But of course,  Mr Ss circumstances had changed radically since that advice had been given. And so 
if Quilter was being asked to provide further  advice to Mr S it would have  been entirely  necessary  and 
reasonable for it to review his circumstances once again. And it is likely that the advice it gave to Mr S 
would have been different  for one thing  the future pension accrual that he was expecting  to benefit  
from was now unlikely.
But Mr S wasnt asking  for advice. So I dont think it was necessary for Quilter to concern itself with 
the changes to Mr Ss circumstances. Quilter needed to ensure that it had received a valid instruction 
from Mr S.
I can see that Quilters internal notes from the time confirmed that the signature on the letter it 
received was that of Mr S. And Quilter was happy  to implement the first part of Mr Ss request   to 
change his pension  savings into cash. So it seems  to me that Quilter had no concerns  over the 
validity of Mr Ss instruction.
Further internal correspondence from Quilter shows that it referred  the matter of Mr Ss circumstances 
 namely that he was in prison  to its compliance  and money laundering  teams.  I dont think that 
doing so was entirely  unreasonable. Mr Ss circumstances were  not particularly  common, and it is 
entirely possible that the advisory firm had not dealt with something similar in the past. But I think the 
conclusions that Quilter drew at that time failed  to treat Mr S fairly.
As an example Quilter  mentioned in its final response letter that it had followed guidance from the 
Joint Money Laundering Steering Group and would  require a letter from a prison officer confirming 
Mr Ss incarceration. Ive looked  at that guidance and how it relates to clients who are serving a 
custodial sentence. The guidance relates to the identity checks that need to be undertaken by firms 
when taking on a new client. I would  expect  that Quilter would have completed those checks  with 
Mr S the previous year. And since it didnt appear to have any doubts about the authenticity of Mr Ss 
instruction letter I cannot see why it needed to infringe on his privacy and seek  confirmation  from a 
prison officer  of his incarceration.
It seems to me that Quilter made an assumption that Mr S was potentially vulnerable because he had 
been imprisoned. I think instead that it needed to take steps  to understand more  about  Mr Ss 
situation before drawing  those conclusions. It might  have  been entirely appropriate that it continued to 
deal with Mr S either  by telephone or letter  if it felt unable  to visit him in person. But I do also note that 
Mr S has said that Quilter could have met with him face to face if it had needed  to do so.
What is of greatest concern  to me here is the time it took Quilter to deal with Mr Ss request. Quilter is 
entirely free to decide the terms  on which  it is willing to do business, and it wouldnt have been 
unreasonable for it to decide to no longer  offer any servicing to Mr Ss pension investments. But I note 
that in its internal correspondence the advisor thought he should continue  to assist Mr S until, at the 
very least, any appeal process  had been exhausted. 
Ref: DRN51986838I think  it was clear from Mr Ss response to Quilters  letter in November  2018 that he didnt wish to be 
treated as vulnerable, or need to deal with Quilter through a third party  such  as his solicitor.  I think  it 
was at that point that Quilter needed to decide whether it could continue its relationship  with Mr S. 
And had it set out clearly  to Mr S at that time, that he either needed to comply  with the way in which 
Quilter wished to deal with his affairs, or terminate the relationship, I think  that would  have meant the 
PCLS payment would  have been made much earlier,  and potentially  on Mr Ss 55th birthday  as he had 
instructed.
Quilter received an ongoing  servicing fee that was deducted from Mr Ss pension  savings. Mr S has 
recently said that he hadnt originally  been made aware  those fees would  be payable. Whilst that 
didnt form part of his complaint, and so I will not formally decide that matter here, I would note that 
fee was set out in the advice letters he was given  by Quilter in 2017.  But it seems to me that from the 
point at which  Mr S was imprisoned that Quilter was concerned about  providing him with the on-going  
servicing that he was being charged  for. I dont think, given its concerns, that Quilter was in a position 
to continue its servicing arrangement until Mr S had complied with its requirements. So I am 
proposing to require Quilter  to refund  any ongoing fees it has taken since Mr S made it aware of his 
imprisonment on 11 November 2018.
Mr Ss PCLS payment was not received by him until May 2019. Given  what  Ive said above, I think it 
likely that Mr S would have  ended his relationship  with Quilter as soon as he had been made  aware 
that he could deal with the SIPP provider  direct. That information  wasnt given  to him until the final 
response letter on 18 January. So I think it reasonable  to conclude that Quilter was responsible for at 
least two months of the delay. So I intend to ask Quilter to compensate  Mr S for that delay.
I have no doubts how stressful this situation would  have  been for Mr S at a time when his 
communication options  were limited, and he was trying to get his affairs  in order following what he 
says was an unexpected conviction. So I am also going to direct Quilter to pay a further £500 to Mr S 
to reflect the trouble and upset hes been caused.
Ref: DRN5198683