K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains that BISL Limited  has treated her unfairly with how it has priced  her 
buildings and contents insurance policy for the years she held this with it.
 
background
Mrs O had her insurance provided  by BISL  from 2004 until 2018. The policy automatically  
renewed each  year and Mrs O had no engagement  with BISL on the price of the policy 
offered at renewal each  year.
In 2018 Mrs O complained to BISL about the cost of her insurance. She was unhappy that 
she was able to find cover cheaper when searching  online  with BISL.  She didnt think  it was 
fair there was such a difference  in what she was paying and the online price  shed found.
BISL responded and said it didnt think it had done  anything wrong with how its priced  
Mrs Os policy.  It said new customers have discounts applied and this is something  which  
impacts the price of policies available to them. It said the price  it offered online would have  
included a new customer discount but Mrs O may not have been  allowed to proceed with her 
application as it would  have recognised her as an existing customer.  It felt the price  offered 
at renewal was fair and it gave adequate time for Mrs O to shop around if she did not wish to 
accept the renewal offered each year.
Our investigator looked at Mrs Os complaint and thought BISL had treated her fairly. She 
explained the reasons given by BISL  for the increases in price for Mrs Os policy overtime  
and that she felt these were fair. Because of this she didnt  recommend  the complaint be 
upheld.
Mrs O didnt agree and felt the reasoning given for the increases wasnt enough  to justify 
how the price had moved overtime.  As she disagreed, the complaint has been  passed to me 
for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having considered  everything,  Ive 
decided not to uphold Mrs Os complaint. I know this will be disappointing for her, but Ill 
explain how Ive reached this decision.
BISL acts as an intermediary for insurance which  means  it doesnt  underwrite the risk being  
insured itself  in Mrs Os case  this risk is her house and contents items insured.  Instead 
BISL searches  its a panel of underwriters  for the most suitable provider to offer this each 
year and its meant during the lifetime of Mrs Os policy provided via BISL, her home and 
contents insurance has been  underwritten  by different insurers. 
Although BISL  doesnt provide the underwriting on the policy there  is a number of 
differences in how it operates compared to what might be perceived as a traditional broker. 
It has full regulatory  authority  for the design,  build, distribution and administration  of the 
products it sells and reflects the impact  of this with the overall  cost of the policy  it charges. 
This means  in effect that BISL plays an important role in the setting of the price for the policy 
as it adds this cost to the total premium  payable by the customer  it is because of this that 
BISL is responsible  for this complaint about the cost of the policy.
Ref: DRN51680192As a service  it isnt our role to tell a business  what it should charge for the insurance it is 
offering. This is a commercial decision and I would in effect be regulating on the price  if I told 
a business how to price  the policies and service  it is providing. But we can check individual  
complaints to make sure that businesses are treating customers  fairly when they price their 
policies and that they are not taking  advantage  of any groups or individuals with the 
approach they take. This includes  customers who havent engaged on the price of the policy 
for significant periods of the time theyve  been insured.
When a customer isnt engaging with the cost of their insurance and it renews each year 
without them talking  to their insurer, wed refer to them  as inert. We think businesses should 
be aware of customer being  inert if they have a history of not engaging with their renewal 
price. This should generally be apparent by the fourth renewal without any contact on the 
price following the renewal invites.
Mrs O first purchased insurance with BISL  in 2004 and had no engagement  with it on the 
price of her policy until she questioned  whether  this was fair in 2018. So I think  it wouldve 
been clear Mrs O wasnt engaging with the cost of her insurance by her fourth renewal and 
by 2008, BISL  should  have realised she was inert. 
The cost of insurance has changed considerably overtime and theres a number of things 
which can influence this. In Mrs Os case,  Ive looked at what BISL has said to explain why 
the cost of her insurance increased  from £286.82 per year when she first took it out to 
£643.91 in 2017. Ultimately Ive considered whether  I think  her lack of engagement  was a 
reason for the price  increases on the policy. If it was, it wouldnt have  been  treating Mrs O 
fairly.
BISL is an intermediary so it doesnt  provide  the underwriting for the policy.  But the changes 
in the view of the risk by the underwriters  will have an impact  on the overall cost of the 
insurance and the price  charged by BISL.  
BISL has explained how changes made to the policy cover  over the years and claims have 
had an impact on the risk price it was able to obtain from its underwriters and how this 
impacted the price.  I cant share  the detail of how the overall  price  is made  up with Mrs O as 
this is commercially  sensitive, but Im satisfied that the risk price  has changed considerably 
since the policy was first taken out and this is clearly  linked to the claims made as well as 
amendments to the policy cover.
Mrs O has questioned whether the record of claims BISL holds is accurate as she doesnt 
recall all of these being made. With the details of the policy dating back  more than 15 years  
now it maybe she doesnt recall all the claims on it, but I see no reason  to doubt the system 
notes added overtime as an accurate  reflection of what  has happened  on her policy.  And Im 
satisfied that these will have impacted  risk price provided to BISL by the underwriter each 
year.
Together with the underlying risk price  changing, BISLs has also explained  how the costs it 
applied to the policy have changed  over time. 
When the policy was first taken out BISL  reduced  the percentage it charges to cover its 
costs  applying  a new customer discount to this. This percentage increased steadily 
overtime until 2011 when  it remained relatively flat as this discount amount had been  
removed. New customer discounts are common in insurance pricing and are used to help 
Ref: DRN51680193attract new customers  this often  means by reducing the cost to below what  the actual 
economical cost should  be. Recouping  the discount  over time is fair and Mrs O benefited  
from this reduction until the policy reached  the equivalent true price of the policy so I dont 
think BISL done anything wrong  here when  it increased the price  overtime to recoup this.
BISL has explained how it calculates the amount it applies to the policies it offers.  This is to 
cover its costs and margins and it applies a cap to this which  is applied  to all customers 
consistently. The amount it has charged  Mrs O hasnt exceeded the cap it places on this 
which means its not charged her more than it would  any other customer. The changes  in 
price after 2011  are due to the risk price  increasing  but the percentage cost that BISL  
applied after this never exceeded the cap. So the cost of her policy  has been based on BISL  
applying this percentage to the risk price each year. So I think it has treated her fairly  and 
consistently when  doing this.
Overall, from what Ive seen Im satisfied that the price  increases on Mrs Os policy  have 
been applied  fairly. And the price  hasnt increased because of her lack of engagement, but 
because of the changes in the underlying risk price  based on changes to the policy and 
claims. And because of the recouping of BISLs new customer  discount overtime.
I appreciate Mrs O has found cover for her home for considerably  less than she was paying  
BISL and this understandably raises the question as to whether it treated her fairly. But a 
comparison of prices  doesnt show it has done  anything wrong.  As Ive explained new 
customer discounts are common and this isnt unfair and each business will have its own 
view of the risk it is insuring and this can differ dramatically from business to business. 
Ultimately a difference in price doesnt mean  anything is wrong and from what  Ive seen, I 
cant agree  BISL  has treated Mrs O unfairly with how it has priced  the policy she had with it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 January 2021.
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5168019