K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs As complaint relates to an After the Event Insurance  policy (AEI) they 
purchased through their solicitors  from DAS.
background
Mr and Mrs As solicitors  purchased AEI for them in May 2012. In January 2016 Mr and 
Mrs As solicitors  told DAS the case had been  won because theyd received a reasonable 
settlement offer from the third party. 
DAS provided Mr and Mrs A with the details of the premium to be recovered  from the other side.
The third party challenged Mr and Mrs As solicitors fees, the disbursements claimed and 
the AEI premium. A costs hearing was listed to decide the issue in November 2016.   Mr and 
Mrs As solicitors  then asked DAS to pay the costs and disbursements the third party  was 
unwilling to pay. DAS refused. They said the policy wouldnt cover them for this because  the 
case hadnt been lost. Accepting a reasonable offer meant the case had been won so DAS 
felt the policy wouldnt  respond.
Mr and Mrs A say that without DAS  agreement to cover their disbursements,  at least in 
relation to the detailed assessment hearing, they decided not to go ahead with it. It was set 
down for two days and wouldve cost them considerable sums. DAS say they didnt refuse to 
cover counsels  fees for this hearing- any discussion  on the issue  of disbursements  wasnt in 
relation to this specific hearing. DAS did offer to pay counsels fees in respect of a failed 
application earlier on in proceedings but this was after Mr and Mrs A decided not to attend 
the costs hearing  so lost the opportunity to obtain an order  for costs.
Since that time DAS have been pursuing  Mr and Mrs A and their solicitors for the AEI 
premium, amounting to almost £18,000.   Mr and Mrs A say DAS breached the terms of their 
policy with them and prejudiced their position  in respect of the detailed assessment hearing. 
They want  DAS to stop chasing them for the AEI premium and to recover  the costs  and 
disbursements they incurred. They also say DAS should pay them  compensation for the 
stress and inconvenience they experienced as a result.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs As complaint  and concluded it shouldnt  be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs A dont  agree so the matter has been  passed to me to determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  done so, I wont be upholding Mr and Mrs As 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
The starting point  is the policy terms. If Mr and Mrs A lose their case;  or their claim is withdrawn 
by agreement with DAS and their own solicitor;  or if after a Part 36 offer,  Mr and Mrs A win but a 
court awards them damages that are less than the offer to settle, then the policy covers:
Mr and Mrs As solicitors  disbursements and barristers fees (except if the barrister  is acting 
under a conditional fee agreement (CFA)), as well as, their opponents costs  and 
disbursements and insurance premium, if recoverable from them. They  also indemnify 
Mr and Mrs A for their liability  to pay their own insurance premium  for their policy.  
Ref: DRN51656802The terms also say DAS will pay Mr and Mrs As solicitors basic charges, success fee, 
disbursements and barristers fees if they win but their opponent cant pay what  the court  
orders him/her to pay. In circumstances where Mr and Mrs A win and cannot  recover the 
premium in full or part from their opponent,  DAS will indemnify them  against any liability. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs A won their case by accepting an offer to settle it. Costs were  
payable by their opponent  but these couldnt be agreed so became subject to assessment. 
An assessment hearing was set down for the Court  to consider them but the hearing wasnt  
attended so no order was made  against  the third party. 
DAS say theyre not prepared to pay anything to Mr and Mrs A in these circumstances and 
that the premium  is due so theyre entitled to recover it from them.  Conversely,  if Mr and 
Mrs A had gone to the hearing  and got a costs  order against the opponent, but the opponent 
couldnt pay them, DAS would then have covered them. 
Mr and Mrs A say it was DAS actions that caused  them not to go along  to the costs hearing 
so they lost out on recovering their costs. They say they relied on correspondence  from DAS 
which said they wouldnt pay their disbursements after they accepted the offer to settle.  
Because of this they felt they couldnt  take the costs  risk in incurring costs  for a two day 
hearing they might not be able to recover-  so they didnt go. They  also say that because 
DAS later agreed to pay £5,000 in respect  of Counsels fees for an earlier failed application, 
this means they wouldve  paid their fees for the costs hearing all along,  which  means they 
couldve gone ahead with it and not been in the position they find themselves in now.
Ive considered this issue carefully and the correspondence  before and after the hearing 
between Mr and Mrs As solicitors and DAS. Having  done so, I dont think DAS did anything  
wrong. The correspondence Mr and Mrs A are referring to doesnt  read quite as they say. 
Their solicitors specifically  asked DAS before the costs hearing whether they would fund the 
costs of the detailed assessment (which also involved a determination of the premium 
payable) as well as Counsels  fees. In response  to that email DAS said theyd cover the 
parts that relate solely to the premium challenge. Following  that, Mr and Mrs As solicitor 
asked about DAS position on Counsels fees more generally. DAS replied pointing out that 
they couldnt consider a claim for disbursements in respect of the earlier failed application.  
But they also said that going  forward the policy would consider any costs that relate  solely to 
the premium challenge.
I know that DAS did later agree to pay £5,000 for Counsels fees for the earlier  failed 
application but this doesnt explain why Mr and Mrs A decided not to go along to the costs  
hearing. Their solicitors had, after all been told on two occasions they would consider 
covering costs in relation to a premium challenge. The costs  hearing was intended to deal 
with this as well as the wider  costs position.  
Given the consequences of not obtaining  a costs  order in their favour and the fact that 
incurring further  costs was of concern  to Mr and Mrs A, I wouldve  expected  to see some 
correspondence requesting help with the costs of this hearing specifically if this wasnt  clear 
to Mr and Mrs A - although  Im not persuaded matters were unclear  given  the content of the 
correspondence Ive seen. 
Ref: DRN51656803And DAS werent  at any point aware  that Mr and Mrs A didnt intend to attend the costs 
hearing. This was only revealed after Mr and Mrs A made the complaint thats the subject of 
this decision. Had they had some  notice of this being Mr and Mrs As intention, I think  its 
likely that DAS wouldve  advised them of the risks of their failing to do so.  In the absence of 
that, and for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think I can say DAS  actions prejudiced  Mr and 
Mrs As position.
When considering  this complaint, Ive noted that Mr and Mrs A were  represented  throughout 
these proceedings  and their dealings with DAS.  So I wouldve expected  them to have taken 
advice about the consequences of not attending the costs hearing and what  this wouldve 
meant for them on the issue of costs. Whilst I cant look at any complaints concerning  the 
conduct of their own solicitors, I can direct  them to The Legal Ombudsman  if theyre  
unhappy with the advice  they were given in respect of this issue. 
my final decision
I dont uphold his complaint Mr and Mrs As complaint against DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 January 2020. 
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5165680