K821x#15complaint
Ms C says The Co-operative Bank  Plc mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. She doesnt  think the offer theyve made is a fair way to resolve her 
complaint.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 21 January 2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
that only the accident and sickness part of the PPI was mis-sold, and so The Co-ops 
existing offer was fair.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
21 February 2019. The Co-op  didnt send me anything new to consider. Ms C sent me 
some comments, which Ill talk about below.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms C explained that she didnt  consider  herself  likely to be made  redundant, and that in the 
years since  the PPI sale no-one  from her department was made redundant. I understand her 
point here.  But as I explained  in the provisional  decision, thats something Ms C only knows 
in hindsight  in 2006 she couldnt have known whether  there would be redundancies in the 
years to come. And there was still a risk Ms C would lose her job. Insurance is generally 
there to cover  the risk of things that might  happen, even if theyre unlikely, rather  than things 
that you know will happen.  For example, if you never get robbed  or have accidental damage,  
that doesnt automatically mean your contents  insurance was mis-sold  it still covered the 
risk of those  things happening.  And Ms Cs mortgage was a significant amount of money, 
which she had to pay off over a very long period. Even if Ms C felt secure in her job in 2006, 
it still seems like it was sensible for her to protect  herself for the many years  to come.
Ms C also pointed out that she was entitled  to redundancy pay, though she acknowledged 
this wouldve  been much less back in 2006.  I should also explain that, if she had lost her job, 
that payout wouldve been needed for all her living  costs  not just her mortgage.  So it 
wouldnt have lasted  that long. The PPI covered her for longer, and paid out on top. 
So while I understand Ms Cs point of view, Im still mindful that she was at risk if she lost her 
job. And if she fell behind on her payments, she couldve lost her home.  So I still think  the 
unemployment cover  couldve really been useful  for Ms C in protecting her home.
And so having  reconsidered the case,  I still think The Co-ops  offer is fair  to refund the 
accident and sickness part of the PPI, along with 8% simple interest to compensate Ms C for 
the time she was without  her money.
Ref: DRN58756642my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I think that 
The Co-operative Bank Plcs offer is fair in this case. I direct The Co-operative Bank Plc to 
pay the offer to Ms C, if it has not done  so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN58756643COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms C says The Co-operative Bank  Plc mis-sold  her a mortgage  payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy. She doesnt think the offer theyve made is a fair way to resolve her complaint.
background
Ms C took out a PPI policy  with a mortgage  in 2006. Ms C paid for the PPI with a regular  monthly 
premium, which didnt  attract  interest. It covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator looked  into things and said it wouldve been overly difficult  for Ms C to have made  a 
sickness claim because of a pre-existing medical  condition.  In response,  The Co-op offered to refund  
the accident and sickness cover, but still felt the unemployment cover  was suitable. The refund would 
include all the premiums Ms C paid for the accident and sickness part of her PPI, plus 8% simple 
interest on each payment,  from when she paid it until she gets it back.
Ms C disagreed that this was a fair offer,  so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Ms Cs case. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, I agree with our adjudicator that the accident and sickness part of the 
policy wasnt right for Ms C, for the same reasons. But it was possible  for Ms C to have only taken  out 
unemployment cover,  rather than the accident, sickness  and unemployment cover that she originally 
took. And from what Ive seen, unemployment cover  wouldve  been suitable  for her, and I cant see 
that the PPI has been mis-sold for any other reason. So The Co-ops offer to refund the difference  
seems fair. Ill explain  my reasoning. 
There doesnt  seem to be any disagreement that Ms C agreed to buy PPI. And from what  Ive seen, it 
looks like she was only recommended it, and was given  the choice to take it or turn it down. The 
record of the advice says she agreed to take PPI. I can also see that Ms C submitted an application  
specifically for PPI, separately to the application for the mortgage itself. And the mortgage offer 
reiterated that the PPI was optional, and that Ms C didnt have  to buy any insurance from The Co-op. 
So I think that The Co-op made Ms C aware  she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it out.
The Co-op  recommended PPI to Ms C, so it had to check it was right for her. And based on what  Ive 
seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that unemployment cover wouldve  been right for her. 
For instance, it doesnt  look like Ms C was affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations for 
unemployment cover.  And according to the record of the advice, she told the adviser she had no other 
protection in case she lost her job. Ms C now says she wouldve  got redundancy pay, though if that is 
the case  then usually that would still only be a limited  payout, and so its most  likely that the PPI gave 
her much more comprehensive  cover.  Of course, if Ms C has evidence of her redundancy entitlement, 
then she can send that in response to this provisional decision and I can take that into account.
Ref: DRN58756644Ms C pointed out that she hasnt been  made redundant from her job. And while I understand her 
point, thats something she only knows in hindsight  she wouldnt have known that in 2006. And 
redundancies can and do happen. Insurance is generally  there to protect people from things that 
might happen, even  if theyre unlikely, rather than things that definitely  will happen. Its worth bearing  
in mind that Ms C had sole responsibility for her mortgage,  and if she fell behind on the payments she 
risked losing her home.  And that wouldve been a serious risk for her if shed lost her job. So it looks 
like the unemployment  cover couldve  really been useful for Ms C in protecting  her home.
Its possible that the information The Co-op gave Ms C about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  
The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed her mind. Here, 
Ms C chose to buy PPI, which implies she wanted this type of cover. As I explained  above, she wasnt 
affected by any of the unemployment covers  main exclusions or limitations,  and it couldve really 
been useful for her in case things went wrong. It also looks  like the unemployment cover wouldve  
been affordable for Ms C, and the cost was relatively low compared to what  it paid out each  month in 
a claim.  So overall, I dont  think better information was likely to have put Ms C off taking out 
unemployment cover.
On that basis,  I think that only the accident and sickness part of the PPI was mis-sold. So it seems fair 
for The Co-op to refund  that part, plus 8% simple interest to compensate Ms C for all the time she 
was out of pocket.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think The Co-operative Bank  Plcs offer is fair.
Please could  Ms C and The Co-op send me any more information or comments to look at by 21 
February 2019. After that, Ill issue my final decision.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5875664