K820x#14complaint
The representatives of the estate of the late Mrs C complain about  a Guaranteed Over 50s 
Plans taken out by Mrs C in 2004. The policy was administered by Aviva  Life & Pensions 
UK Limited  (Aviva). 
The representatives are unhappy that Mrs C paid considerably more  in premiums to the 
policy than was paid out when she passed away. They also feel that Aviva acted 
irresponsibly when Mrs C took the policy out. 
background
Our investigator didnt  think Aviva  had done  anything wrong.  He explained that the nature of 
this type of insurance contract was such that it was common for more to be paid in premiums 
than the sum assured, which was set when the policy  was taken out. But he also noted that 
Aviva was on risk to pay much  more than the premiums  paid in the unfortunate event  that 
the policyholder  died early in the policys term. 
He highlighted  that the policy wasnt sold on an advised basis.  So Avivas responsibility had 
been limited to providing information that was clear and not misleading, so Mrs C could 
make an informed decision about the suitability  of the policy  for her needs. 
Our investigator also didnt feel that Aviva had acted  irresponsibly when Mrs C took the 
policy out. Whilst the representatives have  maintained that Mrs C did not have sufficient 
state of mind  when  taking  the policy out, he couldnt see enough evidence  of that or that 
Aviva were  aware at the time. 
The representatives didnt  accept the investigators view. They remained of the opinion  that it 
was unlikely that if Mrs C had understood how the policy might  work she would have taken it 
out. 
The representatives also did provide some evidence  of Mrs Cs dementia but the investigator 
didnt feel there was anything to show  it from the time the policy was taken out. He also 
didnt see anything to suggest that Aviva were aware of this. 
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has been referred  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
I understand the concerns  Mrs Cs representatives have about the policy.  On the face of it 
paying significantly more  into a policy than was paid out feels  unfair  and not a situation     
Mrs C would have been likely to have wanted.  But as the investigator noted, this is the way 
this type of insurance operates. The insurers are on risk from the outset  of the policy  which 
means that even if a small amount of premiums are paid into the policy  the full claim benefit 
would have to be paid out  the opposite of what has happened  in this case
The plan was taken  out after Mrs C responded to a mailing and returned a completed 
application form. Aviva did not advise Mrs C to take the plan out so are therefore not 
responsible for its suitability to her needs  at the time. 
Ref: DRN58768402However, there was a requirement on them in regard to the information it provided to Mrs C. 
Whilst I have seen  a copy of the application  form Mrs C completed,  Aviva isnt able to 
provide me with a copy of the product literature that was then sent to Mrs C. However, they 
have given me a copy of what  these documents would have looked like and made me aware 
that their system  shows they were sent to Mrs C a few days  after receipt of her application 
form. I havent seen  anything to suggest that these werent  sent, or anything  from Mrs C to 
suggest she didnt  receive them.  
I have reviewed the documents and I am satisfied that Mrs C should have been  aware  of the 
key features of the plan as well as the relevant terms and conditions. 
Mrs Cs representatives have also said that Mrs C did not have the capacity  to make a 
decision such as taking  this plan out. They have provided medical evidence  to show a 
dementia diagnosis.  However, this is from some years after the plan was taken out. It would  
also not be fair to hold this against Aviva  if they werent aware  of it. The plan was taken out 
without any face to face meetings and I havent  seen anything  to suggest Aviva  should have 
been aware of any ill health for Mrs C. Aviva have however, agreed to refund all premiums 
paid if Mrs Cs representatives  can show a lack of capacity at the time the plan was taken 
out. Which they havent been  able to do so far. 
So, in all the circumstances  and while I recognise  the representatives will be very 
disappointed, Im unable to conclude that Aviva has acted incorrectly or unreasonably.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 August  2020.
Yoni Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5876840