K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about the interest rate that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Woolwich) 
have charged on his mortgage.  He feels the rate has been unfairly high, and has not varied 
in line with changes  to the Bank of England base rate as hed expected it to. Mr K also 
complains that Woolwich  have not communicated  clearly  with him about changes  to the 
interest rate theyve  charged on his mortgage.
background
Mr K took out an interest-only mortgage  with Woolwich in 1999 with a term of 25 years. 
Whilst the original paperwork is unavailable, both parties have confirmed that Mr Ks 
mortgage was initially on a two-year fixed rate that expired  in 2001. The mortgage has been  
on Woolwichs standard variable rate (SVR) ever since then.
Whilst Mr Ks unhappy with the way the interest  rate has been set across  the life of the 
mortgage, hes made particular reference  to the SVR Woolwich  have charged since 2008,  
and the fact this hasnt  reduced in line with the Bank of England  base rate. 
In January 2008, the SVR Mr K was paying  on his mortgage was 7.64%. It had reduced to 
4.99% in March  2009 following five different reductions across the year.  In September  2016, 
the SVR reduced  again to 4.74%. 
In 2016, Mr K complained to Woolwich about the interest rate hed been charged  on his 
mortgage. He also requested a copy of the original mortgage paperwork. Woolwich  said they 
were unable to provide  a copy of the mortgage  offer from 1999 as it was no longer  available. 
They explained that whilst Mr Ks mortgage  has been on the SVR,  theyve sent him annual 
mortgage statements  showing  the interest rate applicable to his mortgage. They said they 
also sent him revised payment  notices whenever  the interest rate changed, which told him 
what his new contractual  monthly payment would be. They didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr K brought his complaint to our service,  and Woolwich gave us their consent to consider it. 
Mr K said that he didnt receive the letters Woolwich say they sent to him about  the interest 
rate he was paying on the mortgage. He also said he was given  incorrect  information by the 
business about his interest  rate when he queried it. Our investigator looked into things, and 
explained that whilst he felt the terms and conditions of Mr Ks mortgage in relation to the 
interest rate could  have been  clearer, he didnt  think Woolwich had acted unfairly by 
charging the rate that they did. He also said on balance, he thinks  Woolwich did enough to 
keep Mr K informed about the interest  rate he was paying, and there were no contractual  
barriers preventing Mr K from moving  his mortgage elsewhere if he wished to.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators outcome, so the complaints been passed to me to 
issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party have  been able to provide  an actual  copy of the original mortgage offer from 
1999, which would have set out the terms, and formed the basis  of the mortgage contract 
that Mr K originally agreed  to. However,  both parties  have confirmed that the mortgage was 
Ref: DRN56441562on an initial  two-year fixed interest  rate, after which the mortgage would move onto 
Woolwichs SVR, which it did. 
Woolwich have however been able to provide the terms and conditions that would have 
applied to Mr Ks mortgage at the time he took it out. Here it says,  in summary, that the 
lender will charge the rate of interest  reasonably determined by them  to represent its cost of 
funds. Considering this is the only information  Woolwich have provided which shows  what 
Mr K would have agreed to when he took this mortgage out, Im not satisfied Ive got enough 
to show that the way Woolwich  set their interest  rate, in this case their SVR, was explained  
clearly to Mr K when he took the mortgage  out. However, that doesnt necessarily mean the 
interest rate they have charged him has been unfair.
The terms of the mortgage state  that the lender will determine the rate of interest it charges. 
Whilst Mr K has said he feels the rate charged  should have been more reflective of the Bank 
of England base  rate, this is only one factor that can affect the costs  to banks of lending  
money. Mr K also said that whilst he knows the SVR wouldnt track as low as the base rate, 
he would  expect it to fall in line with it over time.  Looking at the history  of the Bank  of 
England base rate, and the SVR that Woolwich have charged on the mortgage, the SVR has 
broadly fallen in line with reductions in the base rate. Whilst I appreciate the percentage 
decrease may not have been  mirrored, as Ive explained, the base rate is only one 
consideration for the bank  when  it decides what interest rates to charge. Looking  at the 
standard variable  rates charged across the industry at the time, Woolwichs SVR was not 
significantly different to those charged  by other similar lenders.
Woolwich have sent us copies of Mr Ks annual mortgage statements they sent him each 
year, and the revised payment notices they sent each time the interest rate changed. I 
appreciate Mr K says he never received any of these documents, but I can see the letters  
were addressed correctly.  In 2016 Mr K requested  Woolwich re-send the letters to him, and 
asked them to change  his correspondence address. But Im satisfied that before this, 
Woolwich were sending  Mr K enough information to be aware of the interest rate they were 
charging on his mortgage.  It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to hold Woolwich  
responsible for the fact that Mr K may not have  received the letters that on balance Im 
persuaded were  sent. 
Since Mr Ks mortgage has been  on the SVR,  there were no Early Repayment Charges 
(ERC) payable if he wanted to redeem the mortgage and go elsewhere if he was able to find a 
more preferable rate with another lender. Mr K has said that moving would have meant 
completing applications and paying fees, and he thought he could trust Woolwich that they 
were treating him fairly. Whilst I understand Mr Ks reasons for wanting to keep his mortgage 
with Woolwich, Im satisfied there was nothing Woolwich had done to prevent Mr K from 
applying for a new rate with them, or moving his mortgage to another lender if hed found a 
better rate elsewhere. 
Mr K has also said the bank gave him wrong information about the interest rate when he 
queried it. He said Woolwich told him his mortgage was on a 25-year fixed rate. Whilst I dont 
dispute that he may have been told this around the time he complained in 2016, theres no 
evidence in the contact notes that confirms this was the case. In any event, Mr K seems to 
have been aware that he was on a variable rate, which was the basis of his complaint in the 
first place  that it hadnt varied as hed expected. Woolwich also re-sent him his mortgage 
statements and information about interest rate changes in 2016 when he did complain, so Im 
satisfied they gave Mr K enough information again when he asked, to know what rate had 
applied to his mortgage.
Ref: DRN56441563I understand Mr K feels hes due a refund of interest that he thinks  hes overpaid  over the 
years, but considering everything, Im not satisfied Woolwich  have charged the interest rate 
on his mortgage  unfairly.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5644156