K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains Coventry Building Society (Coventry) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 2010  alongside a mortgage.
background
Mrs T bought the PPI at the same time she took out her mortgage in a branch. It covered her 
if she lost her job. It didnt cover her if she was off work because of an accident or sickness.
Coventry says this policy was free for an initial three  month period. It then cost her £15.48 
per month and would  have paid her a monthly benefit of £465 for up to 12 months per 
successful claim.
In summary,  Mrs T says she didnt need the policy  as she had other means  which would 
have allowed her to repay  her mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mrs T disagreed with this view 
and asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  . Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
After looking carefully  at all of the evidence in this case, I havent upheld this complaint. Ill 
explain why below. 
Coventry has provided some of the paperwork completed at the time Mrs T took out her 
mortgage in branch. I think there  was a conversation  about  the PPI and I think Mrs T agreed  
to the cover  even if its understandable if Mrs T cant remember  this now. 
In a demands and needs statement Mrs T has stated that she would receive no other 
income in the event  she lost her job. I think she would have been issued with paperwork 
which would have needed to be signed  and returned  to Coventry  if she wanted to go ahead  
with the PPI. And Ive seen a mortgage offer made  to Mrs T. Section 9 of the mortgage offer 
covers insurance and states there  was no requirement to take out the insurance through  
Coventry. The only requirement was to take out buildings insurance. So I dont think Mrs T 
would likely  have thought she had to have  the PPI to get the mortgage.
Coventry has also provided a sample welcome letter.  I think  Mrs T probably would have 
received this type of letter which would likely have enclosed a schedule  of benefits showing 
the level of cover selected and the amount of cover  as well as the premium  payable. It is 
also likely Mrs T would have received annual review statements setting out the level of 
cover. I note Mrs T took out the PPI to cover  her for unemployment only. That indicates  to 
me that Mrs T had a choice about what  type of insurance she wanted to take out. I also think 
shed have had to complete a direct debit  mandate for the cost of the PPI. Looking at all the 
paperwork I think Mrs T had a choice about  taking out the PPI and knew she could decline it 
if she didnt want it - even if its understandable if she doesnt remember  that now after so 
long.
Ref: DRN57034232I think Coventry recommended the PPI to Mrs T. That meant it had to take reasonable steps 
to make sure it was suitable  as well as giving her enough clear information so she could 
decide for herself whether  or not she wanted to take it out.
Taking into account Mrs Ts circumstances, I think this policy  was suitable for her.
Mrs T was eligible  for the PPI and I dont think she would have been affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations to the policy which might have prevented her from making a 
successful claim.
Mrs T says she didnt  need the cover as she had six months full sick pay from work and six 
months half pay if she was off. But Mrs T didnt choose the accident and sickness  cover  so I 
dont think this makes a difference to my decision.  Mrs T has also told us she had savings 
but the PPI would have meant  she could  have used these for other  essential  expenses if she 
lost her job. Mrs T says she was in a secure  job so she didnt need the cover but 
circumstances can change and as her mortgage  was secured over her property, the 
consequences of not being  able to repay it were serious; so I still think  the policy was 
suitable for her and I think it would have been useful if she lost her income.
I also note that Mrs T says she had life and critical illness cover but these types of policies 
are different  to PPI. These  policies  wouldnt  have  paid out if Mrs T lost her job.
Theres nothing which makes me think the PPI was unaffordable.
Its possible not all the information was as clear as it could have been. But it looks  like Mrs T 
chose the PPI - so it looks as if she wanted this type of cover. And for much the same 
reasons as Ive found it was suitable  for her, I dont think clearer  or better  information  would 
have changed  her mind  about buying the policy. 
Overall, I dont  think Mrs T lost out as a result of anything Coventry did wrong and I dont 
uphold this complaint.  Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs T.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5703423