K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple Ill refer to FICL 
as the seller in my decision.
Mr R says FICL mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 1994.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mr R aware the PPI was optional and gain his consent before adding  the 
policy to his card. Mr R has told us he wasnt aware  the policy had been added to the card.
I cant know for certain what was said at the time Mr R applied  for his card and PPI but FICL  
has sent us a copy of the available paperwork.  Mr Rs application form had a separate 
section for PPI where the option to take the policy has been ticked. The form has also been 
signed separately in agreement  with the selections  that were  made  on it. With this in mind I 
think FICL made it clear  that the PPI was optional and Mr R chose to have it.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr R got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But I think he chose  to take out the PPI knowing  the other means he had of making  his 
repayments which included an insurance policy that would have paid a monthly amount. But 
the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Rs other insurance, and allowed him to use 
the other funds towards other expenses he may have had.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Rs circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
Ive thought about everything Mr R has said - including  what hes said about not ticking  the 
option to take PPI on his application  form and that someone else must have ticked the box. 
Ref: DRN58239202But there I dont have enough to say this is what happened so these points dont change my 
decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5823920