K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains about the settlement offered by Amtrust Europe Limited following a claim 
on her furniture warranty policy.
My references below to Amtrust include their agents.
background
Mrs G made  a claim under  her furniture warranty policy for stain  damage to her bed.
Amtrust arranged for a specialist cleaner to attend  to try to remove the stain.  
Mrs G was unhappy it took the cleaner  a week to attend. And she wasnt  satisfied  with the 
result once the cleaning had been  carried out.
She says she had to chase Amtrust  for a reply after she completed a feedback form to say 
the stain hadnt been successfully removed.
Amtrust accepted the cleaning hadnt been  successful and offered Mrs G either a new 
replacement mattress or a cash settlement of £100.  
Mrs G paid over £100 for her five year policy when  she bought her bed. She made  her claim 
less than a year into that five year term. She was unhappy that Amtrust  told her if she 
accepted a replacement mattress, the policy cover for the mattress  would end.
She also says the policy was mis-sold,  because when she took it out, she was told it didnt 
matter how many claims she made.
Shes also concerned  that because the mattress is no longer available, any replacement will 
not be an exact match for the rest of the bed.
Mrs G complained to Amtrust.  They  didnt  uphold the complaint, so Mrs G brought it to us. 
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Amtrust had done anything wrong.
Mrs G disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. She wants  Amtrust to 
replace her mattress but refund her policy premium on a pro rata basis  to reflect the fact she 
only had cover for 221 days.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I should  say weve advised Mrs G that she can make  a separate  complaint about the 
sale of the policy.  Amtrust  are the underwriters  for the policy and are responsible for the way 
claims are handled. They  werent responsible for the sale of the policy. The broker  that sold 
it to Mrs G would  have  to answer any complaints about that.
So, this decision is only about  the way the claim has been handled by Amtrust  and the 
settlement options  offered to Mrs G.
Ref: DRN56542762The relevant  section of Mrs Gs policy says:
If We are unable to remove a stain from, or make a repair to, the Insured Item(s), or 
if We consider it uneconomical to do so, We will, at Our sole discretion, offer You:
a)a new replacement for the Insured Item(s)  of identical  or similar specification, or
b)a credit note to be put towards a new replacement, or
c)a cash  settlement.
So, Mrs Gs policy doesnt guarantee an identical replacement. And because the exact  
mattress is no longer available, its not unfair  or unreasonable for Amtrust to offer a similar 
one.
The terms quoted  above also allow Amtrust to determine how they settle  a claim. So, 
offering Mrs G the option of a replacement or a cash settlement goes beyond what  the terms 
of the policy  require and again  isnt unfair  or unreasonable.  In short,  according  to the terms, 
theyd be entitled  to offer Mrs G any one of the options listed if they chose to do so.
The terms and conditions  also say:
If we provide You with a replacement for the Insured Item(s), a credit  note or a cash 
settlement, this Insurance will terminate.
So, Amtrust make it clear that if they cant repair an item  and they have  to fall back on the 
settlement options  listed above  the policy  comes to an end. And so theyre entitled to 
terminate the cover  for Mrs Gs mattress when they replace it.
Amtrust have agreed that the policy  will continue to apply if the other items it covers   the 
bed frame, for example  are damaged.  I think thats fair and reasonable.
But its also reasonable that they wont replace the mattress again. A warranty  is usually 
different from a typical insurance policy. It doesnt provide continuous cover for a period of 
time, no matter how many  times a claim is made. It covers a particular item or items  and 
replaces that item or those items  once only.
If that wasnt explained to Mrs G when she bought the policy,  then the broker may be at fault 
and we can look at that if she makes  a complaint about them.
The way the policy is intended to work is also reflected at section 1.5 of the terms and 
conditions. This says:
During the period  of this insurance,  the maximum aggregate amount We will pay 
under the terms  of this Insurance shall not exceed  the original purchase price  of the 
Insured Item(s)
As I understand it, Mrs Gs bed cost just over £1,000. The replacement mattress  was priced 
at over £800. So, again, its clear  the policy did not allow for multiple replacements of the 
mattress.
If Mrs G didnt have a reasonable  chance to read the terms and conditions before buying the 
policy and/or  if this provision wasnt brought to her attention, thats again a question  for the 
broker.
Ref: DRN56542763In terms of the time it took the cleaner to attend Mrs Gs property, I dont think this was 
unreasonable in all the circumstances.  And it was in line with the service level agreements 
Amtrust have with their contractors.
I can see Mrs G did have to chase Amtrust after she completed  the feedback form on the 
cleaning and I can understand this would have been frustrating. Amtrust said the feedback 
form was primarily  intended to help improve the service. 
I think Amtrust  might make that clearer, so that customers dont assume their comments will 
be taken as complaints  requiring a response.  But I cant  see that in this case  Mrs G was put 
to any significant  inconvenience or suffered any lengthy delay as a result of the 
misunderstanding.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5654276