K820x#14complaint
Mrs E has complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (trading as First Direct) mis-sold her a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs E took out the PPI in 1995 at the same time as arranging the mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs E disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Es complaint and Ill explain why.
As the sale was so long ago, there is limited documentary evidence  available. This does 
make the complaint more difficult to decide.  In reaching my decision I have looked at the 
evidence that we do have, as well as what I consider  is most  likely to have happened on a 
balance of probability.
Mrs E says she took out her first mortgage  in 1994 and that HSBC says she arranged the 
PPI in a phone call in 1995.  But Mrs E says she didnt call HSBC and doesnt recall any 
phone calls with them (although she had originally told us in her PPI questionnaire that the 
sale was by phone). However HSBCs records show that Mrs E applied  for the mortgage  
over the phone on 17 October 1995  with the mortgage going live on 29 December 1995. It 
was during the phone  call in which Mrs E was arranging the mortgage that she also took out 
the PPI.
From what  we know of HSBCs sales  processes  at the time,  the PPI would have  been  
presented as optional over the phone. Following the phone call, HSBC  would then have sent 
out the mortgage application to be signed.  Although  it no longer has a copy of Mrs Es actual 
application form, it has sent us a sample  of the type of form that was in use at the time. This 
form has a separate  section for PPI and an applicant  would  have needed to sign the 
declaration in that section to confirm that they wished to buy the policy. There was also a 
direct debit mandate that needed to be signed  to enable the monthly premiums to be 
collected. In addition to the mortgage  application form, there was a separate PPI application 
form that Mrs E would have needed to sign and return with the rest of the mortgage papers.
Ive no doubt that Mrs E has provided  her honest recollection of events.  But the sale 
happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if her memory of events has 
faded. Ive thought very carefully about  what Mrs E has said but, on balance, Im unable  to 
conclude that she wasnt given a choice about  taking out the policy. From the available  
evidence, it seems to me that Mrs E probably decided to buy the PPI, knowing that she 
didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
Ref: DRN59035562HSBC didnt advise  Mrs E to buy the policy, so it didnt need  to ensure that it met her needs.  
But it did need to provide  her with enough  information for her to make  an informed decision 
about whether  or not the policy was right for her.
Mrs E says she was in full time employment  and earning a good salary. But the PPI was 
there to cover  her if she was unable to work due to accident, sickness  or unemployment. 
Shes said that her then partner (now husband) would have helped financially, but other 
people cant always be relied  upon as their circumstances can change.
Mrs E says she would  only have received statutory sick pay if shed been  off work ill. She 
also didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back  on. So if shed  been  unable 
to work, I consider shed have quickly come to the point where she couldnt  afford  her 
mortgage repayments. Therefore the policy could have provided a useful benefit at what  
would have been a difficult time.
A mortgage is a significant financial commitment and the consequences of defaulting on a 
mortgage can be serious, so it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs E had an interest in protecting  
her repayments.
Its possible that HSBC  didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mrs E wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I consider that she had an interest  in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont 
consider that further information would  have caused her to change her mind.  So shes no 
worse off as a result of anything HSBC might  have done wrong, so theres nothing  that 
HSBC needs to do to put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5903556