K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L have said Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  mis-sold  them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in December 2018, a copy of which is attached  and forms 
part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I explained why I was intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint. I asked everyone to send me any further comments and information before I 
reached a final decision.
Mr and Mrs L didnt  have with anything further  for me to consider. Nationwide  sent me 
further comments and Ive now had the opportunity to consider them.
my findings
Ive re-considered  all the evidence and arguments already  sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable.
I appreciate Nationwide taking the time to respond  but Ive reached the same conclusion I 
reached in my provisional decision, for the same  reasons.
Nationwide has referred to another ombudsmans decision about a different complaint in its 
response to my provisional  decision. But Im looking that the individual merits of Mr and Mrs 
Ls complaint and Im satisfied that in the particular circumstances of his complaint  it should 
be upheld.
Nationwide has said that Mr and Mrs L would have been told about  the 90 day waiting period 
verbally and that it was made clear in the literature provided.
Ive seen a copy  of the Mortgage Payment Cover  (MPC) leaflet and the policy  document 
from the time. Nationwide  has told us policy  document was sent to Mr and Mrs L after the 
sale. As it was sent after the sale, I cant put the weight on it that Nationwide  would have 
wanted me to. I have  to rely on what  Mr and Mrs L are likely to have  seen at the point of 
sale. 
I dont think the 90 day waiting period was given sufficient prominence  in the MPC leaflet 
and as there are no notes  from the meeting, Im not persuaded that it would have been 
pointed out to them verbally. So I dont  think that the 90 day waiting period was sufficiently  
brought to Mr and Mrs Ls attention when they were sold the policy. 
In this case I think its important because of Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances. On balance,  I 
dont think they would  still have wanted the policy if theyd been  given clearer  information. 
The PPI was intended to give them peace of mind that their mortgage payments would be 
covered if Mr and Mrs L were unable to work.  But with the 90 day wait for any benefit 
entitlement, I didnt  think the policy would have done that as they wouldnt want to fall behind  
on their repayments.
Ref: DRN57924842Ive thought about everything Nationwide has said including  what it has said about how it 
would look to arrange a payment concession for the 90 day period. But Ive not seen  
anything that suggests this is something Mr and Mrs L wouldve  been entitled to or wouldve 
been guaranteed to receive.  So I dont think this is something that could fairly or reasonably 
be said to give Mr and Mrs L enough certainty to change their minds about  the PPI. And I 
still dont think they wouldve  wanted  it for the reasons  Ive already explained.
Ive taken everything Nationwide has said in to account but these points  dont change  my 
decision.
putting things right
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs L in the position  theyd  be in now if they hadnt 
taken out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and 
Nationwide should:
Pay Mr and Mrs L the amount they paid each month  for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they 
get it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs L made a successful  claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take 
off what they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide 
must give Mr and Mrs L a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
Nationwide Building  Society should  do what Ive outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs L have said Nationwide  Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. Whilst the mortgage was in joint names, the PPI only covered 
Mr L.
background
This complaint is about  a monthly premium PPI policy  taken  out with a mortgage in 1993. 
Ref: DRN57924843Our adjudicator said the complaint should not be upheld  but Mr and Mrs L disagreed. Now the 
complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Im currently  intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint and Ill explain  why. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs L, so they didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for them. But they still needed  to give Mr and Mrs L clear, fair and not misleading 
information so they could decide  for themselves whether  the PPI was right for them and their 
circumstances. Nationwide no longer have copies of the paperwork Mr and Mrs L wouldve 
completed at the time which isnt surprising  considering  the sale took place  over 20 years ago.
Mr and Mrs Ls PPI policy  had a deferment period of 90 days, meaning the policy didnt  cover 
Mr L for accident, sickness or unemployment lasting less than 90 consecutive  days.
I think thats a significant  feature of this policy  and something which shouldve  been clearly 
pointed out to Mr and Mrs L. Nationwide has said Mr and Mrs L would have been given a leaflet  
during the sales process. But, even assuming Mr and Mrs L were  given the leaflet, I havent 
seen enough persuasive evidence that the importance of the information in it was drawn to their 
attention. The leaflet does  mention the deferment  period but I dont think  its set out in such a 
way that Mr and Mrs Ls attention  would be drawn  to the relevant information  or that theyd 
realise the significance of it.
So Im not persuaded  that this significant term wouldve been made clear enough to Mr and
Mrs L before they took out the policy.
Ive considered whether  this made a difference to Mr and Mrs L  and in their particular 
circumstances I dont think the policy wouldve  been something they would  still have wanted if 
theyd been given clearer information.
Mr L would  have received  statutory sick pay from his employer at the time if he was too ill to 
work. Since  Mr L was the main earner, I think they would  have found it very difficult to make the 
mortgage repayments for the 90 days with just relying  on the statutory  sick pay and Mrs Ls part 
time income if he was too ill to work  or lost his job.
I think  Mr and Mrs L would have wanted the policy to cover Mr L sooner  than 90 days  after he 
was unable to work. And since they didnt have any savings at the time, I think they would have 
struggled to cope without  Mr Ls income.
Given their circumstances, I dont  think  Mr and Mrs L wouldve  still wanted the PPI if theyd been 
properly told about it. The PPI was meant to give them  peace  of mind  that their mortgage payments 
on their home could be kept up if they couldnt work. But the 90 day deferment period meant that this 
likely wouldnt have been the case if Mr L was unable  to work. If Mr and Mrs L had known this, I dont 
think they wouldve taken  the PPI as it wouldnt  have given them  the peace of mind I think  their 
circumstances suggest  they wouldve wanted.
So, I think Mr and Mrs L have lost out because  of what  Nationwide  did wrong.
putting things right
Ref: DRN57924844Nationwide should put Mr and Mrs L in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken  out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and Nationwide should:
    Pay Mr and Mrs L the amount they paid each month for the PPI
    Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs L made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what  
they got for the claim from the amount  it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide  must 
give Mr and Mrs L a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN5792484