K820x#14complaint
Mrs P and Miss P complain about AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds refusal to pay a claim 
under Mrs Ps private  medical  insurance  policy.
 
background
Mrs P holds a group  private medical  insurance policy  provided  by AXA,  which also covers 
her daughter  Miss P.
Miss P had an impacted tooth which needed  to be exposed surgically, to allow further  
treatment so the tooth  could  descend normally. 
Mr I, on behalf of Mrs P and Miss P, made a claim with AXA for the cost of the oral surgery.  
Mr I didnt claim for the cost of the necessary follow-on orthodontic  work,  as he understands 
this isnt covered  under  Mrs Ps policy. 
AXA said Mrs Ps policy  covers  the surgical removal of impacted teeth, buried teeth and 
buried roots   but Miss P needed a tooth exposed, and this wasnt covered under the policy.  
Unhappy, Mr I complained to AXA before bringing Mrs P and Miss Ps complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think the claim was covered. Mr I didnt 
agree so the case has been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making my decision,  Ive taken into account  the relevant considerations set out under 
the rules that govern our service. This includes  the law, although Im not bound  by the law 
when deciding what I think  is the fair and reasonable outcome to a complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Ps policy say;
Our cover for treating  teeth and dental conditions  depends on whether  you have the 
Extra Care Option or Dentist  and Optician Cashback  Option. If you do not have either 
Option, your membership will not cover dental problems. 
Mrs Ps membership  certificate shows she holds a policy with an added Extra  Care option. 
The Extra  Care option table sets out what claims for oral surgery are covered. This says;
So long as your dentist refers  you, we will pay for: 
reinserting your own teeth after a trauma
surgical removal of impacted teeth, buried teeth and complicated  buried roots
removal of cysts in the jaw..
Removal isnt defined by the policy. So, the question I need to decide  is whether I think  
exposing a tooth  can fairly  be considered as removal.  
Ref: DRN54309042Ive taken into account the comments Mr I has made about the dictionary definition  of 
remove including references to convey to another place and change  situation of. And I 
understand, as Mr I has mentioned, AXA could have chosen  to use the word  extraction 
instead of the word  removal.  
But I think the ordinary  and everyday meaning of the word removal  means to take 
something out. I dont  think  the average  person would reasonably consider the definition of 
this word to extend  to exposing something. Ive also considered the context in which the 
word removal  is used  within Mrs Ps policy, and I dont think the wording of the cover is 
unclear or ambiguous. 
The starting point  under Mrs Ps policy is that dental  problems are not covered. The Extra  
Care option which Mrs P holds provides cover for additional benefits  including a limited 
level of cover for oral surgery  where a tooth  needs  to be reinserted  or removed. Mrs P 
doesnt hold the more  comprehensive Dentist and Optician Cashback  Option, which  covers 
fees paid directly to a registered dentist.
I understand the part of the treatment  being  claimed for is surgical, not orthodontic  and it 
isnt a cosmetic or elective procedure. But I dont think the claim is covered under the terms 
and conditions of the policy Mrs P has with AXA, so I wont be asking  AXA to do anything 
further. 
As a final point, AXA mentioned procedure codes in its final response  letter  to Mrs P. As Mr I 
has correctly pointed  out, procedure codes arent referred to in AXAs terms and conditions. 
But, even  if I thought AXA had applied its procedure codes incorrectly,  it wouldnt make a 
difference to the outcome of this complaint because I dont think  the terms and conditions of 
Mrs Ps policy cover  the oral surgery  which is being claimed for. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P and Miss P 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 January  2020. 
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5430904