K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) didnt offer him a fair value for his car when 
he claimed on his car insurance following a road traffic accident. Mr B has said that the 
amount offered is insufficient to purchase a replacement car.
background
Mr Bs car was damaged beyond economic repair in an accident and Lloyds offered him the 
sum of £6,675  minus £400 excess as a settlement, which it said represented a fair valuation.  
This offer was taken from one of several independently published  trade guides, in this case 
CAP. The valuation was based on the car being  in good condition  and having covered in 
excess of 190,000  miles.
Mr B disputed the offer as he said there were no similar cars available  for sale at less than 
£10,000 and that hed previously insured the car through Lloyds on an agreed value basis  
for that amount. However at the last renewal Mr B hadnt returned the valuation  form and so 
the policy had reverted to a market  value policy.
Mr B says he has since negotiated and bought a replacement car for £9,000  but it isnt to the 
same standard of his old car and he will need  to spend more  money  on it to bring it up to the 
same level.  He has also referred us to adverts  that he says show that a car cant  be 
purchased for the amount Lloyds have offered.  Mr B feels £9,000  would be a fairer  value  
taking into consideration that sale prices are negotiated.
Our investigator thought Lloyds had made a fair offer. Mr B didn't  agree  so the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has explained he had an agreed  value policy for his car in 2016-2017, valued at 
£10,000. Mr B feels its unfair  that this valuation has not been considered  and doesnt  see 
how the insurer can justify  such a drop in value. 
Ive thought about this carefully  and although I understand that Mr B feels its unfair that the 
agreed value isnt being considered, the valuation was for that period only and was 
therefore, only valid at that time. I therefore think it was fair for Lloyds to apply the market 
value policy  that was in force at the time of the accident and loss, and for which was the 
basis of his insurance policy.
When considering  complaints  about  the settlement  of a claim after a motor vehicle has been 
written-off, we usually rely on various  trade-guides. This is because  they are based on 
independent research and give the likely  selling price of the specific  motor vehicle. 
However, there are limitations to the guides, especially when it comes to older vehicles that 
may be considered  classics or attract an enthusiast  following. In this situation it can be 
appropriate to consider  other sources  of evidence as well. This can include testimony  from 
specialists, adverts etc.
Ref: DRN56403162So Ive looked  at Lloyds offer to see how this was obtained. I can see Lloyds got a valuation 
from a guide called  CAP and it says the valuation of the car was £6,675, and this was 
calculated by taking  into account the make, model,  condition and mileage of the car.
I too have looked at the results given  by the various trade guides. Due to the cars age not all 
the trade guides  are now able to offer a valuation. However, I was able to get a valuation 
from one of the trade guides we use called  Cazana - it valued the car at £4,945. This is on 
the assumption that the car is in good  retail condition. 
I also asked CAP to complete a bespoke valuation so I could check if the offer made by 
Lloyds was fair. The result of it was £5,000 a lower valuation than the one Lloyds was able 
to obtain at the time. So based  on this information I think the offer Lloyds has made is fair 
and reasonable.
Ive also taken into consideration  the photographs of the car and the MOT history from 2006 
to 2017 and I can see there is mention  of corrosion since 2015 and an oil leak in 2017 - so 
Im not persuaded the car was anything  more than average condition. Ive also looked at the 
adverts Mr B has provided but comparing the car with a few adverts, online or otherwise, is 
less likely to produce  a fair value  not least because  an advert for a sale only shows  the 
initial advertised price, not the final sale price which can often be lower  following negotiation, 
if the car sold at all. I also didnt find the adverts  Mr B has submitted very persuasive as they 
were not all the same model, condition, age or similar mileage to the car that was written off 
and these differences can significantly  affect  the value. 
In all the circumstances I think  Lloyds has made  a fair offer to settle Mr Bs claim and I wont 
be asking it to do anything  more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 11 July 
2019.
Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5640316