K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that the disturbance allowance and compensation offered to them 
by UIA (Insurance)  Limited  (UIA)  in relation to their home insurance claim is not enough.
Background
In February 2019,  Mr and Mrs Ws shower, which had been fitted as a result of a home 
insurance claim, developed a fault.
A plumber,  appointed by the contractor,  visited their home the following  week and seemed to 
have fixed the problem despite  having  the wrong parts. However,  when Mrs W tried to use 
the shower that weekend, she was unable to turn the shower  off which  resulted in the water  
supply to the house having to be turned off. 
The contractor arranged  for the shower  to be inspected the day after Mr W contacted  them, 
however the plumber arrived  two and a half hours after the agreed  arrival time. This resulted 
in Mr W having to take additional time off work. 
The plumber had to wait for the correct parts before they were able to fit the shower and as 
there was no running water or heating  in their home, Mr W and his family had to stay at a 
relatives house for five nights until the shower  was fixed  and they were able to move  back 
in. 
UIA agreed  to pay a disturbance  allowance of £25 per day (£10 per adult and £5 per child)  
for the days the family  were unable to stay at their property. UIA also offered Mr and Mrs W 
£50 as a gesture of goodwill for the delayed arrival of the plumber. Both offers were declined  
by Mr and Mrs W and they complained  to UIA asking for the amounts to be increased. 
UIA would not increase their offer so Mr W took his complaint to our service.  Our investigator 
thought UIA needed to increase their offer to cover  the cost of the additional distance that 
Mrs W had to travel to work as well as the cost of perishable food that was left behind in the 
house. 
Mr and Mrs W were still unhappy with the amount of compensation, so they asked for their 
case to be passed  to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs W and to UIA on 3 August 2020. In my provisional decision I said:
Mr W didnt  feel that the £25 disturbance allowance was enough to cover  the costs  
his family  had incurred  as a result of having to move out of their home. He told us 
that Mrs Ws journey into work  was longer due to where they were staying and that 
she drove a car which had an MPG below 30. Mr W also told us that they do a 
weekly shop at the weekend and there was perishable food left in the house which 
would have gone off while they were staying at his relatives house.
A disturbance allowance is commonly used in insurance to account for any additional  
financial costs a consumer has had to make as a result of not being in their home. It 
Ref: DRN53911882is designed to compensate for any additional costs caused by not being able to use 
their usual facilities, over and above what a family  would usually incur and is not 
intended to cover normal day to day expenses. 
Ive considered whether the daily disturbance allowance  is fair in this case  and I 
agree with our investigator that an additional payment is required in respect  of the 
perishable food and the extra mileage but otherwise the £25 per day is line with what  
wed expect insurers to pay in the circumstances.
In relation to the perishable food, UIA have agreed  to pay £50 in recognition of the 
inconvenience of the food and drink being wasted  as a result  of Mr Ws family  moving  
out, and I think this is a fair offer so Im not going to require UIA to pay anything more  
in this respect.
UIA have  also agreed to pay the cost of the additional mileage Mrs W covered and I 
am satisfied  that this is a fair proposal. Mr W has told us that Mrs W covered about 
an extra  70 miles. I calculate this to be £31.50 using the expert  industry advice so I 
think this is a fair and reasonable  amount for UIA to pay to cover the additional costs 
incurred by Mrs W.
Mr W said that his family wouldve had to stay in a hotel if a family member hadnt  
lived close enough and had enough  room for them to stay. This is part of the reason 
Mr and Mrs W dont  think the daily disturbance allowance  is enough. 
However, Mr and Mrs W and their family  didnt stay in a hotel and we dont award 
compensation for what might have happened but didnt. So, I think that UIAs offer to 
pay a £25 per day disturbance allowance, in addition to covering the cost of the 
additional mileage  Mrs W had to cover, is a fair and reasonable offer and is line with 
what wed expect insurers to pay in the circumstances.  
UIA also offered  Mr W an additional  £50 as a gesture of good  will for the 
inconvenience caused to him by the plumber being  late on the morning they were 
coming to fix the shower. Mr W said that he had to take a days annual  leave, so he 
didnt think this was a fair amount of compensation for the stress and inconvenience 
that had been caused to him.
Mr W told us that the plumber didn't arrive until 10:30am  yet they said they would be 
there before 8am. I understand  that this delay would  have been frustrating for Mr W 
but I havent seen anything  that makes me think he couldnt have taken just half a 
day off. 
However, I appreciate  what Mr W has said about  having to use his annual leave 
which therefore means he has less time to spend  with his family.  So, I think it would 
be fair and reasonable for UIA to pay Mr W pay £100 in recognition of the 
inconvenience caused as Mr W was put in a position  where he would  have missed  at 
least a half days work  and had to use his annual leave to cover the time he missed. 
Mr and Mrs W and UIA have all accepted my provisional decision.
My findings
Ref: DRN53911883Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As Mr and Mrs W and UIA have all accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
change it.
My final decision  
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that UIA (Insurance) Limited must:
pay £100 to Mr W in recognition of the inconvenience he experienced;
pay the disturbance  allowance  of £25 per day that was previously offered;  
pay £50 to cover the cost of the perishable food and;
pay £31.50  to cover the cost of the additional mileage Mrs W had to undertake to 
travel to work. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 September 2020.
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5391188