K820x#14Complaint
Ms S complains  that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) refused to let her 
reject a faulty car.
Background
In March 2018 Ms S acquired new car costing £23,579 funded  by a deposit of £4,200  and 
the balance by a hire purchase agreement. The agreement was for four years and Ms S 
agreed to monthly  payments of £255.34.  A few months later she had a problem with the 
electronic handbrake and took the car to a main  dealer. It was unable  to replicate the fault.  
She says she continued to have problems and as a result she was nearly involved in two 
accidents. She took the car back several times.
The dealer  changed the bite in the clutch and in January 2019 it made a software update  
which addressed  the fault. Ms S had been  asking to reject the car, but when this was 
considered by BMWFS it concluded  that the fault had ben fixed  and rejection wasnt  
appropriate.
Ms S brought her complaint to this service where  it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended  it be upheld in part. She noted that Ms S was concerned 
that the fault may have  had a knock on effect  and had asked for an additional  years  
warranty which had been refused. However, she took the view that as the fault had been 
repaired there was no basis for rejection. Initially she suggested BMWFS pay Ms S £150  for 
the distress and inconvenience  she had suffered.
Ms S made further representations  about the impact of the problem and our investigator 
suggested BMWFS refund 20% of the payment Ms S had made between April 2018  to 
January 2019  inclusive  and pay her £250  in compensation. The latter took in to account the 
anxiety Ms S had when  driving the car before it was repaired. BMWFS initially  disputed  
compensation of £250 should be paid, but later agreed.
Ms S still felt she should  be allowed to reject the car. She said that more  recently  she had 
problems with a wing mirror and the radio and she no longer had faith in the car. She didnt 
think it right that the car had been  the subject of several software upgrades.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
BMWFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
Ref: DRN59167872The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I can appreciate Ms Ss frustration with the electronic handbrake not working properly and 
the more recent issues, but I dont consider rejection is appropriate. I will explain why.
Under consumer law faulty goods may be rejected within 30 days of purchase. If the 
consumer has a fault which they bring  to the attention of the seller  with six months the seller  
is entitled to a right to repair. In this case the fault wasnt  brought to the attention of the 
dealer or BMWFS until 30 days had elapsed  and this means there  is a right of repair. I am 
aware that the main dealer changed  the bite in the clutch, but I dont regard this as a repair. 
However it did install a software upgrade which I gather has resolved the fault.
It is not unusual  for modern cars to have software  upgrades and that it itself doesnt indicate 
it was faulty at the point of sale. Nor do I think that the wing mirror and radio  issues which  
arose some 18 months after purchase can be said to be inherent  faults.
As such I dont consider  Ms S is entitled to reject  the car. That said,  I agree she has suffered 
the inconvenience of having  to take it back on numerous occasions and she had to wait 
several months for the problem to be resolved. She also had the worry of car with an 
unreliable handbrake and two near misses. For that she is entitled to compensation. 
I would add that I dont consider it necessary for the warranty to be extended in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct BMW Financial Services  (GB) 
Limited to:
Refund 20% of the payments made  from April 2018 to January 2019 (inclusive) to 
Ms S and
pay £250 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5916787