K820x#14complaint
Miss W says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
Santander merged  with the business that Miss W dealt with originally when taking out this 
PPI and it is responsible  for dealing with the complaint. So to keep  things simpler, Ill just 
refer to Santander as the seller in my decision.  
background
Miss W took out a PPI policy to protect her monthly repayments  when she was arranging  a 
mortgage. She paid a monthly amount for the policy after it was set up in October  2003.   
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.
Miss W mainly says that she wasnt told PPI was optional  and she felt pushed  into agreeing 
to take it out as she was worried she might not get the mortgage without it. Miss W says she 
didnt need this insurance. And she doesnt feel Santander  has provided adequate 
justification to show that this policy  was sold to her fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ws case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ws complaint.  Ill explain my reasons.
Santander sold the PPI to Miss W during  a meeting in one of its branches.  
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Miss W to remember exactly what was discussed  when 
she took out the policy as this was so long ago. This means  that what  she says isnt enough 
on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint about how she was sold the PPI. I have  
to decide what  I think is most likely given the available information and the wider 
circumstances.
As this sale took place  in 2003,  its not unusual that Santander no longer  has all the records  
or paperwork from the sale. I appreciate that its frustrating for Miss W that theres only 
limited information from the actual  sale to show how she took out the PPI. But Im able to 
rely on information that this service knows about how Santander  normally  sold these  types of 
policies and the processes people typically went through  to get PPI around this time. 
Ive also seen Miss Ws signed mortgage application   theres nothing there that wouldve  
suggested to her that she had to have PPI to get the mortgage she was applying  for. Miss W 
had to fill in a separate application  form in order to have it added  on to her mortgage. 
Miss Ws mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Her home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage  payments  werent kept up to date and she 
alone was the person responsible for making the monthly repayments  in full and on time. 
Ref: DRN52253712PPI provided a dependable  means  of ensuring her repayments were protected  even if she 
couldnt work. So, I can see why Miss W mightve  felt PPI was useful.  
On balance, I think its more likely  that Miss W decided that she wanted to have the benefits 
and security of having PPI and she chose to buy the policy to protect her home  knowing it 
was up to her to say if she wanted it. 
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Miss W and it seems to have been right for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances. 
Ive taken into account Miss Ws comments, including what shes said about her sick pay 
entitlement through work  and the other  ways she told us she couldve paid her mortgage. 
But the policy wouldve  paid out on top of sick pay and covered her mortgage repayments for 
up to 12 months per claim if Miss W was too sick to return to work. Bearing  in mind that 
Miss W mightve  had some extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled  I think this 
mightve been something she couldve  found helpful.  
The policy wouldve also paid out if Miss W lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work.  
Relying on someone  else to help out in the event  of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  Miss W couldve 
made repeated claims on the policy, giving her long term cover for her mortgage. This 
couldve been a useful benefit in what wouldve  been difficult circumstances  for Miss W if 
shed needed  to make  a claim. So I think PPI was suitable for her. 
Its possible Santander didnt point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. But Miss W 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those. So I dont think  its likely this wouldve 
made any difference to her decision to take out the PPI.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Miss W when she took it out. But, as she 
chose to take out this insurance  when  she didnt have  to, it appears she was happy to pay to 
have the PPI at the time. And it doesnt look like paying for it caused  her any money 
problems.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Miss W still wouldve decided to buy the policy even  if shed been  better  informed as it 
gave her useful protection in her particular  situation.  
Ive thought about everything Miss W has said in response to the adjudicators  view.  For the 
reasons Ive set out, these points dont  change my decision.
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss W because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss W about  that. Because  Santander didnt tell 
Miss W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN52253713my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss W.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Miss W any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2019.  
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5225371