K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains on behalf of his business,  H, a hotel,  that in respect  of a commercial 
insurance escape of water claim Allianz Insurance Plc delayed in dealing  with snagging 
issues and that its contractors damaged glass in a door.
background
In November 2015 Mr C raised a claim to Allianz  following  a water leak. But because  he had 
tenants he didnt  want to proceed until they left. He was advised in April 2016 by Allianz  not 
to leave the work as the damage would get worse. The work began  in May 2016, drying 
works being completed by August. The repair work  had to be fitted in around bookings,  but it 
was essentially completed by March 2017.  Mr C advised in June 2017 that there were  still 
some snagging  works to be completed. These  took a long time to be completed  as Allianz 
found it difficult getting in touch with the contractor. The snagging works were completed 
around about August 2018. But Mr C said there were  still two issues  which hadnt been 
resolved  movement  to a picture rail and paint splashes on the etched glass in a door.
Allianz agreed that there had been  delays and a lack of communication and to pay 
compensation of £200. In respect  of the picture  rail, it said that it wasnt removed but that as 
a joint was on a part of the wall that was bowing,  it might have opened  slightly.  But it didnt 
propose to do anything about that. So far as I can see Mr C didnt raise the issue  again. In 
respect of the glass in the door, it agreed  to the contractors coming back  to clean it. But after 
several attempts  although  the paint was removed there were still marks on the glass. The 
contractors insisted that they had used water-based paint so the solvent would have 
removed it. Allianz concluded  that this must have been pre-existing damage.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Allianz  had acted reasonably. He 
didnt think there was enough  evidence  to say the paint marks werent there  previously.
Mr C didnt agree and asked for proof  of the type of paint used. The contractors were able to 
show they had purchased  a water-based paint for the woodwork and said they had used 
ordinary emulsion on the walls and ceiling. Mr C thought that Allianz should be able to show  
that the method used to remove  the paint was effective even on water-based paints. He also 
thought the amount of compensation was too low.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two issues remaining  the glass in the door and the amount of compensation.
With regard to the glass, I have to decide whether it is most likely that the remaining staining 
was pre-existing or was caused  by the contractors.  If theres not enough  evidence  to decide 
either way Im afraid  I wont be able to uphold the complaint.
Mr C says the contractors were prepared to clean the glass  and didnt mention anything 
about pre-existing stains until they found  out it was etched glass  rather than a film on the 
glass. He also believes Allianz should  provide detail about the type of solvent  used and that 
Ref: DRN54787902it would  clean off water-based paints. He has shown  us a video of him using white  spirit type 
solvent on a patch  of woodwork painted by the contractors. It doesnt  remove  any of it.
So far as the type of paint  used  the contractors have  shown they bought  a satinwood paint 
for the woodwork, which is water based. They say they used ordinary emulsion  for the walls  
and ceiling. I dont  think they need to prove that  it seems to me to be very unlikely that 
anything other than (water-based) emulsion would be used.
As far as any responsibility is concerned I think the contractors agree that there were some 
paint spots which they have cleaned  off. They dispute that they are liable for the remaining 
staining as they say that the paint would have come  off the glass, and this was only evident 
after the cleaning  was attempted. I dont think Mr Cs video  proves anything   I wouldnt 
expect the paint to come  off woodwork unless it was with very strong solvent. But it does 
seem feasible for small splashes to be removable from glass, especially  if the paint had 
recently been applied.  
Mr C denies there was any staining there before though there arent any photos to show this.  
There are limitations on what an investigation by this service can achieve.  If there  are expert  
reports we will consider  them but we dont carry out forensic investigations. Bearing that in 
mind I dont think there is sufficient evidence  to show one way or the other  that the remaining 
staining on the glass was caused  by Allianzs contractors. So unfortunately I cant uphold 
this particular complaint.
With regard to the compensation, I bear in mind that this is a business. The policyholder  is 
Mr C trading as H. A lot of the work  had to be done around the various bookings. The same 
applied to the snagging works.  But Mr C had to do a lot of chasing. However the hotel was 
able to continue  without the business  being affected. So although  it caused  Mr C some  
inconvenience that was in relation to the business  rather than it affecting him personally as 
he doesnt live on the premises.  I think the compensation paid is fair and reasonable. And in 
line with awards we have made in other similar cases.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5478790