K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a home purchase plan that Mr C and Mrs A hold with Al Rayan Bank 
PLC. Theyre unhappy that delays with arranging a new deal meant they were  charged rent 
at a higher rate temporarily. Al Rayan  has agreed to refund  them the rent overcharge  and 
pay compensation for their time and trouble; Mr C and Mrs A believe  they should  be 
refunded their product fee as well.
background 
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than has been  presented,  
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide,  and if I dont mention something, it wont  be because  Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt  think it was material to the outcome  of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which have  little or no impact  on the broader  outcome. 
Mr C and Mrs As rate deal was due to end in October 2018.  They  asked for a new product 
at 3.24%,  but due to administrative delays on Al Rayans part, the product switch  didnt take 
place on time, and Mr C and Mrs A found themselves being charged  rent at the standard  
variable rate (SVR). When they complained,  Al Rayan apologised,  agreed to refund the 
amount theyd been overcharged, and offered them £120 compensation for their time and 
trouble.
When the case came to us, our investigator  didnt agree  with Mr C and Mrs As view that 
they should be compensated at Mr Cs hourly rate. But he did think  the compensation should 
be higher; he recommended £200 in all, which  Al Rayan agreed. Mr C and Mrs A asked for 
their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They believe they should be refunded  the 
product fee of £199.
my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. Were impartial,  
and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  
our investigations  and reach our conclusions without interference  from anyone else. Ive 
considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is simpler than its been  made  to look. Its not one where  I have to decide 
fault; Al Rayans admitted mis-handing the product switch.  All I need to decide  is what  
redress Mr C and Mrs A are fairly  due.
Its right that Al Rayan  should  make  good the financial loss Mr C and Mrs A suffered  from 
being charged rent on SVR; thats  been assessed at £531.11,  and Al Rayan has agreed to 
pay it. Its also right that it should  pay compensation for non-financial loss; that is, for the 
Ref: DRN53490852time, trouble and upset Mr C and Mrs A were  put to before things were put right.  The 
investigator assessed that at £200 and in all the circumstances, I think thats fair.
As far as the product fee is concerned, I dont  find theres a case  for that to be refunded.  Its 
not a fee for a service;  its part of the price  of the product Mr C and Mrs A requested, and 
ultimately received.  The product was received late, but the rent rebate and compensation 
take care of that.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. In full 
and final settlement, I direct Al Rayan Bank PLC, if it hasnt already done so, to refund the 
accumulated rental overcharge of £531.11, back-dated  to the relevant dates the individual 
overcharges were paid.  I also order Al Rayan Bank  PLC to pay Mr C and Mrs A 
compensation totalling £200, taking account  of any sum already paid, if appropriate.
I make  no other order or award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means  Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5349085