K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited has not settled his claim under 
his home  insurance  policy for items stolen from his motorhome.
background
In early October 2017, Mr Ws motorhome was burgled and a number of items were  stolen.  
In his first call to Lloyds, Mr W said he realised what had happened  after spotting  one of the 
motorhomes windows was open  whilst  it was parked on the street outside his home.
Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster to look into Mr Ws claim. The loss adjuster inspected and 
took photos of the motorhome including its door and the window Mr W thought was used to 
get into it. The loss adjuster  then got Mr W to sign a witness statement which  said I didnt 
notice any damage  to the window and dont know how they got in, they must have left 
through the door,  you dont need  a key you can just unlock  it from the inside. And in 
November 2017,  Mr W told Lloyds loss adjuster  he had a photograph that showed one of 
the motorhomes  windows  was fractured.  
In January 2018, Mr Ws claim had still not been settled so he complained  to Lloyds  about  
the way it was being handled. He said Lloyds incorrectly recorded his motorhome as being 
for sale. He also said hed replaced a generator that was stolen from the motorhome as 
Lloyds told him it would be covered under his policy.
Lloyds offered Mr W £50 to apologise  for incorrectly recording the motorhome as being for 
sale. But it rejected  Mr Ws claim for items stolen from the motorhome. Mr W reiterated the 
window was damaged and complained the loss adjuster hadnt walked around his 
motorhome or inspected  it properly. Lloyds said its loss adjuster walked around  the 
motorhome and took photographs, which showed no damage  to it  and Mr W signed  a 
statement of truth to that effect. 
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. He sent a photograph, which showed a fracture 
on the window  he says was used to gain entry to the motorhome. Mr W also sent a photo to 
the ombudsman  service which he says shows the lock on the motorhomes door was 
damaged, possibly from an attempt to get into the motorhome  that way.
In April 2018, Lloyds  decided not to offer renewal of Mr Ws annual  policy  after it expired. It 
also explained in more detail why it had rejected  Mr Ws claim. Lloyds relied  on an exclusion 
to the cover  for theft. That exclusion meant that theft claims would not be covered if access 
had not been gained  to the motorhome using force and violence. Lloyds didnt think force 
and violence  were  used  to gain entry to Mr Ws motorhome. 
Lloyds said it thinks force and violence is normally evidenced by damage,  such  as a 
smashed window or evidence of a door being  broken.  Lloyds says the photographs  its loss 
adjuster took after the incident  confirm no force and violence  was used to break into the 
motorhome. 
Lloyds went on to reiterate that when Mr W first called to report the incident,  he said he 
noticed the window on the motorhome looked  open and questioned whether he had left it 
open. Lloyds said:
Ref: DRN53046152such windows each  have multiple  handles, all handles need to be released before 
the window can be opened, to keep  a window open there are mechanisms each side 
that twist and hold the window open  and in place, if these are not in place the window  
will fall back  flat against the wall of the motorhome. When the windows are closed 
correctly the handles fit into a grove and become locked in place. If the handles were  
locked in the grove it would be very difficult to prize open it open without marking  the 
motorhome or window.  As the customer was looking at the motorhome from an 
elevated position  I would  expect the window to have a wide opening rather than just 
left unlocked and resting on the wall of the motorhome.
After initially recommending Mr Ws complaint be upheld, our investigator reached  the 
opinion that Lloyds decision to decline Mr Ws claim  was a reasonable one as there  was no 
evidence violence was used to gain entry to the motorhome. Mr W disagreed. He reiterated 
there was evidence of damage,  including  scratches  to the lock on the motorhome door and a 
fracture to the window.  
This complaint was referred to me to review.  I asked Lloyds to review the photo Mr W sent 
us, which  shows the fracture. Lloyds subsequently wrote to Mr W on 22 January 2019. It 
said it thought  Mr W had provided  false information to the Financial Ombudsman Service  in 
order to gain a more favourable outcome and claim for something that otherwise would not 
have been considered. Lloyds went on to say your home insurance  policy  will be cancelled  
back to 28th March  2018, the date of the fraudulent act, and we will retain any premiums  you 
have paid.
Mr W complained  about the contents of Lloyds letter. He said the photo wasnt intended to 
mislead; the fracture wasnt  apparent  at the time but had got worse since. Lloyds reviewed 
Mr Ws complaint  and responded on 1 February 2019. In it, Lloyds clarified it decided not to 
offer renewal  of Mr Ws policy in April 2018  due to Mr Ws change in risk, including  building  
works being undertaken to the insured address.
However, Lloyds said it hadnt  followed its processes when  cancelling Mr Ws policy under 
the fraud conditions of his cover. To apologise, Lloyds said it would  pay Mr W £200 
compensation. It also confirmed it hadnt  recorded any information  on any databases  to 
show Mr Ws policy was cancelled due to the fraud  conditions of his policy.  
Lloyds wrote to Mr W again on 18 February 2019. It clarified its decision not to offer renewal 
of Mr Ws policy in April 2018 was because  he was deemed to be a moral hazard to insure . 
Lloyds underwriters took this decision due to Mr Ws behaviour during a visit with one of its 
contractors for a separate claim. 
Lloyds accepted the reasons given  in its letter of 1 February 2019 for its decision not to offer 
renewal of Mr Ws policy in April 2018 were  incorrect. To apologise, Lloyds said it would 
send him a cheque  for £50. 
Lloyds consented  to us considering Mr Ws complaint  about  Lloyds decision to cancel his 
contents insurance policy, and the subsequent  reasons it gave for deciding not to offer 
renewal of his policy  in April 2018, as part of this complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision on 2 May 2019, in which I explained why I didnt think  Lloyds 
decision to decline Mr Ws claim was a reasonable one. Lloyds acknowledged  it made an 
error in cancelling Mr Ws policy for fraud and admitted its letter  of 1 February 2019 didnt 
explain things correctly.  Lloyds also offered  Mr W compensation for its mistake  in saying 
Ref: DRN53046153Mr Ws motorhome  was for sale. My provisional  decision explained why I thought  the 
compensation Lloyds offered for these errors was fair. 
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision, but Mr W disagreed.  Ive listened to Mr Ws 
conversation with one of my colleagues, in which he explained why he disagreed with my 
decision. Ive also reviewed the accompanying information Mr W has sent in. Ive 
summarised Mr Ws comments as follows:
He didnt leave  the caravan window or door open  Lloyds has lied and misconstrued  
his comments.
He thinks the thieves got in through the window,  not the door.
He didnt say there  was no damage  to the motorhome  there was a fracture to the 
window, but it wasnt visible  on the photographs taken. When  he signed the loss 
adjusters statement,  he hadnt had a chance  to inspect the motorhome.
The loss adjustor didnt inspect the motorhome. This is proved by Lloyds incorrectly 
describing how his motorhome  window opened; his motorhome  window opens  with a 
twist system.
Hes seen evidence on online forums that its very easy  to use a thin implement  to 
open the motorhome window.
He thinks the requirement for violence to have been used  in order for this claim to be 
successful is ludicrous.
He did lose out by having to replace his generator.
Mr W disputes Lloyds version of events when a contractor  attended  his property, 
which led to Lloyds  deeming him a moral hazard to insure.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws claim for items  stolen from his motorhome
The terms of Mr Ws policy  set out what is and isnt covered for personal belongings away  
from the home. The policy defines home  as Mr Ws house, which was his insured address, 
and its outbuildings. As Mr Ws motorhome was on a public street  and not on his private  
property, Im satisfied this is the relevant  section  of Mr Ws policy to consider. It says:
What we dont cover
Theft or attempted theft of personal  belongings from unattended  vehicles, 
caravans or motor  homes,  where:
There was no force and violence used to get into the vehicle, caravan or 
motor home; and
The item was not hidden from view in a locked  box, luggage or glove 
compartment.
I know Mr W thinks the exclusion from his theft cover is force and violence isnt used is 
ludicrous, but these  are the terms of his policy. 
The question for me is whether force and violence could have been used to access  the 
motorhome  so that the exclusion  would  not apply and Mr Ws claim would be covered  
without damage from that force and violence being  apparent on inspection.  
Ref: DRN53046154Mr W says its likely the thieves got into his motorhome through the window mentioned 
above, and hes clear he didnt leave the motorhome window (or door)  open. Lloyds has said 
there was no damage caused to the window  and Mr W signed a statement to confirm there 
was no damage to the window at the time of the loss adjusters inspection. Mr W says there 
was indeed damage to the window, but it wasnt  visible in the loss adjusters photograph.   
Lloyds says that if the window Mr W thinks the thieves used to enter the motorhome was 
closed correctly, it would be very difficult to prise it open without marking the motorhome  or 
window. Even if Lloyds was wrong  about how the window opens, Mr Ws explanation of how 
his window opens doesnt change  anything.  I say this because,  having reviewed the 
photographs of the motorhome window, I still agree with Lloyds its likely some damage 
would have been caused to the window (and would have been apparent)  if force and 
violence had been used to prise it open.
I remain of the view the photographs taken  by the loss adjuster after the incident show  no 
evidence of damage. Ive reviewed the witness statement Mr W signed on 20 October 2017. 
It says I didnt notice any damage  to the window.  The statement goes on to say the loss 
adjuster has read this statement to me and I have been offered the opportunity to make 
amendments, deletions and additions. I confirm  that this statement is true and accurate to 
the best of my knowledge. I have digitally  signed  this statement.
Mr W says he hadnt  had a chance to inspect  the motorhome window and Lloyds didnt do a 
proper inspection  but it remains he signed  a statement to confirm he hadnt  noticed any 
damage to the window,  and the statement says Mr W was given the opportunity  to amend  or 
add to the statement.
Ive considered the photo Mr W sent to our service, which  shows a fracture to the window 
and appears to have  been  taken in March 2018   over five months  after the break  in. Mr W 
has clarified it shows a fracture that wasnt visible on the photographs taken in 
October 2017, and the fracture  has since got worse. But it remains  that there was no visible  
damage in the photographs taken by Lloyds loss adjuster in October  2017,  and I cant 
establish what has caused the crack that is now visible. On balance, I dont think this 
damage was caused during the burglary.
For the reasons  explained above, I agree its likely some damage  would have  been  caused 
to the window if force and violence had been  used to prise it open  and this damage would 
have been visible in order to evidence the force and violence. Mr W has provided evidence 
from online forums, which he says show an implement could have been used to open the 
window easily, and without damage. But Mr W hasnt provided  any other evidence to make 
me think an implement was used to get into the motorhome window. And as Ive explained 
above, I dont  think any damage was caused. Im therefore satisfied its reasonable for 
Lloyds to conclude  there was no force and violence  used  to get into the motor home through 
one of its windows.  As there is an exclusion to the cover for theft if force  and violence isnt 
used, it follows that Im satisfied Lloyds  has acted reasonably and applied the policy  terms in 
order to decline the claim.  
Mr W also suggested its possible the thieves  tried to get into the motorhome through the 
door, and says the photographs show damage to it. Whilst Mr W thought it was most  likely 
the thieves got in through the window, Ive reconsidered this point for the sake of 
completeness. Ive reviewed the picture  the loss adjuster  took of the motorhomes door. 
Lloyds say there was no evidence  of damage to the door or its lock, apart from a few 
Ref: DRN53046155scratches. And nothing  Ive seen makes me think it was forced or its locks  broken to allow 
the thieves to gain entry to the motorhome. I dont think any scratches shown in the photo Mr 
W has provided  were  part of force and violence used to gain entry to the motorhome. I think 
these are likely to be from general  usage  and wear and tear. 
Therefore, I think Lloyds has done enough to show there is no evidence  of forcible and 
violent entry to - or exit from - Mr Ws motorhome  and the exclusion to cover  applies. As a 
result, I think Lloyds decision to decline Mr Ws claim was a reasonable one, and it follows 
that I dont  think the items stolen in the October  2017 incident are covered under his policy
I note Mr W has suggested  he only replaced  his generator with a similar one because he 
was led to believe his claim  would be met. Mr W says he lost out as a result. Ive not seen 
any evidence to suggest Lloyds or the loss adjuster  ever led him to believe this. I also think 
its likely  that if Lloyds  told Mr W his generator wouldnt be replaced as part of his claim, he 
would still have bought another one  as it needed  replacing  so hes not lost out as a result  
of Lloyds raising his expectations here.  
Lloyds mistake saying  Mr Ws motorhome was for sale
Lloyds offered Mr W £50 for incorrectly saying  his motorhome was up for sale when it 
wasnt. I cant see this mistake  has had a significant  impact on Mr W, and its unrelated to 
the reason his claim was declined. With that in mind, I think  Lloyds offer of £50 for this error 
is fair.
Lloyds decision to cancel  Mr Ws policy for fraud
Lloyds says it didnt  follow its processes  when  cancelling Mr Ws policy. I think its offer of 
£200 compensation is fair, bearing  in mind it quickly reversed its decision and no adverse 
information was recorded  with Lloyds or on any external database. 
Lloyds decision not to offer renewal of Mr Ws policy in April 2018
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr W reiterated he disputes  Lloyds  claims about  his 
behaviour during a visit with one of its contractors, which Lloyds referred to in its letter of 18 
February 2019. Whilst I understand obtaining  cover elsewhere could cost Mr W more, it is for 
Lloyds to decide who it does and doesnt offer cover to, and I dont think its appropriate  for 
me to interfere with Lloyds decision. 
Lloyds should  have given Mr W an accurate  explanation about why it decided not to offer 
renewal of his policy  in April 2018 when Lloyds  wrote to him on 18 February  2019.  I think 
Lloyds offer of £50 compensation  fairly  reflects the inconvenience caused,  given Mr W 
already knew Lloyds hadnt offered to renew his policy. 
my final decision
I think Lloyds General Insurance Limiteds  decision to decline Mr Ws claim is reasonable for 
the reasons outlined above. And I think the total of £300 compensation paid for its poor 
customer service  is fair. So I wont be asking Lloyds General  Insurance Limited to do 
anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Ref: DRN53046156Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5304615