K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Gain Credit  LLC,  trading as Lending  Stream, didnt notify him it had assigned a 
debt to a third party. He says this matter caused him stress  because he had to deal with the 
third party without prior knowledge  of their involvement.
background
Mr C took out a loan with Lending Stream in April 2013. The loan went  into default  and was 
ultimately sold to a third party. The third party  took action to recover the debt,  which resulted 
in a county court judgement being awarded  in favour  of the third party  in 2018.
Our adjudicator considered Mr Cs complaint and didnt think it should  be upheld.  She 
thought Lending Stream did tell Mr C the debt had been assigned  to a third party.  Mr C didnt 
agree  he said Lending Stream had never  provided  him with this proof,  even though hed 
made a subject access request. As Mr C didnt  accept the adjudicators  view,  the complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
Ill start by saying Ive seen clear evidence that Mr C was correctly  notified by 
Lending Stream on 4 July 2013 that his loan was in default. That letter asked Mr C to take 
action to remedy the default and set out the actions Lending Stream  could take if the breach 
wasnt remedied. Those actions included transferring the debt to a third party.
Lending Stream has shown  this service an audit trail, which indicates a letter was sent to 
Mr C on 23 August 2013 confirming that the debt had been passed  to a third party.  Ive also 
seen a note of a telephone call, dated  4 September 2013, suggesting Mr C called 
Lending Stream and was informed at that time the debt had been  assigned to another 
business. The note says the call was transferred to that business.
I have noted there is a discrepancy with the letter Ive mentioned above. The letter  says that 
the debt was assigned to a different third party than the business to which the debt was 
actually assigned. This may have been an administrative  error,  but it does mean that the 
letter is not good evidence that Lending  Stream did actually inform  Mr C of who now owned 
the debt. It does however, together with the call note, still suggest that Mr C would have 
been aware Lending Stream  was passing his debt to someone else and that he would no 
longer be dealing with Lending Stream.
Ref: DRN57132312So I dont  think Mr C has lost out because of any potential administrative error by 
Lending Stream. I think, from all the evidence Ive seen,  he was aware that his debt was in 
default  and that it was a possibility the debt could be assigned to another business. And 
I think its likely he knew  at the very least as a result of the phone call of 4 September  2013 
 that this had in fact happened. The third party also informed  Mr C directly that the debt had 
been assigned  to it by Lending Stream, an action I think  Mr C ought  to reasonably  have 
expected.
Overall, I am unable to conclude that Mr C was unaware Lending  Stream assigned his debt 
to a third party. And if there were any administrative errors, I dont think  these caused  Mr C 
to lose out financially.  It doesnt seem  Mr C took any action to remedy  the default when 
Lending Stream still owned the debt,  or after it was assigned to a third party.  I cant  conclude 
that Mr C wouldve done anything differently had Lending Stream  communicated the sale of 
the debt more clearly.  I think its also worth  noting that Mr C raised the issue  of debt 
assignment in court  but that it was still decided he owned the third party the money  claimed. 
This suggests the court was not persuaded the debt had been  wrongly  assigned  to the third 
party.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint against Gain  Credit LLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5713231