K821x#15complaint
Mr P and Mrs P complain  about Nationwide Building  Societys processes for overseas 
transfers.
background
Mr P and Mrs P wanted to transfer money  from their Nationwide  account  to an account  
overseas. Theyd  made a payment the previous  year to the same  recipient.  But this time the 
transfer failed.  Mr P and Mrs P had to pay for a second transfer.  And they lost money 
because of the different exchange  rates used for the second payment.
Mr P and Mrs P said the process had taken  about  two weeks but no one from Nationwide  
had been in touch to say there was a problem. So theyd like Nationwide to redesign the 
SWIFT transfer request form and improve its staff training. And theyd like a refund of the 
additional costs  theyve incurred.
 
Nationwide said itd looked at the previous  payment in August 2017  which  had been 
accepted. And it could  see a different account  number had been entered  in August 2018.  
Nationwide said its staff had shown the details  to Mr P to make  sure they were correct. And 
hed signed the form to say they were.
Nationwide said the form was standard across all its branches. But it would feedback Mr Ps 
concerns about  the small print. Nationwide apologised that Mr P hadnt  been given more 
information when  the first payment had been failed. But it could see hed spoken to its 
contact centre whod given him the details.  Nationwide  said it hadnt made any mistakes with 
the payment.  But itd credited Mr P and Mrs Ps account with £25 compensation for any 
inconvenience. And it refunded the transfer fee and their costs for the trip to the branch.
Mr P and Mrs P werent satisfied with Nationwides response.  So they contacted  our service 
and our adjudicator  looked into the matter.  She could see Mr P was adamant he hadnt been 
told the IBAN code had failed its verification. And she felt Mr P wasnt  given sufficient 
explanation about what was needed to complete his foreign transaction correctly.  All the 
necessary information  had been  available. So she felt Nationwide should pay Mr P an 
additional £100 for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Nationwide didnt agree.  The transfer  form made  it clear that failure to supply  the correct  
information might result  in the payment being  rejected.  And Mr P had accepted  the risk 
highlighted to him by both the member of staff and the signed form. So its asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide are sure it explained to Mr P that it couldnt validate the account number hed 
provided. And it was up to the customer to decide if he wanted to proceed.  It says Mr P had 
been insistent  he was happy  to continue.  And hed signed both the declaration  and the 
account number  details to confirm they were correct.  So Nationwide doesnt feel it made any 
mistakes.
Ref: DRN54929772Mr P is adamant Nationwide  didnt explain that itd tried and failed to validate the IBAN  
number. Or what that actually meant.  Hed provided  the same information  the previous year. 
And he felt under pressure at the counter of a small branch  with a large queue behind  him.
I accept Mr P couldve asked for more  time and a different location to try and complete the 
transaction. But Mr P had provided the member of staff with all the necessary information to 
complete the transaction. Hed provided the same  details a year earlier  at a different branch. 
So I think he was entitled to expect the same result when he asked to make  another 
payment.
The payment instructions  show Mr P signed  to accept  the details were  correct. And I can see 
he also provided an extra signature next to the account number. So its likely the member of 
staff wanted Mr P to confirm his acceptance  in case there was a problem.
But Mr P was paying Nationwide for a service. And hed been able to make  a successful 
transfer through Nationwide  a year earlier using exactly the same information.  So I dont 
think its unreasonable for Mr P to have  asked for the payment to continue. Hed had no 
difficulty with the same  account details in a different branch. And he expected Nationwide  to 
have a greater  understanding  of the processes  involved in transferring money overseas.
Based on everything  Ive seen I think Mr P signed  to accept the details on the transfer  
request because he was sure that Nationwide would be able to process  it successfully. It 
had done so with the same details the year before. So it mustve been quite upsetting for 
Mr P and Mrs P when the transfer failed and he had to ask what had happened so his 
payment could be recovered and resent.
Mr P has provided some  feedback on Nationwides transfer processes. He feels they could 
be improved to help both staff and customers.  I cant tell Nationwide  how to run its business 
- thats the role of its regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. But Im sure it takes  note of 
the outcome of all the complaints it receives to see if it can improve  things.
I can see that Nationwide has refunded  the transfer fee and covered the cost of his visit to 
the branch. And its also paid Mr P and Mrs P £25 compensation  for any frustration caused. 
But I agree  with our adjudicator that it doesnt go quite far enough. I think an additional £100 
would be fair and appropriate  in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society  should pay Mr P and Mrs P 
£100 compensation in addition to the £56.70  its already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 November  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5492977