K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains about the amount Ageas Insurance Limited recorded for the cost of her 
home insurance claims on a claims database  and that her insurance  premiums have 
increased as a result. 
background
Mrs D reported two claims to Ageas in 2017.  The first occurred in August 2017 when her 
neighbours garden flooded following a period of heavy rain and the water  ingressed into 
Mrs Ds house damaging both the building itself and some contents. The second occurred in 
September 2017 following  an escape  of water  from an underground pipe which  damaged the 
hallway. 
Ageas accepted both claims and appointed two different drying companies. Mrs D wasnt  
happy with certain  aspects of the service  Ageas provided or with some of the conflicting 
information she received from Ageas contractors. The drying company responsible for 
drying the house after the second  claim  reported  to Ageas that part of the house  couldnt be 
dried due to an inherent damp issue. Further tests were carried  out during  which  time the 
repairs were put on hold. 
It was discovered that the damage  to the underground pipe was the responsibility of Mrs Ds 
utility company. Ageas arranged a meeting was arranged with the utility  company but it failed 
to attend at the agreed time and it had to be rearranged.  Mrs D said to Ageas she was 
unhappy about the lack of communication between the parties.
A contractor  appointed  by Ageas laid the flooring in one of the rooms  incorrectly  and an 
attempt to re-do it was made but it still wasnt done  to a satisfactory standard.  And there was 
damage caused by the contractor to Mrs Ds fireplace and plaster removed from the wrong  
wall for drying. 
Mrs D complained to Ageas. It looked into her complaint and issued its final response letter 
in December 2017. It said the claim  had taken a considerable amount of time to progress but 
some of the delays Mrs D experienced were outside  its control.  But it accepted  that there 
were issues  that arose with the claim that were within its control whichd caused Mrs D a 
certain amount  of inconvenience. For the avoidable distress and inconvenience  Ageas poor 
claims handling had had on Mrs D it initially offered  her compensation of £200 which it later 
increased to £300.  
Mrs D accepted the compensation offered along  with a cash settlement for the outstanding 
works associated with both claims. 
About 18 months  later, in May 2019,  Mrs D complained to this service that she had been 
trying to renew her home insurance  policy but had been unable  to because £20,000 of 
claims costs were recorded against her name. She said this wasnt fair because the damage 
was caused by her neighbours  and because Ageas poor workmanship had increased  the 
overall costs of the claim. Having  obtained a breakdown of the claim costs through  her 
broker, Mrs D said she wanted Ageas to accept that some of them were its fault and that 
some of them were too high. Mrs D hoped  the cost of renewing her home insurance would 
decrease.  
Ref: DRN58062322As the complaint was referred to this service  more than six months after Ageas issued its 
final response letter, our investigator asked  if it consented to us looking at the complaint; 
Ageas agreed  that we could. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ds complaint but didnt  recommend that it was upheld. As 
Mrs D disagreed with our investigators findings,  the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that the water damage to Mrs Ds home will have  caused  her a significant  
amount of distress and inconvenience. Where an insurer though, through  its words  or 
actions, makes an already  stressful situation  worse, then this service  can require it to pay a 
consumer some compensation. 
I can see that on both claims Ageas caused  Mrs D some avoidable trouble and upset. There  
were issues  with poor communication, the standard of workmanship and flooring having to 
be re-laid as a result. And even then, the quality of the installation wasnt  of the required 
standard. The claims also took a while to resolve and it wasnt until almost Christmas  2017 
that a cash settlement for any outstanding repairs was agreed  between Ageas and Mrs D. 
All of this caused  Mrs D understandable  frustration and upset. 
But I can see that Ageas has acknowledged the shortcomings in the service  it, and its 
contractors, provided to Mrs D and that it paid her compensation of £300  in 
acknowledgement of this in December 2017. When deciding what fair compensation looks 
like I have to have  regard  to this services  general  approach to such awards. And, having  
done so, I think  that compensation of £300  fairly reflects the level of avoidable trouble and 
upset Ageas caused Mrs D (as described  above) so Im not going  to make it pay anymore. 
Indeed, if this case had passed  across my desk without any award  of compensation having 
been made by Ageas  then its unlikely  Id have awarded any more.  
I appreciate that there were mistakes  made  by Ageas with Mrs Ds claim and that she feels  
they unfairly increased the claim costs logged against her on the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE) database. Mrs D feels,  in turn, that this has adversely impacted her annual 
home insurance premium  so she wants Ageas  to take responsibility for some  of the costs 
and remove them. 
I can understand why Mrs D thinks it unfair that her insurance premiums have been affected  
by things that werent her fault and that shes struggled since the claims (and their 
associated costs) to find affordable insurance.  But insurers all have their own view about  the 
risks they are being asked to take on and how much they need to charge to do so. 
There are a variety of factors insurers take into account when calculating  risk. These  include 
factors directly related to a customer  like their claims history.  There  are likely  to be a 
number of claims related  factors any insurer will assess when setting annual premiums.  
These will include the number of claims made, when they were made, whether they were 
fault claims,  what the costs associated with the claim were etc. These  arent the only factors 
insurers take into account though  there are normally many others some of which arent 
directly related to the individual policyholder - like the number of claims in the area a 
Ref: DRN58062323customer lives. Insurers constantly  review these factors and they can lead to increases or 
decreases in the premiums they charge. How they gather,  analyse  and assess  this 
information is up to each insurer and isnt something this service  is able to interfere with.
Unfortunately for Mrs D, she had two significant  water damage claims within  a short  space of 
time which will have impacted her insurance premiums. Ageas is required to accurately 
record on CUE the number of claims its policyholders make.  And its required to record  the 
associated cost of those claims. Insurers then use this information  to carry out checks  to 
assist them  in working out the risk of a customer making a claim and the cost it wishes  to 
charge them  for covering that risk. All insurers log claims and their costs in this way so I 
cant say that Ageas  was wrong to have done  so. 
I can see that Ageas did try and recover its expenditure  for the underground  drain  claim from 
the utility company but didnt pursue the matter after it was advised by its legal  team the 
chances of successful recovery  were slim. Obviously if that recovery had been successful 
then the costs associated with that claim wouldve been lowered. That Ageas was unable to 
do so unfortunately  means the costs  associated with that claim remain  unavoidably logged 
against Mrs Ds name.  
I know that Mrs Ds broker  provided  her with quite  a detailed breakdown of the costs 
associated with both claims. And I note that she considers some of the costs  to be 
excessive. But the role of this service isnt to handle  claims. Im unable to undertake an 
assessment of whether the amounts  Ageas were  charged (and which  ended  up forming part 
of the claim costs) were excessive or not. I can only look at whether Ageas unfairly or 
unreasonably registered the claims and their costs  on CUE and, for the reasons Ive given, I 
dont think it did.
Ive seen some of the invoices Ageas received  from its contractors for some of the works 
and services provided. I can see that the invoiced amounts mirror what  the broker  told Mrs D 
had been charged for certain  aspects  of her claims. I think that if Ageas is invoiced for 
certain fees then it not unreasonably included them in the costs  logged on CUE. 
So I dont  think Ageas has treated Mrs D unfairly or unreasonably by logging the claims and 
their associated costs on CUE.  For the reasons Ive set out above, making a claim will 
invariably impact subsequent renewal  premiums and whilst  I sympathise with Mrs D, I cant 
reasonably ask Ageas to reduce the claim costs associated with the claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5806232