K820x#14complaint
Mr U complained about three instalment  loans  he took out with MYJAR Limited  (Myjar).  
background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr U and Myjar had told us about these loans. 
Overall, he thought that the checks Myjar had carried out before giving Mr U the loans were 
proportionate. Taking  into account the loan amounts,  what was apparent about Mr Us 
circumstances at the time and his history with the lender, our adjudicator didn't think it 
wouldve been proportionate to ask him for the amount  of information needed to show  the 
lending was unsustainable. So he didnt uphold Mr Us complaint. 
Mr U disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
Mr U said that complaints hed had about other payday loans that he took around this time 
for similar amounts were ruled in his favour.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach  to help me decide this complaint.
Myjar provided Mr U with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So Myjar needed to 
make sure that it didnt  provide them irresponsibly. 
Myjar was required to carry out proportionate  checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Mr U before providing  it. Our website sets out what  we typically  
think about when  deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we 
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers  and what  it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed  to do more  if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount  lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship  goes  on, the greater  the risk of it becoming  
unsustainable and the borrower  experiencing financial  difficulty.  So wed expect  a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Us 
complaint. Heres why I say this.
Mr U took out a first instalment loan for £100  in May 2017.  The loan was to be repaid over a 
period of around three months with a monthly  repayment of about £52. 
After he repaid loan 1 early, he took out loan 2 the next day  this time for £200, also due to 
be repaid by three monthly repayments  of around £103. He took out a third loan for £350 in 
June 2017, within a couple  of days of early repayment on loan 2  this time the loan was due 
to be paid in six monthly  instalments of about  £106.
Ref: DRN59420332I understand that Mr U has repaid all these loans. 
Myjar says it agreed to Mr Us application  after carrying out eligibility, creditworthiness  and 
affordability checks. And it relied  on information Mr U provided about his monthly  income 
and expenditure  as well as information obtained from credit reference agencies.  It says the 
information Mr U provided showed  that repaying  the balances  wouldnt become difficult for 
him - and in these  circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr U and Myjar have said. 
loan 1
I dont think Myjar was wrong to lend Mr U loan 1. This was his first loan with Myjar  and so 
I think Myjar was entitled to rely on the information Mr U provided. This suggested that he 
was well able to afford this borrowing. There wasnt anything else shown in the checks Myjar 
did that suggested otherwise. Given the loan amount, what  was apparent about his 
circumstances at the time and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate 
to ask Mr U for the amount of information needed to show  the lending  was unsustainable.
At this early stage, Mr U didn't have any track record with the lender that shouldve  alerted 
Myjar to any underlying money problems, and I cant see that there  was anything in the 
information Mr U provided or the information  Myjar shouldve been aware of, which meant  
that Myjar shouldve  taken steps to verify  the information Mr U had declared. So I dont  
uphold Mr Us complaint  about loan 1.
loan 2
I can see that Mr U took out the second loan very soon after paying  loan 1  and it was for 
twice the amount. But I dont think that was enough to make  Myjar think that it shouldnt have 
kept lending to Mr U. Myjar asked Mr U to update the information  he provided about  his 
finances each  time he applied  for a new loan and the loan repayments still looked to be 
affordable for Mr U. There was no material change  in his financial  circumstances.  And I note 
that loans 1 and 2 were paid early  so there  wasnt  anything to indicate to Myjar that Mr U 
was finding it hard to manage the loan repayments. So I dont feel I've seen enough to be 
able to uphold  Mr Us complaint about  loan 2.
loan 3
The third loan was for quite a lot more money  Ive thought  carefully about the fact that 
within just a month or so Mr U was asking for more than three times the amount  hed first 
borrowed from Myjar. 
I think this was potentially  an early warning sign that what  Mr U had told Myjar about his 
financial circumstances might not be the whole  story. Its something  that I think  Myjar 
wouldve needed to take into account  if and when Mr U applied  for his next loan. But at this 
stage, it wasnt a sufficient reason to my mind  for Myjar  to decline this loan application. 
Mr U hadnt shown any signs that he was finding  it hard to pay for his borrowing and the 
figures hed declared,  and the information  Myjar had collected, seem to support Myjars 
lending decision  loan 3 appeared to be affordable for Mr U on the available information. 
Ref: DRN59420333Looked at overall, bearing in mind the amount of the total monthly repayments he had to 
make for each of his loans, the questions  Myjar asked Mr U and that these were  Mr Us first 
three loans,  I dont think it was unreasonable for Myjar to rely on the level of information 
Mr U was providing.
Im sorry  that Mr U found repaying  these loans difficult. Mr U has offered to send in his bank 
statements to show me what his actual circumstances were. And I accept that in reality 
Mr Us financial  situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided,  
or the other information Myjar says it obtained. 
But its reasonable to expect that Myjar couldve only decided Mr Us lending  applications  
based on the information it had available at the time.  And, at this stage of the lending 
relationship, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Myjar to ask Mr U to prove 
what he was declaring or check  other information  sources to verify  what  he had told them (or 
omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. So I dont feel I need to see Mr Us bank 
statements as this wouldnt make  any difference to the outcome of this complaint.
In order to uphold  this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something  wrong.  And, 
in this case, I dont  think that Myjar did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr U. 
Ive taken into account what Mr U said about the way his other complaints have been dealt 
with. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive looked at the circumstances that 
apply in this particular case and what happened on other cases  doesnt  change my 
conclusion here.   
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome that Mr U has been hoping for  but I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done  will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Us complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5942033