K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Curo Transatlantic Limited  trading as WageDayAdvance (WDA)  lent 
him money  that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr G took out 12 loans with WDA  between November 2012 and August 2015. 
Mr G wants WDA to refund the interest and charges  that hes paid and remove any negative 
information about the loans from his credit file.
Before this service became involved, WDA offered  to refund the interest and charges that it 
had applied  to loans four and five. 
WDA said it carried  out adequate affordability checks before  agreeing  the loans. WDA says 
Mr G declared  his monthly income  to be £2,700 with outgoings  that varied between £1,200 
and £1,690. Based on this, Mr G had more than enough disposable monthly income to afford  
to repay  most of the loans.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Gs complaint be upheld in part. The adjudicator  
didnt think that WDA carried out enough checks before agreeing  any of the loans. This was 
because although  WDA gave us some  expenditure information, the adjudicator  couldnt tell 
what loans the information related to.
The adjudicator thought  if WDA had asked about  Mr G about his income before agreeing  
loan one and then about his living costs and regular outgoings before loan two, both loans 
wouldve still appeared affordable for Mr G.
The adjudicator thought  that by the time Mr G took out loan three,  his regular credit 
commitments had increased to more  than £2,700. The adjudicator thought  that if WDA had 
taken these in to account along with Mr Gs living costs, loan three wouldnt  have  appeared 
affordable.
By loans  six and seven,  the adjudicator thought  that WDA shouldve  been carrying out 
comprehensive checks to make sure that Mr G could  afford  to repay  both loans. And that if 
WDA had done this, it wouldve seen that Mr G didnt have enough disposable income for 
either loan.
There was then a gap of two years  between Mr G repaying loan seven and taking out loan 
eight. The adjudicator thought it was reasonable to treat this as a new chain  of lending. The 
adjudicator thought that if WDA had asked about Mr Gs income and expenditure, loan eight 
wouldve appeared affordable.
The adjudicator thought  that WDA shouldve been trying to independently  verify  Mr Gs 
financial information by the time he asked for loan nine. And that if WDA had done this, it 
wouldve discovered that loans nine to 12 werent  affordable for Mr G.
The adjudicator asked WDA to refund  all interest and charges that it had applied to loans 
three to seven and nine to 12 and pay interest  on the refund. The adjudicator  asked WDA to 
remove any negative information  about the relevant  loans from Mr Gs credit  file.
Ref: DRN57143742WDA accepts some but not all of the adjudicators  recommendations. WDA has offered to 
put things right for loans nine to 12 as well as loans four and five. 
WDA doesnt agree  to pay compensation in relation to loans six and seven.  WDA says that it 
carried out a fresh affordability assessment before these loans and the amounts that Mr G 
borrowed went down.
Mr G isnt willing to accept  this offer so the complaint has come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint in part along the lines recommended by the adjudicator.
WDA was required  to lend responsibly.  It needed  to make checks  to see whether Mr G could 
afford to pay back each loan before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be proportionate 
to things such as the amount Mr G was borrowing, how much  he had to repay,  the length of 
the agreements  and his borrowing history. But there  was no set list of checks WDA had to 
do.
WDA has given us evidence that it asked Mr G for details of his net monthly  income and 
monthly expenditure before agreeing some  but not all of the loans.
loans four, five and nine to 12
WDA has already agreed to put things right for these loans. As these loans dont appear to 
be in dispute,  I dont consider that I need to say anything more  about them.
loans one and two
Since the adjudicator issued his recommendation, WDA has confirmed the dates on which  
Mr G entered his income and expenditure. 
WDA recorded Mr Gs monthly income to be £2,700 a couple of weeks before it agreed loan 
one. I consider it was reasonable  to rely on this information so I cant  find that WDA was 
wrong to agree loan one.
I cant see any corresponding income and expenditure entry for loan two that Mr G took out 
in February 2013.  The second loan was for double the amount of the first. I agree with the 
adjudicator that it wouldve been  reasonable to expect WDA to ask about  Mr Gs monthly 
outgoings, including any regular financial commitments before agreeing to lend.
As the adjudicator has already explained, even if WDA had done  this, its likely that loan two 
wouldve still appeared affordable. So I dont require WDA to do anything about loan two.
Ref: DRN57143743loan three
When Mr G applied for loan three,  WDA  could see a new pattern of short  term borrowing. I 
think a proportionate check shouldve involved WDA asking Mr G about  his income, living  
costs and regular  financial commitments.  From  the evidence that WDA has given to us, I 
cant see that it recorded this information  before agreeing loan three.
Mr G had a number of financial commitments  including a mortgage,  credit card payments 
and large utility bills. Mr G was due to pay these at the same time as WDA expected  him to 
repay loan three. Mr G wasnt left without  enough  disposable income from which  to repay 
loan three.  With better checks, I think its likely that WDA wouldve discovered this and not 
agreed to lend.
loans six to seven
I appreciate that WDA  says it carried out affordability assessments before agreeing both 
these loans but it doesnt change my decision to uphold Mr Gs complaint  about loans six 
and seven.
By the time that Mr G asked for these loans, hed been borrowing from WDA on a regular 
basis. I think WDA shouldve been  carrying out a comprehensive check  of Mr Gs finances  
before agreeing to lend. 
I think it was proportionate to expect WDA  to independently verify the information that Mr G 
gave. WDA couldve done this in a variety of ways  such as asking to see bills or bank 
statements. As Mr G has given us copies of his bank statements, Ive used  these to see 
what WDA  wouldve seen  had it carried out better checks.
Around the time of loan six in August 2013, Mr G had regular and short term financial 
commitments totalling more than £3,000. By the time that Mr G borrowed again in 
September 2013, his financial commitments  had increased to more than £3,250. This meant 
that Mr G didnt have  any disposable income to be able to afford his everyday outgoings 
without borrowing further. I dont think this was sustainable. 
As a responsible lender  I wouldnt  have  expected  WDA to agree to lend loans six and seven 
had it discovered the true extent of Mr Gs financial  commitments.
loan eight
WDA has given us details of the dates on which it recorded Mr Gs income and outgoings. It 
appears that Mr G told WDA that his net monthly  income was £2,700  with outgoings  of under 
£1,500 at the time that he asked for loan eight.
Given the amount  of time that had passed between Mr G repaying loan seven and taking out 
loan eight, I consider  it was fair of WDA  to this loan as the start of a new chain of lending.
In the absence of any evidence to the contrary,  it was reasonable of WDA to assume  that  
Mr Gs financial  situation had improved  since he last asked it for money. I also cant  say that 
WDA missed  any obvious signs that Mr G might  be reliant on short  term lending.
I think that WDAs checks went far enough before agreeing loan eight.  Based  on the 
information it had, it was reasonable to agree to lend Mr G £400.
Ref: DRN57143744Overall, I dont  think WDA shouldve agreed to lend to Mr G as often as it did. Mr G has lost 
out so its fair that Mr G pay him more  compensation than it has offered so far.
putting things right
To put things right, WDA  should:
refund  all interest and charges that Mr G paid on loans three  to seven  and nine to 12
pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
date of settlement;  and
remove any negative information  about the above loans from Mr Gs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WDA  to take off tax from this interest. WDA must give    
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Curo  Transatlantic Limited trading 
as Wage Day Advance to put things  right by doing  as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5714374