K821x#15complaint
Mrs F is unhappy  that Legal & General Insurance Limited wont  fully settle  a claim made  
following a burglary at her home. 
background
Mrs F has her home insurance through L&G. She went on holiday in December 2017  and on 
her return  discovered she had been  burgled. Mrs F had a lot of jewellery and other items 
stolen. L&G appointed a loss adjuster who agreed the jewellery and a number of other items 
should be settled.  £20,000 was paid for the jewellery  as the upper  limit under the policy,  
even though the jewellery was worth  far more.  During this Mrs F complained  about  the 
delays and promised  call backs  not being  made and £150 compensation was paid.  
L&G didnt fully settle the claim  as Mrs F hadnt  been able to provide evidence of ownership 
of a Macbook  Pro, which had been bought with cash and never used. It also declined  to 
settle the claim for Snap  On tools that belonged to her son and the claim for a camera lens 
as no evidence had been provided  of ownership  and all three items had been added  to the 
claim some time after the initial claim was made.  Mrs F complained  but L&G stood by its 
decision to decline settlement for those items.  But did offer a further  £100  for how the claim 
had been progressed, which Mrs F accepted. Not happy with the outcome Mrs F asked us to 
look into the matter.
Our investigator didnt  think L&G had done  anything wrong as Mrs F hadnt  validated her 
claim. Mrs F asked for the matter to be referred  to an ombudsman.  She is also unhappy that 
her jewellery  wasnt fully covered and is making  a separate complaint  about that through the 
seller of the policy. 
The matter  has been referred to me for a decision. On reviewing the file I had noted Mrs F 
had sent pictures  of the lens case and a manual  for the lens to L&G after she had referred 
the matter here but before L&G sent us its file. I asked to see that evidence  and for L&Gs  
comments about why that evidence wasnt sufficient. It has now agreed to make  payment for 
the lens to Mrs F.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs Fs policy does  provide cover for the loss of items, which would include theft.  And so the 
Macbook Pro and tools claimed for are potentially covered. But the policy  does place certain 
obligations on the policyholder when a claim has been made.  The policy  says:
If we ask, you need to give us any evidence to support your claim,  such  as estimates, 
photographs or invoices. W will confirm  exactly what we need. 
As the policyholder it is for Mrs F to show she has a valid claim under the policy  - this is a 
general principle of insurance.  As she is claiming for items being  stolen, she would need to 
show ownership of the items  that is, its for her to validate her claim. 
I appreciate that when  items have been  owned for a number of years,  it might not always be 
possible to provide receipts from so long ago. But I do need  to bear in mind that the 
Ref: DRN50296652Macbook Pro and the tools werent  initially claimed  for. While I understand it might not 
always be apparent  straight away what is missing  following a burglary, I would expect an 
inventory to be done when the insurer asks for a list of items stolen.
Mrs F explains the Macbook Pro was brought abroad and with cash. She said the receipts  
for it were in the box the laptop was in when it was stolen. I understand it had been bought in 
2017 and never been  used. Its quite odd for such an item to be bought and not used. And 
this all means there is no evidence of Mrs F owning a Macbook Pro. Likewise, I understand 
there is little evidence of the existence Snap On tools, which Mrs F has valued  at £3,800, 
other than her testimony.  That is a substantial sum for tools, and Im surprised there  are no 
receipts at all for any of the tools,  even if they had been  bought  over a number of years. 
Because there is no persuasive evidence of Mrs F owning a Macbook Pro, or of her sons  
tools Im afraid I dont think she has done  enough  to validate this part of her claim. And so I 
dont find L&G declining to make settlement unfair.  
However, as a result of our involvement,  Im pleased L&G has now agreed  to settle the claim 
for the camera lens. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I require Legal & General  Insurance  Limited to make 
settlement to Mrs F for the camera lens, if it hasnt  already done so. It should  add 8% simple 
interest per annum from the date of loss to the date of settlement.   I dont require it to make 
any further settlement.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5029665