K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Coventry  Building Society  is holding him liable for and wont  refund a 
number of transfers from his Individual Savings Account, or ISA. 
background
Mr M has had an ISA with the building  society  since May 2017.  When  he opened the 
account he made his account with Nationwide Building Society his nominated account; the 
effect of that was that any transfers from the ISA were  made  to that account,  although  
payments into the account could be made from other accounts.   
Between April 2018 and March 2019  five payments were made from Mr Ms ISA. The first 
went to the nominated account with Nationwide. The remainder were made to an account 
with Halifax, after the nominated account was changed in June  2018.  Mr M says he doesnt 
have an account  with Halifax and didnt have  such  an account  at the time. 
When Mr M contacted Coventry  Building  Society about the transfers, it looked into them.  Its 
records indicated that the payment to the Nationwide account had been made by telephone.  
The caller  had wanted to make  a payment to a Halifax  account,  but was told that wouldnt be 
possible. Of the other four payments,  two were made in branch and two were  made  online.  
The building society was satisfied  that the branch  transfers were made following correct  
identification checks and that the online payments  would have required someone to use Mr 
Ms online banking details  to gain access to the ISA. 
The building society also contacted Halifax about  the nominated account to which payments 
had been made. It said that Halifax had confirmed that the account was in Mr Ms name and 
that it was active.  It also said that a payment had been made from that account to the ISA in 
October 2017. The building society wasnt persuaded that the transfers had been made 
without Mr Ms authority and refused to reimburse  them. 
Mr M complained to this service and one of our investigators considered  what  he and 
Coventry Building Society had said. On balance, he thought however that Mr M had 
authorised the payments from the ISA to accounts in his name. He didnt recommend that 
the building  society  make any refunds. Mr M didnt accept his conclusions  and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.             
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator  did, and for similar reasons.
Mr M does  not appear to dispute that the nominated account was originally  his own account  
with Nationwide. The disputed  transfer  to that account was made by telephone. The voice on 
the call is similar to Mr Ms, and the building societys records  indicate that it was made from 
the number Mr M gave this service.  The caller was able to answer security questions. Initially 
the caller asked for a transfer  to an account  with Halifax,  but agreed to a transfer to the 
nominated account  with Nationwide. The caller must therefore have been confident that they 
would be able to access the Nationwide account.  
Mr M has said he lost his phone at about the same time, although theres  little corroborating 
evidence of that. But in any event, the first transfer was made to an account in Mr Ms name 
Ref: DRN55999642and which  he acknowledges was his. The transfer to that account didnt therefore cause Mr 
M any financial loss, since he still had control  of the funds. If he lost money, it was because  
that money was transferred or withdrawn from his Nationwide account, not because 
Coventry Building Society agreed to transfer money  to it. 
The remaining  transfers were made  to an account  with Halifax. Mr M says he didnt have a 
Halifax account, but the building  society contacted  Halifax,  which said that the account was 
in his name. I note as well that a transfer  of £500  had been made to the ISA from the same  
Halifax account in October 2017. Its most  unlikely  that anyone other than Mr M would have 
made that payment to Mr M and then later arranged transfers to the Halifax account. I note 
as well that the building society wrote to Mr M in June 2018  to tell him that the Halifax  
account had been made  the nominated account.    
Im not persuaded that the Halifax account was anyone  elses. It appears that it was linked to 
Mr M (and to his ISA) many months before the transfers hes disputing.  If a fraudster was 
able to access his Nationwide  account, it seems  most unlikely that they would then change  
the nominated  account. As with the Nationwide account, then,  Mr M didnt lose out when 
money was transferred to that account   even if it was later transferred  from it. 
I note too what Mr M has said about losing  his phone. As Ive indicated,  theres  little 
evidence to support  what hes said about  that. But in any event, I think  it unlikely that 
someone who stole or found  his phone would be able to obtain enough information from it to 
enable them to access his account  and make  transfers by telephone, in branch and online.   
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that Mr M didnt  arrange the transfers  or authorise  
someone else to do so. Nor did they cause him any loss. It wouldnt therefore  be fair to 
require the building society to refund him. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Coventry  Building Society to do anything  more to 
resolve Mr Ms complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5599964