K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that Everyday Loans  Limited didnt register  the correct  date of default on his 
loan account.
background
Mr O took out a loan for £2,000 with Everyday Loans in April 2012. The loan was repayable 
over 24 months. At the start of the loan Mr Os monthly contractual payments were  £178.71. 
Everyday Loans  told us that Mr O made the required monthly payments until October 2012 
but he entered into a debt management plan (DMP)  in early 2013.  At this point his payments 
were reduced to £38.42 per month.
Due to lack of payments,  Everyday Loans issued  a notice of default  in April 2017. But Mr O 
thinks the default should have been applied in 2012 - when he entered into his DMP.
Mr O also complains that the loan was mis-sold  because it wasnt  affordable  to him. In 
relation to this part of his complaint, our investigator  explained  that Everyday Loans had 
issued a separate final response about  this in which it explained that his complaint was out 
of time. Our investigator explained  that if Mr O remained unhappy, he should  raise a 
separate complaint with our service.
Our investigator therefore explained that theyd only deal with Mr Os complaint  about 
whether or not Everyday Loans had applied the default correctly.
Mr O complained to Everyday Loans  about the date of the default but it didnt uphold his 
complaint. It said that after he entered into his DMP he continued to make  his lower monthly 
repayments until March  2015 but he also made  overpayments. This meant  his account was 
in credit and the credit  needed to be run down before his account showed  any arrears. It 
said it correctly defaulted his account  in April 2017 because  this is when his account had six 
months of arrears.
Mr O remained  unhappy so he referred his complaint  to our service.  Our investigator thought 
Mr Os complaint should be upheld. They noted  that the information provided  by Everyday 
Loans showed Mr O stopped making  payments in April 2015 so they thought the default 
should have been applied  in July 2015  because by this time Mr O hadnt made payments 
for three months and this was in line with guidance  from the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO).
Our investigator didnt  agree that the default should  have been  recorded in 2012. Thats 
because Mr O continued to make reduced  monthly  payments  until March 2015  so it wouldnt 
have been reasonable  for Everyday Loans  to apply  a default to his account in 2012 when he 
was still making payments.
Mr O disagrees  with the investigators view. He says Everyday Loans shouldnt  have made  
the loan available to him because it wasnt affordable. He provided  details to us of his 
financial commitments  at the time he entered into his DMP. He also explained that he 
entered into his DMP within four months of taking out his loan with Everyday Loans  so he 
says this shows the loan was unaffordable  and shouldnt have been made.
Ref: DRN57713842my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
conclusion reached  by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
I thank Mr O for his further comments but these appear to relate only to Mr Os concerns that 
the loan was mis-sold  at the time. I can see that the investigator has already explained to 
Mr O that hed need to make a separate complaint to our service about this issue  and Im not 
aware he has done so. This means  that, for the purposes of this complaint, I will only 
consider whether or not Everyday Loans correctly recorded the date of default.
Ive taken into account ICO guidance about the recording of defaults. This says that when a 
consumer is at least three months behind with their payments  then a default may be 
registered. And it would  expect a default  to be registered  by the time a consumer is six 
months behind with their payments. Generally we take a similar view to the ICO but we also 
consider what is fair based on the individual  circumstances.
The ICO guidance also explains that where  a DMP is agreed, a default should not normally  
be recorded unless  the terms of the arrangement are broken.  When  Mr O entered into his 
DMP reduced monthly payments of £38.42 were agreed and he continued to make 
payments until March 2015. As he continued  to make payments until March 2015  I cant  
fairly ask Everyday Loans to back date the date of default to the end of 2012.
Everyday Loans  has provided information to show that when Mr O entered  into his DMP he 
also made overpayments.  I dont  have any reason to doubt this resulted in his account being  
in credit and Everyday Loans explained  that it wasnt until April 2017  that the credit  that had 
built up had run down  and he was six months  in arrears.
On balance I dont  think its fair and reasonable that the default wasnt recorded  until April 
2017. I say this because although Mr Os account was in credit due to the overpayments 
hed made,  I can see that he stopped making payments from March  2015 so its from this 
point that I think its fair to say he broke the terms of his payment arrangement  even though  
his account may have  been in credit.
So I agree with the investigator that a fair and reasonable outcome is to ask Everyday Loans 
to contact the credit reference agencies and back date the default date to July 2015, 
because by this time Mr O hadnt made  payments for three months - and this is in line with 
ICO guidance.
I dont recommend the payment of any compensation  to Mr O because from the information 
Ive seen about his financial circumstances at the time I think its more likely than not that 
adverse data had already been recorded  at credit  reference agencies,  so Im unable to say 
its had a significant impact on him.
I realise this isnt the outcome Mr O was hoping for but it brings  to an end what we - as an 
informal dispute resolution service - can do, to resolve  his complaint.
Ref: DRN57713843my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I direct Everyday Loans Limited to 
contact the credit reference agencies and amend the date of default from April 2017 to July 
2015.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5771384