K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard)  mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr R bought the policy in 2002 at the same  time as taking out an Egg credit card online. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive concluded  that Mr Rs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below: 
 Ive seen a screen print of the part of the online  credit  card application process where  
PPI wouldve been offered  to Mr R. This shows that he wouldve had to choose 
whether he wanted PPI or not before he could continue with his application. 
Barclaycards record  of the application  data shows that Mr R selected the PPI. So I 
think Barclaycard made him aware that the PPI was optional  and that he chose to take 
it.
 Mr R says he didnt need  the PPI because  he was entitled to sick pay from his 
employer. But Barclaycard didnt recommend the policy to Mr R so it didnt have to 
check if he needed it or whether it was suitable  for him. 
But even if Barclaycard had recommended the policy to Mr R, it doesnt  look as though 
it was unsuitable  for him, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
The policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Rs employer sick pay and would do so, 
it seems, for longer.  
Mr R has also mentioned  to Barclaycard that he was entitled  to permanent health  
insurance (PHI), although he hasnt  been  able to provide any evidence  of the cover.  I 
havent been able to safely  conclude  that the PPI wouldve duplicated  Mr Rs PHI 
benefits, so this point doesnt change my overall conclusions  about  the complaint.
 Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But its unlikely Mr R wouldve been affected by any of the main  things 
the policy didnt  cover. The policy was also competitively priced  and had a reasonable 
benefit. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because:  
Ref: DRN54302632Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because  Barclaycard didnt tell Mr R, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard) does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard) does have to pay back  to Mr R any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5430263