K821x#15complaint
Miss B has complained  that TSB Bank plc blocked  her accounts while  she was abroad, 
despite her asking for a holiday flag to be put on her accounts.
background
Miss B complained that despite asking for holiday flags to be placed onto both of her 
accounts, her attempted cash withdrawals were  blocked. She had to stay with an 
acquaintance who loaned  her money  and food until her father sent her funds eight  days  
later.
Miss B says she tried to contact TSB but didnt  get the call back  she was promised. She was 
then asked to fax over a copy  of her bank card and a handwritten  letter. She said it took 
three to four weeks  to access her accounts  again. 
Two separate adjudicators  recommended  £300 compensation in recognition of the distress  
and inconvenience  Miss B had been  caused.  Miss B disagreed  with this so the complaint 
was passed to me. 
TSB then sent in some additional  information  which I also considered.  Having done so, I 
wrote a provisional decision in which I explained  I was considering reducing the 
recommendation of compensation  to £150. My provisional decision read as follows:
Miss B says she wants  fair compensation for the trouble and upset caused  by her card being 
blocked, as she was a lone female  traveller in a foreign country. I can understand her 
strength of feeling  about this, but what I need to consider here is whether TSB did anything 
wrong by blocking  her account,  or whether it failed to lift that block when it reasonably should 
have. 
Miss B had two separate accounts. TSB has provided screen shots  showing that the account 
ending *4660  didnt have a holiday flag placed  on it, but was also never  blocked.  And I can 
see Miss B transferred funds from this account while her other account was blocked.  Its not 
clear why Miss B wasnt able to withdraw funds from this account  using her debit card.  But I 
accept its possible individual transactions might  have been blocked  without  the whole 
account being blocked.
A holiday flag was put on account ending *3568  on 10 May 2018.  But the next day the 
account was still blocked due to a suspected fraudulent transaction.  Miss B isnt happy with 
this, because shed  specifically given TSB advance notice that she was going to be away.  
This is a sensible thing to do, but it doesnt  guarantee that a card or certain transactions  
wont still be blocked by a banks fraud systems.  Unfortunately  that seems to have happened 
in Miss Bs case, but I cant  say that TSB was wrong  to utilise its fraud  prevention systems. 
These are, after all, designed to protect its customers  accounts from suspicious activity.
Both parties  agree that TSB sent two separate texts to Miss B that morning which Miss B 
received. Miss B says she replied to these texts confirming the transactions were  made by 
her, but the fraud block wasnt lifted from the account. Ive asked TSB to tell me if it received 
a response to these  texts  but it hasnt got back to me. But I also havent seen the content of 
the text messages so its not clear  whether Miss B would  have  been  able to have the block 
removed just by replying to the texts. Without  a clearer  understanding  of what  the texts 
contained, I cant say its more likely the block shouldve been lifted  at that point.  
Ref: DRN59390112TSB tried unsuccessfully to call Miss B on 11 and 12 May 2018. So Im satisfied it was 
actively trying to contact Miss B after the account  was blocked. TSB managed to speak with 
her on 16 May 2018 and ran through security with her. But the notes show  that the TSB 
representative wasnt sure the caller  was Miss B and some of the answers were also 
hesitant, as if the caller  was referring to someone  else in the background. Because of this, 
the block wasnt lifted at that point and Miss B was asked to fax over some  identification.  
Ive asked to listen  to a copy  of this call, but TSB hasnt got back  to me to tell me whether its 
available. But even  without  listening  to the call, I think  it was reasonable for TSB not to lift 
the block where it had doubts about  who the caller was. I think  TSB acted reasonably  by 
asking Miss B to send  identification. I do appreciate it wasnt easy for Miss B to do that given 
where she was at the time, but I think it was reasonable for TSB to ask Miss B to send them.
The fraud block was lifted from account *3568 on 19 May 2018.  Miss B told us that, around 
that time,  she also received a money transfer from her father via a third party  provider  so 
she had access to funds  again from that point.  A second fraud block was put on the account 
on 2 June 2018 but was removed the same  day. So Miss Bs account  ending *3568 was 
blocked for around eight days.  And the account ending *4660  doesnt appear to have had a 
fraud block placed on it at all. 
Based on what Ive seen  so far, I think TSB acted appropriately in protecting Miss Bs 
account from potential  fraudulent transactions. And that it followed usual practice when 
unblocking the account again. I know Miss B found it frustrating and worrying to have her 
accounts blocked when she was in a foreign country, but I cant say TSB did anything  wrong  
when it followed its procedures here. So I dont think it would be fair to uphold this part of the 
complaint. This is why I dont think it would be appropriate to direct TSB to pay the £300 the 
adjudicators recommended  because that recommendation included an award  for the 
period when Miss Bs account was blocked. 
I can see, though,  that Miss B mentioned there  was a delay in being able to reach TSB to 
add the holiday  flag in the first place. It took her almost a week  to get through on the phone. 
From what  Miss B has said,  and the fact she tried to contact  TSB multiple  times over the 
week, I think this wouldve caused  her some worry and its clearly  inconvenienced  her. So I 
do think TSB should pay her some  compensation to reflect this. 
Considering everything  that Ive seen so far, Im minded to recommend that TSB pay Miss B 
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
TSB responded to my provisional decision and agreed with my initial  thoughts. Miss B 
responded with some  additional comments which Ill set out:
Miss B confirmed she tried to withdraw cash from both her accounts and was unable 
to. So she thinks it is clear  a block was placed on both accounts. Shes also said she 
requested for a holiday flag to be put on both accounts and was assured it had been. 
The text messages she received asked if a transaction had been attempted on her 
account and if she was responsible for it. She immediately responded with a yes.
She has asked how the transactions were  classed as suspicious and why it took 
eight days for her to have access to her funds  again.  
Ref: DRN59390113Miss B also reiterated that she was a solo female traveller in a developing country 
with no money and doesnt feel my provisional  decision has taken into consideration 
the real life situation she was in. She asked what more she could have done in the 
circumstances. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think the recommendation I set out in my provisional decision of £150 
compensation is fair in the circumstances.  
Id firstly  like to explain that I dont want to diminish the severity of the situation that Miss B 
was in due to not having access to funds while travelling alone. And I do empathise with how 
she must have felt at that time. But my role first and foremost is to determine if I think  TSB 
has made an error in the circumstances. If I think it has, then I will look at what impact  that 
error has had on Miss B. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I dont think TSB made an error  in applying the 
fraud block to Miss Bs account. Even a holiday marker doesnt guarantee a transaction  
wont be picked up by a banks fraud  detection system. I cant  comment on the workings of 
TSBs fraud  detection system and how it decides  to operate it. Ultimately, its there to help 
protect a consumers account. So I cant  say it was wrong for TSB to place an initial  fraud 
block on Miss Bs account.  
Miss B has reiterated that she asked for a holiday marker to be placed on both accounts and 
that both accounts  were  blocked. And I think Ive already covered this point  in my provisional 
decision. Its not clear  why TSBs  internal notes seem to suggest the account ending *4660 
didnt have a block placed on it. But its possible individual  transactions were blocked  without  
the account as a whole being blocked.
Miss B has given further clarification around the text messages  TSB sent her about the 
attempted transactions on 11 May 2018.  Shes said the text messages asked if she made 
the transactions and she responded with yes to both as soon as she received  them.  As I set 
out in my provisional  decision, its not clear if the fraud block wouldve  been lifted  just from a 
reply to the texts. Or if a phone call with security  also wouldve been required. So I cant 
safely say TSB has made an error in not lifting the block at that point. 
Looking at the contact logs TSB has provided, I can see they actively tried to contact Miss B 
by phone and were only able to reach her on 16 May, five days  after the block was placed. 
When they did speak  to her they needed some  more information to confirm  her identity and I 
dont think that was unreasonable. Having considered everything, I still dont think  I have 
enough to say TSB made an error in placing the block or that it delayed lifting the block 
unnecessarily. 
But I still think Miss B was delayed in placing  the holiday marker in the first place. So I think  
TSB should pay Miss B £150 compensation in recognition of the distress  and inconvenience  
this has caused  her.
Ref: DRN59390114what the business should  do
TSB should now pay Miss B £150  compensation for the impact the delay in placing a holiday 
marker on the account has caused.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5939011