K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains about the service he received from Santander UK plc in early  2018. He also 
complains that Santander  continued to add interest to his mortgage while he was waiting  for 
his appeal about his benefits  to be heard.
background
Mr E took out his mortgage with Abbey, now Santander, in July 2007.  He borrowed £35,000 
over ten years,  on a capital and interest repayment basis. He then took extra  borrowing of 
just over £8,000  in 2008.
A few years later, Mr E began struggling with the mortgage payments and went  into arrears.  
The mortgage term ended in August 2017. Mr E explained  to Santander that his income  had 
reduced significantly because his benefits  had been  withdrawn; he was appealing against  
this and was waiting for a tribunal date.
Santander agreed not to take any further action to recover the mortgage debt while  Mr Es 
appeal was ongoing. But it continued to add interest to the mortgage. Mr E phoned 
Santander regularly  to keep it updated  about his situation. When he called in February 2018, 
he thought the staff member he spoke to was rude and treated him inappropriately.  
Mr E complained. He then had to chase up Santanders response to his complaint, as he 
didnt receive its letter  when it said it had written to him. When  he got the letter,  he felt 
Santander hadnt dealt with the matter properly or professionally, so he got in touch with us.
Our investigator listened to recordings of the relevant calls Mr E had had with Santander, 
and concluded  its staff hadnt  been  rude or unreasonable. She also said it had been fair in 
continuing to add interest to Mr Es mortgage.
Mr E didnt accept that conclusion and asked for the matter to be reviewed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I realise this isnt 
the outcome Mr E wanted, I dont  require Santander  to take any action to settle this 
complaint.
Mr E has been in a very difficult situation.  He has suffered from health problems, he has 
struggled for some time to make  payments to his mortgage, and the mortgage  term has 
ended with a debt still outstanding. 
Santander has an obligation to treat Mr E fairly. Im satisfied that it has done  that. Its records 
show that it was aware of Mr Es medical condition and vulnerability, and so it arranged for 
contact with him to be through a specialist team. It made a number of concessions over the 
years, including accepting interest-only  payments for a time and agreeing payment 
arrangements. It also agreed  not to take any further  action and not to pass  the account to its 
solicitors while Mr E was appealing against  the decision about his benefits and unable to 
make payments.
Ref: DRN53590912I consider all of this was reasonable,  and I wouldnt have expected Santander to have 
stopped adding interest to the mortgage in the circumstances  even though Mr E had to 
wait a long time for his benefits  appeal to be heard. I also find Santander made  it clear  to Mr 
E that it would continue  to charge interest.  It set that out in its letter  to him of 12 December 
2017. 
Mr E has acted  very responsibly  and kept Santander updated about his situation.  He has 
always contacted  it when he said he would; one of those  occasions was the call in February  
2018 when he says he was treated inappropriately.
Ive listened to a recording  of that call. The staff member Mr E spoke to assured him that 
further action  to recover the debt was on hold, and said she understood that no firm 
decisions about future payments could be made until Mr E knew  the outcome of the tribunal. 
But she also said she needed  to go through  Mr Es income and expenditure with him, as that 
hadnt been done for more than six months.
I dont think Santander  was unreasonable in wanting  up-to-date  information  about Mr Es 
circumstances  even  though Mr E said they hadnt changed. I think its clear  from the call 
that Mr E found going through this very stressful and unsettling. I find the staff member 
recognised that: she asked whether  Mr E would be alright to continue  with the call, and also 
offered to speak instead to a third party if he would prefer someone to act on his behalf. I 
think that was a sensible and fair approach for her to have  taken, and I dont consider that 
she treated Mr E unfairly  on the call.
When Mr E contacted us about this matter, he said the way Santander had dealt with his 
complaint had annoyed him more than the February  2018 call. Our investigator  explained  
that complaint-handling isnt something we can generally consider. I think its clear from 
Santanders final response letter that its complaint-handler misunderstood the date by which  
Mr E had agreed to get in touch with an update  in April 2018.  However,  while that was 
unhelpful, Mr E had already spoken to Santander by the time he got the letter. 
Taking the matter  as a whole, I dont find that the fair outcome  here is for me to make an 
order or award. I think Santander  has shown considerable forbearance, and it has taken 
account of Mr Es circumstances in its dealings with him. I understand a payment 
arrangement has been  agreed  since the successful outcome of Mr Es tribunal, and I would 
encourage Santander and Mr E to continue  to engage regularly about  repayment of the 
mortgage.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5359091