K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Amigo Loans Ltd was unhelpful  and insensitive in dealing with his 
request for assistance.
 
background
In January 2018 Mr M took out a guaranteed loan for £5,000 with monthly payments of 
£309.08. His wife became  pregnant  unexpectedly and he called Amigo  in July to discuss 
how best to manage  his payments once  she stopped working in September.
The call handler said he couldnt agree  to payment  plan at that a point as Mr Ms 
circumstances hadnt yet changed.  He suggested  Mr M call back several  months later. Mr M 
didnt want to do that and asked that his interest  be frozen to allow him to budget for the 
impending changes. He was told his loan could  be extended, but the sum repayable  would 
be capped and so he wouldnt  pay more than he had agreed.  Mr M didnt think  that was a 
good idea as he would have continuing  costs for his child.
During the lengthy call Mr M said his outgoings had already gone up and mentioned  he and 
his wife has bought a pram for £800 and the call handler checked online and said he could 
buy one cheaper.  Mr M was upset and asked to speak  to a manager.  The manager called 
several days later and explained that if he was asking Amigo to help him it would expect  him 
to exercise some control  over his outgoings.  
A formal response was sent. This said that: whilst  we would expect  you to prioritise  your 
essential bills and credit  commitments over any luxury expenditure, I don't believe it was 
helpful to discuss  the cost of your pram at the time. Please accept my apologies for this, I 
can assure you this has been fed back to [the call handlers] manager, in line with our 
training and disciplinary  procedures. 
The complaint was brought to this service and was considered  by one of our adjudicators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought it was reasonable for Amigo to ask Mr M to 
contact it again  when his circumstances had actually changed. She thought  the business 
was trying to make  sure Mr M was doing the best he could to maintain the loan repayments 
and it had the right to suggest solutions  that it believed might help. She didnt think the call 
handler had been wrong.  Nor did she consider the manager had been  wrong  in his approach 
during the call with Mr M.
She added that if Mr Ms circumstances did change then she would expect Amigo to be 
supportive. Finally  she noted that Mr M had made  an overpayment in October  2018  so his 
account was in credit at that time. Mr M didnt agree.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two issues in this complaint, firstly Amigos refusal to freeze the interest as 
requested by Mr M and its decision not to act until Mr Ms circumstances changed.  The 
second issue is the suggestion  that Mr M had spent  a lot on a pram. 
Ref: DRN53469572I can see that Mr M was trying, quite sensibly, to get matters resolved before  the birth of his 
child and before his wife stopped working.  He anticipated that their income would  drop and 
their expenses would go up. However  Amigo can only allow customers  to go on to a 
payment plan at the point they are unable to make  the monthly payments. That is Amigos  
commercial decision and I cannot  interfere with that. Quite  simply it doesnt have a regime  
that provides what Mr M was seeking
It is clear from listening to the call which lasted well over an hour that there wasnt  a meeting 
of minds. I dont believe the call handler  made  it sufficiently clear  why he suggested  Mr M 
call back when he reached  the point when he couldnt make his monthly payment. He didnt 
explain that Amigo couldnt freeze  the interest.  Both parties talked over each other and both 
became frustrated.
I can see Mr M was being open  and honest  and seeking to sort out his finances  before the 
baby was due and so he mentioned what he had spent on a pram.  I can hear the call 
handler was trying to say that if Mr M expected Amigo to help then in turn it would expect 
him to manage his finances carefully. However the cost of a pram for an individuals  first 
child is a sensitive matter  and I can see why Mr M was upset. 
I believe that the call was poorly  handled  by the call handler despite his best intentions  and 
the reference to the pram was insensitive. I also think that the preceding  45 minutes  of 
fruitless discussion only made it worse. The managers  call was better handled, although  not 
totally sensitive, but I can appreciate  that it didnt give Mr M the answer  he wanted. The 
manager reinforced Amigos position  that if it was to offer Mr M help it expected  him to 
exercise some discretion  in his spending  as he knew he had agreed  to make regular monthly 
payments. 
Amigo has apologised for raising the costs of the pram and I think  that is a reasonable 
response in the circumstances. I dont believe the matter merits financial compensation. As 
such I dont think Amigo need  do more. However,  I would remind the business  of its 
obligation to deal with Mr M positively and sympathetically in helping  him resolve any 
financial difficulties he might face.  If he does not consider the business  to have met its 
obligations in the future  he may be entitled to bring a fresh  complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, in the sense that I make no order or 
award against Amigo Loans Ltd. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 22 March  2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5346957