K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL).
FICL didnt  directly sell the PPI to Mr K  they are the insurer. But theyve taken 
responsibility for resolving  this complaint, so I will refer to them  as the seller  in my decision.
background
Mr K took out a store card in 2002. At the same time he bought a PPI policy which  would 
have helped cover  his repayments  on the card if he couldnt work because of an accident, 
sickness or was made involuntarily redundant. 
Mr K says he was mis-sold the policy.
The adjudicator who looked at his complaint  thought that Mr Ks complaint shouldnt be 
upheld.
Mr K hasnt agreed with the adjudicators decision, so the case has been passed  to me to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when reaching  my decision.  Having done  so, I agree with the adjudicator 
and do not uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr K has said the policy was added without his knowledge and he wasnt given a choice 
about taking it out. Mr K took out the store card and PPI in a clothes shop. FICL has 
provided a copy of the credit agreement Mr K completed and I can see he had a choice 
about taking the PPI and signed  separately  to confirm he wanted it. If Mr K didnt want PPI 
he simply could have  not signed  for it and it wouldnt have been  added.  I can also see that 
Mr K didnt choose any of the other  optional  features  that were  available. So I think he would 
have been aware  that he had a choice about  taking out the PPI. 
Mr K has  said he wasnt told anything about the policy  and if he had been, he wouldnt have 
agreed to take it. But Mr K has also said he was given advice to take the PPI. I appreciate 
Mr K is trying  to give his best recollections,  but as the sale was a long time ago, and that the 
purchase of insurance  isnt a memorable experience. I dont expect Mr K to remember  
exactly what happened. 
Taking into account what we know of FICLs  sales practices, I think its unlikely it gave Mr K 
any advice. I cant see that an in-depth review  of Mr Ks circumstances and ability to meet 
any repayments was undertaken, and from that a formal recommendation made to take PPI. 
So, it didnt need  to take reasonable steps  to make  sure it was suitable for him. 
Ref: DRN55295042But it did need to make sure it gave  him all the information he needed to make  his own 
decision. I dont  think FICL did this well enough.  For example, theres  no mention of what the 
exact benefits were. 
But this doesnt  mean I should automatically  uphold Mr Ks complaint. I have to think  about  
what he would have  done if he had received all the information he needed.
Looking at Mr Ks circumstances I dont think more  information  would  have changed his mind  
about buying it. I think its likely Mr K understood the policy  would pay a benefit if he wasnt 
able to work. And as I think Mr K chose  to take out the PPI, it seems he was interested  in 
this type of cover. 
It doesnt look like Mr K was affected  by any of the terms which might have made it more 
difficult for him to make a successful claim, such as those related to existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment  circumstances   so it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. And I havent  seen anything  to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for 
Mr K.
Mr K says he was entitled to some sick pay and he had some savings he could  have used to 
meet his repayments  if he wasnt working. But the policy would have paid out over and 
above any employee benefits  he has told us he would  receive,  and for longer so they could  
have been used for other essential outgoings. And the policy also meant his savings  could 
have remained intact for other emergencies or their original purpose. So I think the policy  
offered Mr K a useful  benefit.
So, on balance, I dont  think Mr K lost out as a result of anything  FICL did wrong.
Ive thought about what Mr K has told us, but because of what Ive said above, his comments 
dont persuade me to change my mind. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5529504