K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains about a secured loan she holds with Hurstanger Limited.
background
Mrs R borrowed  £18,000 (plus fees) in December 2005. Unfortunately, she missed the very 
first payment  due, and matters didnt improve. Mrs R has made  sporadic payments over the 
years, missing many months running and then making a lump sum payment to cover the 
missed payments when  legal action was taken. I understand there have been 17 possession 
warrants over the years,  and each of these  came with their own costs involved.
Mrs R complained about her loan.  She said her ex-husband arranged  the loan, and she just 
signed for it but didnt know what she was signing for. She said Hurstanger  and the broker  
didnt provide her with any information  on the loan. She also said she was unhappy with the 
balance of the loan, and the fees and interest  charged.
Mrs Rs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He said that we had no power  
to consider a complaint about anything that happened with the loan before 6 April 2007 as 
Hurstanger wasnt in our jurisdiction before that date. He then considered the account since  
then, and didnt  uphold the complaint.
Mrs R didnt agree and so earlier this month I issued a decision setting out what we could  
and couldnt  consider. In that I agreed with our adjudicator that our power to consider this 
complaint is limited to events since 6 April 2007. I said a decision would follow  on the merits 
of the part of the complaint we could consider. I now issue  that decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont doubt that this is very important for 
Mrs R. But although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep  my comments  to what  I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because  Ive not considered  
it but because  I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Having reviewed the transaction history since 6 April 2007  I agree that the fees and charges 
already identified by Hurstanger should  be reversed (if not already done).  But I dont think it 
needs to go any further than that. Im satisfied  the remaining  fees and charges were  
reasonable in the circumstances. I say this because they were charged in accordance  with 
the terms and conditions of the loan and were based  on the account conduct. The account 
has been in arrears for much of the time its been  in force,  and legal action has taken place.
The figures on the loan agreements are based  on a person  paying  all of the contractual 
monthly repayments in full and on time and no fees or charges being added. Clearly that 
didnt happen  here as Mrs R has been in arrears since  the first payment (albeit the arrears  
were cleared  every so often, but would immediately build back  up). The contract Mrs R 
entered into required the contractual monthly payment to be made in the month  it was due. 
But for much of the term Mrs R wouldnt pay for months at a time, and then pay a lump sum 
equivalent to the missed  payments.
Ref: DRN54314322As interest  is constantly  being charged  this means  its not as simple as making  up a missed 
payment, theres  also the extra interest  incurred  for every day that payment is overdue. This 
interest can add up significantly as Mrs R has found.  Thats not to say Hurstanger  was 
charging interest on interest, its just a simple  fact that for each delayed  payment extra  
interest will be charged on the unpaid capital for every day it is late. Then  there are the fees 
for the arrears management and charges for legal action and cancelled evictions added  onto 
the debt, and then interest  on those fees.
We dont provide an auditing service  or carry out a forensic analysis of loan records. But Ive 
looked at the transaction history and theres  nothing on there  that appears unusual  or 
incorrect. Of course, its open to Mrs R to instruct an independent and suitably-qualified  
professional to audit  her account. But that would have  to be at her expense  though  if errors  
were found  to her financial  detriment,  she could complain about  them  and her costs in 
discovering them could  be taken into account in putting matters  right.  But as things stand, 
Im not persuaded that Hurstanger has mis-managed her account.
I understand Mrs R is struggling to meet the payments and shed like us to help her set up 
something going forward. Unfortunately thats  not something we can do as it doesnt fall 
within our remit.  Mrs R needs  to contact Hurstanger to discuss her options,  either  directly  or 
with the help of someone trained to give her free debt advice - such as StepChange or 
Citizens Advice. If Mrs R was unhappy with the outcome of those  discussions with 
Hurstanger then that would be a new complaint  she could refer to us at the time (subject to 
our rules, of course). But we cant get involved  unless  Hurstanger has had a chance to 
discuss the options with Mrs R, and then had the opportunity to deal with a complaint  from 
Mrs R about those discussions.
Id encourage  Mrs R to contact Hurstanger  (either directly, or via an agency  as Ive explained 
above) and have  an open  and honest conversation about her circumstances and worries for 
both now and the future. Theyll need  to work together  and that means Mrs R will need  to be 
frank about  her situation. And Hurstanger  will need  to listen to what she has to say and, fairly 
and sympathetically, see if theres  a way to work with her to agree a way forward.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense I consider  Hurstanger made a fair offer in its final 
response letter to reverse some fees and charges. Under the rules of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs R to accept  or reject my decision before 
13 January 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5431432