K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs R bought  the policy in 1994  to cover the monthly payments on a mortgage. They 
applied for the PPI policy in branch. 
The policy documents that applied  to Mr and Mrs Rs PPI are no longer available.  I dont 
think thats surprising  given how long ago the policy was sold. But I have looked at the 
nearest available policy which I think is the same  as, or at least  similar  to, the policy that 
wouldve applied to Mr and Mrs R, to help me decide this case. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs R for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  Due to the time thats passed, its not clear  how much their 
monthly benefit was. But Santander says, its likely that it wouldve been set up to at least 
cover their monthly  mortgage payment in the event  of a successful claim.  Based  on what I 
know about how these  policies were usually sold, I think  thats likely to be right. At the time, it 
cost £20.15 a month. 
At the time,  Mrs R was employed  as a barber. She has told us she was entitled to 
redundancy pay through her employer.  She didnt have any other means of repaying their 
mortgage should she be unable to work. Mrs R has said she was in good  health at the time 
of the sale, although she has mentioned some medical problems she experienced after the 
sale of the policy.
Mr R was not working at the time of sale, but he was not covered by the policy at the time of 
sale. In 2003,  the policy  was amended to cover Mr R. At this time Mr R was working as a 
nurse. He told us he wasnt entitled  to any employee  benefits  and he didnt have any other 
means of repaying  their mortgage should he be unable  to work. Mr R has told us about a 
number of medical problems he experienced before and after he was added to the policy.  
My understanding is that when Mr R was added to the PPI, the cost remained the same.  
Due to the time thats passed neither Santander  nor Mr and Mrs R can confirm when the 
mortgage was taken or when it closed. But Santander has sent us screenshots to show  that 
Mr and Mrs R did not have a mortgage that was still live in April 2008. 
Mr and Mrs Rs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Rs representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs R 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Rs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that 
presumption;
Ref: DRN50966442The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr and Mrs R about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs R 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs R received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Rs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1994 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
No credit agreement was live with Santander in April 2008.  That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
Ref: DRN50966443judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Santander at the time. So, Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Rs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs R with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN50966444-Whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely information  
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs R, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr 
and Mrs R suffered loss or damage  and what  I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs R 
and Santander,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs R know they had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Neither Santander nor Mr and Mrs R have been able to provide me with copies of the 
documentation from the time of sale. I dont think thats surprising given how long ago the 
policy was sold. But it does mean I have limited information about the sale,  so I have to 
decide what I think is more likely  based on the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Santander says it wouldve  made  the optional nature of the PPI clear and not sold it to them 
unless Mr and Mrs R had expressly  agreed to it. Customers were required to complete  an 
application form and sign a direct debit mandate  to allow premiums to be collected   
indicating it was a separate  product. Based  on what Ive seen, Ive got no reason to doubt 
that Santander followed it usual process at the time.  
I also note the PPI was set up to cover Mrs R only. As Mr R was not working at the time, he 
would not have been eligible for the cover   so the policy set up appears to have  been  
tailored to their needs. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs R knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
As Santander has such little information  about this sale,  it doesnt know  for certain  if advice 
was provided during  the sale. And Mr and Mrs R says they cant remember  if advice was 
provided. Santander has treated this case as an advised sale. This holds Santander to a 
higher standard as this means Santander had to advise Mr and Mrs R with reasonable care 
and skill, in particular  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances. So, Ive also done  the same  and assessed this case  as an advised sale.
the advice
I dont know what steps Santander took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs R. It seems  Mr and Mrs R cant  remember clearly what 
Ref: DRN50966445happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser likely had some limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Rs financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence 
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mrs R would have been caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
their needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest Santander considered whether Mrs R 
had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs R given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Santander  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs R, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs R met the eligibility criteria  for the policy. Mr R was not eligible for the policy  but 
was also not covered  by it in 1994  when Santander  provided  its advice. 
-Mr and Mrs R had a need  for the policy  Mrs R was the main  wage  earner and it 
seems likely Mr and Mrs Rs finances would be put under strain if she was not 
working  even allowing for redundancy benefits  she was entitled  to. The policy  
would have helped  Mr and Mrs R manage  the consequences were Mrs R unable to 
work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs R. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs R. 
There was nothing  about Mrs Rs employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect her ability to claim. She has mentioned some medical 
problems she experienced after the sale, but these wouldnt have affected her ability 
to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover  for mental  health  or back  
problems.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mrs R be disabled  or unemployed for 8 
weeks before they could make a claim and would  only pay benefits for a maximum  of 
12 months for each  unemployment claim and 36 months for disability, it still provided 
valuable cover given:  Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances, the fact the policy protected  the 
mortgage repayments relating to their home and the potential consequences should  
Mr and Mrs R be unable to make the repayments on loans secured against  their 
house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs R 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Santander was recommending  to them and make an informed decision about whether 
to follow  that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Ref: DRN50966446Mrs R was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs R 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs R agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs R Im not persuaded Santander 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Santander gave Mr and Mrs R all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Rs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Rs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Rs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs R about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Rs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs R have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs R? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs R suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to 
Mr and Mrs R. So, I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs R suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs R would have still taken out the policy,  had Santander  done  
things properly. 
Ref: DRN50966447While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs R, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs R have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Santander had explained  things 
properly, Mr and Mrs R would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs R say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs R had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Santander advised them  that there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event 
Mrs R was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they 
concluded they wanted that product. But they made that decision based  on incomplete 
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
But the information about aspects of the policy, such as the cost, benefit,  limitations  and 
exclusions, wasnt as clear as it should have been.   
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, I havent seen any evidence that Santander told them  the exact 
premium at the point  Mr and Mrs R applied for the policy.  Having said that, it seems  likely 
Mr and Mrs R would  have been told the cost before the policy  started and they paid for the 
policy for a number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  
at the point of sale, its possible they might have raised that with Santander  at the time, or 
reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs R would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Mr and Mrs R would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs Rs expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an 
amount sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the 
policy actually did. 
Possibly the most  significant differences  between what Mr and Mrs R thought they 
had bought and what they actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN50966448The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions or disease  which  Mrs R 
should reasonably have known  of on the start date of the policy,  or which she had 
received treatment or advice for during  the 12 months before the start date of the 
policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs R 
wasnt a permanent employee; 
The policy protected payments for up to 12 for unemployment and 36 months  for 
disability, rather than the remaining term of the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs R pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs R from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mrs R was eligible  for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mrs R wouldve been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs R didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. Any medical  
problems she experienced after the sale, would not have affected her ability to claim. So, I 
still think they had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs R would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mrs R needed  to be totally unable to do her normal occupation. I 
dont think this is likely to be too different to what she would have expected  to make a claim.  
It seems  unlikely  she would have thought shed be able to make a successful  claim if she 
was still working. 
Santander may not have told Mr and Mrs R that any claim they made would be limited  to a 
12-month period  for unemployment  and 36 months  for disability. This may have differed from 
what they expected and might have hoped for  but they had limited  other  means to fall back  
on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs R would still have thought that this 
policy would have been of benefit to them and would help them  manage  the consequences  
should Mrs R be unable  to work  in the circumstances  covered by the policy. The policy  
allowed for multiple claims to be made, it could help reduce  their outgoings  at a difficult and 
uncertain time and ensure their home  was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs R would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mrs R was made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not 
Ref: DRN50966449Mr and Mrs R would  have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Rs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs R would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Rs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs R found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs R believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs R in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Mr and Mrs R compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs R think Santander misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave 
Mr and Mrs R, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards  I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 1994  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ref: DRN509664410Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Rs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Santander negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs R and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Santander had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs R in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2021.
Asma Begum 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5096644