K822xcomplaint
Mrs C complains about the way Freemans  Plc handled  an order  she made through her 
catalogue shopping credit  account.
background 
Mrs C has a credit account with Freemans. 
She ordered two jackets priced at £50 in sizes 16 and 18. She intended to purchase one 
jacket, taking  advantage  of a promotional offer which gave her £20 off her purchase.
When the jackets were delivered,  they were in sizes  14 and 16  neither  of which  was 
suitable as it turned out  and they were labelled  with a price of £45. 
She contacted Freemans who said theyd honour the £45 price on the tag if she kept one of 
the jackets. However, Mrs Cs account continued to show the jackets  at the price of £50. 
When she complained  to Freemans,  she was told shed be sent details of our service so that 
she could complain to us if she wished. She wasnt sent out contact details and had to chase 
Freemans before they provided them.
Mrs C wasnt happy with Freemans response  to her complaint  so she brought her complaint 
to us. 
Our investigator looked into it and thought Freemans hadnt  been fair and reasonable in the 
way they handled Mrs Cs order and her complaint. 
She said Freemans should allow a 20% discount on Mrs Cs next order   to reflect the fact 
that shed effectively missed out on the £20 promotional discount when she didnt buy the 
jacket  and pay her £25 in compensation for her trouble  and upset. 
Freemans had offered  to do this during our investigation. But Mrs C didnt agree with that 
outcome and asked  for a final decision form an ombudsman. She says the jacket was for her 
daughter, whod been disappointed and suffered distress and anxiety when it hadnt been  
delivered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C didnt buy either of the jackets.  Freemans  refunded the full amount to her account. It 
doesnt make any difference to Mrs Cs account balance  or anything else - that the account 
records show the price and refund at £50 rather than £45.
Its important to remember that our service  can get involved  in this case only because  the 
goods were bought on credit. 
Ref: DRN53243682Mrs C has said she wants the jacket, in size 18, at the price of £25. Freemans say they dont 
stock the jacket anymore and have no intention  of doing so in future.  Thats not something 
the financial ombudsman  service is going to get involved in. Again, Mrs C didnt buy the 
jackets, but her money has been  refunded.
Mrs C was also unhappy that Freemans  wouldnt  deliver a size 18 jacket  by next day 
delivery. Again, Im not going to tell Freemans how to conduct their business when it comes 
to delivery methods and timings.
When I look at the financial aspects of this case,  I can see that Mrs C has suffered some  
loss  at least of expectation - in that she couldnt  use the £20 promotional offer.
I can also see that shes been caused  a degree of inconvenience when  she had to chase 
Freemans to get the contact details for our office  that theyd promised to provide.  
Im satisfied that a 20% reduction  on Mrs Cs next order plus £25 in compensation for her 
trouble and upset  is fair and reasonable given the degree of inconvenience and upset Mrs C 
has been caused.
For the sake of complete  clarity, I understand Freemans offered to pay Mrs C the £25 in the 
form of a voucher,  which I assume could be used only with them. If Mrs C is happy  with that 
 and its the most convenient way to get the compensation to her  thats fine. However,  if 
Mrs C prefers  a cash payment rather than a voucher, Freemans must provide it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Freemans Plc should offer Mrs C a 20% discount  on her next order  with them and pay her 
£25 for her trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5324368