K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about  AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds decision to decline 
Mr Ms claim  under a group private  medical  insurance policy.
background
Mrs M was a member of her employers group private medical insurance policy,  held with 
AXA PPP. The policy also provided cover  for her husband,  Mr M.
During April 2018,  Mrs M sought authorisation for her husband to see a specialist and to 
undergo certain  tests.  AXA PPP agreed to this.
On 1 May 2018,  Mrs M was made redundant.
On 10 May 2018, Mrs M contacted AXA PPP. She explained that her husband needed to 
have a further consultation and to undergo certain  procedures and tests. AXA PPP provided 
authorisation for this.
On 21 May 2018, AXA PPP was notified by a broker acting on behalf of Mrs Ms employer 
that her employment had ended on 1 May 2018 and that her cover should  therefore  stop 
with effect from that date.
Mr M had private treatment on 29 May, 8 June and 13 July. However, AXA PPP wouldnt 
subsequently meet the cost of this. Mr M therefore found himself  pursued by the treatment 
providers for the outstanding bills which totalled just under  £2,000.
Mr and Mrs M complained to AXA PPP, pointing out that it had authorised  the treatment. 
They also said the treatment providers hadnt  provided reports  which had been promised.
AXA PPP didnt uphold their complaint.  It said that under the terms of the policy, cover  was 
in place only while Mrs M was employed  by the policyholder. It said that when Mrs M had 
contacted it on 10 May 2018, it was unaware  that she had left her employment  and so it had 
provided authorisation in good faith.  It said that once  it had become aware  she was no 
longer employed,  it had written to Mrs M on 25 May 2018, before any of the disputed  
treatment had been undertaken, to confirm  she was no longer covered and to invite her to 
take out personal cover. It said it had written to Mrs M again to remind her of this on 15 June 
2018. It therefore said it wasnt liable for the outstanding bills. It also said that if Mr and 
Mrs M were unhappy with the performance of any of the treatment providers, they would 
need to raise that with the treatment  provider directly.
Mr and Mrs M were  unhappy with AXA PPPs response. They referred  their complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In his opinion,  AXA 
PPP had acted fairly.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  accept the investigators  findings. They said AXA PPP should have 
advised them on 10 May 2018  that they were  no longer covered under the policy;  if it had 
done so, Mr M wouldnt have chosen  to have private treatment. They said they hadnt 
received the letters which AXA PPP said it had sent on 25 May 2018  and 15 June 2018.
Ref: DRN55494882my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policys  membership guide states:
All cover  ends when  the lead member  stops working for the company  or if the companys  
group membership ends.
Mrs M stopped working for her employer  on 1 May 2018 and so this is the date that her 
cover, and that of her husband, ended.
It is unfortunate that AXA PPP was unaware  that Mrs M was no longer employed  by the 
group policyholder when she contacted it on 10 May 2018. However, I note that Mrs M didnt 
volunteer this information during the telephone  call. Given that the cover  was a benefit  of her 
employment, I think it would have been prudent for her to have let AXA PPP know  shed 
recently been made unemployed  rather than assume it was already aware of this.
But in any case,  AXA PPP says that before any of the wrongly authorised  treatment had 
been undertaken, it wrote to Mrs M to confirm that she was no longer covered under the 
policy. I recognise that Mrs M says she didnt  receive this, or a follow-up letter sent in June. 
However, I consider  the evidence supports that these  letters  were  sent.  I therefore consider  
that Mr and Mrs M should reasonably have been  aware, before Mr M embarked on the 
treatment in question, that they were  no longer  covered  under the policy.  In view of this, I 
consider that AXA PPP is not obliged to pay for the ineligible treatment which it inadvertently  
authorised.
Mr and Mrs M have  also complained that they havent received reports from the 
organisations which provided treatment for Mr M. However, as AXA PPP has told them, this 
is a matter which they need  to take up directly  with the relevant treatment provider.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 February  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5549488