K820x#14complaint
Mrs L and Mrs W are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc allowed fraud  to take place on the 
late Mrs Is account. 
background
Mrs I passed away  in February 2017.  Her estate is bringing the complaint about the activity 
on her account over the seven years prior to her passing. 
Mrs I had multiple sclerosis and from 2009  onwards  she became increasingly  incapacitated, 
to the point where she couldnt move from the neck down. Despite her physical setbacks, 
Mrs I retained  her mental  capacity  and sharp  mind  right up until her passing.  
Over the years, Mrs I had numerous carers. Mrs L and Mrs W have explained  that a carer 
(carer 1) was responsible for helping Mrs I with her banking. She kept this duty until late 
2016 when she moved to Ireland. At that point Mrs I expressed a wish for the local 
postmistress to be added  to her account  to take over from the carer. However, this only 
lasted a matter of months before Mrs I informed Mrs L and Mrs W around  Christmas 2016, 
that two different carers (carer 2 and 3) would be added as signatories  on the account. They 
say Mrs I assured them shed make sure two people had to sign each cheque,  as shed 
expressed concerns  to them  in the past about  the trustworthiness of one of the carers who 
was being added. Carer 2 and 3 remained on the account as third parties until Mrs Is 
passing a couple of months later. 
Mrs L and Mrs W have explained that Mrs I was close to her carers, taking holidays with 
them, buying  them  gifts and loaning them money.  She also paid them a substantial  wage. 
The payment of their wages was informal and so no documentary evidence  is available to 
show what had been agreed.  
Upon Mrs Is passing, Mrs L and Mrs W became aware of large withdrawals from Mrs Is 
account, predominantly via cheque. They also found  several cheque  stubs  dating  back  to 
2010 and discovered that the amounts and beneficiaries  on the stubs,  didnt match the final 
withdrawal. All of these  cheques had been written  by carer 1. 
Mrs L and Mrs W have explained that they have  concerns the carers were  taking advantage 
of Mrs I given  her vulnerabilities and total reliance on them.  Theyve said the carers  never  
left Mrs I alone and so they could never  have  a private conversation  with her. They say they 
had been taking money from Mrs I for several years but havent  specified an amount. Mrs L 
and Mrs W reported their concerns to the police and Barclays. The police have an ongoing 
investigation into the activities of the carers. 
Barclays explained that Mrs I had granted third party access  to the carers.  It said it no longer 
held the third-party  access documents for carer 1, but was satisfied its system notes showed  
this was in place, and Mrs L and Mrs W themselves acknowledge Mrs I had told them about 
the access  both for carer 1 and subsequently,  carer 2 and 3.  Barclays said that having 
third party access allowed the carers to write cheques, and so the cheques were authorised 
payments, along  with any other activity on the account. Barclays  also pointed out that Mrs I 
had always used cheques  as a method of payment and therefore the activity on the account  
didnt cause any concern. 
Ref: DRN52425132Mrs L and Mrs W brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. In short, he said he was satisfied that Mrs I had granted  third party  access  to 
carer 1, 2 and 3, despite Barclays not being able to produce the documentation.  Its notes 
show theyd been  added,  and Mrs L and Mrs W have confirmed they knew  Mrs I had granted 
the carers access.  With this in mind, he was satisfied that the payments made by the carers 
were authorised for the purposes of the Payment Services  Regulations  2009  (PSRs 2009). 
The investigator also considered whether Barclays shouldve done anymore to protect Mrs I, 
given the large  amount of withdrawals over the years. However, he wasnt persuaded that it 
wouldve made a difference  had Barclays contacted Mrs I at any point. He explained that the 
spending was consistent over many  years and Mrs L and Mrs W had acknowledged  that Mrs 
I had various arrangements with the carers.  So, without Mrs Is testimony,  he couldnt 
conclude she didnt  benefit from the withdrawals.  Therefore, it wouldnt be fair to ask 
Barclays to refund. 
Mrs L and Mrs W disagreed. They  feel Barclays has been negligent with Mrs Is account, not 
being able to provide copies of the third-party  mandates or conducting due diligence  on the 
withdrawals, despite  their increasingly  high amount. They maintain that a significant  amount 
of the money  was withdrawn without Mrs Is authorisation. 
Because Mrs L and Mrs W disagreed, the complaint has now been passed  to me to decide.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In doing so Ive considered two things:
Were the withdrawals  from Mrs Is account  authorised?
Did Barclays  do all it could to help protect Mrs I?
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as
the investigator previously  set out. Ill now explain why. 
Were the withdrawals authorised by Mrs I?
In short,  Barclays is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction.  The
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the PSRs 2009. Mrs L and Mrs W say Mrs Is carers 
took advantage of Mrs I over a seven-year period and made withdrawals  without her 
permission or knowledge.  So, my primary concern  is to come to a view about whether or not 
I think Mrs I authorised the payments.
Barclays has said that the carers had third party access on Mrs Is account and there is 
evidence of this from the system notes its provided. It is disappointing that the actual 
paperwork is no longer  available for this and that Barclays  has given conflicting information  
to both Mrs L and Mrs W, and this service. However,  whilst Mrs L and Mrs W continue to 
press the point that the paperwork cant be provided  by Barclays  understandably of course 
- they themselves have explained  at various  points that they were aware Mrs I had granted  
this access to her carers. 
Ref: DRN52425133In her statement to the police  Mrs W made several  mentions  of carer 1 being on the bank 
mandate and knowingly aiding Mrs I with her finances and bills. She specifically mentioned  
that carer 1 was given  authority on the bank mandate  as Mrs I become more  incapacitated. 
She also stated that she had a conversation with Mrs I about carer  2 and 3 being  added to 
the bank account in December 2016.  Also, in their letter of complaint to Barclays  in October 
2017, Mrs L and Mrs W stated they were never involved in Mrs Is finances but knew  that 
carer 1 was a signatory on the account from around  2009. Therefore, when deciding what I 
think is most likely  to have happened  on balance, it seems that despite  the physical 
evidence no longer being available, all three of the carers were indeed  afforded  third party  
access to the account by Mrs I. 
I understand Mrs L and Mrs W feel the documentation is still important as it may have shown 
any limitations on the carers access.  But I think its clear from their testimony that Mrs Is 
intentions were for the carers to be able to make withdrawals on her behalf. So, by giving 
third party access to the carers, Mrs I was giving her authority for the carers to transact  on 
the account. This authority  would extend  to writing  cheques, withdrawing cash or carrying  
out card transactions. 
There is no evidence Mrs I asked for cheques to need two signatories at any point, or 
specifically when carer  1 was replaced in January 2017. Barclays has said Mrs I attended 
branch to have  carer  2 and 3 added  to the account in January  2017 and the member  of staff 
who served her said there was no sign of duress (and Mrs L and Mrs W have confirmed she 
may not have shown  this outwardly). Taking  into account Mrs I was of sound mind right up to 
her passing,  I have no reason to doubt  this.  
Based on Mrs L and Mrs Ws testimony  of their discussions with Mrs I, and the evidence 
provided by Barclays, Im satisfied Mrs I had set up the third-party access  for her carers. Ive 
not seen anything to suggest  that anyone other than the carer with third party access  at the 
time, was transacting on the account.  Therefore, any of the activity  carried  out by them 
would be authorised. What is important to remember is that a transaction is still authorised  
for the purposes  of the PSRs 2009, regardless of whether  Mrs I gave her permission for the 
specific amounts that were being withdrawn or knew about  all of the withdrawals. 
Mrs L and Mrs W have provided evidence that Mrs Is cheques were  being altered. But these 
were ultimately being written by the carer  with third party  access to the account. I understand 
Mrs L and Mrs W have said the police  are still investigating the matter. But as Ive explained,  
the bank would only be liable to refund the transactions if they were unauthorised.  And so, 
despite the altered amounts and whether Mrs I knew  about  all of the withdrawals, they were  
still authorised payments  under the PSRs because Mrs I had granted third party  access to 
the carers. 
It follows that Barclays wouldnt be liable  to refund any of the money in dispute.
Did Barclays do all it could to help protect Mrs I?
Whilst Im satisfied  the transactions on Mrs Is account were  authorised  for the purposes of 
the PSRs, that isnt the end of the story. Barclays has a duty of care to its customers  to help 
protect them from financial  harm.  So, did Barclays do this in Mrs Is case  and if not, would it 
have made  a difference?
Ref: DRN52425134Sadly, we cant get Mrs Is testimony  to help us determine what happened.  And Mrs L and 
Mrs W werent present when the transactions were taking place, so they themselves cant 
know exactly what happened either. And key here,  Mrs L and Mrs W cant  know for certain  
what amount is in dispute. They  have  their suspicions the carers were taking more  than they 
shouldve been  and have pointed to the differing amounts on the cheque  stubs as evidence. 
But without Mrs Is testimony,  Im afraid  there  are a lot of unknowns  surrounding this 
complaint.  
Having reviewed Mrs Is statements back to 1998,  I can see she has always  used cheques 
as her main  method of payment. From at least the mid 2000s she was issuing several 
cheques a week and often for large amounts. I think the change  in later years  is that the 
amount of larger cheques starts to increase. Although Mrs I was of sound mind,  she was still 
vulnerable given her physical  condition. Barclays were on notice  of this vulnerability and so 
should take even more  care in these situations. 
However, the issue I have  here is that even  if I was to conclude Barclays  shouldve taken 
steps to contact Mrs I about the payments out of her account, I cant  make a finding of fact 
without Mrs Is testimony, that it wouldve made a difference.  
I understand Mrs L and Mrs W have said Mrs I may not have outwardly shown she was 
under duress, but she was never left alone  by her carers and relied  on them  for all her 
needs. But in her statement to the police Mrs W also explained how closed Mrs I was to her 
carers. She explained  that Mrs I took her carers  and their husbands on holidays, brought  
them gifts,  loaned them  money and paid them a substantial wage for their services. Mrs I 
and her carers socialised  and spent a great deal of time together,  and Mrs I herself lived an 
expensive lifestyle. This all wouldve cost money.  And so, all the spending from her account  
couldve been legitimate, both to pay the carers for their services, as well as fund her own 
lifestyle.  
We have evidence that a selection  of cheques had differing  amounts to the stubs,  but again 
we dont have  any clear explanation for this. It could be the carer altered these without Mrs 
Is knowledge, but it could also be an admin  error  or something Mrs I knew about.  
Given this, without Mrs Is testimony around  exactly how much  she wanted her carers to 
withdraw or the purpose  of these payments, it wouldnt be fair for me to hold Barclays liable 
for any of the spending on the account. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint against Barclays  Bank UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 February 2021.
Sarah Brimacombe 
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5242513