K822xcomplaint
Mr H complained that he might have  suffered  a financial loss due to an error  made  by
Alliance Trust  Savings Limited  (ATS) on his account.
background 
I set out the background  to Mr Hs complaint in my provisional decisions.  Ill summarise it 
again here.
Mr Hs advisers  input  trade instructions on the ATS platform on 24 November 2016. 
However, due to an error with the system, the trades  were  not completed  when they were  
requested. ATS stated  that they noticed  the error  in January 2017 and attempted  to correct 
it. As a result, they added £13,336.10 to Mr Hs account. They stated  this was not the loss 
that he suffered  as it included a 5% buffer,  which belonged to them.  The loss Mr H suffered 
amounted to £7,074.75. And so, £6,288.35  that was initially added to his account would 
need to be removed.
ATS admitted that they made another error about  the number of units  purchased  in one of 
the funds within Mr Hs account, CF Trojan Income fund. As a result, it made a further 
adjustment to Mr Hs account  during  March  2017.  ATS emailed  Mr H confirming the above 
on 21 September 2017. They clarified that they would be removing £6,288.35 from his 
account and they would  pay him £100 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused him.
On 4 October 2017, ATS emailed Mr H informing  him that they have purchased
additional units in the CF Trojan Income  fund to the value of £4,278.75. Further, they
confirmed that they will be paying him £487.57 to his account in dividends  he was entitled
to. So, instead  of removing £6,288.35 from his account, it would in fact be
removing £1,522.03, taking into account  the above  payments. ATS emailed Mr H on 9 
October 2017 confirming  the above. It had decided to pay Mr H an additional £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter had caused  him, bringing the total to £200. Mr Hs 
was still unsure whether ATS had put him back in the position he would have been in had 
the initial error not occurred on 24 November 2016.  
One of our adjudicators investigated this complaint  and felt it should be upheld.  He received 
an up to date calculation  from ATS,  which, confirmed that the amount it would be removing 
from Mr Hs account is £4,265.43. He stated that based on the information he has received, 
it appears that ATS have put Mr H back in the position he would have been in, had they not 
made the initial error after they deducted the £4,265.43 from his account.
He added that due to the errors ATS have made,  they should pay him a further  £300  for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him. This was on top of the £200 they 
had already paid him. ATS accepted  the adjudicators findings and following further 
discussions, so did Mr Hs representatives.  As such,  the adjudicator issued an offer letter  to 
Mr H for the £300 distress  and inconvenience  payment.  
Following the offer letter, Mr Hs representatives stated they had misread the adjudicators  
view and they dont  want ATS to deduct anything further from his account  and have 
requested an ombudsman review.
Ref: DRN52503662I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.   There are a significant number of calculations to 
consider due to errors, that ATS have acknowledged were made, in attempting to correct the 
delay in the trading instructions Mr Hs advisers  gave them.
I said I sympathised with Mr H and his advisers  when  they say they are unsure if ATS have 
put Mr H back in the position  he would  have been in had they carried  out the initial  trading 
instruction when it was given. It is not surprising as ATS confirmed and then redacted  their 
confirmation of a correction on more than one occasion. 
I looked at our adjudicators view and found the further deduction ATS wanted  to make was 
made clear but I can understand that Mr H and his advisers have  objected  given they are still 
not sure if ATS are making  the correct calculations on Mr Hs account.
I looked at the calculations  Alliance  provided and from what Ive seen, the email  ATS sent,  in 
October 2017, confirming  an amount of £1,522.03 would be need  to be repaid  omitted  to 
take account of the fact that an incorrect unit price had been used.
ATS said:
Our representative did state Alliance Trust Savings (ATS) would be removing £1522.03 
(estimate) and £1,526.33  (actual) from Mr Hs account. But, an incorrect  unit price for LF 
Trojan Income O Inc Fund was used in this calculation, buy price  of 2.3921 instead of 1.8301 
which resulted in a difference of £4,146.92  in the Cost to purchase total.
The original  estimate  for LF Trojan had a total  cost of units  of £16,730.72 based on the 
incorrect price  used,  the actual cost should have been £12,583.80  for the 6,876.02  units  
purchased. Due to the incorrect  price quoted, not enough units were purchased at that point 
therefore, a further  2260.3 units were required at an additional cost of £4,274.45, which 
totalled £16,858.26 (actual cost).
The ATS representative didnt allow for the fact the incorrect price  had been quoted. The 
cost of purchasing  the additional units was deducted  from the compensation payment to be 
removed from the clients  account again  in error.  So ATS assert an amount of £4,670.41  is 
still outstanding  and needs  to be deducted from Mr Hs account. This is a based  on the 
assumption the starting figure was £159,621.06. This will then put Mr H back  in the position  
he would  have been in had the trading instruction been carried  out when it was given.  
Mr Hs representatives have referred to a starting  figure of £146,769.87. ATS have  said they 
did not know this and there is no reference  to this lower  amount on any of the 
correspondence. But, if this were to be the case, the deficit  and associated deduction would 
be even greater and amount to on or around  £13,500.00.
ATS have provided a statement  that confirms the starting balance of £159,621.06. Mr Hs 
advisers have subsequently  said they cant be sure whether this is correct  or not. In the 
absence of any other definitive information Im persuaded the starting amount of 
£159,621.06 is the correct basis for the calculations to determine what the value should  have 
been had the trading instruction been  carried out at the time it was given.
Having clarified  the starting  figure, I then looked at the dispute between  the parties 
concerning the deduction ATS still want to make from Mr Hs account. I have carefully 
reviewed the calculations provided  by ATS. I said I found  the manner in which  ATS went  
about attempting  to correct the delay  in carrying out their instructions more complex than 
Ref: DRN52503663they needed to be. I said this because the element of a buffer  value in an attempt to 
rebalance the funds  coupled with the errors in calculating  the correct unit price has 
effectively provided incorrect statements of what ATS have requested to deduct  from Mr Hs 
account. So, its really  not surprising then that both Mr H and his representatives have  
struggled to understand how ATS has reached its figures.
I reviewed the calculations provided  by ATS carefully and I agree that they are within  their 
rights to make a deduction from Mr Hs account.  When looking to put Mr H back  in the 
position he would have  been in had the transfer  been carried out on the date requested 
there is no certainty  that this would put Mr H in an advantageous position. In this case, the 
additional funding ATS credited to his account to act as a buffer  exceeded the amount Mr 
H was actually due. This was further  complicated by dividend  payments that were  payable  to 
Mr H. I said I was persuaded  from my review of the calculations  provided the amount ATS 
are seeking  to deduct of £4,670.41 is correct.
I agreed the outcome must be very disappointing for Mr H and accept that ATS have  failed 
to provide him with the level of customer service  or clarity he should have expected  from his 
provider. They have also made  a number of errors, which have exacerbated the situation 
and caused  Mr H a great deal of distress and inconvenience.  Considering  this, I said I 
intended to increase the award  for the trouble and upset Mr H has been caused to £750.  I 
also said I intended to ask ATS to honour  their offer of a fee free transfer for a period of 
three months from the issue of any final decision in relation to this compla
I proposed  to uphold  this complaint and ask Alliance Trust Savings Limited to :
pay £750 less £200 already paid for distress and inconvenience.
award Mr H a fee free transfer  period  for three months from the date of the final 
decision.
I invited ATS and Mr H to respond.
ATS had no further  comments to make.
Mr Hs representatives reluctantly accepted the findings but responded with mixed  feelings. 
They were  pleased that the delays  in the process,  the lack of documentation and the 
repeated errors ATS made have been recognised. But they argue this a pyrrhic victory  
They feel Mr H has ended  up out of pocket despite  being vindicated and are very 
disappointed with the outcome, but they want to draw a line under the whole matter and so 
are accepting the outcome of my decision  on this basis
my findings
I thank both Mr H and ATS for their responses to my provisional  decision. Ive re-considered  
all the available  evidence  and arguments afresh to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I appreciate this has been a long drawn  out and frustrating experience for Mr H and I can 
see his representatives  have worked  tirelessly  on his behalf to secure the best outcome for 
him. I would also like to reassure Mr Hs representatives that I have carefully considered  all 
the information and evidence available,  including the calculation they provided to this service 
in October 2018.
Ref: DRN52503664The starting point  here is the manner in which ATS went about trying  to correct the error they 
thought they might have made.  Instead  of calculating the actual loss and then correcting it, 
they credited Mr Hs account  with a value, they describe as a buffer . When all the 
calculations, and subsequent errors, had been corrected, ATS had effectively over credited 
the account and then needed to claw some of that credit back.
Its also important to note that when recalculating unit values back  to a given  date it doesnt  
always follow that this will be advantageous to Mr H. That would depend  on a number of 
factors including the market performance  and unit values  at the actual time, which  could be 
higher or lower, than at the time of the initial transaction.
The calculations Mr Hs third party representatives  provided had a lower starting figure, and 
as I said earlier in my provisional decision, had I used those figures  the deduction would 
have been significantly  greater. The third party representatives were  happy to accept the 
higher starting  figure and I think it was clear that both sets of calculations had been 
scrutinised to reach the correct outcome.
I appreciate Mr Hs representatives feel aggrieved that ATS are able to make any deduction 
from his account  but its important  to understand my role here.
This service does not seek  to fine or punish a business for any errors  made  but where they 
have been made, my role is to put Mr H back in the position he would have been in had it not 
done so, and to award fair and reasonable redress for any trouble and upset the matter  has 
caused. 
ATS credited Mr Hs account with more funds than it should have done as it attempted,  albeit 
unusually and in a somewhat complicated  manner to correct its mistakes.  Its only fair and 
reasonable then that they should be allowed to recover that overpayment.  But there is no 
doubt that the trouble  and upset this has caused  Mr H could largely have been avoided  and 
its also fair and reasonable that M H is compensated for that.
I think given Mr Hs experience it is also understandable he would  want to move  his account 
to another provider  and Im persuaded he should be allowed to do so at no further cost to 
himself.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Alliance Trust Savings Limited to :
pay £750 less £200 already paid for distress and inconvenience.
award Mr H a fee free transfer  period  for three months from the date of the final 
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5250366