K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  that IG Index Limited (the business)  has stolen money from his ISA 
stockbroking account by producing false and incorrect statements. 
In short  he says the balance brought  forward and balance carried  forward  on his trade 
statements dont match. He fears the business  will amend this manually without  addressing 
the discrepancy, causing him to lose money. 
background 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and made the following key points:
The missing trade  appears in the trading history provided by the business.
If Mr L remains unhappy  he may want to specify which trades he says are missing. 
Its not for us to decide if a particular  document is likely to stand up in court.
Although Mr L is unhappy  about  the frequency of the statements  sent every time 
theres a trading activity  its not for us to tell the business  how to operate. 
If Mr L continues to be unhappy he can move to another platform. 
For the delays  in rectifying  the issue raised  in June 2018 shes suggested the 
business pay £150 compensation for trouble  and upset which it has agreed to.  
Mr L disagreed with the investigators view, and virtually  everything she said. In short he 
made the following key observations:
The business hasnt  rectified its mistake  and hasnt  produced  legally binding 
documents. He says the document is useless unless it has other  information  such  as 
dividends, charges, monies paid into and out of the account  much like a bank 
statement. 
The statement didnt include the sale of the Twilio  shares and therefore all the 
balances of all subsequent trades  are incorrect. And theres no way to reconcile his 
true account  balance.  
If the business hasnt already stolen £2,500 from him it can do so in future, without 
him knowing. 
Just because the business has provided  documentation with the missing Twilio 
shares doesnt mean the balance is correct.  
The business can rectify this situation by producing correct statements.  Thats  all 
hes asking for so that he can reconcile the balance. 
By letting  the business get away with this, were allowing  it to get away  with 
potentially defrauding thousands of customers.  
The £150 redress is totally inadequate. 
If the situation wasnt resolved hed contact the industry regulator, his MP and go to 
the press. 
Having considered the additional points the investigator wasnt  persuaded to change her 
mind. She said the business should pay £150  for the delays  caused  and that it wasnt for us 
to force  a business to change the way it operates. 
Mr L disagreed with the investigators view. In summary he said:
Ref: DRN55495842The investigator has deliberately misunderstood  his complaint  he wasnt forcing  the 
business to change the way it operates. 
He maintains the business stole money  from him and it hasnt provided any evidence  
that would  suggest  it hasnt.
He would like the business to produce the statements accurately so he can see that it 
hasnt stolen money. If it cant, it shows it has stolen close  to £2,500. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint but only in so far as the trouble and upset caused by the 
delays.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ls strength of feeling  about  this matter. 
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr L and the business, and reach what  I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
I note Mr L says he sold part of the Twilio shares   70 out of the 147 shares  but the 
statement the next day did not show the sale. But I note the shares were deducted on the 
statement which showed 77 shares. Which means the sale didnt just go through without a 
trace.
Im also satisfied that the business was aware of Mr Ls complaint, and accepts that the 
omission of the particular  trade was an error on its part. And that it was taking steps to rectify  
the position and hoped  Mr L would  be patient. 
So, in the circumstances Im unable to say that the business has behaved dishonestly or has 
taken steps to steal Mr Ls money and possibly cover its tracks. 
I note Mr L isnt convinced  that the business  has produced legally binding  documents. Hes 
not made it entirely  clear what he means by this. But Ive seen no legal requirement for 
trading statements to show details of dividends,  charges and monies  in and out, much  like a 
bank statement. In other words, just because his account statements dont display this 
information doesnt mean theyre not legal. 
Ref: DRN55495843Im also not considering how other  businesses might  format trading statements  its 
possible other businesses  have the information Mr L would like it to show.  But if he is 
unhappy and unable to continue trading through the business he might want  to consider 
going with another entity that produces statements that are to his liking.  
On balance Im satisfied the document(s)  in question represent what the business says is a 
reflection of the trading  history. I also think its likely to be in a form that is the same for all its 
customers and not just Mr L. And its not relevant to my consideration whether or not this 
document is likely  to stand-up in court. But I see no reason why it wouldnt,  as its part of the 
business case of what it says happened with the trades.
I note the investigator  concluded that the business  has subsequently rectified the error.  I 
appreciate Mr L disagrees with this but I dont  think its an unreasonable conclusion in the 
circumstances. The business  has provided  Mr L with a ledger summary that contains the 
missing trade, that wasnt recorded previously. 
I note Mr L remains dissatisfied  and he says that a manual amendment isnt enough. But the 
business has said it cant re-print the old statements,  which I dont think is unreasonable if 
its unable to do it. I think any concerns Mr L has of foul play or dishonesty, ought reasonably 
to be allayed by the provenance of these  documents and also this decision.   
Im conscious it took the business some  time to deal with the issue,  so Im not persuaded 
that it was just a simple  matter of amending the details manually, and tallying up the 
numbers later, as suggested by Mr L. 
 
I appreciate he remains  deeply unhappy  about the format of the statements. Whilst I cant 
ask the business to change the nature and format  of its statements, I think  it has 
endeavoured to provide him with answers. Although  it may be useful to explain to Mr L again 
why his calculations  arent correct,  thereby  putting  to bed any concerns he has of dishonesty 
and theft. 
Im mindful of Mr Ls comments about  the proposed £150 compensation but I think its 
broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  I dont think the business  delayed matters 
deliberately or in an effort to deny Mr L his right to refer his complaint to us. 
It seems  to me it was simply trying to rectify the matter. And despite what Mr L suspects  Ive 
seen no evidence of actual loss to his statements. In other  words,  Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that the business has stolen £2,500 from Mr Ls trading account. If he wishes to 
escalate this complaint  to one of theft, as hes suggested a number of times,  hell need to do 
that with the police and not our service. 
I appreciate Mr L will be unhappy  Ive reached  the same conclusion  as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isnt what he wants to hear.  Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require  the business to do anything more.
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance,  Im unable  to uphold  this complaint 
and give Mr L what he wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN55495844IG Index Limited should pay £150  compensation for trouble and upset caused by the delay. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5549584