K820x#14The complaint
Mrs H says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a Total  Mortgage  
Protection Plan (TMPP) policy in 2002,  with her mortgage. 
What happened
A TMPP  is a type of protection policy which typically includes mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) together with other features,  such as life insurance and critical illness cover 
(CIC). The individual elements of the TMPP can be added or taken out as the consumer 
wishes. 
Mrs H was covered for all elements of the TMPP  PPI, life and CIC. Halifax  has refunded  
the premiums Mrs H paid for the life cover  element  of the policy.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Did Mrs H agree to the TMPP?
Halifax should have  made Mrs H aware  the TMPP was optional. 
These events were obviously a long time ago now. We dont have much documentary 
evidence to refer to because Halifax no longer has any copies. This is unfortunate, but not 
particularly unusual given  how long ago the sale was.
However, Ive looked at the main points  of complaint put forward by Mrs H. The key one is 
that she was told it was essential to take the TMPP to have the mortgage approved.  Whilst I 
accept this may well be her genuine belief now, weve seen quite a few similar  sales  to this 
from that time period. And as a result, weve looked in detail at what Halifaxs  sales  
processes were like.
We know for example  that consumers were  normally  sent or given a letter about the types 
of cover theyd agreed to at the mortgage  interview. This usually set out that consumers, 
like Mrs H, had accepted  the recommendation to have certain, or all, elements of the TMPP 
policy.
We were also sent some  screenshots of Halifaxs internal computer system. Ive seen  
quite a few of these  before and I also know from experience  that they show, as in this case,  
that Mrs H was asked several  questions  relating  to the cover shed agreed to buy. Because 
I think what was keyed  into the Halifax computer system, would have been done at the time 
of the mortgage  interview  I think its most likely  all aspects of the TMPP were  probably 
discussed in some detail.  
Ref: DRN56126242Finally, I can see that all elements of the policy was sold to Mrs H. This further leads me to 
think she discussed different forms of protection with Halifax  and took the level of cover  
most suitable for her circumstances.
So overall, I think its more likely  Mrs H agreed to the TMPP at the time of the mortgage 
interview and sale.  
Was Mrs H given suitable recommendations?
Halifax accepts it recommended the TMPP to Mrs H. So, it had to make  sure it was suitable 
for her.
Looking at everything, I agree with our adjudicators findings that Halifax should have sold 
Mrs H a decreasing term assurance, instead  of a level term assurance.  This is because  her 
outstanding mortgage debt was being gradually reduced  so her life and CIC cover should 
have reflected this over time too. I can see that Halifax has already refunded the premiums 
paid for the life element  of the policy, so I wont  be making any more  findings on this part of 
the policy.  
So, we asked Halifax to see how much it would have cost had it sold Mrs H the correct term 
assurance, to make  sure Mrs H hasnt lost out. Halifax  has provided evidence  to show that 
the decreasing  term assurance would have been  more expensive, so Mrs H hasnt been  
financially disadvantaged by taking the level term assurance for the CIC policy.   
Mrs H says she had good sick and redundancy benefits from her employer as well as 
substantial savings. But the PPI element of the policy would have  paid out alongside her 
employee benefits. And having the PPI would have meant she could  have used her savings  
for their intended use. Mrs H was relatively young at the time and not uncommonly, she 
was taking on a mortgage  on her own - which I think would have been a long-term 
commitment for her. 
The CIC cover  was designed to help her cope with unforeseen or sudden financial  
uncertainty and I dont  think  it was unreasonable that Halifax recommended this element as 
part of the overall TMPP policy. Ive noted  Mrs Hs comments about the fact her father would 
have helped out had she not been  able to work.  And whilst I dont doubt he would have 
wanted to help, circumstances can change, and this kind of help cant  be guaranteed. So, 
this point doesnt change my decision. 
For the PPI element, I also think the recommendation that she take this was suitable. Mrs H 
appears to have been eligible for the PPI cover and not affected by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these policies. I can see that Mrs H has told us about a pre-
existing condition she suffered from at the time the policy  was sold. Ive carefully  reviewed 
the terms of the policy and I can see that because the PPI was taken out at the time Mrs H 
took out her mortgage, her pre-existing condition would have been covered. 
Her mortgage was also secured against  her home and so the consequences of her not 
being able to make the repayments could have  been serious. The PPI policy,  on the other 
hand, was designed to pay a monthly  sum for up to 24 months if she had needed to claim.  
Was she given enough information?
Ref: DRN56126243During the sale Halifax shouldve provided information which was clear.  I cant  say Mrs H 
was told or given all the information she should have been, but I think  she would have been 
easily able to see how much the TMPP cost and what was covered. I think  she would have 
also been given  a copy of the policy rules.
Having carefully considered this case,  I think its much more  likely that Mrs H tailored the 
TMPP cover  to suit her needs of the time.  I think she probably agreed to the elements  of 
the cover  because it was something she thought would be useful to have. 
All this means I dont  think Mrs H has lost out by anything Halifax  might  have  done  wrong.  
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give Mrs H some of the commission she 
paid back. The Supreme  Court ruling,  and rules and guidance dont apply to certain types of 
mortgage agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mrs Hs mortgage became a 
regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008  they dont apply. So, Halifax  doesnt  need to refund 
any of the commission  Mrs H paid for the PPI she had with that mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February  2021.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5612624