K821x#15complaint
Miss C says PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about five instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Miss C between  January 
2018 and September 2018. The loans were  for three or six month  terms. This is a summary 
of Miss Cs lending history from Mr Lender. 
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 01/01/2018 11/05/2018 500
2 19/05/2018 30/07/2018 400
3 01/08/2018 10/08/2018 680
4 16/08/2018 30/08/2018 200
5 22/09/2018 30/10/2018 200
Our adjudicator thought loan 5 shouldnt have been given. Mr Lender didnt agree, so the 
complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN57695342There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Miss C could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator that there was nothing to indicate  Mr Lender needed to do more  
when it approved loans 1 to 4. It carried out proportionate checks  and there was nothing  in 
the information it gathered that I think should have led it to make different lending  decisions. 
So I dont  think Mr Lender was wrong to give loans  1 to 4 to Miss C.
However I dont think Mr Lender carried out proportionate checks  for loan 5. Had it done so it 
would have seen  there were  clear signs that Miss C was struggling  to manage her money.  
When Miss C applied  she already had three  other active short term loans. I think Mr Lender 
ought to have realised that her finances  were under pressure and it was most likely  Miss C 
was just borrowing  to pay off other loans. So loan 5 was unlikely to be sustainably affordable 
for Miss C. By this stage she had taken  out four loans, each time within  less than 10 days  
after settling a previous loan. So Mr Lender ought  to have known that Miss C was most  likely 
not borrowing  to meet a temporary shortfall  in her income but to meet an ongoing need. At 
this point I think Mr Lender  should have stopped lending to Miss C. 
I have carefully considered Mr Lenders response  to our adjudicators view. It said, in 
summary, Miss C confirmed she wasnt in financial difficulties when she applied for loan 5; 
there was no increase  in lending and there was a gap of a month between  loans  4 and 5; the 
loan was affordable  given  Miss Cs disposable  income and taking into account  her other loan 
repayments; and Miss C repaid loan 5 early  contrary to the adjudicators finding that she 
couldnt repay it sustainably.
But these  points do not change my conclusion.  As Ive set out, if Mr Lender  had carried  out 
proportionate checks and better  understood Miss Cs financial circumstances, I think it ought  
to have realised she was having  problems  managing her money, and was most likely to be 
unable to sustainably  repay loan 5. 
Its argument that she repaid loan 5 early  in full is not evidence that her borrowing was 
sustainable. Whilst early  repayment  can in some  circumstances be the sign of stable or 
improving finances,  equally someone  may be borrowing to repay  so on its own it is not a 
safe indicator  of financial stability. And I disagree  that the 23-day gap between  loans 4 and 5 
was long enough for Mr Lender to conclude that Miss Cs finances  had stabilised after 
Ref: DRN57695343whatever the circumstances  that had caused  her to take out her previous loans. The 
repayment of loan 5 may have appeared affordable on a strict pounds  and pence basis, but 
for the reasons I have  set out I think proportionate  checks would have shown it was unlikely 
Miss C could sustainably  repay the loan.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 5 and Mr Lender should  put things right. 
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss C paid on loan 5;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loan 5 from Miss Cs credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest.  Mr Lender must give 
Miss C a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Cs complaint. PDL Finance 
Limited (trading as Mr Lender) should pay Miss C compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February  2020. 
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5769534