K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about the quality of the new car he acquired via a hire purchase 
agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited  (MBFS).  He says that 
hes had issues with the costs of hire cars and lack of a courtesy car when the car has 
been at the garage. Mr R also says that the cars  price was over inflated  when he first took 
out the agreement.
background
In June 2016  Mr R acquired a new car under  a personal contract plan with MBFS. The 
plan was for 48 months  at the end of which Mr R could either return  the car or pay the 
optional purchase  price of £6050 and keep the car.
In November  2017 Mr R experienced a problem  with the tailgate/boot lock which  wouldnt 
lock or alternatively at times wouldnt open.  The car was taken  to a dealership and the lock 
replaced. The repair took longer than expected and although Mr R was provided  with a 
free hire car for part of that period he also had to cover some of the rental car costs 
himself.
Mr R says that the problem with the tailgate/boot lock re-occurred and that the tailgate  
would sometimes open while  he was driving. He took the car back  to the dealership that 
had provided the car but although they had the car for a few days  they werent able to 
replicate the fault and said there wasnt an issue with the lock. No repair work was carried  
out.
Mr R complained to MBFS and said he wanted to reject the car. Mr R said the fault with 
the cars  tailgate/boot lock was dangerous and could invalidate his insurance  if a claim 
arose and it was known  the car had a problem with its locks.
MBFS didnt uphold  Mr Rs complaint. It said the car had only been repaired twice. The first 
time in June  2017 for a minor software  issue and then in November 2017 for the boot lock. 
It said that all cars develop faults  over time which was why the car came with a three year 
warranty. It said there  wasnt any evidence the car hadnt been fit for purpose or had an 
inherent fault at the point  of sale. It recommended that if Mr R experienced further problems 
with the boot/tailgate lock he should  take the car back  to a dealership to be investigated.
Mr R complained to this service. He said that MBFS wasnt interested in fixing  the problem 
with the boot and he wanted  to reject  the car. He felt let down about how both of the 
dealerships had arranged the courtesy  cars when the car had been  at the garage  for 
repairs. He also said that he believed  hed been  mis-sold the car as the car wouldnt be 
worth the optional purchase  price at the end of the contract.  He said he thought the price of 
the car
had been inflated at the start of the agreement.
MBFS offered to have the car independently inspected  and Mr R agreed to that. This 
inspection was carried out in October 2018.  The independent engineer  noted that the car 
had been back  to a dealership in September 2018 when the boot/tailgate had been 
adjusted as the fault had reoccurred.
The independent engineer took the car for a 10 mile test drive and opened the boot 
when the car was static between 20 to 30 times.  The engineer was unable  to replicate 
Ref: DRN59303452the fault and each time the boot opened and closed as expected. The lock parts  were 
noted as being serviceable. The engineer  said that the fault appeared to be intermittent 
but taking account of the age and mileage of the vehicle he was of the opinion that on 
the balance of probabilities that the fault wouldnt have been present at the point of sale 
and was now the responsibility of the manufacturer under the warranty  if the problem 
persisted.
The adjudicator upheld Mr Rs complaint.  He said that he noted the fault was considered 
fixed when the car went back  in September 2018,  and although Mr R had reported there 
had been one further incident with the boot, it didnt appear any further  work  had been  
carried out. However, the adjudicator noted that Mr R suggested that, from past experience, 
it was likely the fault would get worse over time again.
The adjudicator said he considered Mr R had grounds on which to reject the car. Mr R has 
owned the car since new and by November 2018  had driven  it for 15,668  miles. But Mr R 
shouldve been  able to rely on it car being durable enough for faults not to develop over 
this time. Just because it took 18 months for the fault to develop didnt mean the car was 
automatically of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
He also said that Mr R had given  MBFS an opportunity to fix the car but it didnt appear  
to have solved  the problem. The fault with the boot was potentially  dangerous and 
serious enough to impact on everyday use.
The adjudicator said the MBFS should reimburse Mr R for the two days hed had to pay for 
a hire car while his own car was being repaired in November 2017.  But he didnt agree the 
car had been  mis-sold. He acknowledged the optional purchase  price may end up being  
more than the car is worth,  but noted  it was never  a guarantee of the value of the car on the 
open market.  It was the value MBFS attributed to the car in relation to the financial 
agreement. He thought  Mr R had agreed  an acceptable price for the car at the start of the 
agreement.
The adjudicator said Mr R should  now be able to reject the car; have  the finance 
agreement ended with nothing further  to pay; that MBFS should reimburse Mr R one 
months payment  as compensation for the times  hed been  unable to drive the car - for the 
loss of enjoyment as well as the distress  and inconvenience caused by the faulty boot; 
together with the two days rental car costs.
Mr R agreed with the adjudicators view but MBFS disagreed.  It said that Mr R hadnt  raised  
an issue with the boot for 18 months  and under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the burden 
to show the car was of unsatisfactory condition  now rested with him. And Mr R had failed to
provide evidence to support  his claims.  It said neither the dealerships  nor the 
independent engineer had been  able to replicate the fault and any repairs  had been 
carried out as a speculative measure. MBFS said the purpose of the warranty  was to fix 
issues that arose during  the vehicles natural life cycle.
As the parties  werent able to agree, the complaint was passed to me. I issued a 
provisional decision along the following lines. 
From the evidence Id seen, the difficulties Mr R had with the boot/tailgate  lock didnt arise 
until hed had the car for around 18 months. The problem was also not a constant  one but 
intermittent. Mr R said hed been reduced  to tying the boot up to the passenger seat so that 
it didnt open while he was driving  along  as that had happened.  Hed also sent MBFS a 
Ref: DRN59303453video of him repeatedly trying to close the boot while the car was stationary, though  it had 
eventually caught.
MBFS said the problem with the boot hasnt been  replicated by either of the dealerships 
whod inspected the car. The repairs to the locks  had been precautionary only.  Id seen 
that the independent  engineer also found the boot and its parts  to be fully operational 
when hed examined them. The engineer opened  and closed the boot on numerous  
occasions in an effort to trigger  the fault, as well as taking  the car out on a test drive, but 
wasnt able to find any fault.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  says that a car must be of satisfactory  quality and fit for 
purpose at the point of sale.  A new car would be expected to be fault free. If a fault 
developed within the first six months  from the point  of sale then the onus rests  with the 
supplier to show the car was of satisfactory  condition when it was sold but after six months  
this burden shifts on to the buyer to show  the car was faulty when sold to them. If a fault was 
found to be present from the point of sale then the seller was given an opportunity to fix it. If 
it cant be fixed then the buyer can reject  the car. However if a fault arises from wear  and 
tear then the supplier wasnt liable for that.
The issue  for me to decide was whether Mr Rs car had an inherent fault with the 
boot/tailgate lock. Mr R said the problem arose once or twice a week  and has provided 
three short video  clips of the issue. But although the fault appeared to be a fairly frequent  
occurrence it hasnt  been experienced by the dealerships or the independent engineer  who 
had all tested the car. Id seen that the dealerships  had the car in for a few days and the 
independent engineer subjected it to some  fairly  robust testing. Id also noted that Mr R 
said that the frequency of the problem had reduced following the cars last visit to the 
dealership in September 2018.  He said on two or three occasions  the boot/tailgate  lock 
had required  closing  several times until the lock catches. It hadnt opened while  the car 
was being driven.
I appreciated Mr Rs concerns that a faulty  locking system might  affect  his insurance, but I 
thought MBFS had taken  the issue seriously as had the dealerships;  the difficulty  was that 
without being  able to replicate the problem then understanding  and/or permanently  fixing it 
was going to be a challenge.
Mr R accepted he had problem-free  driving  for the first 18 months hed had the car. He 
said he appreciated the problem took time to develop and mechanical parts failing over 
time were to be expected.  Mr R said his complaint was about how this has been  handled 
by MBFS. Looking at the videos, I didnt think it was clear what  the problem was with 
closing the boot/tailgate. MBFS had also watched them.  It said that videos werent a 
reliable source for clarifying  an issue of this nature.  It said it was possible that there were 
other reasons the boot/tailgate failed to shut than a faulty lock.
I thought there was insufficient  evidence for me to say that the boot/tailgate lock was 
inherently faulty. This appeared to be an intermittent problem  that has arisen after 18 
months of use. I also didnt think I could say that the work already  carried out on the car 
had failed. Mr R has said its only happened  up to three times since September and 
each time hed been able to shut the boot himself  after a few attempts. I couldnt be 
satisfied the boots failure to lock wasnt due to some inadvertent  action of Mr Rs or due 
to wear and tear. So I didnt think it was reasonable or proportionate  that Mr R could  now 
reject the car. If the problem arose again then he would need to take the car back to the 
garage.
Ref: DRN59303454However, I did think  it was fair that Mr R was reimbursed the cost hed incurred of the hire 
car while his car was being investigated.  I agreed  with our investigator that it wasnt  
unreasonable for Mr R to require a replacement vehicle while his was at the dealership. It 
also seemed hed been told that a free rental car would be provided.
Mr R said he was disappointed with the way his complaint about  the faulty boot lock had 
been handled. But I had to take into account  that neither of the dealerships, nor the 
independent engineer whod looked  at the car, had been able to find a problem. I couldnt 
reasonably say that was poor customer service.  I appreciated  Mr R had had other issues 
with one of the dealerships regarding  his car being damaged when it was taken in for 
repairs but I didnt think it was fair for me to hold BMFS liable for that.
Id also seen there were  delays in contacting Mr R and the car was kept at the garage for 
longer than might have  been necessary. So I thought it was fair for BMFS to reimburse     
Mr R one months payment under the agreement for the distress and inconvenience that 
had been caused to him.
Mr R has also raised the point that he believed the car was mis-sold to him due to the 
amount of the optional purchase  price which would be more than the car was actually 
worth at the end of the agreement. Id seen that this figure was not a guarantee of the 
value of the car on the open market at that time. This figure  was the value  MBFS attributed  
to it in relation to the credit agreement. If Mr R was unhappy with the cost of the car then 
hed been free to reject  the agreement at the start.  I couldnt reasonably say that hed been  
misled as to the cost of the car.
So for the reasons given  above I intended to partially uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R is disappointed that my view isnt the same as the investigator.  He says it would be a 
fair outcome for him to be able to reject  the car or alternatively receive a higher  amount of 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused to him over this matter.
Mr R says that MBFS had refused to look into the issue with his boot until hed complained to 
this service. This had then led to the repair in September  2018 which  had been  successful.  
Hed been forced to drive  a car that was unsafe so hed been  unable to enjoy his driving  
experience.
Mr R also says that as it had always been  agreed  that the car rental fees shouldve been 
repaid the 8% interest  that had now been  added to that sum was inadequate  as 
compensation. He says that a larger sum would now be fair due to the unreasonable  delay in 
reimbursing him that amount.
Mr R says that he has had to drive an unsafe car for 14 months and that MBFS didnt 
provide him with adequate service.  He wishes to reject the car or receive a refund of the 14 
monthly payments.  He says one months payment as compensation isnt proportionate to the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN59303455I appreciated my provisional decision has been a disappointment to Mr R but I havent 
changed my view. Im satisfied from the evidence that the car didnt have an inherent fault 
with the boot/tailgate lock as I dont have any evidence that this fault was either present or 
developing at the point of sale. And so Im unable to say the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality 
when Mr R acquired it.
Mr R says that MBFS hasnt taken his complaint seriously leaving him to drive  a dangerous 
car for many months. But I cant reasonably say that the issue was ignored and not 
investigated. I appreciate  Mr R feels the video evidence  he supplied proves the fault existed. 
But as explained  above, the video wasnt reliable evidence as to what  the cause of the 
boot/tailgate failing to catch was. The problem was investigated but couldnt be replicated at 
either of the garages when the car was taken in to be inspected  or by the independent 
engineer. The repairs carried out to the lock by one of the dealerships  was a precautionary 
measure only and not due to an actual  fault being  found. 
However, I understand that the boot/tailgate  no longer has the same problem following the 
last time it went to the dealership in September 2018. But I dont think  I can reasonably say 
that any repair in September  2018 shows that the problem was ignored prior to that.  Im  
satisfied from what Ive seen that MBFS did take Mr Rs complaint seriously.
So my view remains that it isnt reasonable or proportionate  that Mr R now be allowed to 
reject the car. And I also dont think its reasonable for Mr R to receive back  14 months  worth  
of payments under the agreement. I appreciate Mr R was concerned about the boot/tailgate 
opening while he was driving and that this spoiled his driving experience and caused him 
distress. But as I dont  have enough evidence to say what  caused the boot/tailgate to open 
on occasions I dont  think I can reasonably  say MBFS were responsible for it happening or 
failing to repair it. So I dont think its fair for me to ask MBFS to pay Mr R compensation for 
this period of time. 
However, Im satisfied that the one months  payment is appropriate.  This compensates  Mr R 
for the time he was without the car when  it was unnecessarily kept in the garage longer than 
it shouldve been.  
Mr R has asked for more compensation to reflect the late repayment of the hire car fees.  I 
appreciate that this has been a source  of frustration for Mr R but this is a repayment of a 
sum Mr R paid out as opposed to compensation for distress and inconvenience.  Im unclear  
why it hasnt been repaid yet but the interest of 8% is to ensure Mr R doesnt lose out 
financially for the time he hasnt had this sum. So Im not altering my decision about the 
repayment of the rental fees.
So for the reasons given above  Im partially upholding Mr Rs complaint. Im asking MBFS to 
do the following:
To pay Mr R compensation  equal  to one months  payment under the agreement  for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  by the car being unnecessarily  kept at the 
garage.
To reimburse Mr R the rental car fees of £74.23  together with interest  at the rate of 
8% per year simple  from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN59303456my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im partially  upholding Mr Rs complaint. Im asking Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services UK Limited to do the following:  
To pay Mr R compensation  equal  to one months  payment under the agreement  for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  by the car being unnecessarily  kept at the 
garage.
To reimburse Mr R the rental car fees of £74.23  together with interest  at the rate of 
8% per year simple  from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5930345