K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a Plus packaged bank 
account in 2006. 
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Ws complaint and didnt think HSBC  had mis-sold the 
Plus account. Mr W disagreed and asked  for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ws complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive seen, Im not upholding  Mr Ws complaint. Id 
like to explain the reasons for my decision in more  detail.
Ive firstly  thought about whether Mr W was given  a clear choice in taking this account. At 
this point, it may also help for me to explain that I have to make my decision based on what I 
think is more likely  than not to have happened. When the parties  to a complaint disagree 
about what happened (such as here) and theres a lack of evidence from the time, I have to 
think about what I have  been provided  with, what I do know and the wider  circumstances  at 
the time.  In other words,  what l have  to do, in this case, is decide  what I think  is more likely 
than not to have  happened having  weighed up what both Mr W and HSBC have been able 
to provide me with.  
  
Mr W upgraded to the Plus account from a free one, which  hed had for a significant period 
of time  at least a year. So I dont think that Mr W needed to be offered a free account  again 
for him to have known it was option for him. Ive seen what  Mr W has said about HSBC 
taking advantage of his level of English.  But Mr W appears to have been managing his day 
to day banking activities. And I havent seen anything to suggest  that he asked for any 
correspondence to be sent to him in another language.  So in these circumstances, I simply 
dont have enough here to be able to say that Mr W was taken advantage of, or that he 
wasnt given a choice  in taking the Plus account.   
HSBC says the account was sold in branch during a period of time when it didnt generally 
provide recommendations to consumers. So it doesnt think the Plus account was 
recommended. Equally  I havent seen anything  to suggest that HSBC assessed Mr Ws 
circumstances before selling the Plus account to him, which  it what  shouldve happened  
before any recommendation took place.  So overall  having weighed up everything Ive been  
provided with, I dont think that HSBC recommended the Plus account to Mr W. 
This means  that HSBC didnt have to check whether the Plus account was right for Mr W. 
And it was up to Mr W to do this for himself. I think its likely  Mr W wouldve been told about 
most, if not all, of the benefits on the account in order to make  it appear as attractive as 
possible. After  all HSBC  was trying to persuade  him to take a fee paying account  when he 
most likely knew  he didnt  have to. And the best way to do this wouldve been  by telling him 
about what hed get for the monthly fee. 
Ref: DRN56119942When Mr W was sold the Plus account the main benefits it included  were preferential 
borrowing rates, fee free overseas cash withdrawals and travel  insurance. Mr W had an 
overdraft which he used  and savings which he received a preferential  interest  rate on. So I 
think hes likely to have found  the preferential rates useful. Mr W also used his card abroad 
which means that he travelled and benefitted from the fee free cash  withdrawal benefit too. 
Im open  to the possibility Mr W may not have been  told about all of the significant  features 
and exclusions on all of the insurance benefits. But I havent seen anything in his 
circumstances to say they wouldve been  significantly  affected by any of them. So I dont 
think that clearer information wouldve stopped him taking the account in the first place.
Overall I think  that Mr W did use some  of the benefits included on the Plus account and he 
was eligible for and couldve benefitted  from some  of the others  too. Given all of this and 
while I acknowledge Mr W might not have  been told absolutely everything he needed  to 
know, I think he was told enough to know what he was agreeing to. 
Mr W may now believe he didnt benefit  as much hed initially  hoped and expected to. And 
given what he mayve  since read and heard about  packaged accounts,  I can understand why 
he may believe his account  was mis-sold. But I think he chose to take the account while 
having a reasonable  understanding of what it included. So I want  to reassure Mr W that 
having looked at everything provided  and thought  about what hes said, I dont think that his 
packaged account was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5611994