K820x#14complaint
Miss Fs unhappy about the way Lloyds  Bank  PLC has addressed her in correspondence. 
She says it writes to her using her full first and middle names but she wants it to only use her 
initials for privacy reasons. 
background
Lloyds said in its final response that it cannot  guarantee that all post will come out with just 
Miss Fs initials and surname. Some post may use her full first names. This isnt something it 
can change going  forward.  Miss F is worried about fraud although none has occurred. If 
there is a problem its dedicated fraud  team will assist. It offered Miss F £50 compensation.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said once Miss F had raised her 
complaint. Lloyds couldve been  more  careful  when acknowledging her complaint but it sent 
out a letter  addressed using her full names.  But its offered her £50 compensation which is 
fair. In relation  to other letters  it sends out Lloyds says it cannot stop some from being  sent 
with her full name on them. And hes unable to ask the bank to change  its processes and 
how its systems  are set up.
Miss F remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  She says shes  banked  
with Lloyds for over 40 years and doesnt understand why its changed its system. Her post 
does go missing and shes concerned  about strangers finding out her first names. She 
doesnt understand why Lloyds cant make this adjustment for her.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
I understand Miss Fs frustration at being addressed using her full first names. It may well be 
that Lloyds has at some point in time changed the way it addresses its customers  in some  
letters. But that is a matter for Lloyds and not this Service. We cant interfere in that decision 
or tell Lloyds to change  its processes  or systems. And general  issues  about how the banking 
industry works are a matter for the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
I also recognise Miss Fs concerns about  her privacy and the risk of fraud. But Ive seen 
nothing to suggest her account has been  compromised or that shes  been the victim of 
identity fraud.
Even so Lloyds couldve dealt with Miss F better when she made her complaint. Its 
apologised for addressing  its acknowledgement letter to her using her full first names and 
has offered her £50 compensation. 
Taking everything into account  I think thats fair and I dont think  I can reasonably  ask it to do 
or pay any more.
Overall, although I recognise  Miss Fs frustration, I dont see any compelling reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.  I simply leave it to Miss F to decide,  if she hasnt 
done so already, if she wants  to accept Lloyds offer of £50 compensation.
Ref: DRN56459732my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5645973