K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc wont reimburse him for transactions  he says he 
didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
background
Mr S had a current account with Clydesdale Bank  Plc. In May 2018, he was on a stag 
weekend with 11 others abroad. On 9 May 2018  prior to leaving, he bought some currency  
using his debit  card. This was flagged  as potentially fraudulent and he was sent a text 
message asking him to confirm if the transaction was genuine. Mr S confirmed it was. As a 
result of this, and in line with its usual processes, Clydesdale placed an anti-referral marker 
on the account which meant transactions wouldnt usually be flagged for around a further ten 
days. 
On arrival at his destination, Mr S made a genuine  transaction at the hotel he was staying at. 
Later that evening, he went out with the group  for drinks. Mr S says that at some point in the 
evening, he lost his phone  and his debit  card,  but he doesnt know  when this happened.  He 
admits to having had a few drinks that night and cannot recall the names  of the venues he 
visited. 
At around 00.40  local time, there was an ATM  withdrawal  that Mr S said he thought was him, 
but latterly he doesnt recall. There were then several further  attempted ATM withdrawals  
about an hour later; a number of which were declined for exceeding the daily withdrawal limit 
of £500. There  was a final ATM  withdrawal of around £96 at 01:45 which Mr S has said was 
likely him. Three  minutes later was the beginning of a series of transactions over the next 4-
5 hours  which  were carried out in an adult entertainment venue. The last of these 
transactions was declined  due to an incorrect PIN being used. 
I have set out a table  of the transactions in question and the transactions are shown in GBP  
(and so would have  also been  subject to exchange  rate fees) and at the local time.  
Time Type Description transaction Allowed Disputed
11.13 Chip & PIN Hotel £12.29 Yes No
00.40 Chip & PIN ATM £231.70 Yes unclear
01.39 Chip & PIN ATM £283.63 No  limit exceeded
01.41 Chip & PIN ATM £241 No  limit exceeded
01.44 Chip & PIN ATM £144.81 No  limit exceeded
01.45 Chip & PIN ATM £96.54 Yes unclear
01.48 Contactless Club £9.13 Yes Yes
02.09 Chip & PIN Club £141.44 Yes Yes
02.16 Chip & PIN Club £50.19 Yes Yes
02.31 Chip & PIN Club £54.75 Yes Yes
02.46 Chip & PIN Club £401.52 Yes Yes
03.25 Chip & PIN Club £301.14 Yes Yes
04.25 Chip & PIN Club £501.90 Yes Yes
04.58 Chip & PIN Club £547.53 Yes Yes
05.35 Chip & PIN Club £538.40 Yes Yes
05.59 Chip & PIN Club £702.66 Yes Yes
07.05 Chip & PIN Club £657.03 No  incorrect PIN
Ref: DRN51492762At 07:51 local time, Mr Ss friend called Clydesdale. In this call, the friend explained  that they 
couldnt find Mr S at all and were worried hed been robbed,  so asked if he provided details 
whether a hold could  be placed on the account.  Clydesdale explained a hold couldnt be 
placed on the card, but it could be stopped   which meant Mr S wouldnt be able to use the 
card at all. The friend provided Mr Ss details so the account could be located, and the card 
was stopped as requested. The friend then said:
I understand you cant discuss transactions with me, I dont know  if that is something 
you can have a look at for yourself, if there is anything unusual.  There  probably will 
be a couple of large transactions  last night, of a couple of hundred pounds but just in 
case theres more frequent ones during the night cause  there  shouldnt  be any 
transactions after, maybe, 2 or 3 in the morning. Erm, I wouldnt think  anyway, hes 
been missing for quite  a few hours now which is out of character for him; its just not 
something he does.  
Clydesdale confirmed it couldnt discuss any transactions with him, but also advised that if 
he was concerned the police should  be contacted. The friend confirmed he was already 
thinking of doing that. 
Later that day Mr S got in touch with Clydesdale. He went  through the transactions  he was 
disputing. During  this call he confirmed the ATM  withdrawal of £231.70 was likely him, but he 
disputed all of the transactions in the club, saying he had never heard of it. Clydesdale  
explained this looked like a restaurant or a bar, but it didnt ring any bells for Mr S. He 
queried why he would withdraw cash  and then use his card;  he also explained he had a pre-
paid holiday  card which he had been  using. Mr S was asked  about  his security credentials  
and he explained  he had never  written  his PIN down. The transaction of around  £96 wasnt  
discussed during  this call. 
Later Mr S discussed the transactions with Clydesdales fraud  department. Mr S was told the 
transactions he was disputing  were  actually carried out in an adult entertainment venue and 
he was asked if he had been to that particular nightclub. Mr S said not. He explained he had 
been out for a few drinks,  he had his cash card with him as well as some  cash  and at some  
point in the evening his debit card and phone were  stolen.  He explained he had used the 
same PIN for his cash card that he used for his debit card, but it was not written down 
anywhere. Later during the same call, Mr S admitted  he had been in an adult entertainment 
venue but only for one or two drinks but he still hadnt heard of the club.  Clydesdale  said the 
PIN had been  entered correctly and there were no balance enquiries, and as such  it couldnt 
substantiate the claim as being fraud  and so wouldnt be refunding  the transactions.  
Mr S complained about the outcome, as he was initially led to believe the transactions  would 
be refunded, a replacement card wasnt requested  when it should have been,  and he wasnt 
happy with the service  provided by one call handler.  Clydesdale upheld the complaint about  
being misled about  the outcome, the delay in the card being requested and the service  
provided and offered  £20 compensation. Mr S appealed that and Clydesdale agreed it hadnt  
offered sufficient compensation and this was upped to £150  in total. It also said that a 
chargeback request to the merchant  would be arranged and the fraud team  would be back  in 
contact once the outcome of that was known. 
When Mr S didnt  hear back,  he complained  again. Clydesdale upheld  his complaint that he 
hadnt been told the outcome of the chargeback process (which  wasnt  successful). It offered 
£200 for the delay (so compensation now totalled £350). It also reimbursed  the transaction  
of £141.44 (and the foreign purchase fee) that took place at 02:09 as it said it had made an 
Ref: DRN51492763error during the chargeback process  in relation  to that transaction. Its my understanding  
Mr S hasnt accepted  any of the compensation offers  made.  
Our investigator upheld  Mr Ss complaint. He concluded that Mr S had likely been  shoulder 
surfed at the ATM and following that a thief stole his card (and phone)  and made the 
subsequent transactions. So he asked Clydesdale to reimburse the disputed transactions. 
Clydesdale is satisfied  the transactions were carried out by Mr S and so disagreed.  The 
matter has now been referred to me for review and determination.   
Additional relevant information about events are as follows:
Mr S acknowledged  that a fair amount of alcohol had been consumed that night. 
Mr S says that he returned  to the hotel  with the group and it was then that he 
discovered his card and phone  were missing. 
Mr S, however, also reports that one of the group had been assaulted that night 
when returning  to the hotel with another, and he wasnt with them when this 
happened. 
Having discovered  his card and phone were missing, Mr S says he retraced his steps  
while his friend called Clydesdale to cancel  his card. Mr S hasnt been able to provide 
any explanation  as to why what he is telling  us now is very different to what the friend 
reported to Clydesdale when the card was cancelled. 
Mr S cant recall  the name of the venues  he went  to that night  (and he didnt give the 
names of any venues during the fraud  calls). And although he admitted to being in an 
adult entertainment  venue, he was sure this wasnt the club named as payee. 
The friend said there shouldnt have been any transactions after 03:00, and his call to 
Clydesdale was made at just after 07:00. When asked for his whereabouts during 
this time, Mr S said he wouldnt have been  retracing his steps for this long. He also 
said the timings with the calls could be wrong as it may have  been  him who called 
and not his friend. 
During Clydesdales consideration of the transactions,  Mr S confirmed the first ATM 
was likely him. But during  our consideration of his complaint, Mr S doesnt  think he 
would have withdrawn  that amount and its more  likely  the last ATM transaction was 
carried out by him. 
I issued my provisional decision on 29 March 2021  explaining why I wasnt  minded to uphold 
this complaint and find that Clydesdale had already made a fair offer to resolve it. 
Clydesdale has confirmed  it has paid Mr S £350.  Mr S explained to our investigator that he 
was unhappy  with the outcome. In summary, he was told the bank would attempt a 
chargeback but this never happened. He also says the business wouldnt have been able 
say it was him as it wasnt; and he has never  spent this sort of money and you couldnt  
spend this sort of money.  
As both parties have  responded  to my provisional decision, I can proceed to issue my final 
decision. 
Ref: DRN51492764my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered what the parties  have said in response to my provisional decision. I was 
aware of the issues surrounding the chargeback process, as had already  been summarised  
in the background above, and accounted for when finding the offer made  by Clydesdale was 
fair, and so these points  dont alter my provisional  findings. As I havent been persuaded to 
alter my provisional findings,  and I make them final, as set out below.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators  rules,  guidance  and standards, the codes of practice;  and, 
where relevant,  what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant times.
The events complained of took place in May 2018, so of particular  relevance  to my 
decision are the Payment Services Regulations  2017 (PSRs)  which  apply to 
transactions like the ones  made from Mr Ss account. Ive considered the relevant 
provisions of the PSRs  alongside the contractual terms  and conditions  of Mr Ss account.
Taking those into account there are two key questions  relevant to my consideration:
1.Were the transactions authorised by Mr S; and
2.If they werent, did Mr S fail with intent or gross negligence to comply  with 
his obligations  under the PSRs, i.e. to comply with the terms and 
conditions of the account, and to keep the personalised security details 
and payment instruments safe?
If I find Mr S made, or otherwise  authorised  the transactions, I dont need to consider 
point 2 above.
The first transaction  in question took place  at 00.40 local time.  Mr S has contradicted  
himself, saying both that this was him, and that he didnt think it was. I appreciate  these 
transactions took place some years  ago, and I understand Mr S had been drinking which 
might make exact recall  difficult. But even when discussing the matter with Clydesdale 
later that day, Mr S was somewhat noncommittal.  So its hard to know  whether  Mr S truly 
disputes this transaction  was carried out by himself. 
What we do know is that the previous  transaction to this was carried  out at the hotel, 
which Mr S did recall.  That was completed  by Chip and PIN. The transaction at the ATM 
was also a Chip and PIN transaction.  If this ATM transaction was carried  out by a thief, it 
means the only place  the PIN could  have been discovered was from the transaction  (as 
Mr S says it wasnt  recorded elsewhere) which took place over 12 hours earlier.   I 
consider such a delay  to be highly unlikely behaviour for a thief;  our experience  is that a 
stolen card would be used as quickly and for as much as possible. If a thief were to wait, 
that risks the card holder  becoming aware  of the theft and cancelling  the card.  It seems 
more likely to me that it was Mr S who made that initial  transaction.  I say this because 
there were no balance enquiries made  before this transaction and no incorrect  PIN 
entries. And when discussing  the transactions with Clydesdale a few hours later,  Mr S 
said this was him. I place  greater weight on what Mr S initially  said to Clydesdale  then, 
which was only a few hours later, than what he recollected to our investigator a few years  
later once the circumstances were  in dispute. 
Ref: DRN51492765About an hour later, there were three attempts to withdraw further  funds. Each of these 
requests were declined  as the daily withdrawal limit would have been exceeded. There  
was then a final,  successful withdrawal of around  £96 at 01:45. I have noted that each of 
the attempts reduced in amount  it would appear that whoever was trying to withdraw  
funds was trying to reach a request that would  be allowed. This can sometimes indicate  a 
card has been stolen as a thief wouldnt necessarily know a particular daily limit. But that 
isnt the only possible explanation. Its equally indicative of someone  that has simply 
forgotten what has been withdrawn before, particularly  when  alcohol  has been consumed.  
There is no indication that wrong PINs were attempted on these occasions. 
Having considered this carefully,  Im persuaded this was also Mr S. I accept it is possible 
his card might have been stolen after the first ATM transaction  and that he was shoulder 
surfed to obtain  the PIN credentials. But an opportunistic thief probably wouldnt wait for 
nearly an hour to use their ill-gotten gains, for reasons  I have already explained. In 
reaching this conclusion, I have borne in mind  that Mr S has said he thought  this 
transaction was him, and that he did withdraw  cash from an ATM at some point during the 
evening. 
The next transaction was the first to take place in the club. This was a contactless 
transaction for around £9. Importantly this took place just three minutes  after the last ATM 
transaction. This suggests  to me the ATM was either in very close proximity to the club, or 
inside the venue itself.  I have thought  about whether it was at this point Mr Ss card might  
have been stolen or his PIN gained  by shoulder surfing.  But I find it difficult  to accept that 
an opportunistic thief could  take just three minutes  to watch Mr S use his card and enter 
his PIN, then somehow steal the card without Mr S realising and enter  the venue and 
carry out the first transaction.  
I would also question why a thief,  having  stolen a card and gained the PIN, would then 
spend money in a venue rather  than use the card for their own gain; there  would be no 
financial benefit to the thief for the risk they took in stealing the card,  as any money spent 
on it would  go to the venue  and not them. Given the sequence of events up to this stage, I 
think the most likely  explanation  is that it was Mr S. 
All of the remaining  transactions that Mr S disputes  took place in the club.  They  are for 
varying amounts  and over the course  of 4-5 hours.  I accept some of the amounts spent 
are for high amounts. But given that Mr S and his group were on a stag weekend, and 
that they had been drinking, it seems entirely  plausible to me that these transactions were 
carried out by or on behalf of Mr S buying drinks for himself and the group.  And Mr S does 
admit to being in an adult  entertainment venue that night, albeit he cant  recall  the name.
This is supported by what Mr Ss friend reported  when he contacted  the bank at 07:51  
local time, to request  the card be stopped.  I know Mr S has recently speculated the times  
of the calls might be wrong, or it might have  been  him that called the bank. This 
speculation and lack of clear recollection calls into question what Mr S has told us to date. 
Nevertheless, I have listened  to the call. And Im satisfied it wasnt  Mr S that spoke with 
the bank to cancel the card. Importantly during that call, his friend  tells the bank that Mr S 
was spending  on his card and that there will be a couple of large transactions last night,  
of a couple of hundred pounds. He also says there  shouldnt be any transactions after 
02:00-03:00.  The  amounts and time frames mentioned in this call match  some  of the 
transactions that Mr S disputes.
Ref: DRN51492766Mr Ss friend was clearly  very worried about him. And I have no reason  to doubt what  was said 
during that call, as evidence from the time is often more persuasive, especially if a witness is 
under pressure (so more likely to be truthful).  I can find no plausible reason as to why the 
friend would (unhelpfully) say Mr S had been  spending large sums, if he hadnt been. 
I have considered that some of the transactions took place after 03:00.  However,  I have also 
noted that his friend reported  that Mr S had been missing for quite  a few hours now.  It 
seems to me a few hours conceivably covers  the transactions which took place  after 03:00 
 which  his friend wouldnt necessarily have known  about had Mr S split from some or all of 
the group;  he could  have either  stayed  in the venue or returned  to it at some  point.  
I have taken into account that Mr S says he was retracing his steps  to look for his card 
and phone and that it was he who asked  his friend  to call Clydesdale. But he hasnt 
provided any explanation at all as to why his version  of events is so very different to what 
his friend  reported  to the bank that morning. It seems unlikely that a friend would say he 
was missing if he wasnt. It seems to me that if I prefer Mr Ss version  of events over his 
friends, then his friend lied to bank (for no apparent reason). But if I prefer what  the friend  
said, then Mr S isnt being honest with us now (whereas he does have a motive for that, 
namely, the disputed  transactions). Either way, it would appear that someone hasnt been 
honest about what happened. 
All of the transactions were made  using  Mr Ss card, and all but one transaction  was 
carried out using  Mr Ss security credentials   the PIN. That means all of the transactions  
were authenticated.  And for the reasons given, Im satisfied those transactions were  
either carried out by Mr S, or someone  he allowed to do so on his behalf. That means he 
consented to the transactions  and so they were  authorised, such that I dont find 
Clydesdale acted unfairly or unreasonably  when  holding  him liable for them.  It follows  that 
I wont be asking Clydesdale to reimburse  Mr S for any of the transactions in question.   
Mr S has argued that he has never spent this sort of money  and that you couldnt do so  
but I think that very much depends  on what is being  bought. It seems entirely conceivable 
to me that such sums can be spent in an adult  entertainment venue  when with a large 
group of friends and so I dont find this argument  persuasive. 
Clydesdale had already offered Mr S a total of £350 for how this matter has been handled: 
for the wrong  information  given and delays. I found that to be a fair reflection of the 
inconvenience Mr S was put to when Clydesdale looked into the matter.  Clydesdale  now 
says that has been  paid to Mr S, and as such I make no further  award against it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  The offer 
Clydesdale Bank  Plc had made was fair, and I understand it has now been  paid and so I 
dont require it to do anymore. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2021.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5149276