K820x#14The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out alongside a credit card in 1996. Mrs B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Lloyds doesnt  have any paperwork Mrs B would have completed at the time, but it has 
provided a sample  copy of the application  form Mrs B is likely to have completed.
Looking at the sample copy, I can see it asks applicants to tick a box if they want the policy  
and then sign separately for the credit agreement. Ive thought  about  what  I know  about how 
Lloyds sold these types of policies at the time; alongside what  Mrs B has told us. And having 
done this, I think  its unlikely Lloyds would have  added the PPI without Mrs B indicating she 
wanted it. But I can understand  why Mrs B cant remember taking the policy now.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mrs B, so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
her  and based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example, she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.
Mrs B says she had some  sick pay and redundancy benefits from her employer. The PPI 
would have paid out in addition to any employee  benefits which  would have meant she could 
have used her benefits to pay for other essential  costs. So, she seems to have had a need 
for the cover.
Ive noted Mrs Bs comments that her husband would have been able to help if she was 
unable to make the credit  card repayments. Whilst I dont  doubt this is the case, peoples 
circumstances change, so this help couldnt  be guaranteed. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put her off taking out the cover.
Overall, I dont  think Mrs B has lost out by anything Lloyds might have done wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ref: DRN51112292ombudsman
Ref: DRN5111229