K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc trading as Halifax  (Halifax) mis-sold them  
Payment Protection  Insurance  (PPI) alongside  their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs G applied for a mortgage  during a branch visit in 2000.  At the same  time they 
also took out PPI designed to protect their mortgage repayments in the event they couldnt 
work because of accident, sickness of if they became unemployed.
The policy provided  a benefit of 125% of Mr and Mrs Gs monthly mortgage payment and it 
cost around £25 a month. In the event of a successful claim, it could pay out for up to 24 
months (per claim) for both the accident/sickness  and unemployment  elements of cover.  The 
policy was in Mr Gs sole name. 
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  He said he thought  Mr and Mrs G chose to take 
out PPI and there was nothing to indicate theyd lost out as a result of taking  the policy out.
Mr and Mrs G disagree about the outcome of their mis-sale complaint, so the complaint  has 
been passed to me to issue a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Both Mr and Mrs G and Halifax agree  the policy was sold during  a meeting in branch. Halifax 
says it provided Mr and Mrs G with advice and made a recommendation for the cover.  This 
means Halifax had to ensure PPI was suitable  for them in light of their circumstances and 
needs at the time. And it also had to give them enough clear information about  the policy it 
was recommending so they could make an informed  decision about it. Ive kept this in mind 
in my consideration of the complaint.
did Halifax make  it clear  that Mr and Mrs G had a real choice about PPI and did they agree 
to it without undue pressure?
I can see Mr and Mrs G have raised  some concerns here  they say it was inferred their 
chances of getting the mortgage were  impacted  if they didnt take out PPI. And they say they 
felt pressured  into taking the policy. Mr and Mrs G havent expanded on why they felt this 
way.
Halifax has provided copies of the mortgage  paperwork Mr and Mrs G completed.  And these 
show a consumer had to indicate  on the paperwork whether they wanted  cover.  On Mr and 
Mrs Gs copy,  there is a pre-populated  x in the box which says yes to taking out the PPI. 
And Mr G has signed next to this option. The form is mainly  completed with pre-filled text, 
containing lots of personal details  about Mr and Mrs G. So I think  the form has been  
completed based on discussions Mr and Mrs G had with Halifaxs  employee. The cost of 
cover was also set out separately from the mortgage  cost itself.
Ref: DRN53709842So overall, while I hear what Mr and Mrs G say, weighing up the information I have about  a 
meeting that happened many years ago, Ive not seen enough  to support what  Mr and Mrs G 
say and that something different happened  from what Halifaxs  documentation shows. This 
means, on balance, I dont think Mr and Mrs G were told or given the impression they had to 
have PPI to be granted the mortgage.  On balance, I think they chose  to take out PPI  albeit 
cover that was recommend to them  knowing they didnt have to and without undue 
pressure because they were interested in protecting their mortgage.
did Halifax properly advise and inform Mr and Mrs G and was PPI suitable for them?
I dont know whether Mr and Mrs G were properly advised and asked all the necessary 
questions the adviser  reasonably needed  to ask to recommend  the policy as being suitable  
for them. But I think the policy was ultimately suitable for Mr and Mrs G, which  I will expand 
on below.
Its also not clear that Mr and Mrs G got all the information they needed about the policy  and 
in a timely manner to make an informed decision about it. For example Ive not got evidence  
to show they were clearly  told the cost or that the significant exclusions and limitations  of 
cover were  sufficiently drawn  to their attention.
So I accept  its possible Halifax did not do everything it should have when it sold Mr and   
Mrs G PPI.
have Mr and Mrs G suffered a loss? if so, to what extent have they lost out?
While Halifax  might not have fairly  and reasonably  done all that it should,  this doesnt 
automatically mean Mr and Mrs G should  get back what they paid for PPI. I need to go on 
and consider if and to what  extent theyve lost out as a result.
Having done so I dont think they have lost out because I think  the policy was ultimately 
suitable for Mr G (as the policy was in his sole name) and I dont  think theyd have been put 
off taking it out if Halifax had done  more. I say this because:
Mr G was eligible for the policy.
Mr G was employed and in good health, so he wouldnt have been put off by the 
significant limitations or exclusions of cover  for example exclusions for existing 
medical conditions.  These exclusions didnt therefore make the policy unsuitable  for 
him either.
While  I dont know whether the cost of the policy was clearly disclosed to Mr and   
Mrs G, I find it unlikely they agreed to take it out without knowing something about 
the cost. Mr and Mrs G dont appear  to have queried things with Halifax,  so it must 
have been agreeable  to them and not out of line with their expectations. In any event 
it appears to have been affordable, so its cost didnt make the policy unsuitable.
I dont know whether the benefit  of the policy was clearly  disclosed. But given the 
policy was protecting  Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage payment, I dont think  their 
expectations of the policy were  very different to what it actually provided  it may in 
fact have exceeded their expectations because it offered  a benefit of 125% of their 
mortgage payment.  
Ref: DRN53709843Mr G says he was entitled to 52 weeks full sick pay. They  also said they had savings 
they could rely on and their families wouldve helped  out if needed. So they didnt 
need the cover. 
The policy would have paid out alongside  any sick pay and other means - and for up 
to 24 months if necessary   allowing Mr and Mrs G to balance the demands on other 
household expenditure  and helping them to manage  the consequences  if Mr G found 
himself unable to work. And while I dont doubt  that Mr and Mrs Gs family would 
have wanted to help out, circumstances can change. So their help couldnt be 
guaranteed. 
Ultimately Mr and Mrs G were taking  on a large  and long term financial commitment 
which was secured against  their home.  So the effects of not keeping  up with the 
mortgage repayments couldve been serious  for them. And I think  having  the security  
that their repayments wouldve been  made  if Mr G was unable  to work wouldve been  
important to them. 
As the policy was a monthly regular premium  policy, it could have  been  cancelled at 
any time without penalty, so offered  flexibility if things changed  or Mr and Mrs G 
simply decided they no longer  wanted cover.
Overall  and while  I understand Mr and Mrs G will be disappointed with my decision - I think  
they agreed to take out PPI and did so without undue pressure. I also think the policy  was 
suitable for them given their circumstances and needs at the time.  I know  Mr and Mrs G feel 
strongly about this and theyve put time and effort into their complaint. Ive carefully  
considered all the points they have raised.  But for the reasons Ive explained  above  I dont 
think they would have arrived at a different decision and declined  the cover  if Halifax  had 
properly advised  and informed them.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that Mr and Mrs G have not suffered loss as 
a result of taking out PPI alongside their mortgage,  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5370984