K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold  her a payment  protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Mrs S applied for a credit card, and at the time had the option  to take two cards, a 
Mastercard and Visa card, both of which were linked to one application. This complaint is 
about a credit card PPI policy  sold alongside  the cards. It was applied  to both cards.
Mrs S applied for the cards in 1993, and its likely the PPI was added at the same time.   
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ss case. 
I accept that the information relating to the two cards Mrs S took out isnt as comprehensive 
or clear as it could be. But thats not surprising given the sale took place more  than 25 years 
ago. So Ive used  samples of documents  typically in use at the time and my knowledge  of 
how PPI policies were  sold to support the information we were  sent and reach my decision. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint because:
 The copy of the application form Mrs S completed at the time isnt very clear. But 
others in use by the bank at this time gave both a yes  and a no option  for buying 
PPI. Its likely  Mrs Ss form was the same  from the information we can see. Overall  I 
think Lloyds made  Mrs S aware  that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it 
 although I can understand  why she can no longer  remember  this.
 Lloyds doesnt  know if it recommended  the PPI to Mrs S, but even if it did, it doesnt 
look as if it was unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time. 
 Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But Mrs S chose  to take out the policy and so appears to have  
wanted this type of cover.  She was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations,  
the policy was competitively  priced  and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely  Mrs 
S would  have made a different decision if better information had been provided. On 
balance I think she would  still have  taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account Mrs Ss comments,  including what  shes said about her employment 
benefits and not realising  the PPI was optional. Ive explained my thinking on these points 
above, so they dont  change my conclusion.
Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI on the card account thats still running to 
Mrs S because: 
Ref: DRN57509702Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mrs S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  on one of her cards, and I think  that is fair in this 
case. 
The other card was closed before April 2008  and therefore Lloyds doesnt  need to pay back  
any of the commission  or profit share for that card.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs S any commission and profit  share it got 
on the card account  thats still open, as that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I 
understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  27 April 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5750970