K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains about the quality of a car she got through a Hire Purchase  Agreement  with 
Blue Motor  Finance Ltd (Blue Motor). She would  like to reject the car.
background
Mrs S says she took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with Blue Motor  in March 2018  for a 
four year old car with 8,100 miles on the clock. 
She says in July 2018 the engine  had to be replaced. And in September 2018 she says the 
suspension was replaced. She then had electrical  issues and problem with the gear and 
power which she asked  Blue Motor  to repair. But she says it wouldnt do so as it felt these 
were down to wear and tear.
Mrs S says although she originally wanted  the car repaired she would now like to reject it.
Blue Motor  said the engine  and suspension  had been replaced at no cost to Mrs S. But that 
other issues were down to wear  and tear for which it wasnt responsible.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in which I found:-
-There was no dispute that Mrs S had problems with her car soon after getting  it. And 
that both the engine  and gearbox had been replaced.
-As Mrs S took out an agreement for used car she might expect to incur some wear,  
tear and repair costs  more so than with a new car. However  the car was only four 
years old with just over 8,000 on the clock when  Mrs S got it. So I wouldnt have 
expected at that age and mileage for it to have significant problems.
-If theres an issue with a vehicle, particularly within the first six months then 
depending on the circumstances we would  look at whether repair  or rejection  was 
appropriate. In this situation Blue Motor replaced the engine and suspension at no 
cost to Mrs S which I thought was the right course of action.
-With no independent report, there was no evidence that subsequent issues  Mrs S 
raised about electrical problems,  power  and gear box issues  were either present or 
developing at the point of sale.  Or related to the first repairs she had .And the RAC 
report Mrs S gave  us showed it was unable to replicate some of the issues  Mrs S 
experienced particularly with the gearbox.
-In the time it took for us deal with Mrs Ss complaint the gearbox  was replaced by the 
manufacturer. The manufacturer confirmed it has done this, and at no cost to Mrs S.  
I didnt agree with Blue Motors view that this may have been simply a gesture of 
goodwill or for public  relations. I didnt think a manufacturer  would replace such an 
item unless there was a need to do so.
-Mrs S hadnt done excessive mileage  only 14,000 miles by the time our investigator 
issued his first view on 23 May 2019  and Mrs S flagged up the gearbox issue and 
provided confirmation of this dated  29 June 2019. As gear boxes dont typically need  
Ref: DRN58557612replacing until at least  around 30,000 miles that led me to feel there  was an issue 
with the gearbox  that hadnt  been  previously identified but which  was there.  
-Mrs S told us the car lost power  which may well have been  an indicator of problems 
with the gearbox. The fact an RAC roadside  report didnt find these issues doesnt 
mean they werent there. The car loosing power  and stopping  must have been 
intermittent otherwise Mrs S wouldnt have  been able to use the car at all. I think  on 
balance its entirely possible there  was a problem present or developing at the point 
of sale.
-The engine, gear box and suspension have all been replaced. However the gearbox 
and engine were  significant items to be replaced. And so soon after Mrs S got the car 
which in itself wasnt particularly old or over used. Some  of the other issues Mrs S 
had may be wear and tear issues. Without  an independent report thats hard to say. 
-It was reasonable  to conclude that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
sale. And I doubted, given the problems she has had, that Mrs S would feel confident 
about the quality of the car if she were to keep it. So I thought  it was reasonable that 
Mrs S be allowed to reject the car.
-Blue Motors comments about the redress our investigator suggested  were  
reasonable. I agreed that a refund of 75% of the monthly payments was high given,  
despite the problems; Mrs S has had use of the car. And when  she hasnt she has 
had use of a courtesy car. It offered a compromise of a refund of 15% of Mrs Ss 
repayments.
-I thought it was appropriate Mrs S got some  refund of her payments. And some 
compensation for the inconvenience she has had. 
-It was reasonable  for Mrs S to get a refund of three of her monthly  payments and 
£150 for the inconvenience  to her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mrs S and Blue Motor have responded to my provisional decision.
Mrs S has said she isnt happy with the suggested level of redress  a refund of three of her 
monthly payments  and £150 compensation for the inconvenience. She says she needs a car 
as she lives in the country, has limited  means  and the suggested compensation wouldnt 
allow her to get another car.
I appreciate Mrs Ss points but when looking at appropriate redress  we consider the impact 
on the consumer.   We dont aim to put the consumer in a position to, as would be the case 
here, fund another car. I feel a refund of three of her monthly payments is fair for the time 
she was without a car whilst repairs were being  carried out. 
I also feel the £150 compensation for the inconvenience is fair as I do believe Mrs S has 
been put to some inconvenience with the problems with her car. But again  our awards for 
Ref: DRN58557613inconvenience are never  meant to be of a level that would allow  a consumer to replace a 
car. That wouldnt be fair on the business.
Mrs S has also told us she has health problems that have  been exacerbated by the stress of 
dealing with the complaint  about her car.  She told us she would provide evidence  of this but 
hasnt done so. I believe we have given  her sufficient time to allow her to do this. 
I have no reason to believe what Mrs S has told us. But Mrs S would have had to give us 
very specific information that directly linked an actual change  in her health  situation solely 
linked to this complaint  but she hasnt done so. On that basis I dont I can reasonably expect 
Blue Motor  to pay a higher level of compensation.
Blue Motor   accepted Mrs S may have lost faith in the car but felt there were no grounds to 
reject the car  given  all the issues had now been resolved. It did offer an independent 
inspection to give Mrs S peace  of mind. It also disputed that the roadside  report  from the 
RAC wasnt a full independent inspection noting it didnt find issues with the gearbox.
I appreciated Blue Motors offer of an independent inspection  which  we put to Mrs S. Had 
she wished to have  one I would have accepted that but she didnt. She felt given the issues  
she had she still wished  to reject the car. I feel its reasonable she had that choice.
I appreciate the main  issues have been  resolved, and that some of the more  minor issues 
might be down to wear and tear. The main issue with the RAC  report,  as I understand it, is 
that it didnt pick up an issue with the gearbox. However the gearbox has been  changed,  I 
am still of the view that the manufacturer wouldnt have done  that had it not been necessary.  
And given  Mrs Ss relatively low mileage  at the time the gearbox issue arose it seems more 
likely than not to me that this issue, along with the engine, was an issues  that was present or 
developing at the point of sale.
As the engine and gearbox are significant items to have problems with I think its unlikely Mrs 
S will continue  to feel confident with the car. I appreciate Blue Motor  resolved the engine 
problem at no cost to Mrs S. Had that been the only major issue  I would have concluded  as 
our adjudicator initially did, that that alone  wasnt grounds for rejection. 
But to need the gearbox replacing so soon after problems with the engine  is sufficient  for me 
to conclude that, in this case, rejection is appropriate as the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality 
when Mrs S got it. 
I dont feel Blue Motor has given me any significant new information  to change my 
provisional decision that Mrs S should be allowed to reject the car.
.
Ref: DRN58557614my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Blue Motor Finance Ltd should:-
-Allow Mrs S to reject the car and arrange collection of the car at no cost to Mrs S,
-Unwind the finance agreement and remove it from Mrs Ss credit file,
-Refund three of the monthly payments Mrs S has made with 8% simple interest,
-Pay £150 compensation for the inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN5855761