K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc branch 
staff, and that he was discriminated against because of his disability.
background
On a HSBC branch visit Mr P asked if he could upgrade his basic bank account to a full 
current account as he was about  to start a new job. He said that he had to wait some 30 
minutes to speak to someone and was then asked a lot of intrusive  and personal  questions. 
He said the staff member  was hostile and aggressive particularly when asking  questions  
about Mr Ps visual disability. Mr P was upset about the way he had been  treated and 
believed it had been discriminatory.
HSBC investigated  and apologised if Mr P had been upset by the questions and manner of 
the member of staff who interviewed him. The bank  said it had a responsibility to keep  up to 
date details about its customers and that the questions asked by the staff member were 
asked simply to satisfy that requirement.  But HSBC offered Mr P £50 as a gesture of 
goodwill because he had felt the experience to be distressing and humiliating.
Mr P rejected that believing it to be insufficient compensation for the upset he had been  
caused.
Our adjudicator said that whilst he appreciated how strongly Mr P felt about what  had 
happened, as the adjudicator  hadnt  been there he couldnt be sure what  had been  said and 
done. Consequently, he was unable  to conclude that HSBC  had acted unfairly and wouldnt 
be asking them to do any more.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P plainly feels he was treated very badly when  trying to upgrade  his account, and that the 
questions he was asked  were intrusive, personal  and discriminatory. He also found the staff 
members attitude hostile and aggressive.  A further  concern was his belief that  the staff 
member might not in fact be employed by HSBC, but be something to do with the security 
service or the police.
Banks have a duty to ensure that they are acting responsibly before  agreeing to provide a 
banking facility to a customer.  Mr P wanted  to upgrade his basic  account, which had very 
limited facilities,  to a current account  which would offer him significantly more flexibility with 
his spending.  Before HSBC could agree to Mr Ps request it needed  to know  more  about his 
circumstances. This is common practice  across  the banking sector.  Mr P obviously found 
this to be an upsetting and intrusive experience.
But unfortunately I wasnt there, so cannot  know whether the questions asked were 
reasonable both in content and in the way they were asked. HSBC has confirmed that the 
staff member has been employed  for six years  and that it is not aware  of any other 
complaints about  him. Nevertheless it has spoken  to him  about the way Mr P felt he had 
been treated.  So although  I do not doubt that Mr P was upset about what  had happened,  this 
would not of itself be sufficient for me to conclude that HSBC had been at fault.  And so, 
Ref: DRN51433212given the lack of any additional  substantiating evidence, Im afraid Im unable to uphold  Mr 
Ps complaint. 
HSBC has offered Mr P a goodwill payment  of £50. I leave it to him to contact HSBC  if he 
now wishes to accept  that offer.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5143321