K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complaint  that Mortgage Express put up unnecessary obstacles to block their 
request to port their mortgage. Mr H has managed  the complaint throughout. Mr H has also 
argued that Mortgage Express  has acted outside  of the principles of mortgage regulation 
and the transitional  arrangements.
Mr and Mrs H would  like their previous mortgage to be reinstated  and put on hold while they 
find another property.  Theyd also like compensation for the difference  between the rent 
theyre now paying and the mortgage  interest payments they used to make each month.
background
In October  2005 Mr and Mrs H took out an interest only mortgage with GMAC-RFC Ltd. 
They borrowed £243,750  over 25 years having had advice from a mortgage  broker.  The 
mortgaged property had a value of £325,000 at that time, giving the transaction a loan to 
value of 75%.
In 2017 Mr and Mrs H wanted to port their mortgage  to another  property. They were at first 
told by Mortgage  Express that they should  be able to port. But, they were later told this 
wouldnt be possible. Mr and Mrs H say Mortgage  Express applied  unnecessary  
requirements to their porting application which blocked their request. Theyve queried why 
an affordability assessment was needed when they werent asking to borrow  more money. 
Mr and Mrs H also say they received poor customer service from Mortgage  Express while 
they were trying to port their mortgage.
On 31 January 2018 Mortgage Express gave its final response  to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
It said it wouldnt agree to Mr and Mrs Hs porting application because, under its current 
lending policy, it will only allow a new porting  request if the loan to value is the same  or less 
than Mr and Mrs Hs current loan to value.  Mortgage Express said it wouldnt agree to port 
the mortgage because Mr and Mrs Hs plans involved an increase in the loan to value. They 
wanted to port the same size mortgage loan to a property of lower value. Mortgage Express  
said that it could  have explained things  better  to Mr H when he called to ask how this 
structure worked and why his request couldnt  be agreed but it didnt uphold the other 
aspects of the complaint.
Mr H was unhappy with Mortgage Express response and brought  the matter  to our service.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should succeed. He thought  it was reasonable that 
Mortgage Express had wanted to consider the change  in loan to value (LTV) of Mr and Mrs 
Hs proposed house  move. He also thought an affordability assessment can be helpful to 
help determine  what was in the best interests  of the borrower.
Mr H disagreed. He asked that an ombudsman look at the complaint again and reach a final 
decision on the matter.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN53623212I can see why Mr and Mrs H would have been  hopeful that theyd be able to port their 
interest only mortgage to another  property.  Their mortgage with Mortgage Express was 
portable, and the mortgage  offer said you can keep this mortgage  should you move to 
another property.  For full details see the attached conditions.
In the special conditions of the mortgage, condition  17 says:
If, in the future, you want to move home you may be able to transfer this mortgage product 
to a new property  without incurring any early repayment charge. This option  is available  
subject to your meeting  certain criteria and our approval. You will also need to repay  this 
mortgage at the same  time as your new mortgage  is taken out with us. 
In line with the mortgages terms, Mr and Mrs H sought approval from Mortgage Express  to 
port their mortgage  to another property in 2017  when they wanted to move house. While 
their initial mortgage  interest rate product had expired,  and there was no longer an early 
repayment charge  (ERC)  involved in them moving a mortgage elsewhere,  I can see why Mr 
and Mrs H wanted to keep the interest  only mortgage theyd entered into for 25 years.  It still 
had a remaining  term of around 11 years  to run and Mrs and Mrs H may have been 
concerned they wouldnt  get another mortgage on similar terms in the present mortgage  
market.
However, when Mr and Mrs H tried to port their mortgage, they complain they later found 
barriers were put up by Mortgage Express that unfairly stopped  them doing this. Mortgage  
Express has said that the issue that prevented this mortgage being  ported was the increase 
in the loan to value  of the transaction that Mr and Mrs H were proposing. However,  Mr and 
Mrs H think maybe  Mortgage Express were being deliberately obstructive and putting 
obstacles, such as unnecessary  affordability assessments, in the way of their request to 
port. They also think  Mortgage Express breached mortgage regulation  through  its actions.
did Mortgage Express breach regulation by not agreeing to port the mortgage?
Mr Hs said that he believes Mortgage  Express hasnt complied with mortgage  regulation.  
Mr H understood that under current mortgage regulation, as long as there isnt a request for 
additional borrowing  or an extension of the mortgages term, then Mortgage Express  had to 
port their mortgage.  
There are regulations that have flowed from the Financial  Conduct Authoritys Mortgage 
Market Review (MMR). This has led to a series of major changes, effective  since 2014, in 
the way residential  mortgages are regulated. Its these regulations that I believe Mr H is 
referring to and Im familiar with the application of these rules. 
MMR regulations have  brought  about stricter lending assessments, aimed to protect 
consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more responsibly. The transitional 
arrangements are an important part of this regulation. Theyre  intended to make sure that 
existing mortgage  customers, whose mortgages were taken out before the new rules  were 
introduced in 2014, dont  get treated unfairly  as an unintended consequence of this stricter 
regulation. 
Ive thought carefully about these rules,  and everything that Mr H has said about their 
specific situation, including what theyd asked Mortgage Express  to agree to. Ive also 
considered whether Mortgage Express acted unfairly in asking for an affordability 
Ref: DRN53623213assessment, and whether it used an affordability  assessment that wasnt  needed as a 
reason to not allow this porting application. 
There has been some debate  about  whether Mortgage Express needed to ask to carry out 
an affordability assessment before it would agree to consider a porting request from Mr and 
Mrs H. I dont think it was unreasonable for Mortgage Express  to ask questions about the 
proposed transaction, and to explore whether the risks of the new transaction were 
acceptable to it and were  in Mr and Mrs Hs best interests. 
Mortgage Express is able to ask Mr and Mrs H to complete an affordability  assessment 
under the current  regulation. However,  the transitional arrangements  allow Mortgage 
Express to proceed with a porting request, even if it doesnt meet pass  an affordability 
assessment, if it thinks the transaction would be in the best interests of Mr and Mrs H.
As it is, I dont think this case turns on the application of the transitional arrangements. 
Mortgage Express has not said to us that it declined the porting request because  it was 
unaffordable to Mr and Mrs H. And Im satisfied this wasnt the reason given to Mr and Mrs 
H at the time or subsequently.  So, I dont think it is directly relevant to this case  whether an 
affordability assessment  was completed or not. 
Mortgage Express wouldnt agree to port on the terms proposed by Mr and Mrs H because  
of the increased  risks to Mortgage Express as a result of their plans. Specifically, Mr and Mrs 
H were planning  to sell a more expensive property  and move somewhere cheaper. However, 
they werent planning to use any equity released from the sale of their existing, higher-value  
property, to reduce  their level of interest only mortgage debt. Essentially, they were asking 
Mortgage Express to accept the same  amount of lending on a property with a much  lower 
security value. 
Ive asked Mortgage Express to share its lending criteria with me so I can independently 
verify whether the transaction proposed by Mr and Mrs H did meet its lending criteria at the 
time the request was made. 
One of Mortgage  Express  conditions is that the new loan to value  must  be the same or less 
than the original or current LTV (whichever is lowest). 
When Mr and Mrs H first took out their mortgage  with GMAC in 2005  they borrowed 
£243,750 and the property was valued  at £325,000.  This gave an original LTV of 75%.  In 
2017 Mr and Mrs H said they planned  to sell their property for £470,000  and their mortgage 
still totalled around £250,000. This equates to a current  LTV of 53%. The lower of these two 
figures is the current LTV of 53%.  And Mortgage  Express did say it couldnt agree to a 
porting transaction that involved  a loan to value of above 53%.
Mr and Mrs H have told us about the property they were planning to purchase.  They were 
planning to downsize  to a property worth  around  £325,000. This would free up around 
£145,000 of equity. Theyve said they planned to keep this money  to one side to spend on 
renovating the new property  and they may have chosen to pay this towards the mortgage  in 
time. But they wanted to keep their mortgage  at £250,000. The proposed  transaction  would 
have increased  the loan to value of their mortgage to around  77%.  Im satisfied that the new 
transaction proposed by Mr and Mrs H was above the current loan to value of 53%, and I 
think its reasonable that Mortgage Express wouldnt agree to this transaction  as it was 
outside of its current  lending criteria. 
Ref: DRN53623214But thats not my only consideration.  Ive also thought about whether the application of 
Mortgage Express lending criteria  in Mr and Mrs Hs current situation  has led to 
Mr and Mrs H being treated unfairly in all the circumstances.  
Mortgage Express has said that it could have been  clearer when it explained to 
Mr and Mrs H why they couldnt go ahead with the transaction theyd proposed.  A member of 
staff had struggled to explain Mortgage Express position and had referred  the matter  to 
another colleague when  he shouldnt have needed to. Mortgage Express  has agreed  to a 
minor shortcoming in its customer  service,  but I dont consider this changes the overall 
outcome of this complaint. 
Mortgage Express was clear about the reasons it couldnt agree to the porting request on the 
terms proposed. Mr and Mrs H had the opportunity to revise  their plans to try to meet 
Mortgage Express terms but decided to go ahead  with the sale of their property  and repay 
the mortgage loan in full. 
As it is, Mortgage Express wasnt comfortable  with the risks of Mr and Mrs Hs plans as 
presented. Im satisfied  Mortgage Express did explain why it wouldnt agree to port the 
mortgage, and what LTV criteria Mr and Mrs H needed to work  within  to successfully  port 
their mortgage to another property.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 November 2019.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5362321