1complaint
Mr C complains about the advice he was given  to transfer his pension to a SIPP  by Park Hall
Financial Services Limited  (PHFS) in 2009.  He says this was to facilitate an investment in a
non-standard overseas property investment (Harlequin). He says that PHFS  did not advise 
him of the appropriateness of the investment  and breached certain Financial Service 
Authority/Financial Conduct Authority regulations and Principles.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 8 June 2020.  A copy is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. In that decision  I explained why my view was that Mr Cs complaint fell within  my 
jurisdiction and should be upheld. 
Mr C accepted the provisional decision.  
PHFS did not accept  the provisional  decision and made further submissions. Those  
submissions are lengthy and I have  considered  them  in full. I will not set out every point it has 
made but in summary it:
Said that it wishes to complain about  how this service has dealt with the complaint.
Said that Mr C had said his investment had been promoted to him by Alexander  James 
Properties Limited (AJPL) and it introduced him to PHFS. PHFS  was approached by 
AJPL in August 2009 to open a SIPP for Mr C on a direct offer or execution only 
basis. 
Said that in September  2009  a financial adviser  working for another business, Mr F, 
contacted PHFS on behalf of my client (Mr C) to clarify  details about his existing 
pension.
Said that in October 2009 it sent Mr C a Direct Offer pack  relating to a SIPP.  PHFS  
then set out some of the content  of that pack,  including statements to the effect that it 
was not giving advice about the suitability of the arrangement, Mr C should seek  advice 
if he had any doubts about the whether the pension  was suited to his needs  and some 
of the risks of transferring  his pension to a SIPP and purchasing property within  a SIPP.  
Set out that the SIPP providers terms and conditions set out that it did not provide 
financial advice as to whether the SIPP was an appropriate product.
Said that Mr C signed a PHFS  form in October 2009 confirming he had received  the 
Direct Offer pack  indicating  he understood of the requirements of the Direct Offer  pack.  
Said it issued a letter to Mr C setting out it had not provided advice as to the SIPP or 
investment. 
Said that contracts for the sale of the investment property were exchanged in January  
2010. Mr C had signed the contract  in July 2009.  A clause in the contract  stated that 
the buyer would  have  the option of terminating the contract  if the seller was prevented  
from proceeding with the construction of the property  for a period of 12 months or more. 
Said that Mr C purchased another Harlequin  property investment at around the same 
time  financed with a loan of £25,000.
Ref: DRN56977102Set out certain submissions by Mr C referring  to information about Harlequin  on the 
internet and Harlequin correspondence   in 2011,  2012 and 2013. 
Referred to Mr F and his employment history with other independent  financial advisers 
(IFAs).  And set out his interactions with Mr C  including carrying  out financial 
planning. It also set out that Mr C signed a form in April 2012 allowing Mr F to replace 
PHFS as his financial adviser.  Mr C had said that Mr F told him about the proposed  
Harlequin investment.  Mr F spoke to Mr C about Harlequin around 8 April 2013 and 
appeared to have  sent him a letter discussing negative  developments in respect of 
Harlequin. It also referred to meeting notes Mr F had made in respect of Mr C. 
Referred to Mr F contacting the SIPP provider in August 2013 regarding  releasing cash  
to allow  the transfer  of Mr Cs holding to another Harlequin property. 
Referred to an individual called Mary who appeared to have acted as an adviser/agent 
in relation to Mr Cs purchase  of the Harlequin investment and who Mr Cs quotes as 
having told him in 2011 that there was, nothing  to worry about.  
Said that in November  Mr C had signed  an instruction allowing AJPL to act on his 
behalf in relation to the SIPP. 
Discussed the findings made in a previous decision by this service  that Mr C had 
brought his complaint within the time limits  set out in DISP. 
Referred to previous  disclosures Mr C had made   particularly about the transfer  of 
servicing right from PHFS in 2012. And referred  to the lack of disclosure by Mr F  who 
appeared to be still working as a financial adviser. 
Referred to correspondence between employees of this service and Mr C.
PHFS then made submissions as to jurisdiction.  In summary:
It said that in reaching a finding  that Mr C ought not to have reason for complaint before 
25 January 2013, the adjudicator (I assume  PHFS means the ombudsman  here) has 
failed to consider  all the circumstances. 
It set out s14(3) of the Limitation  Act 1980. And quoted from Adams  v Bracknell Forest 
BC [2004] as to what knowledge a claimant  might reasonably  be expected to acquire 
and whether a claimant should  seek expert advice.  
Said the evidence  of awareness depended almost entirely on Mr Cs recollection of 
events. And it has set out why this is unreliable  referencing the transfer of servicing 
rights and his disclosure of correspondence. It said Mr Cs statement that he had never 
received correspondence from his new financial adviser after the transfer of servicing 
rights was untrue.  
It said Mr Cs original complaint representative would have required him to conduct  a 
search of relevant  documents  when it represented him.
No accuracy can be placed  on Mr Cs version of event with respect to social  media. 
All the evidence of knowledge before 15 January 2013 should  be considered 
cumulatively (contacting  the Harlequin  agent,  Harlequin statements, social  media, Mr 
Fs involvement, and legal proceedings with respect to a Harlequin employee and its 
Ref: DRN56977103accountants). The evidence  is that there was sufficient information  to put Mr C on 
notice that he had cause for complaint. 
 
PHFS then made submissions about fairness.  In summary:
It referenced Mr Cs willingness to withdraw his complaint in 2019. It said that the 
adjudicators behaviour and correspondence  indicated bias and it wished to raise a 
complaint about the manner in which this service has handled this complaint, with the 
independent assessor.  
PHFS also:
Made submissions about the reference to PRIN  2 and PRIN 6 in my provisional  
decision. It said that Mr Cs contractual relationship was clearly set out at outset and he 
agreed that PHFS were not providing  him with advice as to the suitability of the pension  
transfer and property investment. It made  it clear that it could provide this for an 
additional fee. 
Referred to Adams v Options Sipp UK LLP (formerly Carey  Pensions UK LLP) v FCA 
[2020] (Adams v Carey) . And that the court held that, the scope of the defendants duty 
under COBS 2.1.1  to act honestly,  fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client had to identify  the relevant factual context. It said the key fact here 
was the agreement into which the parties had entered  and that the Court held that 
COBS did not impose an obligation  to advise which  the parties had not agreed  to. It 
said the same reasoning should  be applied here as to PHFSs duties under PRIN. In 
the circumstances, PHFSs information about  the risks of transferring and investing 
were sufficient  to comply with PRIN. This was particularly so given the FSA guidance 
referred to in the provisional decision was not issued  until 2013.
As to the suitability  of the investment and causation,  in summary:
It said that the investment was not unsuitable. Mr C knew the risks, agreed to them and 
was willing to accept  them.  He had previous experience of investing in off-plan 
property. 
Said the findings in the provisional decision as to causation were  wrong.  It said there  is 
no evidence that Mr C would not have switched  his pension  if PHFS  had advised 
against it. He had already decided to invest in Harlequin and had signed  to indicate that 
in July 2009. He appears  to have been acting on the recommendation of Mr F who was 
a regulated IFA, together with AJPL.  He had previously  bought  off-plan properties  in the 
UK and also another Harlequin  property.  He decided to continue  with the investment in 
2013, despite knowing of the concerns  about Harlequin. If PHFS had refused to carry 
out the transaction, Mr F would have found  another firm to do so.
Mr Fs loss flowed  not from setting up the SIPP but the purchase of the property in 
January 2010.  PHFS advice in relation to setting up the SIPP did not result in investing 
in the property, particularly given the role of his other advisers. 
Whether Mr C could  have mitigated his losses in 2011  and 2012 has not been 
considered.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN56977104PHFSs submissions about the handling of the complaint  by this service.
I am not certain if PHFS is conflating  the actions of the adjudicator when  dealing  with Mr Cs 
complaint and my own as an ombudsman, as it refers to the adjudicator throughout its 
submissions, even when referencing  decisions I have issued. But, be that as it may, this 
service operates  a two stage process whereby the adjudicator sets out their view of the 
complaint and if that is rejected by either  party the complaint is considered afresh and 
independently by an ombudsman. This is what occurred  here.  
I would reiterate what I said in the provisional decision about the adjudicator asking Mr C to 
think about whether  he should withdraw  his complaint. That was Mr Cs decision to take and it 
was left with him. On reflection  he decided to proceed with his complaint. 
I am then required to consider Mr Cs complaint  and arrive at a decision as to jurisdiction and 
(if necessary) the merits of it. I have  reviewed the complaint  and arrived  at an independent  
view based on the evidence. I have not been influenced by any act of the adjudicator.
I would confirm that PHFSs concerns  have  been  noted as a complaint about  this services 
handling of the complaint and that will be considered separately from my consideration of 
jurisdiction and the merits of Mr Cs complaint.
In terms of information sought from Mr F, evidence of any contact/dealings  between  Mr F and 
Mr C has been sought from the firms Mr F represented at the time of the Harlequin investment 
and thereafter.  Those  firms have supplied their records,  which  I considered before reaching my 
provisional decision. Considering the other evidence available, such as that from the SIPP  
provider, I believe that evidence is sufficient to be able to make a decision as to both 
jurisdiction and, on a fair and reasonable basis, the merits of the complaint itself. That is 
acknowledging, as I did in the provisional  decision, that Mr F played a role in the pension 
transfer and investment, as likely did a Harlequin  agent. 
jurisdiction
I considered the time limits for making a complaint in a decision of 17 May 2019 and in the 
attached provisional decision. To reiterate,  the time limits are contained within the DISP  
(Dispute Resolution) Rules. The specific time limits that are relevant to this complaint  are 
contained in DISP 2.8:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service: 
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its final 
response or redress determination;  or 
(2)  more than:
 
(a)  six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b)  three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably to 
have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint  to the respondent or to the Ombudsman within 
that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record  of the complaint having  
been received.
Ref: DRN56977105In my provisional decision I set out and discussed  in some detail the evidence or information 
which was available  to Mr C (and which PHFS has reiterated  in response to the provisional 
decision), including social media and statements/correspondence from Harlequin. 
It should be noted that my jurisdiction, and time limits in which  an individual can make a 
complaint, are set out in DISP,  not the Limitation  Act 1980. Having said that, and as also 
discussed in my provisional  decision, I believe it is relevant to consider  if Mr C ought to have 
been put on enquiry (of cause for complaint) by the information he had received prior to 25 
January 2013.  I do not consider that he needed  to know every cause of action he might have 
against PHFS  only that he may have  cause for concern about the acts of PHFS  in respect of 
his pension transfer to the SIPP and subsequent investment. 
As I have said, I previously discussed  these matters in some  detail in the provisional decision 
(and before that my jurisdiction decision).  I did not consider the individual  matters which related 
to jurisdiction piecemeal but considered  whether the evidence as a whole would lead to a 
finding that Mr C did know or ought to have known that he had cause for complaint  about 
PHFS  so that he could explore that further.  I would refer the parties  to the attached 
provisional decision. 
It seems  reasonably clear  that Mr C did have discussions over time with Mr F and the 
Harlequin agent  Mr F was his longstanding financial adviser. But I remain of the view that the 
evidence does not suggest  that Mr F or the agent  put Mr C on notice of cause for complaint 
about PHFS prior to 25 January 2013. The information he received (prior to 25 January 2013) 
from these parties and Harlequin  reassured him that he should  not be concerned. The 
information Mr F supplied  to Mr C before 25 January  2013, which I discussed in the provisional 
decision, was not of a nature that ought necessarily to have given him concern about  the 
actions PHFS took in arranging the pension transfer  so that the property investment could be 
made. I also discussed the delay in property completion and why Mr Cs explanations  were 
reasonable as to why he waited for completion. I would not repeat that here but direct the 
parties to the attached provisional  decision. I also discussed the legal proceedings being  taken 
by Harlequin against  an employee  and its accountants. These were  actions  Harlequin  was 
taking, not actions being taken against Harlequin that would indicate that to Mr C that 
Harlequin was failing in some  respect.  
I would repeat that this was against  a background where Mr C was receiving valuations from 
the SIPP provider  in 2012 and 2013 which did not indicate that the investment  had failed or 
was suffering from significant  loss. So Mr C was receiving  information  to the effect that his 
investment was still secure and had value. 
I would refer again to the content of my jurisdiction decision of 17 May 2019 where I summed 
up by saying that 
I agree that (Mr C) did not need  to know  for certain that he had cause of action  against  PHFS 
for him to have sufficient knowledge  of cause for complaint. But I do not believe that the 
evidence would show that he was, or ought reasonably to have been aware, prior to 
25 January 2013,  that he had such cause for complaint. As I said in the (jurisdiction) 
provisional decision, the evidence would not show that he was receiving information  of such 
authenticity before 25 January 2013  that he was put on notice of cause for complaint - when he 
was also receiving information that social media comment should not be believed and that 
there were no issues with Harlequin.  The time that SIPP providers were apparently told not to 
accept investment in the Caribbean is non-specific and I do doubt  that (Mr C), as he says,  
would understand what  that could mean.
 
PHFS has said that Mr Cs recollections as to such issues  as media comment  and his 
knowledge of cause for complaint should  necessarily be treated as unreliable  materially  
because he did not recall the change  of agency  and some  correspondence between himself  
Ref: DRN56977106and Mr F. I do not believe such conclusions can be drawn. Mr C has explained at some length 
over time what he was privy to before 25 January 2013 and what  he thought, and the available 
evidence is that it ought not to have been  apparent to him that he cause for complaint about 
PHFS before that point.  
My decision  remains that Mr C complained  with the three time limit set out at DISP 2.8.2(b).
merits of the complaint and causation
I set out in the provisional decision that I recognised  the involvement of Mr F  but also that 
PHFS had arranged the transfer to the SIPP for Mr C in the knowledge that this was taking 
place so that an investment in property could  be made. I said that although Mr F was involved I 
had not seen any evidence he was doing  so representing the firm for which he was working  at 
the time.  And I have not seen any evidence he made a formal recommendation. Indeed it is 
indicative that when  he wrote to Mr C in 2013 that he said he could not give any advice on this 
unregulated investment. And the evidence from the SIPP  provider was that it was only PHFS 
involved in the transfer to the SIPP and the only party remunerated by the SIPP  provider for 
carrying that out. 
PHFS has made submissions about  its obligations  under  PRIN.  I set out in my provisional 
decision that, regardless as to whether PHFS  carried out the SIPP  transfer on an execution  
only basis (i.e. without providing  advice), it did not meet its obligations under PRIN 2 and 6. I 
have considered what PHFS has said about  this and its reference to Adams  v Carey. 
I have carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about  the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association)  v Financial  Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin)  (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood  as the ever present substrata to which the specific rules 
are added. The Principles always have to be complied  with. The Specific rules  do not supplant 
them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific  applications of them to the 
particular requirement  they cover. The general notion that the specific rules  can exhaust  the 
application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to 
augment specific rules.  
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley  J  said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach  a 
view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding  what  would be fair and 
reasonable and what  redress to afford.  Even  if no Principles had been produced by the FSA, 
the FOS would  find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty without having regard to the sort 
of high level Principles  which  find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated them. They  
are of the essence  of what is fair and reasonable, subject  to the argument about their 
relationship to specific rules.
In (R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial  Ombudsman Service [2018]  EWHC  
2878) (BBSAL),  Berkeley Burke brought a judicial  review claim challenging the  decision of 
an ombudsman who had upheld  a consumers  complaint against it. The ombudsman 
considered the FCA Principles  and good  industry practice at the relevant time. He concluded  
that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley  Burke to have undertaken due diligence  in respect  
of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it had done  so, it would 
have refused to accept  the investment. The ombudsman found Berkeley Burke  had therefore 
not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not treated its client  fairly. 
Ref: DRN56977107Jacobs J, having  set out some paragraphs  of BBA including paragraph  162 set out above,  said 
(at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA correctly 
submitted in their written argument,  the role of the Principles is not merely to cater  for new 
or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they are, and indeed  were 
always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the Principles-based  regulation 
described by Ouseley J. was precisely  not to attempt  to formulate a code covering all 
possible circumstances, but instead to impose general duties such as those set out in 
Principles 2 and 6. 
The BBSAL  judgment  also considers  section  228 of Financial Services  & Markets Act 2000  
(FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding  a complaint. The 
judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL provides  a strong  endorsement for the approach  taken by the 
ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described above, and included  the Principles  and 
good industry practice at the relevant time as relevant  considerations that were  required to be 
taken into account.  
Ive considered whether Adams v Carey changes the weight that I should give to the Principles  
in deciding this case. And, I find that it doesnt. In Adams v Carey, HHJ Dight did not consider 
the application of the Principles and they did not form part of the pleadings submitted by Mr 
Adams. It is also the case that that in Adams v Carey the obligations or duties being 
considered was that of a SIPP provider simply accepting investments in a SIPP, not an IFA 
proactively carrying out a pension transfer for a client so as to allow a property investment. 
Adams v Carey  says nothing about the application  of the FCAs Principles  to the ombudsmans  
consideration of a complaint and does not consider the duties of an IFA in this situation.  
As outlined  above,  Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would  be a breach of statutory duty if 
I were  to reach  a view on a complaint without taking  the Principles into account in deciding  
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a case. And, Jacobs J adopted a similar 
approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. I am therefore satisfied that the FCAs 
Principles are a relevant  consideration  that I must take into account when deciding this 
complaint. 
In this case, the business PHFS was conducting was transferring a pension so that a property  
investment could be made. I am satisfied  that meeting its regulatory obligations when 
conducting this business would include deciding whether to carry out that transfer  in the 
particular circumstances  and/or whether advice should be provided. I remain  of the view that 
PHFS did not meet its obligations under PRIN 2 and 6  it should have known that its actions 
were likely to bring about a situation  which was not in Mr Cs best interests. It proceeded  in the 
knowledge that it was arranging a SIPP so that an overseas property (probably unregulated) 
investment could take place without any knowledge that Mr C, an ordinary consumer,  had 
received appropriate guidance  or advice (PHFS submits it received the referral from an 
unregulated introducer). It was aware  the SIPP transfer and investment were  linked  and the 
investment could not take place without  the SIPP transfer. 
I did set out my view as to whether PHFS had caused Mr Cs loss in my provisional decision. 
However I have considered PHFSs  further submissions that it did not cause Mr Cs loss. 
I do not agree that he would likely have proceeded in any event with the transfer if PHFS had 
acted appropriately  and advised against it or not processed the transfer. I set out the reasons 
why in the provisional decision. As previously discussed, Mr C was not a sophisticated investor 
and he did not have a great deal of wealth. In terms of investments  the evidence  indicates that 
his greatest asset was his pension  and that was modest. If Mr C had been advised against  
this course of action   one of the material reasons  being that he was risking  the loss of the 
Ref: DRN56977108majority of his pension  (a risk not discussed  by PHFS)  then I believe it likely he would have  
taken account  of that and not transferred or invested. And, as also discussed in the provisional  
decision, if PHFS had simply  refused to enable the transaction then I not believe it is fair and 
reasonable to assume that another  firm would have  similarly, incorrectly,  processed the 
transfer. 
I acknowledged in the provisional  decision that Mr F had been involved and had likely 
suggested this investment  to Mr C. On that basis Mr C indicated  his wish to invest  before being  
referred to PHFS. But that does not in my view indicate that Mr F was set on investing in 
Harlequin or he would  have found some way to go ahead despite any action from PHFS. As I 
have said, but for PHFSs actions I do not believe he would have proceeded with the 
transaction. I do not believe  that because Mr C was persuaded to also invest  in another  
Harlequin property  at approximately the same time, means that he was set on doing  so with 
the investment  considered here or that this was appropriate for him. Whilst PHFS did set out 
some of the risks in its Direct Offer  pack,  they were not comprehensive and crucially did not 
take into account the risks to Mr C in his particular  circumstances.  
PHFS has referred to Mr C buying  an off-plan UK property to indicate that he was willing  to 
invest in overseas off plan property and that was suitable for him. Mr C has explained that this 
was not an off-plan property but a property he purchased for his main  residence which  he was 
renovating to make it liveable whilst renting a property for his family  to live in. So it was not an 
investment and I do not believe it indicates  a propensity to invest  in off-plan property, 
knowledge of such investing or that off-plan property investing was something  he necessarily 
wished to do.  
I did in my provisional decision discuss the period  for which  PHFS would have liability,  saying  
that PHFSs  liability did not end because Mr C had changed agency  and that it was unlikely  
Mr C could have mitigated his position in any event. PHFS has said the period 2011  2012 
has not been considered  but my view would  remain  the same. Despite  the Harlequin 
contractual provisions  I have not seen any evidence  that in practice Mr C could have extricated 
himself from the investment in that period.  And in any event in that period Mr C would not have 
thought he needed to. The issues with the investment only became clear to him in 2013.   
I do not believe that it can be inferred that because Mr C continued  with the investment in 2013 
that this indicates he would have  proceeded to transfer and invest  in 2009 if advised against 
that. He was in an entirely different situation  then, some years later and having now made the 
investment. It is clear from Mr Cs submission that he thought this was now a fait accompli  and 
having been put in this position  he had no choice but to wait to see what  would happen. As I 
have said, I do not believe that he could extricate  himself from the investment in any event.  
I am satisfied in the circumstances, for all the reasons given, that it is fair and reasonable to 
conclude that PHFS  should compensate Mr C for the loss he has suffered. 
In making these findings, I take account the potential contribution made by other parties  to the 
losses suffered by Mr C. In my view, in considering what  fair compensation looks like in this 
case, it is reasonable to make an award  against PHFS that requires it to compensate Mr C for 
the full measure of his loss. But for PHFSs failings, Mr Cs pension transfer would not have 
occurred in the first place  and consequently the investment in Harlequin would not have been 
made.
As I said in the provisional decision,  I am not asking PHFS to account for loss that goes 
beyond the consequences of its failings.  I am satisfied those failings have  caused  the full 
extent of the loss in question.  That other parties  might also be responsible  for that same  loss 
is a distinct matter, which I am not able to determine. However, that fact should not impact on 
Mr Cs right to fair compensation from PHFS for the full amount of his loss. 
Ref: DRN56977109fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr C 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice.
As discussed, I think otherwise Mr C would have kept his existing  pension.  But its unlikely to 
be possible  for PHFS to reinstate Mr C into his previous pension scheme.
There are also a number  of possibilities and unknown factors in making an award. While I 
understand Harlequin Property will allow PHFS  to take over the investment from Mr C, the 
involvement of third parties   the SIPP  provider  and Harlequin Property  means much of 
this is beyond this service or PHFSs control.
All the variables are unknown and each may have an impact on the extent of any award this 
service may make. The facts suggest its very unlikely that the property will be completed and 
unlikely that the contract  and any future payments would be enforceable  but I cant be 
certain of that.
While its complicated to put Mr C back in the position he would  have been  in if suitable 
advice had been given, I think its fair that Mr C is compensated now.  I dont think we should 
wait and determine each and every  possibility before making  an award. What is set out below 
is a fair way of achieving  this.
In summary,  PHFS should:
1.Obtain the notional transfer value  of Mr Cs previous pension plan, as at the date of 
my final decision, if it not been  transferred to the SIPP.
2.Obtain the transfer value, as date of my final decision, of Mr Cs SIPP, including  any 
outstanding charges.
3.And then pay the amount of (1  2) into Mr Cs SIPP so that the transfer  value is 
increased by the amount calculated. This payment should take account of any 
available tax relief  and the effect  of charges.
In addition, PHFS should:
4.Pay any future fees owed by Mr C to the SIPP, for the next five years.
5.Pay Mr C £500 for the trouble and upset  caused.
I have set out each  point  in further detail below.
1.Obtain the notional transfer value  of Mr Cs previous pension plan if it had not been 
switched to the SIPP. That should  be the value at the date of my final decision.
PHFS should ask Mr C's former pension provider to calculate the notional  transfer  value that 
would have applied  as at the date of my final decision had he not transferred his pension but 
instead remained invested.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation then the FTSE WMA Stock Market 
Income Total Return Index should be used. That is a reasonable proxy  for the type of return  
that could have been achieved if suitable  funds had been chosen.
Ref: DRN569771010PHFS should assume that any contributions or withdrawals that have been made would still 
have been made, and on the same dates
2.Obtain the transfer value  as at the date of my final decision of Mr Cs SIPP, including 
any outstanding  charges.
This should be confirmed  by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued to take charges 
from the SIPP and there  wasnt  an adequate cash balance to meet them,  it might  be a negative 
figure. 
This could  be complicated where  an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily  sold on 
the open market),  as its value cant be determined. That may well be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, PHFS  should  agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP  plus any costs,  and take ownership  of 
the investment(s).
If PHFS is unable to buy the investment(s), it should assume a nil value for the purposes of 
calculating compensation. 
In return for this, PHFS  may ask Mr C to provide an undertaking  to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment he may receive  from the investment. That undertaking should allow for 
the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. PHFS will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking. If PHFS asks Mr C to provide an undertaking, payment of the 
compensation awarded may be dependent upon  provision  of that undertaking.
3.Pay an amount into Mr Cs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased  to equal the 
amount calculated in (1). This payment should  take account of any available  tax relief 
and the effect  of charges.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP, PHFS should  pay it as a cash  sum 
to Mr C. But had it been possible  to pay into the SIPP,  it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore  the total amount  should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have  
been taxed according to his likely  income tax rate in retirement  presumed  to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
4.Pay any future fees owed to the SIPP for the next five years.
Had PHFS given suitable advice  I dont think there  would be a SIPP.  Its not fair that Mr C 
continues to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed.
Ideally, PHFS should take over the investment to allow the SIPP  to be closed. This is the 
fairest way of putting Mr C back in the position he would have been  in. But the ownership  of 
the Harlequin property investment cant currently be transferred. Its likely that will change  at 
some point, but I dont  know  when  that will be  there are a number of uncertainties.
So, to provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that PHFS pays Mr C an upfront lump  
sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using the previous years fees) 
or undertakes to cover the fees that fall due during the next five years.  This should provide a 
reasonable period for things to be worked  out so the SIPP  can be closed.
In return for the compensation set out above, PHFS  may ask Mr C to provide an undertaking 
to give it the net amount of any payment he may receive from the Harlequin  property 
Ref: DRN569771011investment in that five year period, as well as any other payment he may receive from any 
party as a result of the investment.
That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount he may 
receive. PHFS will need to meet any costs  in drawing up this undertaking. If it asks Mr C to 
provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation  awarded by this decision may be 
dependent upon provision  of that undertaking.
If, after five years, PHFS  wants to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for 
any future payments  under the Harlequin  property  investment, it must agree  to pay any 
further future  SIPP fees. If PHFS  fails to pay the SIPP  fees, Mr C should then have the 
option of trying to cancel  the Harlequin property contracts to enable  the SIPP to be closed.
In addition, PHFS is entitled to take,  if it wishes, an assignment from Mr C of any claim Mr C 
may have  against  any third parties in relation to this pension transfer and Harlequin property 
investment. If PHFS chooses to take an assignment  of rights,  it must be effected before 
payment of compensation is made. PHFS  must first provide  a draft of the assignment  to Mr C 
for his consideration and agreement.
5. Pay Mr C £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
I believe Mr C has been caused  significant upset through the loss of a large proportion of his 
pension. I believe £500 is fair to recognise  this.
If PHFS doesnt pay the compensation  within 28 days of being informed that Mr C has 
accepted my decision, interest, at the rate of 8% simple a year on the fair compensation 
payable shall be paid from the date of my decision to the date of payment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If PHFS deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr C how much has been  taken off. PHFS should give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My understanding is that Mr Cs Harlequin investments were deposits.  There are therefore  
more parts  of the contract for the remaining purchase price of the property that havent been 
paid yet. No loss has been suffered yet for these parts of the contract, so it isnt being 
compensated for here.  But the loss may still occur. If the property is completed,  Harlequin  
could still require those  payments to be made.  I think its unlikely there  will be a further loss. 
But Mr C needs to understand that this is possible, and he wont  be able to bring a further 
complaint to us if the contract is called upon.
Ref: DRN569771012my final decision
Mr C has complained within the three year time limit set out in DISP 2.8.2(b). Therefore his 
complaint would fall within  the jurisdiction of this service.
I uphold the complaint. I order  that Park Hall Financial Services Limited calculate and pay fair 
compensation as detailed  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN569771013Copy provisional decision
  summary  of complaint
Mr C complains about the advice he was given  to transfer his pension to a SIPP by Park Hall 
Financial Services  Limited (PHFS) in 2009. He says this was to facilitate an investment in a non-
standard investment  (Harlequin). He says that PHFS did not advise him of the appropriateness of the 
investment.
background to complaint
I issued a decision as to my jurisdiction to consider this complaint on 17 May 2019.  I said that the 
complaint did fall within  my jurisdiction. I said I would now go on to consider the merits  of the 
complaint itself.
PHFS responded to the jurisdiction decision  and maintained that Mr C had complained too late and 
another Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) had liability in any event. I shall call this adviser  Mr F. I 
have read PHFSs  response in detail but, in brief:
It said that Mr C had requested that the SIPP provider  remove PHFS as his adviser  in 
2012.
Mr C had one adviser from 2009  to the present  date  Mr F. The only deviation  to this was 
when this adviser  directed him to PHFS to set up the SIPP.
Mr C has referred  to having discussions with his advisor in 2012.
The contract for Harlequin  contained a full refund clause and many people were 
exercising this.
It made references  to matters in the public  domain regarding Harlequin  from 2010 to 2012. It 
said that real concerns were in the public domain and Mr C discussed  such  with his adviser 
in 2012. That is constructive knowledge  of cause for complaint. Constructive knowledge 
means enough information  to put someone on enquiry. This occurred in 2012.
A Transfer  of Servicing Rights form has now been provided dated  20 April 2012 that appointed Mr F 
of an unrelated firm of IFAs, as Mr Cs new IFA in respect of his SIPP. I shall
call this IFA, firm A. This effectively removes PHFS as the appointed IFA for the SIPP. Mr C says he 
does not remember signing this but does not dispute the signature  on the form is his.
Mr C says that the only records of correspondence  he has with the SIPP  provider or Mr F are some 
emails and an update letter about Harlequin  from Mr F (I will discuss these  in more detail  later in this 
decision).
More information was then sought from Mr C and the financial advisers (other than PHFS) he had 
dealt with.
On receipt of this information  PHFS made further submissions. I have read those  
submissions in detail, but, in summary  it:
Referred to Mr Cs intention to withdraw  the complaint in 2019, after his representatives had 
declined to deal with the complaint further. It said that the ombudsman service  investigator 
appears to have encouraged Mr C to continue with his complaint  which  it does not believe  
looks impartial, especially  when  combined with the short timescales in which PFS has been 
asked to respond during the complaint.
Said that it had asked  for information from Mr F but he had declined to disclose anything.  It 
had received information from the SIPP provider and the businesses that Mr F worked for 
over time.
Ref: DRN569771014Said that despite  Mr F being Mr Cs adviser  for over  30 years he had not disclosed any 
correspondence between  them.
Said that firm A had been acting  for Mr C from March  2012  and it therefore  took 
responsibility for all advice about the Harlequin investment from at least  March 2012.
Referred to a letter issued whilst  Mr F was at SJP which noted that Mr C was an 
Aggressive investor.  It said that at the time of PHFSs involvement in 2009,  Mr C had 
decided to buy two Harlequin properties.
Referred to the involvement of a Harlequin agent from another business who was to discuss 
potential properties with Mr C. Referred  to Mr Cs other Harlequin property  purchase which  
involved loan agreements and interest payment rebates. It thought this showed he knew  
what he was doing.
As well as Mr F being Mr Cs financial adviser, Mr F and Mr C were  friends  and co- 
investors. They merely needed PHFS to set up the SIPP so he could switch his pension 
funds to it.
PHFS gave Mr C the option of receiving advice but he declined. Nevertheless  PHFS did 
warn/advise of the risk of investing in Harlequin. It highlighted a document that PHFS had 
issued which warned  of the risks of investing in commercial  property.
Referred to an email from Mr F of 3 September 2009 whilst he was working for 
another business which  set out:
"This is untrue.  It is a personal pension. Mr (C) has never  been in, nor had the opportunity to 
join an occupational scheme. He has been with the same employer all his working life and I 
have known him professionally since he started".
Referred to Mr F noting in 2007 and 2013 that he was of the view that Mr C was an 
aggressive investor. That the evidence  was that Mr F was acting  for Mr C from early 2012  
including letters setting out that Mr C had a reasonable knowledge  of investments.  A risk 
appendix dated 23 April 2012  set out that, An aggressive investor can tolerate both large 
and frequent fluctuations  through  time.
Mr C would have proceeded to invest in Harlequin in any event. He was in active  discussion 
with the Harlequin agent and Mr F about Harlequin  and facilitated  another  Harlequin 
investment through  a borrowing arrangement. He needed  PHFS to help him access  pension  
funds via the SIPP  and would have proceeded with another  business if PHFS had refused.
Mr Cs relationship with Mr F was in place  for a long period of time  prior to 2007.  File notes 
show a joint enterprise - Mr F, Mr C and the Harlequin  agent. References are made  to 
sharing commissions and kickbacks.
Mr C signed a SIPP  provider  disclaimer stating that he did not wish to receive legal advice.
Mr F witnessed  the signatures on both Harlequin contracts. Mr F did not advise Mr C at any 
point about avenues to redress his situation re Harlequin. Mr F was seeking  to ensure  that Mr 
C remained invested.
As to limitation, PHFS reiterated that knowledge  (for the purposes of the three year time 
limit) is knowing enough to put on person to enquiry to seek  advice.  It made  reference to 
legal proceedings on the subject.
Most of Mr Cs disclosures are dated in 2013 but there are two Harlequin updates of 8 
November 2011 and 18 October  2012 which refer to, court cases, embezzlement,  missing 
funds of 13.5m. Using  the 2011 date this means the period to complain expired in 2014.
Ref: DRN569771015The complaint has been made too late  the statements/warnings of 2011 and 2012 together 
with the contractual  entitlement to a refund and delay in construction  means that Mr C is out 
of time.
The complaint has been made against the wrong party.
Mr C was asked specifically about the file notes obtained from firm A which included  comment that Mr 
C was potentially to be involved in marketing  Harlequin  properties. He said that he had not seen 
these notes before and that any indication  he would be involved in marketing Harlequin  properties, 
could not be further from the truth.
He said that Mr F was encouraging him to approach friends, family members and colleagues  about 
buying Harlequin  property  and that he could receive  commission by doing so. Mr C says he didnt 
want to do this and only told, one or two friends, and close family what I had been advised to do and 
that was all.
He said he told Mr F that none  of his family had pensions and that he did not discuss financial 
matters with friends. Mr C says that he only told Mr F that he would think about  it. He says that he 
never had any discussions  with the Harlequin  agent  about promoting Harlequin. He says he was 
proactively contacted by the Harlequin  agent  the Harlequin  agent having been informed by Mr F 
that he was interested in promoting Harlequin  about the Harlequin promotion. But he told her that 
he had only said he would think about it.
He did speak about Mr Fs intentions  and said, although I can blame him for the advice  he gave 
me, and what  he tried to pursue me to do (along with my partner) I still feel that Park Hall did not 
advise me correctly, at any time. I have been let down  by (Mr F) I would agree, and I have been let 
down by Park Hall, they could, and should have advised me, they didn't,  as with (Mr F), there clearly  
seems to have been one agender (sic), to make money out of me, not to do the thing that they are in 
business for, and to advise their client.
He also said that the only record he had of communication between  himself  and Mr F about 
Harlequin was the letter of 8 April 2013 he had supplied. He said:
Communication at the start of the process only really involved (Mr F) in telling  me about Harlequin, 
he told me it was a good opportunity in increasing the value of my pension pot for retirement. He 
introduced me to (the Harlequin agent) who was the agent. He then told me he would  contact Park 
Hall, as it would have to be them who would  have to set-up my SIPP.
If we communicated about  Harlequin, it was either a telephone conversation  or at the annual review 
we had.
Mr C has supplied a significant amount of correspondence,  mostly from Harlequin. I have 
considered that but will not list it all in this decision. But I would highlight the following  (particularly 
with relevance  to jurisdiction):
A Harlequin statement of 8 November  2011 referencing social media,  defamatory 
statements about Harlequin.
A Harlequin publication from 12 June 2012 referencing malicious social media  about  
Harlequin.
A Harlequin statement of 18 October 2012 referencing, defamation  proceedings  by 
Harlequin against  its former  accountants.
An email of 4 March  2013 supplying  a Harlequin  note regarding an individual seeking redress 
on behalf  of Harlequin investors.
A 28 March 2013  Harlequin statement referencing the cancellation of a Panorama 
programme on Harlequin.
Ref: DRN569771016A Harlequin notification of July 2013  that Harlequin  had won a legal  action against a 
construction firm tasked with the building of Harlequin properties.
An 11 July 2013 Harlequin statement which referenced, restructuring options to
ensure effective delivery of investments.
my provisional  findings
I do not agree that the service dealing with this complaint has been anything  but impartial. When  Mr C 
was considering withdrawing his complaint because his representative no longer wished to act for 
him, the investigator merely asked Mr C to take some time to think about  that. The decision as to 
whether to do so was left with Mr C. Having  taken some time, Mr C decided to continue, 
unrepresented. Mr C has been, at various times, given  more time to respond generally because of his 
personal circumstances. Similarly  PHFS has been granted more  time to present its submissions  when 
requested. It has made  significant submissions  over time and has had every opportunity to do so.
  my jurisdiction to consider this complaint
PHFS maintain that Mr C has complained too late - later than the three and six year periods allowed. 
I set out in my jurisdiction decision that I agreed that the six year time limit had expired - but not the 
three year period. I explained why in my jurisdiction decision.
I set out in my jurisdiction decision that the complaint  had been made  on 25 January 2016. So it 
was whether Mr C was aware (or ought to have been aware) of cause for complaint before 25 
January 2013 that was relevant to the three year limit. If he was or ought to have  been aware  
before that point, then he would be out of time.
The email Mr C has provided  and referred to above is an exchange between  him and Mr F. On 8 
April 2013 Mr F sent an email to Mr C attaching an update as regards his investment in 
Harlequin.
The update provided by Mr F discusses  the current situation with Harlequin, that there are current  
legal proceedings against the developer  of the properties  (not Harlequin itself) and that there has 
been some  negative press  about Harlequin.  In my view it puts a generally positive  slant on the 
situation and does not say that any losses are likely.  It says that the outlook is positive for 
Harlequin. I note that at the end of the update the adviser  says he cannot  advise Mr C what to do 
as this was an unregulated investment.
Mr C in his email reply of 9 April 2013 mentions thinking, long and hard over the past few weeks,  
since this all started playing out.
He says:
We were  extremely  frightened at the beginning as we thought I would definitely lose my pension 
and we thought we would  need to pay off the loan. We came to the decision,  after I had been talking 
with you and (the Harlequin agent) that we would just plough-on, and deal with the consequences  if 
they came.
And:
Over recent weeks of course things have  come  to light (all detailed in your letter)  I personally feel a 
lot more positive about Harlequin. I'm determined, with (individuals)  backing to stick with Harlequin. I 
want our investments to work  and I, like you can see only the positive side. At the same time, I do 
realise that things can still go wrong,  I'm prepared to keep going.
He refers to friends, reading  all the headlines over the past few weeks, which  I would assume  
is likely  a reference to published information about Harlequin.
I think  it is apparent, as discussed in my jurisdiction decision, that there was information available to 
Mr C that caused him concern about the investment  and the possibility  he could lose the money  he 
Ref: DRN569771017had invested. But the correspondence is after 25 January 2013. I have taken  into account that Mr C 
references information becoming available over  recent weeks.  This tends  to suggest  that the 
negative information about Harlequin  had been available  some weeks previously to 8 April 2013. But 
it has not been  established  that this was before 25 January 2013 and Mr C has previously said that it 
was only after 2013 that he became aware that there may be a serious problem with his investment.
I have noted that Mr C signed a firm A form that appointed  Mr F as his adviser to the SIPP in 2012.  
But that does not lead to a finding that Mr C had knowledge for cause for complaint  at that point. It 
merely means he is appointing a new adviser. Neither  does it necessarily mean  that PHFSs liability 
for its actions in 2009 end at that point (I will discuss this later in this decision).
C says of situation  since 2012:
I never received  any official correspondence from him re advise (sic), from when  I now learn  the 
Company he was working for at the time became my advisors.  I'm now realising that after that date, 
because I wasn't  aware that they were my advisors, I didn't ask any questions. All I can say is it 
clearly shows  how totally naive I was, I hadn't a clue who was advising me from 2012,  and the non-
existent advice or communication  that I had from Park Hall when I started  the purchase of the 
property with a SIPP from 2009 up until 2012
In terms of the statements  of 2011 and 2012 they only reference what Harlequin  believes is some 
suspect comments on social media  and some actions it is taking. There  is no definitive evidence as to 
what that comment was or whether it had any foundation. The statements in themselves  are not of a 
nature that ought not to have put Mr C on notice that he had cause  for complaint against PHFS. And it 
cannot be assumed that any social media content would or ought to have put Mr C on notice - but we 
have asked Mr C for more detail about  what he was reading on social  media.  He has said:
To start with most of the negative comments were mostly found on Tripadvisor and an online "press" 
service called The Caribbean Press. I came across it, as I think most  people would  have from links on 
posts, put onto Tripadvisor. It would  be mostly someone who had stayed at the resort,  or someone 
who new (sic) staff at the resort etc... Most of this was futile  stuff,  and on Tripadvisor, as you would  
expect, some investors (I never did) who appeared to know what they were  talking about,  would shoot  
the accusations down. Once the resort had been  open approx three  months then you got some of the 
people who had stayed  at the resort fighting back. Of course, it came to pass  that the instigator of the 
comments would accuse anyone when  fighting back, of being  someone that's working  for Harlequin, a 
Harlequin investor , who of course is desperate to ensure that this does not affect their investment, 
and so-on.
Harlequin also started to send out memos, denouncing these comments, and started to make 
Tripadvisor remove them, and any new posts as soon as they were put-on. I was told that Harlequin 
had threatened Tripadvisor with court proceedings. Most of the content  of threats  were about  staff 
not being  paid, how slow the building  was going, personal comments  about  Dave Ames, accusations 
about what was being done  with the
investors money, that Harlequin didn't own the land of some of the resorts  that were  being  built or was 
going to be built on. They  would accuse  it all of being a scam, a Ponzi Scheme  and so on.
The next website  that came  along,  was dedicated, too it would appear,  do as much damage as 
possible to Harlequin. The site was I think called  "Harlecon" Again;  it was all
negative articles about the resort, personal  accusations against Dave Ames and his family, and again 
being accused of operating  a Ponzi scheme. Within a very short amount of time, the website was 
taken down. There  were accusations that it was an aggrieved? Senior member of an Accountancy 
Firm that they were using or had used. It went  to court, I can't remember if they won the case, but I 
know that Harlequin were  awarded money.
So again, any concerns  that I had were alleviated,  and any negativity I saw online, I just did not 
believe, and it was backed-up by the agent  and memos  that came from Harlequin or from Dave 
Ames.
It is notable that it is recorded on financial fact finding documents  of 2012 and 2013 (which I will refer 
to later in this decision)  that were  completed by Mr F at firm A, that the SIPP value (the majority of 
Ref: DRN569771018which was invested in Harlequin) had not fallen. So it was not that Mr C was aware that he had lost 
his investment or money at that time.
I would also mention  that the Serious Fraud Office  did not begin their investigation into 
Harlequin until March 2013.
So I remain of the view that there  was not enough information of any standing  that ought  to have 
meant that Mr C has cause  for complaint  against Park Hall.
  non-completion
We have  asked Mr C about the lack of completion  of his property in 2011. We asked  Mr C what  he 
thought when  the property wasnt completed on time and whether he asked for his money  back 
after the six months  period allowed for in the contract expired. He has said:
I was aware of all of this before I took on the property. I was told by the "Agent" when I was thinking  
about investing my Pension. I was not unduly worried to begin with. I had purchased two Off plan 
houses in the UK before, and they both went over the original completion  date for various reasons.
As I recall, it was not (Mr F) who I spoke too about the delay, I went  too the Agent. At the time she 
was purchasing 4 properties.  She assured  me again (and another number of times) that it was 
nothing to worry about.
A number  of the explanations she gave  me was that the Caribbean workforce were very laid back, 
they worked at a slow pace  (which Harlequin became very frustrated about) but the workforce 
needed to be from the Island to ensure the engagement of the Islands population, so it was what it 
was. Another explanation was that materials  were delayed,  changes  in the design  of the complex,  the 
weather.
Some might  call me gullible! Maybe in hindsight  it was the case, but I really believed in this project  
and what I was told, and why delays  were happening. The reasons from the start that I believed this 
was all cossha,  and did so until it really did start falling apart, the involvement of sports  celebrities  
(Pat Cash  & Gary Player) Liverpool  Football  Club were a partner, running a sports  academy, 
sending ex players  like David Fairclough, Ronnie  Whelan, Robbie  Fowler etc.... The Liverpool youth 
team stayed at the Resort. They had as ambassadors the likes of Andy Townsend (ex footballer)  
and TV property guru Phil Spencer. The West Indies Cricket team stayed  at the resort when they 
played a test match in the country (against Australia  I think) Then they had (what I would call) minor
celebrities staying at the resort. This was posted-out on the Harlequin website, and they would also 
send out briefings when they had "news" of something big
All of this did give you a sense of security,  because naturally you would think  that they would not want 
to be associated  to anything which would tarnish their name and credibility.
I didn't at anytime  ask for my money back because I believed in the project. I looked at "Trip Advisor" 
the majority  of comments were favourable, of course there  were poor comments  also, but that's  the 
norm on something  like that. When I did point out some of the more drastic comments, I called the 
agent for reassurance, and she was always able to give me that. You would  get emails with the 
accusations that these  were  people that wanted  to discredit Harlequin, disgruntled ex employees, 
and also Padraig O'Halloran (who they eventually  took to court) so, I would feel confident that there 
was nothing to it, that there were a lot of jealous people  at how well Harlequin were  doing. I was 
constantly being told "keep the faith" there were many  investors  that are Professional  Advisors, 
Development investors,  they wouldn't invest in something that was a scam,  they would  have done 
due diligence  etc..... I believed! I really did think (and was told until the very end) "It would  be sorted 
out" No I never attempted to claim the money back, and was never  advised  too. I trusted  Harlequin 
and I trusted  the people who should know.
As I stated before, because of the advice, or rather lack of it, I never  knew or understood the massive 
risk I was taking.
Mr C has explained why he waited for completion  of his property  and that he was reassured  that 
completion would happen eventually. His explanation  is reasonable. So I do not believe that Mr C 
ought to have  complained earlier by reason  of his property not being completed on time. I would 
Ref: DRN569771019reiterate the findings that I made  in my jurisdiction decision  that there is insufficient evidence that Mr 
C ought  to have  been  aware that he had cause for complaint about PHFS  prior to January 2013.
   the merits of the complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear that Mr F was involved  in Mr Cs switch of his pension to the SIPP  and then investment in 
Harlequin. He had been  Mr Cs financial  adviser  before and after this switch  was made   there are 
financial planning documents  from 2007  which  have been completed by Mr F for Mr C and then 
again in 2012 and 2013. As PHFS has said, a transfer of IFA for the SIPP to Mr F of firm A, dated 20 
April 2012 and signed by Mr C, was sent to the SIPP  provider. And there is also a letter  of 20 April 
2012 from Mr F of firm A to the SIPP provider asking  for various details  about the SIPP.
It seems clear that Mr F has been Mr Cs adviser throughout and until at least  2017. I agree with the 
comment made by PHFS  that it was only involved  in the switch to the SIPP.  It was not Mr Cs 
longstanding financial adviser  that was Mr F.
At the point when this switch took place, Mr F was a representative of another  firm of financial 
advisers  which I will call firm B. But there is a lack of evidence that Mr F was representing  firm B 
when he gave  advice  to Mr C. There is none of the usual financial planning documentation at firm B 
which would indicate a normal financial  planning process
had been followed. And that firm has no record of any service or advice provided in relation to 
Harlequin. There are no fact finding documents from 2009  or recommendations about  the pension 
switch or Harlequin. There are other financial planning  documents at firm B (and firm A) which  
evidence that Mr F was giving financial advice to Mr C but they are unrelated to the pension advice  
or investment  in Harlequin.
There is a fee agreement with the SIPP application to pay PHFS £650 in respect of the creation  of 
the SIPP.  And the SIPP  application itself records PHFS as the Independent Financial Adviser in 
respect of the SIPP application. There is an accompanying letter  from the SIPP provider to PHFS 
that confirms the switch has completed and £650 will be paid to it.
So it is clear  that PHFS arranged the SIPP for Mr C and was remunerated for that. As I say it is also 
clear that Mr F was involved and Mr C says this was the individual who advised  him to invest  in 
Harlequin. I do not believe  that is disputed. I have therefore considered carefully  what  PHFS has said 
about liability and that liability for the Harlequin investment and any losses should rest with Mr F.
However, PHFS has its own responsibilities and liability in terms of this pension switch and 
investment.
   the Harlequin investment
Im mindful that in January  2013, the Financial Services Authority  (FSA) issued an alert:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving  advice to 
customers on pension  transfers  or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investment  proposed  to be held within  the new pension. In particular, we have 
seen advisers  moving customers retirement savings  to self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs) that 
invest wholly or primarily in high risk, often illiquid unregulated investments (some which may be in 
Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes)
The cases we have seen  tend to operate under a similar  advice model. An introducer will pass  
customer details to an unregulated firm, which markets an unregulated investment (e.g. an overseas  
property development). When the customer expresses an interest in the unregulated investment,  the 
customer is introduced  to a regulated financial adviser  to provide advice on a SIPP capable of holding 
the unregulated investment. The financial adviser  does  not give advice on the unregulated 
investment, and says it is only providing  advice on a SIPP capable of holding  the unregulated  
Ref: DRN569771020investment. Sometimes  the regulated financial adviser  also assists the customer  to unlock  monies 
held in other investments so that the customer is able to invest  in the unregulated investment
 where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will transfer  out of a 
current pension arrangement to release funds to invest  in an overseas property  investment under  a 
SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment must form part of the advice about  
whether the customer  should transfer into the SIPP.  If, taking into account the individual 
circumstances of the customer, the original pension product, including  its underlying  holdings, is more 
suitable for the customer then the SIPP is not suitable.
This is because if you give regulated advice  and the recommendation will enable investment in 
unregulated items you cannot  separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
 The FSA asks regulated firms, in particular  financial adviser and SIPP Operators  to report  those 
FSA firms that are carrying on these activities in breach of the FSA requirements
This alert didnt make  any changes to the regulations,  it was not new regulation  that had not applied 
previously. It simply re-stated the principles that already  applied, and which were  in place in 2009 
when the switch  and investment took place.
My view is not dependent on comments made by the industry regulator as to the type of process 
PHFS carried out to facilitate the investment. I take an independent view based on the circumstances 
of the complaint and take into account the rules, law and good practice  in place  at the time to arrive at 
decision that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. But my view is consistent with general  
comments from the regulator  about this type of process  that consideration should be given when 
advice is given to switch or transfer  to a SIPP, to the suitability of the overall proposition   both SIPP  
and investment to be taken  out.
The regulators comments refer directly to the situation here  where advice is being  given (or 
should have)  about a SIPP to invest in overseas property. It said that where an adviser  
recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will sell current  investments to fund overseas  
property then the suitability of that investment  must  be taken into account.
The fact that the regulators  alerts were  given after PHFS  undertook the transaction  does not mean  
they are not relevant  all the alerts did was highlight  the existing obligations (which applied  at the 
time this transaction  took place) when  giving advice such as this. It was not setting  out new standards  
for businesses to follow.
I would reiterate that I appreciate that PHFS  says it was not giving  advice about  Harlequin.  But as I 
have said it did recommend the SIPP to be used. Given that it was giving  advice as to the SIPP it 
should then have taken  into account the investment to be made of which  it clearly  was aware.
It is my view that in order  to give suitable advice under COBS 9 as to the SIPP,  PHFS would have to 
take into account  the investment itself,  for which the SIPP  was created and was the reason  for the 
whole arrangement going  ahead. The SIPP advice cannot be artificially separated from the 
investment to follow. PHFS has its own responsibilities when providing  the advice  on the SIPP to 
make sure it its responsibilities are discharged  and it cannot simply ignore those  responsibilities.
I agree there might be circumstances where  it is appropriate to limit the scope of advice and where 
that would not necessarily conflict with a businesss obligations to act in the best interests of its client 
and provide suitable advice. But those circumstances  do not exist here.
It was not possible to provide  suitable advice and act in Mr Cs best interests in a situation where 
PHFS knew the destination of the funds (overseas commercial property)  and the SIPP were  clearly 
linked. I am not persuaded that PHFS can limit its regulatory obligations  in this way. If PHFS felt that 
it could not give advice on the investment based on the information it had, then it should have 
declined to give any advice  at all or carry out the transaction.
  in any event  should PHFS have proceeded with the transfer and investment?
Ref: DRN569771021There are overarching reasons why in my view PHFS should  not have proceeded with this 
transaction at all or, even if the transaction could be said to be such, on an execution  only basis.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances,  I am required to take into account  
relevant: law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; and codes of practice. I am 
also required  to take into account, where  appropriate, what  I consider to have been good industry  
practice at the time.
I consider that the FCAs Principles  2 and 6 are of particular relevance  to my decision about what is 
fair and reasonable in this case.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general  
statement of the fundamental obligations  of firms under  the regulatory  system (PRIN  1.1.2G). 
Principles 2 and 6 say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business  with due skill, 
care and diligence.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
The Principles have a wide application, and I need to have regard to them when  deciding what  is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PHFS was aware that the intention was to invest in an overseas property investment. 
Furthermore it was or should have  been  aware that most of the money  for investment derived  
from a pension to support Mr C financially in retirement.
I do not believe that PHFS  met its obligations under the Principles to simply arrange the switch of 
pension benefits  and administer the investment on an execution only basis.  It should have been 
aware that there were very extensive risks inherent in this which Mr C was likely  not aware of. To 
simply process the transaction aware  of this information  and where  it was clear  that Mr C did not have 
the wherewithal to likely  appreciate all the risks himself was not acting in its customers best interest.  I 
do not believe  it could  ignore  these risks and carry out the transaction.
It should have either declined to carry out the transection or provided further guidance or advice on 
the overall arrangement of transfer, SIPP and investment.  I do not believe it acted with due care or in 
Mrs Cs interests  in accordance with Principles  2 and 6.
  the suitability  of the SIPP and investment for Mr C
In considering the suitability of the switch  to the SIPP and Harlequin  investment I have taken  into 
account the evidence  about  Mr Cs circumstances,  investment experience  and attitude  to investment 
risk.
As discussed, there is very little financial planning documentation relating to the pension switch in 
2009. However there are records which  have been supplied by firms which  Mr F represented 
before and after this point.
There is a fact find from firm A of 2007.  This records Mr C as willing  to take a medium  to high risk 
with regards investments. It also records his salary as about £45,000 a year and that his occupation 
is Director  Operation Manager. He is recorded as having most  of his money in cash  (about 
£40,000) with one stocks  and shares  ISA. There is one existing personal  pension recorded with a 
value of about  £45,000.
There is also a recommendation  letter from 2007. In this letter is the following  comment  in respect 
of Mr Cs attitude to risk.
Having known you for a number of years, you have not been  averse to a more aggressive  attitude 
to investment risk and have seen the benefits of investing long term in these  type of funds, at the 
Ref: DRN569771022same time witnessing the disasters that can beset investments of a high risk nature in the short  to 
medium term.
We discussed your attitude to risk in conjunction with the St. James's Place brochure entitled 'Guide  
to choosing your attitude to risk'. The brochure explains investment risk in detail and I left it with you 
for future  reference. You confirmed  that your attitude  to risk with regard to this particular  aspect of 
your financial planning is medium to high, i.e. 4 on a scale of 1-5 where 1 is low and 5 is high.
It should be noted that this was in respect of a modest regular contribution into an ISA.
In 2012 the firm A fact find records that Mr Cs SIPP was worth £56,000.  It also records Mr C had 
£5,000 in a bank current account, about  £7,000  in a collective share based  investment and that his 
salary was about £40,000 a year. Fact finds of February and November 2013 have similar 
information, albeit the February  fact find has cash savings of about  £70,000.
In an recommendation letter of 21 October 2013  Mr F, representing firm A said:
 Your attitude to investment risk
I explained how, when  making  financial  provision  to fulfil your objective the degree of risk you are 
willing and able to take for each one would be a major factor in considering the most appropriate 
choice of product. Your ability to cope with a loss in relation to the capital invested was also 
considered during our discussions. Specifically we discussed  the effect
the loss of any capital invested would have on your standard of living and we have taken  this into 
account in our recommendations.
We established that your attitude to risk could  realistically be described as Aggressive.
The Aggressive Investor aims to maximise  long-term expected  returns rather than to minimise 
possible short-term losses. An Aggressive Investor values high returns  relatively more  and can 
tolerate both large and frequent fluctuations through time in portfolio  value
in exchange for a higher  return  over the long term. The following criteria  may help to ensure  that such 
investors have the best chance of achieving  these goals: The portfolio  should  have at least  an 
approximately 80 percent chance of achieving  a nonnegative return  over a ten year holding period.
In 2013 a firm A fact find shows that Mr C held most of his money in cash, with a modest share-
based investment. There are no recorded high risk investments and no unregulated investments 
apart from the Harlequin investment. It is indicated that there are some further  pension savings with 
firm B.
In a recommendation letter  of 2013 Mr F, representing firm A said:
We established that your attitude to risk could  realistically be described  as Aggressive. However,  
after further discussion when completing  the investment  objectives section within the platform, you 
concluded that you were prepared  to accept a different  level of risk in respect of this GIA investment 
of Balanced. The Balanced Investor is somewhat concerned with short-term  losses and may shift to a 
more stable  option in the event of significant losses. The safeties of investment and return  are 
typically of equal importance  to the Balanced  Investor. The following criteria may help to ensure  that 
such investors have the best chance of achieving  these goals: The portfolio  should  have at least  an 
approximately 80 per- cent chance of achieving  a non-negative return over a five-year holding period.
On this occasion  you felt that investing in a Balanced  fund as opposed  to an Aggressive fund, which 
in actuality  is what  your attitude to risk is, was more suitable as although  you intend for this 
investment to continue until your planned retirement at 65, which is in 15 years' time, you will have to 
cash a proportion  of it in in five years' time to cover your annual SIPP charges.
You have  left £2,500 in cash  within  your SIPP  to cover your charges for the next 5 years, at this point  
you will need  to cash in some of your invested units to pay your charges. You would  like to stay 
ahead of the charges as much as possible  and it is your intention  with this investment to try and 
make a profit  so that future charges are paid from the money  earned rather  than the initial £10,000 
invested.
Ref: DRN569771023Although you have an Aggressive attitude to risk normally, you did not want  to risk investing  your 
money into a fund which could  have  a high chance of volatility  and would prefer  to have a more 
balanced investment approach on this occasion.
Again you are aware that there is no guarantee and that your fund could  go down as well as up, but 
you wanted  to try and minimise the risk of this happening  by investing  in a more balanced fund rather  
than a more aggressive fund.
Mr C was not employed in financial services and his background does not suggest he was a 
financially sophisticated investor. His salary  was about £45,000 per year. It is not recorded  on any of 
the financial planning documents  I have  seen that he had anything but modest investments in retail 
collective share-based  holdings such as ISA or unit trusts.  Mr C had very little in the way of risk-
based investments.
Whilst Mr C is noted  as an aggressive investor, I have not seen evidence of him entering into high 
risk or unregulated investments. In fact it seems he had very little experience of risk based 
investments at all.
The Harlequin  investment was an off plan  unregulated speculative commercial overseas  property 
investment. It was high risk and the investor faced the real possibility of losing all their money. 
Because it was unregulated  Mr C did not benefit from UK protections  such as that afforded by the 
Financial Services  Compensation Scheme.
Mr Cs circumstances do not indicate that he was prepared to lose all the money invested in 
Harlequin or he could afford to do so. They  also do not indicate  that he was suited to the risks this 
investment presented. Of about £61,000 transferred to the SIPP,  £42,000 was invested in Harlequin.  
This was a large proportion of Mr Cs pension savings   which were  now being put at the risk of total 
loss. It was clearly unsuitable to place  so much  of Mr Cs pension savings at this risk and he should  
have been advised by PHFS against doing so.
Mr Cs investment experience was very limited  and does not suggest that he was an experienced  
investor who could appreciate all the risks of what he was doing or would  not be reliant on PHFS to 
give him suitable  advice and consider his best interests. I have  not seen that PHFS  gave Mr C enough 
information to put him in a fully informed position about whether to undertake the pension switch and 
invest in Harlequin. Mr C was not supplied with any form of recommendation  or tailored advice by 
PHFS as to the suitability of switching his pension  to invest in Harlequin.
I do note that Mr C made a deposit  for another Harlequin  property using  a loan. Mr C has said he did 
this based on the positive information he was being supplied with about  Harlequin being  a good 
investment. I do not believe  that Mr C making another investment based on the guidance he was 
being given means that this type of investment was suitable for him. His circumstances strongly  
suggest that this was not a suitable investment for most of his pension money.
This switch and investment arrangement presented risks which I believe  were  too high, and 
unsuitable for Mr C and higher than the level of risk Mr C likely  wished to take with so much of his 
money.
I therefore  believe the complaint about the switch  to undertake  the Harlequin investment  should 
be upheld.
  did PHFS cause Mr Cs loss
Mr C was dependent  on PHFS to act in his best interests. I do not believe he could assess this risk 
of the overall arrangement of SIPP and investing in Harlequin for himself.
It does not seem to be disputed that Mr C approached PHFS with the Harlequin  property 
investment already in mind. But that was likely  a result of a previous promotion  of that investment  
to him  Mr C had not arrived at this decision on his own.
If PHFS had declined  to carry  out the transfer  and investment or advised Mr C that he should not 
switch his pension or invest in Harlequin  I think it more likely that he would have taken account  of that 
Ref: DRN569771024and it would have been persuasive, coming  from a professional regulated  IFA. I think it is more  likely 
that he would not then have  invested or switched  and these actions would  have changed his 
motivation to invest in Harlequin.
It follows that he would not have switched, nor needed to have switched, his pension to the SIPP. 
So neither the SIPP nor the investment would have taken place  but for PHFSs actions. 
Consequently any loss Mr C has suffered through transferring to the SIPP and investing  in 
Harlequin has been  caused by PHFSs actions.
The financial  loss has flowed from Mr C switching out of his existing pension and into a SIPP. 
For the reasons  I set out below I am satisfied that had Mr C been given suitable  advice, the 
loss would  not have been suffered.
Had PHFS advised Mr C correctly I find it very unlikely  that Mr C would have tried to find another  firm 
to arrange the SIPP. In any event, I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that PHFS should  not 
be responsible for its errors  because  another firm would have  made  the same mistakes. I think its 
fair instead to assume  that another firm would  have advised  against the switch to the SIPP and 
investment  and Mr C would not have  proceeded in that situation. So again, I think  the end result 
would have been that Mr C would not have  made the investment or the switch from his existing 
pension that proceeded it.
It has been  suggested that Mr C was very much involved in the marketing of Harlequin 
investments and was therefore familiar with the operation  and risks.
There is a file note that was made by Mr F, in relation to Mr C, when  Mr F was representing  an IFA 
unrelated to PHFS. This is dated 15 April 2010:
I took details for TRUTH  and now need to go over it carefully to see that Ive got all of the 
calculations right and show them some scenarios like retiring  early or adding  more  Harlequin 
properties.
And:
He said he has been  trying to promote Harlequin  properties but everybody he speaks to thinks its too 
good to be true. I need to examine ways we can get in front of people  for Andy as Im sure Mary  has 
offered him a cash payment for everyone she successfully sells.  Could see if I can get in on the 
TRUTH / My Docs and throw  the Harlequin thing in.
There is also a note from 20 April 2010:
Spoke to him about approaches for Harlequin,  suggested that if he referred  then on the basis of 
Truth and My Docs
He acknowledged (Harlequin agent)  had offered him incentives on selling  Harlequin Properties. I said 
I would work  as a team with him if he wanted me to go in and talk to them.  What I didnt say was to 
extend it out so that if I managed to find people  to refer on I could also ensure  (Mr C) got his kick 
back.
As set out earlier in this decision, Mr C has been asked about  these file notes. He has said that it is 
not the case  that he was considering being  an agent for Harlequin investments or was interested  in 
promoting them. I have  not seen any evidence that he did become an agent or promote Harlequin. It 
seems to me that the Mr C was advised to invest in Harlequin by Mr F and had discussions with Mr F 
and a Harlequin agent  about doing  so. I have not seen evidence that his role was anything but that of 
an investor, or that he had any specialist  knowledge of Harlequin investments.
Rather than Mr C being  set on a Harlequin  investment he says this was proposed by Mr F as a way to 
increase his pension. I do not believe Mr C approached Mr F with Harlequin  in mind  and he was 
simply persuaded to invest as this was a good idea regarding his future.  I do not agree  that Mr C 
would have invested in Harlequin whatever  PHFS agreed or did not agree to do.
Ref: DRN569771025So I am satisfied that Mr C would not have continued with the SIPP, had it not been for PHFSs 
failings, and would have remained in his existing  scheme. And, whilst  I accept  that Mr F is likely 
responsible for initiating the course of action that has led to his loss, I consider  that PHFS  failed 
unreasonably to advise against that course of action when it had the opportunity and obligation  to do 
so.
In making these findings, I take account the potential contribution made  by other parties  to the 
losses suffered by Mr C, particularly Mr F. In my view, in considering what  fair compensation looks 
like in this case, it is reasonable to make an award against  PHFS that requires it to compensate Mr 
C for the full measure  of his loss. But for PHFSs failings, Mr Cs pension switch  would not have  
occurred in the first place.
I am not asking PHFS  to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its failings. I am 
satisfied those  failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. That other parties might 
also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter, which I am not able to determine. 
However, that fact should not impact on Mr Cs right to compensation from PHFS for the full amount 
of his loss.
Im also aware  that a party involved with Harlequin Property  has been charged with fraud offences.  
A court might therefore conclude that the loss doesnt flow directly  from PHFSs unsuitable advice. 
And on this basis, a court  might not require PHFS to compensate Mr C  notwithstanding the PHFS  
failure.
But in assessing fair compensation, Im not limited to the position  a court  might take.  It may be there 
has been a break in the chain of causation . That might mean  it wouldnt  be fair to say that all of the 
losses suffered flowed  from the unsuitable advice. That will depend  on the particular circumstances 
of the case.  No liability  will arise for an adviser  who has given suitable advice  even if fraud later takes 
place. But the position  is different where the consumer wouldnt have been in the investment in the 
first place without the unsuitable advice.  In that situation, it may be fair to assess  compensation on 
our usual basis  aiming to put the consumers in the position they would have been  in if theyd been 
given suitable advice.
In this particular case, I conclude  that it would be fair and reasonable to make an award, given  the 
specific circumstances. I am satisfied that Mr C would  not have made the Harlequin  Property 
investment had it not been  for the failings  of PHFS. And I consider that PHFSs actions given by the 
adviser completely disregarded Mr Cs interests. As a direct result of PHFSs failure to give suitable  
advice, Mr C invested his pension into a specialised, high risk, unregulated investment with a limited 
track record.
  period of liability  for Mr Cs loss
PHFS has submitted that any liability  for Mr Cs loss would end when agency for the SIPP was 
transferred to firm A. As discussed, the loss flowed  from the lack of suitable advice provided  in 2009. 
Merely because firm A registered  itself as the advisory  firm for the SIPP does mean  that it becomes 
liable for losses from that point  that were caused by the actions
in 2009. I have not seen  persuasive evidence that firm A reviewed the Harlequin investment when  
the agency for the SIPP  was transferred. Having said that it seems to me highly likely that the 
Harlequin investment was discussed with Mr C in 2013  because there is record of potentially 
switching the type of Harlequin property holding Mr C held, with the SIPP provider.
Be that as it may, it does  not seem to me that, even  if it is argued that firm A could have sought to 
mitigate losses by attempting some form of sale or transfer of the Harlequin investment after it had 
assumed agency, this could have taken place. I have not seen any persuasive evidence  or other 
example that would indicate  the holding could have been sold back  to Harlequin or to another entity 
that was willing to buy. It does not seem that Mr Cs property was ever completed and Harlequin 
overall was in a distressed state after 2013. So there was not a point where  Mr C could have 
mitigated his losses and sold the investment.  Consequently Mr Cs current loss flows directly  from 
the action taken  by PHFS in 2009. He would not be invested in Harlequin were it not for its actions.
Ref: DRN569771026  fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider  that my aim should be to put Mr C as close 
to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable  advice.
As discussed, I think otherwise Mr C would have kept his existing pension. But its unlikely to be 
possible for PHFS to reinstate Mr C into his previous pension scheme.
There are also a number of possibilities and unknown  factors in making an award. While I 
understand Harlequin Property  will allow PHFS to take over the investment from Mr C, the 
involvement of third parties  the SIPP provider and Harlequin Property  means much of this is 
beyond this service or PHFSs  control.
All the variables are unknown  and each may have an impact on the extent of any award this service 
may make. The facts suggest its very unlikely that the property will be completed and unlikely that 
the contract and any future payments would be enforceable   but I cant be certain  of that.
While its complicated to put Mr C back in the position he would  have been in if suitable  advice had 
been given, I think its fair that Mr C is compensated now. I dont think we should wait and determine 
each and every possibility  before making  an award. What is set out below is a fair way of achieving  
this.
In summary, PHFS should:
1.Obtain  the notional transfer  value  of Mr Cs previous  pension plan, as at the date of my 
final decision, if it not been  transferred to the SIPP.
2.Obtain  the transfer value, as date of my final decision, of Mr Cs SIPP,  including any 
outstanding charges.
3.And then pay the amount of (1  2) into Mr Cs SIPP so that the transfer value is 
increased by the amount  calculated. This payment  should take account of any 
available tax relief  and the effect of charges.
Ref: DRN5697710K821x#15In addition, PHFS should:
4.Pay any future fees owed  by Mr C to the SIPP, for the next five years.
5.Pay Mr C £500 for the trouble and upset  caused.
I have set out each point in further detail below.
1.Obtain  the notional transfer  value  of Mr Cs previous  pension plan if it had not been 
switched to the SIPP.  That should  be the value at the date of my final decision.
PHFS should ask Mr C's former pension  provider to calculate  the notional transfer value that would 
have applied as at the date of my final decision had he not transferred his pension but instead 
remained invested.
If there  are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then the FTSE WMA  Stock Market 
Income Total  Return Index should be used. That is a reasonable proxy  for the type of return that 
could have been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen.
PHFS should assume that any contributions or withdrawals that have been  made would still have 
been made, and on the same dates
2. Obtain the transfer value as at the date of my final decision of Mr Cs SIPP, including  any 
outstanding charges.
This should be confirmed by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued  to take charges from 
the SIPP  and there wasnt an adequate cash balance to meet them, it might be a negative figure.
3. Pay an amount  into Mr Cs SIPP so that the transfer  value is increased to equal the amount 
calculated in (1). This payment should take account of any available tax relief  and the effect of 
charges.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP, PHFS should  pay it as a cash sum to Mr 
C. But had it been possible  to pay into the SIPP, it would have  provided a taxable income. 
Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would  be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed  
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  this.
4. Pay any future fees owed  to the SIPP for the next five years.
Had PHFS given suitable  advice I dont think there would be a SIPP. Its not fair that Mr C 
continues to pay the annual  SIPP fees if it cant be closed.
Ideally, PHFS  should take over the investment to allow the SIPP to be closed. This is the fairest 
way of putting  Mr C back in the position he would have been in. But the ownership of the Harlequin 
property investment cant currently be transferred. Its likely that will change  at some point, but I 
dont know when that will be  there are a number of uncertainties.
So, to provide  certainty to all parties, I think its fair that PHFS pays Mr C an upfront lump sum 
equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using the previous years fees)or 
undertakes to cover  the fees that fall due during  the next five years.  This should provide  a 
reasonable period for things  to be worked  out so the SIPP can be closed.
In return  for the compensation  set out above, PHFS may ask Mr C to provide an undertaking to 
give it the net amount of any payment he may receive from the Harlequin  property investment in 
Ref: DRN569771028that five year period,  as well as any other payment he may receive from any party as a result of the 
investment.
That undertaking should  allow for the effect of any tax and charges  on the amount he may 
receive. PHFS will need to meet  any costs  in drawing up this undertaking. If it asks Mr C to 
provide an undertaking,  payment of the compensation  awarded by this decision may be 
dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
If, after five years, PHFS wants to keep the SIPP  open, and to maintain  an undertaking  for any 
future payments under  the Harlequin property investment, it must  agree to pay any further future 
SIPP fees.  If PHFS fails to pay the SIPP  fees,  Mr C should then have the option of trying to 
cancel the Harlequin property contracts to enable  the SIPP to be closed.
In addition, PHFS is entitled  to take, if it wishes, an assignment from Mr C of any claim Mr C may 
have against any third parties in relation  to this pension  transfer and Harlequin property 
investment. If PHFS chooses to take an assignment of rights, it must be effected before payment 
of compensation is made. PHFS must first provide a draft of the assignment to Mr C for his 
consideration and agreement.
5. Pay Mr C £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
I believe Mr C has been caused significant upset through the loss of a large proportion of his 
pension. I believe  £500 is fair to recognise this.
If PHFS doesnt pay the compensation  within  28 days of being informed that Mr C has 
accepted my decision, interest, at the rate of 8% simple a year on the fair compensation  
payable shall be paid from the date of my decision to the date of payment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If PHFS deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. PHFS should  give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My understanding is that Mr Cs Harlequin investments were deposits. There are therefore more 
parts of the contract for the remaining purchase price of the property that havent  been paid yet. 
No loss has been suffered  yet for these parts of the contract, so it isnt being  compensated for 
here. But the loss may still occur. If the property is completed, Harlequin  could still require those  
payments to be made. I think its unlikely  there will be a further loss. But Mr C needs to understand 
that this is possible, and he wont  be able to bring a further  complaint to us if the contract  is called 
upon.
my provisional  decision
I believe Mr C has complained within the three year time limit set out in DISP 2.8.2(b). Therefore his 
complaint would fall within the jurisdiction  of this service.
I also believe his complaint  should  be upheld  and fair compensation  calculated and paid as detailed 
above.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5697710