K821x#15Complaint
Mrs D is unhappy that PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA held her responsible  for a debt she
says she didnt apply  for or benefit  from.
Background
Mrs D says she received a letter from a third party  company on behalf  of PayPal. The letter
said shed missed a payment on a debt held with them leaving an outstanding balance  of
£1,280.60. Mrs D contacted PayPal to find out what the debt was for and was told it was in
relation to a PayPal credit account  held in her name.
Mrs D denies applying  for or receiving the benefit  of this debt and says she suspected it was
taken out by an estranged family  member.  Mrs D says she was worried the debt would affect
her credit rating and was in the process  of selling  her home at the time. She says this made
her upset and scared, so she contacted  a family  member who paid the debt on her behalf.
Mrs D brought a complaint to our service saying she hadnt applied  for or benefited from the
debt taken out in her name with PayPal.  An Investigator here looked into this and contacted
PayPal in order to obtain evidence surrounding  the debt.
PayPal responded  to the Investigator saying that it wasnt  willing  to provide  the evidence  
requested due to data protection and privacy policies. It suggested that Mrs D was best 
placed to contact law enforcement agencies  in order to have the matter looked into.
To move matters  forward  I issued a provisional decision on 13 February 2019 outlining that I 
was mindful to uphold  the complaint and that PayPal  reimburse Mrs D the £1,280.60 plus 
interest and remove the reporting of the debt from her credit  file.
Both parties  agreed to the findings set out in my provisional decision with no additional 
comments to consider. I am therefore  now in a position to issue  my final decision in this 
matter.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs D has provided our service with a copy of the letter asking for repayment of a debt taken 
out in her name. This letter was sent to her by a third party  business  acting  on behalf of 
PayPal. Mrs D has denied applying for or benefiting from this debt and as such hasnt been 
able to provide  any other evidence relating to it other than the letter  sent to her.
As Mrs D did pay off the debt, Ive considered  why someone would do this when they 
havent applied  for or had the benefit of the credit. Mrs D says that at the time of the letter  
being received  she was in the process of selling her home and thought the debt may affect  
the sale due to the impact on her credit  file. Having considered this I think  it a reasonable 
explanation that Mrs D thought to pay the debt to avoid any potential  issues it may cause  
with the sale of her home.
PayPal has been  given the opportunity to provide  evidence that Mrs D is responsible for the 
debt taken out in her name but has failed to do so. In fact, PayPal hasnt provided any 
Ref: DRN56469412evidence at all to the contrary. As such,  I think it reasonable in the circumstances that 
PayPal refunds the money Mrs D paid toward  the debt plus interest,  and removes  the 
reporting of it from her credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, 
SCA to:
Refund Mrs D the £1,280.60  paid
Pay Mrs D 8% simple  annual  interest on the amount from the date it was paid to 
PayPal to the date of settlement
Remove any reporting of the debt in Mrs Ds name to credit reference agencies
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5646941