K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building  Society  made errors after declining a current  
account application which meant  he was unfairly pursued for a debt he didnt owe.  
background
In April 2017 Mr M applied to open  a new current account with Nationwide.  But the 
application was declined. 
Due to a mistake by Nationwide the account  wasnt closed and charges were applied.  
The account  became overdrawn which meant further charges were applied,  increasing the 
outstanding balance. As a result, Nationwide sent Mr M letters about the debt, a formal 
demand and default  notice.  Nationwide also tried to call Mr M about  the account.  
Nationwides systems evidence shows the account  defaulted on 9 March  2018.
On 19 March 2018 Mr M contacted Nationwide and complained about the contact hed 
received. Nationwide looked at the account and accepted it hadnt been closed and the debt 
wasnt Mr Ms so took steps to close it down. 
Nationwide responded to Mr Ms complaint  on 29 March 2018. It agreed an error was made 
when the account wasnt properly closed  down and offered Mr M £100.  Mr M went on to 
refer his complaint  to our service. 
In his submission,  Mr Ms told us he suffers with mental health  issues  and the situation made 
matters worse. An investigator looked  at the complaint and recommended  Nationwide 
increase the settlement to £200,  but it didnt agree. Nationwide  responded to say that it 
would have resolved the situation sooner if Mr M had responded to its letters  and calls 
earlier. As Nationwide didnt accept, the case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide made  some significant  errors  that have clearly caused Mr M unnecessary  stress. 
I agree  with the investigator that Nationwide should increase the settlement offered. I dont 
think Nationwides response that it expected Mr M to highlight  its errors sooner is 
reasonable. 
Nationwide has already accepted that an error meant the account wasnt  closed once it 
decided not to proceed. It went on to send  Mr M some very serious letters  about  a debt that 
wasnt his. The situation went on for nearly  a year and also included calls to Mr M. I 
appreciate Mr M didnt respond until March 2018  but that doesnt mean Nationwide  was right 
to continue to follow its collections  processes  and simply  chase the debt. I think it would 
have been clear to anyone  at the business  who looked at the account that something  had 
gone seriously wrong. The statements  show there was no spending on the account,  only 
charges. 
Ref: DRN50758612Nationwides systems show that as a result of everything that happened  it reported negative 
information to the credit  reference agencies and ultimately defaulted the account.  The 
systems notes show the default has since been deleted, but Nationwide  should ensure that 
no information about the open account  remains on Mr Ms credit file. 
Mr M has confirmed  the situation was very upsetting for him and I can understand why.
Given the nature of the error, length of time the situation went  on for and what Mr Ms told us 
about the impact  it had on him, Im satisfied increasing the settlement is fair. As a result, Im 
going to endorse  the investigators recommendation that Nationwide  pays  Mr M a total of 
£200 to resolve  this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Nationwide Building Society to pay 
Mr M £200 (less any compensation already paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5075861