K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Ms W, on behalf of the late Mr W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him PPI.
I hope Ms W wont be offended by my reference to Mr W rather than the late Mr W when 
dealing with and referring to his circumstances and the events from the time of the sale.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.
The late Mr Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion   they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding the late Mr Ws 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. 
And Ive decided Lloyds should  have disclosed the commission it received - but that Lloyds 
offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate  for the unfairness  caused is fair in the 
circumstances. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions  below.  
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think Lloyds likely  made  it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out. I say this because while Lloyds no longer has a copy  of Mr Ws credit card 
application from the time  not surprising  given how long ago it was taken out  we have 
seen examples used  around the same  time as Mr W took out his card and PPI. 
Ref: DRN59850952And looking at this a consumer would have had to indicate they wanted PPI by indicating 
as such on the application.
So on the basis that Ive not seen anything to persuade  me that Mr W saw something 
very different in 1996,  I think  its likely he chose to take out PPI and did so without undue 
pressure.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr W - so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for him. And the evidence about  Mr Ws circumstances at the time, shows  that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr W was eligible for the 
cover and he didnt  have any real means he could use to make  the repayments  on his 
card if he wasnt  working, so he had a need  for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Ws employment or occupation at the time, which would 
have made  it difficult for him to claim. And although  Mr W told us he had a medical 
condition some time before the policy  was taken out (he suffered a fracture when he was 
around 18 years old) I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to have recommended  the 
policy. I say this because  the policy only excluded claims relating to conditions  which  
occurred or required  treatment in the 12 months  prior to the commencement date  so I 
dont consider Mr Ws prior injury  or condition would  have been caught  by the policy  
terms.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr W about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr W as I concluded  above,  or 
too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information  he was 
likely given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  Because of this I dont think Mr W would have 
declined the cover had Lloyds done  anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back problems and it excluded  
claims for mental health conditions, in light of Mr Ws circumstances at the time of sale 
and despite its limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt  fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for him. So I think  he would have still thought he had some good reasons to 
take the policy out  particularly given his limited  existing means.
Overall, I consider that Mr W would have  still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit  in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think  the policy  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that he would have taken out the policy  in any event.
The late Mr Ws representative has raised  a number of what I consider  to be general  
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should  have disclosed the poor value 
and explained  the significance of the limitations  and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But the late Mr Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts  
and circumstances  of his individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
Ref: DRN59850953I have thought about these things and how they might apply in the late Mr Ws particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to the late Mr W.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds  should  have disclosed the commission  it received and 
that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr W about  the high levels of commission and profit  share paid in this case.  
So taking into account: 
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion  in that case  that the non-
disclosure of commission could  lead to an unfair relationship;
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
-the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mr W was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell him about the high levels  of commission and profit  share in this case 
I dont think Lloyds acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings  with Mr W because  it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair  relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.
The late Mr Ws representative has made  a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin  judgment and sections  140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN59850954In summary  they have  said the late Mr W should  get back all the money  he paid for the 
policy because:  Lloyds failed to tell him about the high commission  and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover.  Because  they say 
that meant  the policy was poor value,  I should find that the late Mr W wouldnt have taken  
out the policy had he known about  the level of commission  and Ms W, on behalf of the late 
Mr W should receive a refund of all the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy  had the 
commission been disclosed; 
-A court would have a range of powers available under section  140 B to remedy  the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure  of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order  a return of all the premiums  paid or conclude that a 
consumer would  not have purchased the policy had the commission  been  disclosed; 
and
-The FCA considered  the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge  
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules  and guidance  
about mis-selling (hence the two-step  approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact  of any undisclosed  commission and any remedy  caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
the late Mr W in order  to remedy  the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing  the high 
level of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
-The FCAs guidance usually  requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit  share  above 50% of the policys  cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused  by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
-refunding some  of the money  paid for the PPI policy  in this way is an order  which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make  under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit  Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
-I am not, as the late Mr Ws representative  suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt 
have purchased the policy but for Lloydss failure  to disclose  the level of commission for 
the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some  of the money the late Mr W paid for his PPI policy.  
I consider this fairly removes the source  of the unfairness. This is because  it leaves the late 
Mr W with the policy  Ive concluded above  he would  still have taken out if Lloyds had done 
everything it should have done   but with lower commission and profit  share levels.
So I consider that Lloyds  offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission  and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated  interest where  
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance  to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN59850955 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of the late Mr Ws complaint or make  any 
award in favour of Ms W, on behalf  of the late Mr W, for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that Lloyds 
Bank PLC should pay Ms W, on behalf of the late Mr W, an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy  cost (plus associated 
interest where applicable) if it hasnt already done  so. If Lloyds  Bank PLC has already made 
payment, then theres nothing more it needs  to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W, on behalf of 
the late Mr W, to accept  or reject  my decision before 26 September 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5985095