K821x#15complaint
Mrs Z has complained about poor service on the part of Tesco Personal Finance Plc which 
resulted in her insurer declining a claim under her home insurance policy after she suffered 
an escape of water at her house. Mrs Z is represented in her complaint by her son, Mr Z.
 
background
Mrs Z held a home insurance  policy which was arranged by Tesco  and underwritten  by a 
particular insurer. In February 2018, the policy was due for renewal.  Sadly,  Mrs Z had 
become ill and needed to go into a care home. Mr Z rang Tesco  on behalf of his mother to 
explain the situation. He told Tesco that the property, once cleared, would be sold but that 
this might take some time and the property in the meantime would be empty. Tesco provided 
a quote for the renewal of the insurance  which  Mr Z accepted.
In August  2018,  Mr Z was visiting the property when he discovered a water leak.  This was 
from an overflow pipe in the loft and had caused  a large damp  patch in the main  bedroom 
and landing.
Mr Z made a claim under the policy but the insurer declined this. It said that the property  had 
been unoccupied for 60 days and under the terms of the policy there was therefore no cover 
for damage  caused  by an escape of water.
Mr Z, on behalf  of his mother,  complained  to Tesco that it hadnt made him aware of this at 
the time hed renewed the policy. Tesco apologised and said it should have done  this. It 
offered £75 compensation for its error.  However, Tesco pointed out that even if the 
occupancy clause were  ignored, the claim would still have not been payable  because the 
damage had occurred gradually. On this basis, it didnt feel that Mrs Z had been prejudiced 
by its error.
Mr Z was unhappy with Tescos response.  He referred his mothers  complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He considered that 
Tesco should have  made Mr Z aware  at the time of renewal that the policy  would only 
provide very restricted cover because the house  was unoccupied. He considered that if 
Tesco had done this, Mr Z wouldnt have taken out the policy  but would instead have sought 
bespoke insurance.  He considered it was likely that such  a policy  would have required Mr Z 
to take certain  precautionary actions such as draining the boiler and turning off the water 
supply. This would have  meant the event  giving rise to the claim would never have occurred. 
In view of this, the investigator said he thought  Tesco  should  compensate  Mrs Z to the value 
of the repairs  required  to repair the damage  caused by the leak,  either by doing  the repairs 
itself or by providing  a cash settlement. He also thought Tesco  should pay Mrs Z £150  for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  to her through its poor handling of the claim.
Tesco didnt  accept  the investigators  findings.  It said that while  it had made a mistake  in not 
drawing the occupancy clause to Mrs Zs attention,  this didnt make a difference because 
Mrs Zs claim would  have  been declined in any case due to the fact the damage  had 
occurred gradually.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.  
Ref: DRN59785132my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint. 
I shall explain why.
Mr Z called Tesco one week  before his mothers  policy was due to renew. A recording of the 
call hasnt been made available. However, it isnt in dispute that Mr Z told Tesco  that his 
mother would be going into a care home and the property  would be unoccupied. Tescos  
adviser said they would check  with the underwriter and call Mr Z back.
The underwriter told Tesco it was prepared to allow the policy  to renew,  though cover would 
be subject to the policy clause relating to unoccupied properties which  states:
The risks to any property are significantly higher when it is unoccupied. Therefore  we will 
not cover  your home  for incidents of theft,  attempted theft, vandalism, malicious acts, escape 
of water or oil, and/or accidental damage when your home has not been lived in for 60 days  
or more  in a row. You must tell us immediately if your home is or will become unoccupied. 
Visits to check on your home do not constitute it being occupied.  Please see the relevant 
sections of the policy booklet for the exclusions which will be applied if your home is 
unoccupied.
Tescos adviser didnt call Mr Z back to explain this. Instead, a new policy  schedule  was sent 
out to reflect  certain  other changes which had been agreed with Mr Z but there was no 
mention of the fact that the property would be unoccupied  or the effect this would have on 
the cover.
Tesco admits that it should have called  Mr Z back, but it has argued that Mr Z was in 
possession of the policys terms and conditions and that it was up to him to read these to 
familiarise himself with the reduced cover which would apply to unoccupied properties.  
However, I disagree with this. Mr Z had told Tesco the property would be unoccupied but the 
amended schedule it sent to him still recorded  that the property would normally  be occupied. 
This was incorrect. Tesco  should have amended the schedule  to reflect  the new information 
it had been given by Mr Z and I would have expected the schedule to include an 
endorsement relating to the unoccupied properties  clause. By doing  this, and/or if it had 
called Mr Z back  as it had promised, Tesco would have made Mr Z aware of the significant  
restrictions to his mothers cover  as a result  of the property being unoccupied.  Instead, it left 
him with the impression  that the fact the property  was unoccupied made no difference to the 
level of cover provided under the policy.
Tesco says that, even if the occupancy  clause were to be ignored, Mrs Zs claim would still 
not be payable  under the policy because the damage had occurred gradually. I agree with 
this. Mr Z wasnt thoroughly inspecting the property on a daily basis  and so wasnt  aware  
when the damage  began showing. As a result, he didnt take prompt  action to mitigate  the 
damage. However, Tesco made  an error when it sold the policy and the approach of this 
service is to consider  what  would  have happened  were it not for that error.
In this case, I consider that if Tesco had done its job properly and made Mr Z aware that as 
a result of being unoccupied, there would be no cover for not only escape of water  but also 
various other  risks such as theft, vandalism  and malicious acts,  he would not have taken out 
the policy in the first place. Instead,  he would  have sought a policy which  was designed  to 
cover unoccupied properties. Indeed, this is what I understand Mr Z did when he became 
Ref: DRN59785133aware of the very limited  cover he had purchased. Although I cannot be sure what  policy  he 
may instead have  taken  out, I think it likely that a policy of this nature would have required 
him to take certain actions to reduce  risk, including the turning off of the water supply, and 
I think it likely that Mr Z would have complied with these requirements. This being the case, 
I consider that it is likely that if Tesco had acted correctly it would have resulted in Mrs Z 
avoiding the escape of water incident  altogether.
In view of the above, I consider that Tescos failure  to bring the occupancy clause to Mr Zs 
attention did disadvantage Mrs Z. I agree with the investigator that Tesco should therefore 
compensate Mrs Z for the cost of repairing the damage caused by the escape of water,  
either by carrying out the repairs itself or by paying the invoice  of her chosen contractor. 
I dont know if Mr Z has already arranged for the repairs to be done and for that reason my 
award will be for the cash settlement option, unless  both parties  agree otherwise. 
I furthermore consider that Tescos actions will have likely delayed the intended sale of 
Mrs Zs property and so it should pay her £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Tesco Personal Finance Plc to cover the costs of Mrs Zs chosen contractor to carry out the 
repairs of the damage caused by the escape  of water,  unless both parties agree that Tesco  
should instead carry out this work  itself.  I further require Tesco  to pay Mrs Z £150 
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z, on behalf of 
Mrs Z, to accept  or reject  my decision before 15 May 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5978513