K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold Miss H payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2004.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
The sale of the PPI took place about  25 years ago and almost none  of the original 
documents from the time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall  in 
detail everything  that happened so long ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. 
Ive taken all this into account. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Miss H says the PPI wasnt explained  in enough detail for her to understand  what she was 
signing for. Her representatives also say that, if she had clearly  been given an option, she 
would have declined,  because of her work benefits and savings. 
It wouldnt be fair for me to conclude that Bank  of Scotland didnt make clear  Miss H had a 
choice about taking the PPI, unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of this. 
Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something wrong, 
fairness requires that the person making the allegation should  present evidence that this 
probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt  do 
something, especially when it was such a long time ago. Without  stronger evidence,  I cant 
fairly say the PPI was added without Miss H understanding  she had a choice. 
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply. I will explain why. 
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Miss H, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for 
Miss Hs particular circumstances.  But it looks to me as though  a recommendation would  
have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen  of Miss Hs situation  at the time. Its likely 
Miss H was eligible  for the policy. And finding  yourself unable  to pay a mortgage can lead to 
significant difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Miss H received 
any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would  have  paid unemployment benefits 
Ref: DRN57701492in addition to any redundancy  pay. And it would have put off the time when she would need 
to fall back on any savings or other means she may have had for paying  the mortgage  and 
other living costs. 
This all would have  put Miss H in a more secure  position, if shed eventually lost income due 
to long term sickness or unemployment.  And Ive not been told anything  to suggest she 
couldnt afford the PPI when she took it out. So I think the PPI would have been potentially  
useful, and so a recommendation was suitable. 
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about the costs would have 
affected whether  Miss H took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Miss H would have been  affected  by any of these. And shed be paying for it 
monthly, so she could cancel it at any time without further cost if her situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 November  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5770149