K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Market Harborough Building Society (Market Harborough) mis-
sold them  a mortgage premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case in December 2018 explaining why I intended  to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. A copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms 
part of my final decision.
I asked both Mr and Mrs B and Market Harborough to provide  me with any further  comments  
and evidence they would like me to consider before  I issued my final decision. Mr and Mrs B 
had nothing further to add. Market  Harborough  have offered to partially  compensate Mr and 
Mrs B. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Market Harborough  has made a partial  offer to compensate Mr and Mr B following my 
provisional decision. But it has not provided  any new information about the sale for me to 
consider. Mr and Mrs B have also not provided any new information. So I see no reason to 
depart from the findings as set out in my provisional decision.
It follows that I uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint for the reasons as set out in my provisional 
decision.
what the business needs  to do 
Market Harborough  should put Mr and Mrs B in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt 
taken out MPPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  already, and
Market Harborough  should:
-Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each  month for the MPPI.
-Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
-If Mr and Mrs B made a successful claim under  the MPPI policy, Market Harborough 
can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes  them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Market Harborough to take off tax from this interest. 
Market Harborough  must  give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off 
if they ask for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Market Harborough Building Society and require 
them to pay Mr and Mrs B the compensation as set out above.
Ref: DRN57100412Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN57100413complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Market  Harborough Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about  a regular premium MPPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1998.
The MPPI policy covered both Mr and Mrs B.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. But Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint  has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Im intending  to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain  why.
Looking at the policys eligibility terms, they would require  Mr and Mrs B to be working in paid 
employment in the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands  or the Isle of Man. The definition  of 
employment is any paid work of at least 16 hours per week
Mrs B says she was working 13 hours per week at the time the policy  was sold. I havent seen 
anything on file to persuade  me that this wasnt the case. So I dont think  its necessary
to ask for any evidence of her working  hours on this occasion.
Mrs B was working under 16 hours per week so I think its unlikely she wouldve  met the above criteria 
and so wouldnt  have  been  eligible. And I dont think Market Harborough  should have sold it. So I 
currently think  Market Harborough mis-sold Mr and Mrs B the PPI policy.
putting things  right
Market Harborough should put Mr and Mrs B in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken  out 
MPPI. The policy should  be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and
Market Harborough should:
-Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each month for the MPPI.
-Add simple  interest to each payment from when  she paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year .
-If Mr and Mrs B made a successful claim  under the MPPI policy, Market  Harborough  can take 
off what  they got for the claim from the amount  it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Market Harborough  to take off tax from this interest. Market 
Harborough must give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if they ask for 
one.
Ref: DRN57100414my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I intend to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. And direct
Market Harborough Building Society to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with any additional comments  or information they would
like me to consider before  5 January 2019.
Ref: DRN5710041