K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Wirecard Card Solutions Limited deducted monthly  inactivity fees from 
his cash passport.
background
In March 2017 Mr K purchased a cash passport prepaid card.  The card is a reloadable card 
which can be used for multiple  currencies.
Mr K used the card and left approximately £50 in the account.
In March 2019 Mr K checked the balance  on the card as he was due to travel. He noticed 
that a monthly  charge of £2.00 had been  deducted  since November 2018.
Mr K contacted Wirecard.  It reviewed  the account  and told him the card was valid until 
October 2021 and that monthly  inactivity fees of £2 per month  had been  applied.
Mr K complained. He said he wasnt told that inactivity fees would be applied  and he thought 
he should have  received  a reminder to use the card before this happened.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the terms and conditions  of the 
account said fees would be charged if there  were  no transactions within a 15 month  period 
and that the terms  and conditions had been applied  correctly.
Mr K didnt agree. He didnt think it was fair that hed been charged fees.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account. These say that an inactivity fee of £2 
per month will be charged if the account  isnt used for 15 months.
Ive looked at the transaction history on Mr Ks account and I can see that his last transaction  
was made  on 26 July 2017.  I can also see that the first inactivity  fee was charged in 
November 2018.  Based on the transaction history, and taking into account the terms and 
conditions, Im satisfied that the account wasnt used for 15 months and that the fees have 
been correctly  charged.
I appreciate Mr K feels that he should  have been  given a reminder before the fees were 
charged. Wirecard has explained that it isnt within its procedures to remind customers 
before the inactivity fee is applied. Im not able to ask Wirecard to change  its procedures; I 
can only look to see whether the procedure has been applied  fairly. In this case, and whilst  I 
have sympathy for Mr K, Im unable to say that Wirecard has done anything  wrong.
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, I dont think  Wirecard has 
made an error or acted unfairly. The inactivity  fees are clearly  set out in the terms and 
conditions of the account and the fees have been  charged in line with the terms and 
conditions.
Ref: DRN50446922my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5044692