K820x#14complaint
C, a community interest  company, complains that TSB Bank plc allowed  a cheque to be paid 
which hadnt been correctly signed.  C is represented  by its director,  who Ill refer to as 
Mrs M. Mrs M asks that TSB explains how this happened and what  measures are in place to 
ensure it doesnt  happen  again.  Shed also like assurance that identity documents provided  
to TSB by the directors are stored safely.
background
Cs directors posted a cheque. After  sending it, the directors realised it had only been signed  
by one signatory.  They  sent another cheque, correctly signed. Both cheques were  cashed.
Mrs M says the directors have to give assurances to Cs donors  that cheques  require two 
signatures. She says they cant  do this at the moment.
Mrs M would  like TSB to write to each director to assure them their identity documents  are 
secure and still in its files. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said:
TSB refunded the cheque and offered  £150  as an apology  for its error in processing the 
cheque, which  was fair. He said its also Cs responsibility  to sign cheques  correctly. 
We cant give Cs directors information about  TSBs internal processes for clearing 
cheque. And, as we arent a regulator, we cant require  TSB to change its internal 
processes.
TSB made an error with Mrs Ms name, which has been corrected. Theres  no evidence 
it lost her marriage certificate  or of any other  breaches  regarding  personal information. 
C didnt agree. Mrs M says she has a letter relating  to her personal  account which shows 
TSB lost her marriage certificate.  She said TSBs comment that it cant retrieve their 
personal documents because the branch where  they opened the account has closed is 
untrue  its still open. She wants evidence it still has the documents.  Mrs M says they 
havent been treated fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
signing instructions
The account  mandate for Cs account  says TSB must receive the signatures of two 
signatories before carrying out payment instructions. Despite this, it paid a cheque  that had 
only one signature.  Mrs M asks that it explains how this happened  and gives assurances 
that it wont happen again.  She says she needs this so that she can give the required 
declarations to Cs donors.
Ref: DRN56700442TSB has pointed out that its terms and conditions say its the customers  responsibility  to 
ensure that cheques  are correctly signed. 
TSB hasnt  given Mrs M the explanation  and assurances shes  asked for. I appreciate 
Mrs Ms frustration  about this. I hope shell understand why I dont think  its reasonable to 
require TSB to give out information about how it checks and processes payments  
information which, in the wrong  hands, could make  fraudulent activity easier. 
I cant reasonably require TSB to provide a guarantee that it wont make  errors in future. 
TSB didnt  intend  to make an error any more than Cs directors  intended to issue  a cheque 
that wasnt correctly  signed.
TSB refunded the cheque payment and offered compensation. I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
the change of Mrs Ms name on Cs account
When Cs account was opened in April 2015,  Mrs Ms name was correctly  recorded. At this 
time, she was using her married name.  Most likely the identity documents she provided 
when the account was opened were in her married name. 
Mrs M later found that her name  on the account  had been wrongly changed to her maiden name.
TSB says Mrs Ms name was changed due to an error related to its IT upgrade in 2018: its 
system picked up her previous name from another account. On balance, I think this is the 
most likely explanation. 
Mrs M was asked  to take her marriage certificate  to a branch, as TSB said it didnt have it on 
its systems. So TSB asked Mrs M to visit a branch with a copy of her marriage certificate  
instead of retrieving the ID documents  it already  had. Given  Mrs Ms name  was changed  due 
to TSBs error this wasnt satisfactory. TSBs notes say, on further review,  it was able to 
correct Mrs Ms name without the marriage certificate. 
The error with Mrs Ms name  and its unnecessary  request for her marriage certificate isnt 
evidence that the directors documents havent been  stored safely. But I do understand why 
it raised concerns.  
the directors documents
TSB asked  the directors for identity documents as part of the account opening process. 
Mrs M has asked  what documents are still held by TSB, and whether  they are secure.  As 
proof of this, she wants TSB to provide copies of the documents. 
I think TSB could have responded better to Mrs Ms request. Its responses have increased 
her concerns. Ive also asked TSB about  where  the documents are. TSB says its most likely 
they are held in its bulk secure storage facility, and it would be extremely  difficult  to locate 
them. I cant reasonably  require TSB to produce  documents that it says it cant locate. 
Theres nothing to suggest the documents  have left TSB or have been misused or fallen into 
the wrong hands. Theres no evidence that C has suffered  any loss. So, while  I know  this 
isnt the answer  Mrs M hoped for, I wont be asking TSB to do any more.  
Ref: DRN56700443my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find that TSB Bank plc responded fairly  
to Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5670044