K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about a hire purchase  agreement  brokered by Lookers Motor  Group  
Limited, that was used  to acquire a car.
Mr W says he was told he could adjust the maximum mileage under the agreement when he 
agreed to take the car and finance.  But, he later found out this wasnt the case.
background
Mr W acquired a car in December 2017.  He funded part of the cost with a hire purchase 
agreement, provided  by a company Ill refer to as Q. Lookers brokered the agreement 
between Mr W and Q.
The agreement was taken  over 46 months. It had a mileage allowance  of 10,000  miles a 
year. It said that if Mr W exceeded this, then he would be charged an excess  mileage charge 
if he returned the car at the end of the term.
Mr W says he was unsure what mileage to take under the agreement. But he says that 
Lookers told him that if he needed to, he could alter the mileage  allowance  if his 
circumstances changed during the term of the agreement.
Mr W says a few months after getting the car, his job changed  which meant a longer 
commute. He believed hed go over his mileage allowance. So, he called Q in August 2018  
to alter the agreement. But, after speaking to Q and Lookers, he discovered  that the mileage 
allowance on the agreement couldnt  be changed.
Mr W complained  to Lookers. It issued  its final response letter  in September  2018.  It said,  in 
summary, that the terms and conditions Mr W signed up to confirm  the maximum mileage 
allowed and didnt  say he could change the mileage  allowance. So, Lookers explained  it 
wasnt upholding the complaint.
Mr W remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said she thought it was likely  the finance  
agreement was misrepresented  to Mr W. But, she said Mr W hadnt had a financial loss, as 
his current mileage was under  that allowed on the agreement. She recommended  that 
Lookers pay Mr W £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience this caused. 
Mr W disagreed  with the investigators view. He said hed been  constantly worrying  about  
taking the car over the mileage allowance. And he said he didnt think  he should  be liable for 
charges that would be due if he went over the permitted mileage.
The case  was then passed to me to decide. I asked Mr W to confirm  the current situation 
with the car. He said due to Covid-19 the car had been used less than he was planning and 
it was still under the mileage allowance. But, he said his wife couldve used this car instead  
of hers if it had a higher mileage allowance. And he said the use of the car will go up when 
restrictions are lifted.
Ref: DRN58355582my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  this complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
Mr Ws complaint  is about a hire purchase  agreement. Brokering consumer credit contracts 
such as this is a regulated  activity. So, Im satisfied we can investigate Mr Ws complaint 
against Lookers.
What I need to think about  here is whether the finance agreement was misrepresented to 
Mr W. For a misrepresentation to have taken  place, I need to consider if Mr W was told a 
false statement of fact about the agreement  that induced him into taking  the contract when 
he otherwise would not have.
Mr W said he was told before  he got the car and took the credit agreement  that he could 
change the mileage allowed under the agreement if his circumstances changed.  Ive 
carefully thought  about what Mr W said happened at the time. Mr W has been consistent  
with his version of events  here. And hes recollected specific  details from the meeting such  
as the names  of employees he spoke with. 
Thinking about  all of this, I find Mr Ws testimony  about what happened  in the meeting to be 
persuasive. It follows that I think its most likely  Mr W was told he could change the mileage 
on the agreement  during  the term.
Ive then considered  the paperwork Mr W signed at the time, to see if I think this negates the 
incorrect information I think  its likely he was told. I can see on a document signed,  called 
Your finance options, that Mr W signed  to say he understood the maximum mileage was 
10,000 and he would be charged  if he went above this.
I can also see on the credit agreement Mr W signed that the maximum mileage is listed, as 
are the charges for going over it. There is also a section in the terms and conditions  
explaining the same  details.  
So, I accept the documents  do state there was a maximum  mileage, what  that mileage  was 
and that Mr W would be charged if he went over it. Lookers said the terms and conditions 
dont say the mileage  could  be changed  which is true. But on the other hand, they also 
dont state that the mileage couldnt be changed.  So, thinking about  this, I dont think  the 
terms and conditions go against what I think Mr W was told in person  i.e. that he could 
change the mileage.
So, Im satisfied Mr W was told a false  statement of fact about the finance agreement. Mr W 
told us he was caught between taking this agreement or one with a higher mileage. Given  
what hes told us, Im satisfied he wouldnt have entered into this credit  agreement if he had 
been told he couldnt change the mileage.  So, it follows Im satisfied that Lookers 
misrepresented the agreement  to Mr W.
I now need to consider  what  would be fair and reasonable to put things right. Ive carefully 
considered whether Mr W is at any loss because of whats  happened. But, I dont  think he is. 
Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN58355583A key point here is that Mr W doesnt  say he thought  he would be able to increase the 
mileage under the agreement free of charge. And it would seem reasonable to me to 
assume that, if the agreement couldve been altered to a higher mileage, then Mr W 
wouldve been paying more every month.
So, if Mr W initially took a higher mileage, he wouldve paid additional monthly charges for 
the whole  time he had the car  which he hasnt had to pay. If he couldve changed the 
mileage to a higher one part way through the agreement as he says he was told he could, Id 
also assume he wouldve  paid a higher monthly repayment from that point on  which  again 
he hasnt had to pay.
Mr W is currently under the mileage allowance for his car. I accept  what he says about this 
being due to him not using the car due to Covid-19. And I understand he says the car 
wouldve had more  use if the mileage allowance was higher, as his wife couldve driven it to 
work. But, as Ive explained  above   Mr W wouldve had to pay for this one way or another. 
As things  currently stand, Mr W will have to pay Q excess  mileage charges if he gives  the 
car back at the end of the term and he has passed the mileage allowance at that point. But, 
he isnt currently over the limit. And he hasnt had to pay anything  for a higher mileage 
allowance under the agreement throughout the term.  I havent  seen  anything  to show  Mr W 
would be worse off due to having  the lower  mileage allowance and potentially paying  any 
excess mileage due, as opposed  to him having to pay a higher  monthly  payment through the 
term.
That being  said,  I still think Lookers has done  something wrong here.  It gave Mr W incorrect 
information about his finance agreement.  Im sure it wouldve been stressful for him to find 
out the mileage  couldnt be altered when he thought it could. And, I also note that, although I 
havent seen enough to make me think it would  cost him more, it is possible any excess 
mileage charge due may have to be paid as a lump sum  rather  than being spread out. I 
also think this means  Mr W has been caused  some  inconvenience. 
Thinking about  all of this, I think Lookers  should pay Mr W £200, to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience it caused him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I instruct Lookers Motor Group Limited  to pay Mr W £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2021.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5835558