K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Nationwide Building Society,  trading at the time as Nationwide Anglia, 
mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.  To keep things consistent, Ill 
refer mainly to Nationwide.
Mr and Mrs W are represented by a third-party  company  in bringing their complaint.
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs W bought the policy at the end of 1989  at the same  time as taking out a joint-
mortgage. They say they applied for the mortgage  and PPI policy  over the telephone,  
although due to the time that has passed  this cant be confirmed by Nationwide.  The PPI 
cover was chosen only for Mr W. Mrs W wasnt protected by the policy.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment cover   subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  around £200 a month  towards Mr and Mrs Ws 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. It cost £8 a month.  
At the time,  Mr W was employed in the fire protection sector. He said he was entitled to 12 
months sick pay and also had some savings  and life protection cover. When  asked  about  
any pre-existing medical conditions he had when the policy  was agreed to, Mr W made 
reference to two childhood illnesses  he had in the 1960s and a cut which required treatment 
in the early 1970s. Nationwide has sent us evidence that the mortgage in question  was 
closed in 1994.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ws representative  says:
 
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs W 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ws representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr and Mrs W about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs W 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr and Mrs W received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Both parties  have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with the 
Ref: DRN52728962adjudicators opinion for several reasons and the complaint couldnt be resolved informally. It 
has therefore been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
This sale took place  at the end of 1989, before the General Insurance  Standards Council 
(GISC) published its code of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general  insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1994. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
Ref: DRN52728963professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any 
applicable rule of law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs W with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient, appropriate  and timely  
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs W, I must then go on to consider  whether  and to what  extent  they suffered loss 
or damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs W 
and Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs W know they had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. We no longer have access 
to actual sale documents that show this but as the sale was so long ago, this isnt particularly 
unusual, or indeed, unreasonable in my view. Businesses arent required to keep documents 
indefinitely. Nevertheless,  my experience of these types of policies, from that time period, is 
that consumers  were usually asked to confirm to the policy  being added  to their mortgage  
account. I also note that only Mr W elected  to be covered;  to me this strongly suggests there 
was probably a discussion at the time about  what he and Mrs W wanted to do about 
mortgage protection. Therefore, taking  everything into account,  I think its more  likely that Mr 
and Mrs W knew  the policy was optional  and agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN52728964did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale although  I can see its been  implied  
by Mr and Mrs W that they were advised to take the cover out.  However, Im not persuaded 
that this happened.  This is because  in my experience of having  seen many cases  like this, 
these were normally non-advised sales, where consumers  like Mr and Mrs W were given 
information, but invited to make their own decision about what they wanted to do. I also 
havent seen any evidence in this case,  such as a full assessment of Mr and Mrs Ws wider  
financial affairs, which  tend to show an advised sale took place.
This means  Nationwide  only had to provide sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable Mr and Mrs W to make their own informed choice  about  whether to take out the 
policy. This included  drawing to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs W were given a broad description  of what  
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr W 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs and monthly benefit in the event  of a claim. Ive reached  this conclusion  because Ive 
seen evidence of documentation they were either  given  or Ive used  copies of documents  I 
know were generally used at the time - which set out these things.  I also think its very 
unlikely Mr and Mrs W would have taken out the policy  without any sense of what the policy 
was for and of how much  the premium  might be. 
However, the evidence  from the sale doesnt  tell us whether Nationwide  gave sufficient  
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs W agreed to take it out. 
So, I cant say here that Nationwide  gave  Mr and Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely  
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.  In addition to the failings 
Ive highlighted  above, Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised  a number of general points 
in regards to the requirements on a business when  providing information in PPI sales.  It 
suggests these  points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Ws. Ive considered these 
carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ws representative  considers  to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ws representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
Ref: DRN52728965court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs W have suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done either. 
what effect did Nationwides shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs W? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs W suffer  loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do everything  it should have done when it sold this policy  to 
Mr and Mrs W. Ive therefore  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude they suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
Mr and Mrs W would have still taken out the policy, had Nationwide  done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs W say they would  not have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs W had to weigh up in their own minds  the cost 
of the policy  against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if they didnt insure 
against the risk of Mr W being  unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs W chose  to take this policy out. So, I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. Therefore, what Mr 
and Mrs W thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if they suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Mr and Mrs W were given about the cost and benefit was clear. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as limitations  and exclusions probably 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. Possibly  the most significant differences between  
what Mr and Mrs W thought they had bought and what they actually bought were the 
following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that the policyholder  knew 
about or ought to have known about 12 months  before  the start date of the policy;  
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs W pause  for thought and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought; they might have decided  not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from taking out the policy. 
However, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Many  points  put forwards  about Mrs Ws 
circumstances arent  relevant since only Mr W was covered  by the policy. And he was 
eligible for its benefits and it provided  cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could 
have proved valuable to Mr and Mrs W should the insured risks have become a reality. I also 
havent seen any evidence to suggest  Mr W would have been caught by any of the 
significant exclusions, for example, as Ive already mentioned, he didnt have any pre-
Ref: DRN52728966existing medical conditions other than illnesses from a long time before the policy  sale and 
was in permanent  employment. I think they had many good reasons to take the policy out.
Nor did - as alleged by Mr and Mrs Ws representatives - the policy  exclude  back  or mental 
health conditions  or place  any additional restrictions or more onerous evidential  
requirements in the event  of a claim on those grounds than would have applied  to any other  
disability claim. I also think its unlikely Mr and Mrs W would have expected  to make a 
disability claim on the policy  without first providing  some evidence to support that claim.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs W would  still have  taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr W, who was the higher earned, was made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr and Mrs W would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ws representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs W would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Ws circumstances as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr 
and Mrs W found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs W believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. Having considered  their case very carefully, I am not persuaded 
by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs W in the position  they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
Ref: DRN52728967out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Nationwide should  pay Mr and Mrs W compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs W think Nationwide misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Nationwides  statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Nationwide failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Nationwide  gave Mr and 
Mrs W, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 1989  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ws representative says a court might take 
if it were to find Nationwide  negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs W and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Nationwide  had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs W in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 November  2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5272896