K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained about the advice he received from Gerald Pepper Financial 
Management Limited (GPFM) to transfer  his defined benefit occupational pension  scheme 
(OPS) pension plan into a personal  pension. He has stated that he was not provided with all 
the necessary  documentation to allow him to make an informed choice, and the risk 
warnings were not fully explained to him. Mr J says he did not need  the full tax free cash  
(TFC) amount  and did not take it; he says he required income  in retirement  and he lost 
valuable guarantees by being advised  to transfer.  He says the required critical yield to match  
the benefits being given  up was not properly  explained and was too high to justify a transfer. 
Furthermore, risk wasnt discussed  at all. He is concerned that excessive fees were  charged 
by GPFM  which amount  to over £20,000. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 18 January 2021. A copy is attached  and forms part of this 
final decision. In the provisional decision I set out why I was not intending to uphold the 
complaint. 
GPFM said that it didnt have any further submissions to make  in light of the provisional 
decision. 
Mr J did not accept the provisional  decision. He requested further information, particularly 
about the submissions  that GPFM had made. This was supplied to him. Having received that 
and in light of the provisional decision,  he made further submissions. In summary he said:
He refutes the content of WhatsApp messages provided  he says he cannot 
remember receiving a lot of them.
He would like me to clarify how I arrived at my provisional decision and why the 
assessment of the investigator was overturned.
Why did GPFM quote from legal cases if each case is considered on its own merits.
He has never taken a full lump sum or high income from his pension. He could 
have deferred  taking benefits  from his OPS and utilised cash  savings. He queries 
whether this should have been recommended.
He has never had an intention to retire  to India. He questions why this was recorded.  
His life is in the UK.
A whole of life plan to cover any loss of death benefit within the OPS  was never 
considered. He asks why not?
The qualified financial adviser never spoke to him or contacted him  is it normal for 
all contact to be with an unqualified  adviser?
Was the advice  in his best interests? 
How did GPFM determine  any growth rate was achievable?
Ref: DRN54139332He was asked  to sign a lot of paperwork at one siting  and at no point were the risks 
or the paperwork explained to him.
He asks for details  about how many final salary transfers were carried out by GPFM 
in respect of his OPS.  
He asks how many ethnic minority workers  were  quoted as wanting to retire to India?  
Has this been investigated?
How did GPFM justify  its fees?  
The advice was incorrect  and his OPS should not have been transferred.
He accepts that he asked for income  of £18,000  a year from his pension.  In June 
2017 this was in the form of tax free cash and did not take account of his £12,500 
personal allowance.  So he lost the facility  to draw down more tax free cash in future. 
He has been  told that he could have  taken tax free income of £5,000  a year and an 
income of £12,500 in a more tax efficient  manner and this was never  explained to 
him.
He did not want all his tax free cash at once but rather an income stream which 
means that the higher  (36%) critical yield figure  has more  relevance. 
Whilst going to live in India was an option it was never a realistic one and he would 
spend more time there on holiday than living there. All his family are in the UK. The 
discussion was about more holiday time there, not living  there. 
   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Each complaint is considered on its own merits. For that reason I will consider this case  on 
its merits and I will not be exploring Mr Js comments about  the actions of GPFM  in respect  
of its interactions with other members of his OPS in general. I would clarify that the 
ombudsman service is not the industry regulator and I consider individual  complaints based 
on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. If Mr J has concerns about  GPFMs  
general business operation then he can consider raising these with the Financial Conduct 
Authority (the industry regulator).  In terms of the evidence submitted, either party  can make 
any submissions which they believe are relevant and I will take them into account. 
I would firstly confirm that I did not base my decision  on the content of any WhatsApp 
messages.
In terms of why my view of the complaint is different  that the investigators I would refer the 
parties to the reasoning set out in the provisional decision and this decision. 
Given the evidence  from the time the advice  was given, I do believe that the advice was 
suitable for Mr Js needs. That is bearing in mind the documented need, which  was noted on 
several occasions, that Mr J required flexibility with respect to his pension benefits and that 
he required  the ability to leave the value  of those benefits to beneficiaries  of his choosing. 
Ref: DRN54139333That was not possible with the OPS.  And the flexibility with respect  to the OPS  would have  
been far less than that available through drawdown.  If Mr J wished to vary his income, 
perhaps because  of tax considerations,  then there  was the opportunity to do this with 
drawdown. There would have been far less flexibility with benefits  from the OPS   and the 
lack of any ability in normal  circumstances of varying income  from the OPS. 
As discussed in the provisional decision, GPFM set out how it had calculated  the growth  
rates required to match the benefits  being given  up  although  arguably  they were  of less 
relevance here because  of the proximity to retirement. GPFM  did set out that it was unlikely 
that transferring  would yield the same level of benefits being  given up  so that Mr J would 
be aware of that. But it is documented that Mr J had overriding reasons why matching 
growth or growth rates  in general were  not the deciding factors  those were flexibility  and 
passing value  onto his family. It was this that I believe likely took precedence. I note that Mr 
J disagrees he had any intention to move  abroad. That intention  was recorded when the 
advice was given  but, in any event,  that was not material to the outcome of the complaint. As 
discussed, that was the need  for flexibility and the ability to pass on pension benefits.  
It is not my role to set what fees GPFM  should charge  it sets those at its commercial 
discretion. But it should  set out the level of those fees so Mr J can decide whether to accept 
them. The evidence is that it did so here.  And the fees it did charge  were not excessive or 
outside the range of what would normally be expected for this kind of advice.  
Mr J could have deferred taking OPS benefits if his specific OPS allowed that, and instead 
relied, at least for a period,  on his savings instead.  But that would  have generated future 
uncertainty about the level of transfer value he would get and uncertainty  with respect to 
death benefits and the amount  he could pass to his family (which as I have stated was a 
documented need). It is not clear  whether Mr J is submitting that he could defer indefinitely 
but, in any event, that is unlikely and he would likely have needed to take benefits  at some 
point. And that would be in a way that did not meet his documented need for flexibility. 
Overall, given the documented objectives, what was recommended was suitable and 
deferring benefits was not a better option.
I would reiterate what I said in the attached provisional decision about the guaranteed nature 
of the benefits  being  given up being  explained in the advisers recommendations when the 
advice was given.  I do believe  this was made reasonably clear to Mr J so that he could make 
an informed decision as to whether  he wished  to opt for the benefits of the drawdown 
approach or retain the guaranteed but less flexible OPS benefits. 
I note that Mr J has raised the issue as to how he took benefits and/or  the tax that might  be 
applied. Mr J took tax free cash.  That didnt affect  his tax situation  and he can use that tax 
free cash  as he sees fit. He can essentially use it to support his living  expenses  in future  
the fact that he might  not have used  it so far, or all of it, does not determine that the advice 
was flawed. In terms of income,  Mr J now has the flexibility  to take it as he requires,  taking 
into account his liability to tax. It seems  to me that the advice benefitted  him in that respect,  
that kind of flexibility  was not provided  by his OPS.   
I am not sure why Mr J suggests that life assurance running alongside his OPS  should have 
been considered.  If he means retaining  the OPS benefits and putting into place alternative 
death benefits for his family,  then a life policy guaranteed to pay out similar sums on his 
death would  likely have  been very expensive. I am not persuaded that this would have been 
a suitable option given  the flexibility it is documented he required or it was necessarily a 
better or more suitable option than what was recommended. In any event what  was 
Ref: DRN54139334recommended was suitable,  additional life assurance was not a necessary alternative or 
addition.  
I realise that Mr J says he had a lot of paperwork to sign and matters were not explained to 
him in sufficient detail.  But I also have to take into account that GPFM disputes that and the 
evidence is that Mr J was given a detailed recommendation and enough  information  to 
decide whether  he should  go ahead given his requirements.
In summary,  my view is that the advice was appropriate in the circumstances and the 
material facts were  explained so that Mr J could make an informed decision as to whether to 
proceed. Mr J was given  that advice by a firm of regulated financial advisers and I am not 
persuaded that the suitability of that advice is affected by the individual  from that firm who Mr 
J met with.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2021.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN54139335        copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr J has complained about  the advice he received  from Gerald Pepper Financial  Management 
Limited (GPFM)  to transfer his defined benefit occupational pension scheme  (OPS) pension  plan into 
a personal pension. He has stated that he was not provided with all the necessary documentation to 
allow him to make an informed choice, and the risk warnings were  not fully explained to him. Mr J 
says he did not need the full tax free cash (TFC) amount  and did not take it; he says he required 
income in retirement and he lost valuable guarantees by being  advised to transfer. He says the 
required critical yield to match the benefits being given up was not properly explained and was too 
high to justify a transfer. Furthermore, risk wasnt discussed at all. He is concerned  that excessive  
fees were charged  by GPFM which  amount to over £20,000.  
background
In February 2017 Mr J met with GPFM.  By the end of the meeting it was agreed GPFM would attend  
an initial meeting at Mr Js house to discuss the possibility  of a financial review for both himself and 
his wife. This included advice about Mr Js DB pension  plan held with his employer at that time.
GPFM attended a meeting at Mr Js home, and it was agreed that GPFM would complete a fact find 
for both Mr and Mrs J, and that a risk questionnaire would be completed.
The circumstances at that time were:
Mr J was 62 years old 
Mr J was employed with an annual salary of £40,000. However  he was leaving the business 
that year with a severance package of £42,000
Mr and Mrs J jointly owned their own home - valued  at £510,000
Mr and Mrs J had around £178,000 in savings
Mr J required around £1,500 per month net in retirement
Mrs J had the OPS which  would  provide an income  in retirement
The meeting notes from the initial meeting go on to state that Mr Js main objective was to leave as 
much of his pension  fund intact for his wife and children. It was stated that Mr and Mrs J intended  to 
fully retire to India in the near future. Once that happened  they intended to either  rent their property  
and obtain an income, or sell their property. At that time their cost of living would reduce  to below 
£500 per month.
A risk questionnaire was completed  at the same time and it was noted  that both Mr and
Mrs J were risk level 5 out of 10, making  them medium risk investors.
A pension  transfer  value analysis report was produced on 27 May 2018,  and it confirmed the critical 
yield required  from the proposed scheme for Mr J to obtain benefits  equivalent to his
OPS.  
A suitability  report was issued to Mr J three days after the transfer value analysis  report  was sent. The 
report recommended Mr J transfer  his OPS plan into a personal pension plan. 
Mr J complained to GPFM in 2018 as he believed  the advice he was provided was unsuitable. GPFM 
did not uphold  the complaint so it was referred to this service.
An adjudicator at this service reviewed Mr Js complaint and upheld it. 
He believed that the critical yield(s) were too high to suggest a transfer should have taken place. The 
adjudicator also held conversations with Mr J regarding  his plans for the future.  During the 
discussions Mr J confirmed his plans were the opposite of what  was written in the fact find and the 
Ref: DRN54139336suitability report. For example, the fact find confirmed Mr J planned to move abroad to live with his 
wife soon  and his required level of income  would dramatically reduce. However, on discussing this 
with the adjudicator Mr J stated he had no intentions of moving abroad with his wife. He also stated 
that he only met with GPFM briefly and they rushed  him to sign documents.
As a result  the adjudicator took into consideration what was most  likely to have happened. He 
believed on the balance of probability  Mr J did state  to GPFM that he did intend to retire  abroad.  It 
was also the adjudicators view that Mr J was not rushed to sign documents. However, he based his 
view on the suitability of the advice given, to which  he deemed it to be unsuitable.
GPFM did not accept the investigators findings and made further submissions. In summary it said:
Mr J was fully aware of the route he was taking, the risks involved and what he was giving up.
Mr J decided  to opt out of his OPS  and contacted GPFM with clear objectives in mind.
Mr J did not want or require the high level of income provided by the OPS  a lower level was 
acceptable to him and this allowed the flexibility  achieved by transferring. 
It questioned to relevance of the critical yield as the benefits of the OPS (in terms of income) 
did not need  to be matched. In any event  the 9.12%  critical yield figure was more relevant as 
Mr J wished to take TFC. The critical yield figures were  documented at the time and it was 
also documented that the TFC was higher  if a transfer was made  to a personal pension. 
Mr Js request for a one-off lump sum payment for his pension  in 2018 showed  an 
understanding of the flexibility and structure of the new arrangement. 
Mr J signed to indicate  he had read and understood risk warnings  such  as the guaranteed  
benefits provided  by the OPS. 
A typing mistake had been made in the suitability  report  with respect to spouses  benefits  
through the OPS. The Defined Benefit Transfer Summary set out that there was a 50% 
spouses benefit and Mr J received that document. Mr J was adamant  that he wanted the 
pension fund to be passed to his family  on his death, not retained by the OPS. This and 
flexibility were more important to Mr J than the income  provided by the OPS. 
Mr J was aware that the transfer  values being offered by the OPS  at the time were  high and 
these values  were  influencing decisions made by members   especially those like Mr J who 
were close  to retirement.  
Mr J retired in April 2017 and received a severance package which  allowed  him to receive a 
lower level of income from his pension. This was at retirement advice.
Mr J had to sign eight  different pieces of paper plus an application form and it sent a detailed 
explanation letter to him with the application form  so he had time to raise any concerns. 
GPFM also supplied a submission from the adviser  about the advice  that had been given  and the 
circumstances. 
The adjudicator was not persuaded to change his mind. He confirmed to GPFM that while it may be 
the case  that Mr J was able to demonstrate he did not require the higher  level of income,  it was his 
view that the critical yield was still too high to justify the transfer from the OPS.
He confirmed he felt it was important to state  that he did believe Mr J was aware of what he was 
signing, and he did believe Mr J received all the relevant paperwork regarding the transfer. However, 
on this occasion he did not believe the advice to transfer was in his best interests.
Ref: DRN54139337As a result  the adjudicator arranged for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I have seen a GPFM Retirement Planning  Report dated 30 May 2017 for Mr J. 
It was set out that Mr J had recently retired and his OPS had a transfer value  of about £600,000. 
It was documented that Mr J had the following objectives:
 To generate an income of £1,500 net per month (£19,625 gross per annum) in today's terms at age 
63.
 To defer  any tax free cash at outset whilst retaining  flexible access to your pension, as and
when required.
 To ensure as much  of your pension benefits can be passed to your family in the event of your 
death.
In terms of Mr Js attitude  to risk it was stated that:
Taking these into account, together  with your personal circumstances, you have stated that a risk 
profile of 5, medium risk, is the most accurate reflection of your current attitude to risk.
During our meeting of 25 February 2017, you completed a Risk Profiling  Questionnaire  and the 
answers you provided indicated that you are a medium  risk investor  with a risk profile of 5. Having 
reviewed the potential gains and losses  associated  with a risk profile of 5, you advised  that this was 
the most accurate reflection  of your current attitude  to risk and that this is the risk profile  which is to be 
attributed to your pension portfolio.
And:
A risk profile of 5 can be summarised as follows:
Investors in this category  have a medium risk tolerance, and would  probably prefer
investments to fluctuate less and make more modest returns than risk losing money
for higher  returns. It is likely that you are looking  for a balance of risk and reward,
with the potential  for higher  returns  in the longer term, and you may have some
experience of investment, including  investing in products containing riskier assets
such as equities and bonds or may be willing to take some risks with your capital.
Medium risk
You are probably  prepared to accept some fluctuation in order to make  higher returns
than exclusively  low risk investments and are aware that the value  of your
investment will rise and fall. Examples of investments may include Fixed Interest
Securities, Property, UK Equities, and International Equities. You could get back  less
than you Invested.
In terms of the nature of his OPS, it was set out that:
Defined Benefit Plans
A defined  benefit pension plan is a type of pension  plan in which an employer  / sponsor  promises a 
specified monthly benefit on retirement  that is predetermined by a formula based on the employee's  
earnings history, tenure of service and age.
Ref: DRN54139338This contrasts  with a defined contribution pension (such as a Personal  Pension or a Stakeholder) in 
which a fund is built up from contributions and investment  growth  and that fund is used to provide an 
income in retirement.
As a defined benefit plan provides a guaranteed income  in retirement, and this typically increases 
each year, this is a very valuable plan type; defined contribution  pensions do not offer guaranteed 
income although  they do offer certain options  and flexibility  which defined  benefits  schemes generally 
do not offer. Additionally, a defined benefit pension  entitlement  is not dependent on the performance 
of the stock market  and the funds are protected by the Pension Protection Fund, in the event the 
employer becomes  Insolvent.
Reviewing the options with regards to a defined benefit plan, in particular considering transferring it to 
a defined contribution plan is therefore  not straightforward; the two plans offer very different benefit 
structures and all the features and options available between them  need to be considered  carefully.
I must remind you of the regulator's stance that not only is the transfer of Final Salary pension 
benefits classified  as high risk business, but in most cases the regulator's  starting position  Is always 
to not transfer.
The adviser  also set out:
Summary
As detailed  in our Defined Benefit Transfer Summary report, issued to you on 30 May 2017,  I am 
confident that a transfer to an alternative defined contribution arrangement, such as a Personal  
Pension Plan which can facilitate Flexi-Access  Drawdown,  can be recommended, as this would assist 
you in meeting your stated  objectives.
Please note, by transferring your benefits within the (OPS), you understand the following  risks and 
actions will take place:
 Any liability for the detailed preserved scheme benefits (including the features and benefits  set out 
above) will be surrendered.
 Investment risk will be transferred from the Final Salary scheme to you and the returns on
your pension  fund will be dependent on the performance of the recommended investment
strategy.
 Charges of any new plans will affect  the growth and potential retirement  income.
A recommendation then followed as to which  personal pension the OPS value should  be transferred 
to. There  was also a section about the income to be taken:
During our meeting, you advised that you wished to generate an income in retirement equivalent to 
£1,500 net per month / £19,625 gross per annum (In today's terms). Below is a summary  which 
shows how your (OPS) would fair in generating your target income at age 63, if transferred.
And:
In addition,  it's your intention  to retire  to India upon reaching the age of 65, at which point  you will 
either sell your property  in the UK, currently valued at approximately £500,000, or rent it for circa  
£2,000 per calendar month. As a result, you may choose to cease the income from the proposed 
pension in order to retain the value as a valuable  death benefit to pass on to your family.  This 
reaffirms the need for flexibility in retirement.
The adviser  then set out its fees for advice  which  were 3% of the transfer value plus 1% for ongoing  
service. The total charge  in monetary terms was set out.
Ref: DRN54139339There followed a list of risk warnings including that any returns  from an investment  are not 
guaranteed. 
I have also seen  a GPFM Defined Benefit Transfer Summary for Mr J dated 30 May 2017.  This sets 
out the same objectives as recorded in the Retirement  Planning Report. The report  sets out the 
benefits available  from the OPS and contrasts that with what might be available  if transferred. It was 
stated that:
When considering a transfer away from a defined benefit scheme, it is important  that we review the 
impact of this or the income you are likely  to receive This is done through  analysing  the potential  
income on the new plan (using certain assumptions including annuity rates) and calculating how much 
the new plan would need to grow by each year in order to result in a large  enough  fund value to allow 
an income to be secured  equal to that available  under the defined  benefit scheme.
This figure  demonstrates  the growth which  would  need to be achieved each  year after charges for an 
alternative defined contribution arrangement  to have a large enough  value to provide benefits  equal  to 
those under your existing  defined benefit scheme. For clarity, it is quoted in percentage terms.
Critical Yield figures can vary enormously but should have a significant  bearing on any transfer 
decision. There  are other factors involved in how the Critical Yield affects the potential  choices which  I 
have covered in detail in this report.
It was then set out that:
Retiring at age 63 and taking all of your pension  as income
The (OPS)  has quoted an expected pension at age 63 of £25,363 gross per annum. If you were  to 
transfer the pension fund to a defined contribution arrangement the projected pension  varies 
dependent on the predicted growth rates which in your case can be summarised as follows:
Projection to 6assuming 2% growth
The income  was then set out as between about £15,000  and £17,000 dependent on growth rate.
It was stated that:
As you will see, there is a reduction  in the expected pension you could receive at age 63 should you 
take all of your benefits  as income on all three projections.
To express  this in a different  way, the investment return required from an alternative defined
contribution arrangement such as a Personal Pension Plan to match the (OPS)  benefits  on a single  
life basis is 36.12% per annum.
And:
Retiring at age 63 and taking a tax free cash lump  sum and a smaller pension
The (OPS)  has quoted a tax free cash lump sum of £106,935 and a reduced pension  of £16,040 
gross per annum. If you were to transfer the pension fund to a defined contribution  arrangement the 
projected lump sum and residual pension  vary dependent  on the predicted growth  rates  which in your 
case can be summarised  as follows:
There followed amounts of between about £145,000 and £156,000.
It was stated that:
You will see from these figures that the alternative defined contribution arrangement will provide a 
greater amount of tax free cash on all three projections  but with a lower residual  pension,  again  on all 
three projections.
Ref: DRN541393310To express  this in a different  way, the investment return required from an alternative defined
contribution arrangement such as a Personal Pension Plan to match the (OPS)  benefits  on a single  
life basis is 9.12%  per annum.
Please remember that pension income is taxed as earned income and tax will be payable on this 
amount based on your marginal rate at the time.
And:
There is a significant difference between income  provided  by a defined benefit  scheme  and that 
drawn from a defined contribution arrangement. The defined benefit  scheme  will provide a guaranteed 
income throughout your lifetime with benefits for your dependents  in the event of your death, 
whereas, a defined contribution arrangement  has no such guarantee.  The length of time for which 
benefits are payable is entirely  dependent on the size of the fund, any growth that is achieved and the 
rate at which income is taken.
As we cannot guarantee  the potential  growth of the fund, a number  of outcomes  at different growth 
rates are shown below with reference to drawing  an income from an alternative defined contribution 
arrangement. The table is based upon the current Cash Equivalent Transfer  Value, following the 
deduction of any costs of transfer, projected to your retirement age of 63. As referred to above,  it is 
our belief that your risk profile will provide  a given  growth rate at which we can project  your fund over 
the long term. Based  upon  your risk profile  of 5, medium risk your given growth rate, after all annual 
charges are deducted, is 5.6%.
Based on this growth rate it was calculated that the required rate of income would be provided for, at 
least 50 years.
Is was also said that:
In comparison, the figures quoted in the "Retirement  benefits' section of this report  that would be 
payable from the (OPS) are guaranteed  throughout your lifetime.  This is a significant consideration 
when reviewing your retirement options.
There followed an explanation  of death benefits, including that Mr Js spouse would receive 50% of 
Mr Js pension  income if he died after taking benefits from the OPS.
Finally it was set out in the report that:
In addition, it's your intention to retire  to India upon reaching the age of 65, at which point you will 
either sell your' property in the UK, currently valued  at approximately £500,000, or rent it for circa  
£2,000 per calendar month. As a result, you may choose to cease the income from the proposed 
pension in order to retain the value as a valuable  death benefit to pass on to your family.  This 
reaffirms the need for flexibility in retirement
In view of this, we are confident that a transfer to an alternative defined contribution arrangement, 
such as a Personal  Pension  Plan, which  can facilitate Flexi-Access Drawdown can be recommended  
and would assist you in meeting your objectives. However, due consideration  should be given in 
terms of the guaranteed and increasing  benefit payable as income for your lifetime available through  
the (OPS). You will sacrifice  this valuable benefit if you decide to proceed with the transfer.
In view of the complexity  of this decision, we are sending you this report prior to your next meeting  
with (adviser) so that you have time to prepare any questions you may have.
I have also seen  a Client Fact Find which the adviser completed to record Mr Js circumstances and 
objectives at the time. This records  Mr and Mrs Js other assets including  investment bonds and ISAs  
as well as cash savings.  There are notes which  record:
Ref: DRN541393311Provide for Mrs & family
Retire to family home in India
Will sell or rent home at this point
Objectives  . Leave  to family
I have considered the complaint bearing in mind  this evidence and the submissions  that have been 
made by the parties.
The nature of Mr Js final salary OPS  benefits  differed considerably from the benefits  he would  be 
supplied with from his personal pension. As set out, the OPS would provide  a guaranteed level of 
income, which would be increased  over time (most likely in line with the Retail Prices Index). 
However, otherwise, there  would be little flexibility in how the benefits  were  paid. In transferring  to the 
personal pension Mr J would have  flexibility as to how much income he wished  to take as well as 
being able to withdraw lump sums of capital (which would not normally  be available from an OPS 
such as his). The value of that personal pension  would be dependent on the performance of the 
assets held within the pension   rather than be guaranteed.  
One of the main differences between the OPS and the personal pension  is in terms of death  benefits. 
If Mr J died before  his partner after taking benefits, then his partner would receive 50% of his pension 
income. On the death of the latter of both Mr J and his partner, the income would  cease. There  would  
be no further income  or value supplied to Mr Js family.  
The death benefits from the personal pension under  current legalisation are very different. Although 
the situation differs dependent on the age at death,  broadly speaking the pension value or benefits 
can be passed on to designated individuals of Mr Js choosing.  So, the value  and/or income  does not 
cease at death. Bearing  in mind that Mr Js pension  was worth almost £600,000, this is a significant  
benefit. It is likely that the transfer value was attractive at the time as due to various factors, such as 
interest and annuity rates; transfer  values were in general much higher than previously  available. 
It is the nature of the guarantees provided  by pension  like Mr Js OPS  that normally  mean it is not in 
the individuals best interests to transfer and give up those guarantees.  However, there could be 
reasons why it is felt in the specific circumstances  that the benefits  of transferring outweigh the 
benefits of those  guarantees. 
In this case it is documented at several  points in the advisers recommendations that Mr J wished to 
pass on the maximum  value to his family. This is also a requirement made by the adviser in his notes 
at the time he met with Mr J. The adviser has submitted that this was a material  objective for Mr J. So, 
the evidence in that respect is consistent that Mr J required the ability to pass on the pension  value to 
his family. Apart  from the spouses  benefit  I have  discussed, he couldnt do that with his OPS benefits. 
By transferring he could essentially pass on the full (transfer) value of his pension whilst also taking 
an income and/or capital  withdrawals as he wished. He could also take a higher  level of TFC.   
There were  clear disadvantages in doing that. Mr J would lose the guaranteed  nature of the benefits  
provided by his OPS  and he would likely receive a lower income unless the transferred  pension 
preformed particular  well in terms  of investment returns. But it was set out clearly, as discussed 
above, in the documents that transferring to the personal  pension would likely result in less income for 
Mr J. But that the TFC would likely be significantly higher. The guaranteed  nature of the OPS benefits  
was also set out. So, I think it more  likely that Mr J proceeded in an informed position insofar as the 
income would be less and it would not be guaranteed.  It was set out that the income provided from 
the personal  pension and other sources would be sufficient for Mr Js needs. In terms of his overall 
assets I note he also had other significant sums in cash and investments, as well as a severance 
payment. So he was not totally  reliant on the pension  for his needs. 
Although I note this is disputed  by Mr J, it is also noted at several points that he had intention  to move 
abroad in the future. The flexibility of the personal  pension would also arguably be better  suited to this 
and any changes in circumstances. 
Ref: DRN541393312I think  that perhaps more detail could  have  been  provided  about the specific nature of some of the 
guaranteed benefits provide  by the OPS such as any increases in payment. But the main  factors 
were set out and I think it is more likely  than not that because of Mr Js likely objectives he would have 
transferred in any event. 
Clearly very different  versions of events  have been provided by Mr J and GPFM and I have taken  all 
the submissions  into account. On the balance of probabilities  I think  it more likely  that Mr J wished to 
transfer because of the flexibility  that generated  particularly in terms of death benefits. That need is 
documented and repeated  on several occasions. I think he was prepared to forgo the guarantees 
provided by the OPS in order to achieve that level of flexibility.  
my provisional  decision
I do not currently intend  to uphold the complaint or make any award.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5413933