K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI) with a loan.
background
Briefly:
In 2000 Mr T applied for a loan in-branch to buy a car. At the same  time he also took out PPI 
designed to protect  his loan repayments  in the event of accident, sickness  or unemployment.
The policy was a single premium policy, so the cost was added  to the loan attracting interest 
over the term. Assuming the loan ran to term the total cost of PPI was around £120  adding 
£10 a month to Mr Ts overall monthly loan repayment.
I issued my provisional decision of September 2019 in which I said I was likely not to uphold  
the complaint.  And I said that unless any new information changed my mind, my final 
decision would likely  be along the following lines:
Nationwide didnt  likely recommend PPI to Mr T, so it didnt have to ensure it was 
right for him. But it did have  to give him enough  clear and timely information so he 
could make that decision himself.
Because Mr T ticked  the box to take out PPI and the loan agreement  described PPI 
as optional I was satisfied Mr T was given  a choice about PPI and he chose and 
agreed to take it out.
Nationwide made the cost and benefit  of the policy clear and its benefit outweighed  
the cost.
Nationwide might not have done  all that it should fairly and reasonably  have done  in 
providing Mr T with information  about  the policy. But there was nothing  about the 
policy and/or Mr Ts particular circumstances at the time, which wouldve likely put 
him off taking it out had Nationwide done anything more   for example Mr T was 
eligible for the cover; he wasnt affected by the exclusions on or limits  to the cover;  
and it wasnt fundamentally wrong or inappropriate for him.
Nationwide doesnt need to refund any of the commission  Mr T paid for the PPI he 
had with his loan. 
Mr T hasnt lost out as a result of taking  out PPI with his loan.
Nationwide said it had nothing further to add.
Neither Mr T nor his representative responded to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im mindful that Mr T  whether directly or through his representative  hasnt replied  to my 
provisional decision. But his representative confirmed safe receipt of it and we reminded 
them of the deadline for responses. So I think if Mr T or his representative had wanted to 
respond they wouldve done  so by now. Given the deadline has passed I therefore  think its 
safe for me to go ahead and issue my final decision.
Ref: DRN51177842Because Ive not been given anything new to change my mind,  Ive reached the same 
conclusion as set out in my provisional  decision and for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  above and in my provisional  decision, Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5117784