K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) gave her misleading information  when  
she took out a car insurance policy.
background
In early 2019 Mrs M obtained a car insurance quote online with UKI. She called  UKI shortly 
after to ask questions  about the policy, specifically whether it would cover her 21 year old 
daughter (Ms M) who was studying away from home. Mrs M was told this was possible and 
Ms M would be able to use Mrs Ms vehicle on seven  occasions (maximum) across the year.  
Mrs M was happy with this and agreed to take the policy.
A few weeks  later Mrs M attempted  to add Ms M to the policy as she was due to visit but this 
was declined. UKI explained that due to Ms Ms age and because  Mrs M lives in a rural area 
its underwriter  had said it wouldnt  insure Ms M until she was 22 (around the time the policy 
was due to end). 
UKI offered to insure Ms M for the upcoming weekend but said it wouldnt cover her going  
forward as the policy  didnt allow for this. It agreed  it had given Mrs M incorrect  information 
when she took out the policy so it said she could cancel the insurance without a fee.
Mrs M didnt  cancel the policy, and said as a result of this issue her daughter  hasnt been 
able to visit her. She said this absence affected her mentally and emotionally. And she 
asked for UKI to include  Ms M on the policy as was agreed previously.
Mrs M brought her complaint to our service and one of our adjudicators  looked  into what 
happened. He said our service was unable to change  the underwriting criteria of a business. 
But he acknowledged  that UKI had given her incorrect information about the policy which  
had impacted her. The adjudicator felt UKI should  award £200 compensation as Mrs M 
would need to find a new policy and she would lose her no claims bonus. And overall he said 
Mrs M hadnt  seen her daughter as a result of UKIs mistake which caused her considerable 
distress and inconvenience.
UKI disagreed and said it felt its offer to cover Ms M for a trip and allow Mrs M to cancel the 
policy without a fee was fair. It also said Mrs M chose to keep the insurance  knowing it 
wouldnt cover  her daughter, and that she already had a maximum no claims bonus in place 
so this wouldnt have  been affected. Because UKI disagreed  the complaint was passed to 
me for an ombudsmans  decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 22 July 2019 explaining why I wasnt 
intending to uphold this complaint. Ive summarised my reasons below.
ICOBS 2.2.2 requires  UKI to provide  information to its customers  in a clear, fair and 
not misleading way. In this case its not in dispute that UKI gave Mrs M the wrong 
information when  she first took out this policy. So I said it was clear  that UKI had 
done something wrong. 
Ref: DRN55803482So I considered  the impact  of this mistake, and whether  UKI needs to do anything 
further. When this mistake was brought to light  shortly after the policy  was taken   
UKI offered  cover for Ms Ms upcoming  visit. I thought this was fair as it prevented 
any plans being disrupted for that time.
I said UKI also made it clear  to Mrs M that she could cancel her policy without a fee 
as it didnt provide  her with the cover  she said she wanted   the cover for her 
daughter. I was satisfied that at this time it was clear Mrs M would need to find a 
policy elsewhere. And UKIs offer allowed her to do so freely without a cancellation 
fee potentially  affecting her decision  to leave.
I said Mrs M, for reasons of her own, didnt cancel her policy  and chose to stay with 
UKI. From what Id seen,  Mrs M already  had a maximum  no claims bonus in place so 
it seemed any concern  about no claims was unlikely to impact her decision.
Mrs M said this lack of insurance  cover  prevented Ms M from visiting her. However I 
didnt think it was fair to hold UKI responsible for this as Mrs M has chosen to keep 
her UKI policy in place,  knowing  it wont cover  Ms M.
Overall I said could  imagine Mrs M may have been  frustrated on discovery  that shed been 
given incorrect information.  But I was satisfied UKIs apology, offer of temporary cover,  and 
opportunity to cancel  without charge  was a fair outcome in the circumstances. And I 
explained I would consider any further evidence before issuing  my final decision.
UKI said it had nothing further  to add. Mrs M responded  to say she didnt believe shed  be 
able to obtain a new policy in the future at a fair price if she cancelled  this insurance.  And 
she said shed have  to pay an admin fee and find a new policy. Mrs M also said shed be 
unable to have  Ms M visit her this year because  of this ongoing issue.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about  Mrs Ms comments. But shes provided no new information 
and Im satisfied Ive already considered all of her complaint points  and set these out in 
detail in my provisional  decision. 
Mrs M says she would have lost out if she cancelled the insurance, but Ive seen nothing  to 
support this given  UKI said it would waive any cancellation fee. And ultimately shes chosen  
to continue with this policy that she has said isnt suitable for her  knowing it wont provide 
cover to Ms M. So I havent changed my mind and Im not asking UKI to do anything  further. 
Ref: DRN55803483my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5580348