K820x#14complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the service  he received  from Barclays  Bank UK PLC when  he 
contacted them to check a transfer and the balance  on his account. 
Mr L wants to be reimbursed  for the cost of his phone  calls and to be compensated for 
trouble and upset  hes experienced.  
background
Mr L called  Barclays as he wanted  to check if a payment transfer was showing on his 
account. 
Mr L attempted to pass through Barclays  vocal recognition  screening,  used to verify who is 
calling Barclays. As this screening wasnt successful,  Mr L was then asked security 
questions by a Barclays customer adviser. 
Mr L correctly answered these questions and the adviser then asked Mr L if it was ok to send 
him a one-time security  pass  code  to his mobile  phone. Mr L was unhappy  with this as he 
felt hed answered enough  questions  already  to verify who he was to pass security.  Mr L 
complained to Barclays and they apologised for their vocal recognition screening not working  
properly for Mr L. 
Mr L then referred his complaint to our service and our investigator  didnt  uphold  his 
complaint. Our investigator found  that Barclays followed their manual verification  process  
and didnt recommend that they needed to compensate Mr L. Mr L didnt accept our 
investigators findings so the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to a call recording of when Mr L spoke  to the Barclays  adviser  after he was 
unable to pass through voice  security. Its not known why the voice security wasnt  passed 
and Barclays have  told us that there can be a number of reasons why it may have failed. 
The adviser then correctly followed Barclays manual security  procedure following the failure  
of the voice security option. I say this because Ive seen  a copy  of the procedure and the 
adviser asked Mr L a number of questions around personal details and then asked him if it 
was ok if he sent him a one time passcode to his mobile phone. Mr L said no to the request 
as he felt hed asked enough questions  and just wanted to know  what  his balance was. 
Mr L asked to speak  to the customer advisers  manager. I think some  confusion arose at this 
point of the call about the adviser saying  hed transfer the call being interpreted  as cancel 
the call by Mr L. Having  listened to that part of the call a number of times, the adviser did 
say transfer rather than cancel but I understand why Mr L may have misheard what was 
said.
The advisers manager then spoke with Mr L and Mr L explained  why he was unhappy.  Mr L 
passed security with the manager following a series  of additional questions about  his 
Ref: DRN54545812account and Mr L was given the balance information he wanted  to know.  The manager was 
confident that it was Mr L he was talking to. 
After Mr L spoke to the advisers manager  he offered to send a one-time  pass  code again 
and Mr L stated that he was partially sighted  so would  have difficulty reading it. The adviser 
then asked if there was anyone with Mr L; that could  read the code, but Mr L said there  
wasnt.
Although Mr L told our investigator  that Barclays were aware that he was visually  impaired, 
theres no indication  that Barclays were  aware of any accessibility or communication needs  
before this call. Barclays has confirmed that their records  are now up to date. 
Overall, I dont  think that the customer service received fell below what  Barclays should  have 
reasonably delivered.  Ive asked Barclays what other options were available  at the point 
where Mr L initially said he didnt  want to receive a passcode. Barclays have said that 
another option at this point was for Mr L to make a visit to a branch. But Ive noted during the 
call that Mr L has made  reference  to the call being at night and it being a bank holiday 
weekend - so this was possibly not a realistic  option. 
Although Mr L may have  spent longer on the phone than he intended,  I do think that 
Barclays tried to reasonably help Mr L whilst  he was on the phone. I also think that some  
misunderstanding between Mr L and what the adviser was saying further lengthened the 
call. 
Mr L has asked to be compensated for the costs of his calls,  although  he hasnt provided 
details of these  costs. But as Im satisfied the time spent on the call was ultimately  down to 
Barclays trying to help Mr L, I dont consider it would be appropriate to require the bank to 
cover the cost of this.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence, I dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5454581