K821x#15about the complaint 
Mrs G is unhappy with the advice she received from Anthony  Feeney  Financial  Services  
(AFFS) to transfer her existing pension plan into a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). 
The reason  for making the transfer was to allow  Mrs G to invest  in store pods through Store 
First. Mrs Gs complaint  is made, on her behalf, by her representative. 
background
During 2013 Mrs G was put in touch with AFFS by an unregulated third party.  The third party 
had told her about investing  her pension in store pods. So she spoke to AFFS about this. An 
adviser from AFFS carried out a review  of her circumstances. It then advised Mrs G to 
transfer her existing personal pension plan to a SIPP. This was so she could then invest in 
store pods, an unregulated investment. 
The transfer value  of Mrs Gs existing pension was just under £41,600. This was transferred 
to the SIPP  at the start of November 2013.  £37,500 of this was then invested in store  pods 
at the end of that month. In May 2014  around £3,700  was invested in a Nucleus portfolio. 
But it seems  that the store  pods investment is now illiquid. Mrs G is worried  that shes lost 
her money. 
So in January 2017 Mrs G complained, via her representative, to AFFS about  the advice 
shed received. In brief,  Mrs G said, amongst other  things: the advice was unsuitable;  her 
attitude to risk was wrongly assessed as adventurous; she had no knowledge or experience 
of investments; she didnt  want  to take any risks with her pension;  her capacity for loss 
wasnt assessed; and, AFFS  hadnt followed the relevant rules and regulations. Mrs G wants 
compensation for the money  she says shes lost. 
AFFS rejected the complaint. Again in brief, it said Mrs G had only asked for advice about  
setting up the SIPP. She expressly hadnt  asked  for advice about  the suitability of investing 
in store  pods. AFFS also said it had warned  Mrs G about the risks involved with this 
investment but she still chose to go ahead with it. This meant AFFS wasnt to blame  for any 
loss Mrs G might have  suffered. 
Mrs G wasnt  happy with this response. So she brought the complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked into it. In summary, he thought the complaint should be upheld. The 
adjudicator said AFFS  had tried to restrict its advice only to the opening of the SIPP. But the 
regulator had made  it clear that it wasnt fair to ignore the suitability of the proposed  
investment. The adjudicator didnt agree that Mrs G hadnt sought advice about the suitability 
of store  pods. He said the transactions werent  carried out on an execution only basis, and 
she wanted advice  about her pension.  The SIPP  wasnt  suitable.  The adjudicator then set 
out how he thought AFFS needed to put things right. 
Mrs G accepted the adjudicators view. But neither AFFS, nor its representative, responded. 
So this complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN55933752my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done, so Ive decided to uphold  
this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Both AFFS  and Mrs G, through  their various  representatives, have made numerous points to 
support their respective positions. Im very aware  that Ive summarised  this complaint in far 
less detail and in my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all 
the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed  on what  I think  
is the key issue  here: was AFFSs advice to Mrs G to transfer her existing pension to a SIPP 
suitable? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome. 
Ill first deal with the issue of our jurisdiction. In general terms, the original representative for 
AFFS argued that the store  pods investment wasnt either a specified investment or a 
designated investment as set out in the relevant regulations.  It said the investment wasnt an 
unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS).  So the advice to invest  in store pods  
wasnt an activity covered by our service. 
But the advice  to invest in store pods isnt the activity Im looking at. Im looking at the advice  
Mrs G was given to open a SIPP. That is a regulated activity. It doesnt  matter what  type of 
investment store pods was, or if it was an UCIS. 
The rules  that AFFS had to follow are set out in the regulators handbook. The advice given  
to Mrs G needed to take into account  the relevant rules. This is irrespective of whether the 
store pods investment was or wasnt a regulated product. The regulations required the 
advice given to Mrs G to be suitable. To do that, AFFS had to get enough information about  
her circumstances at the time. 
AFFS completed a fact find that was signed by Mrs G in August 2013. This recorded some 
of her personal circumstances. But not a lot of detail was included.  For instance, it didnt 
include Mrs Gs outgoings, or if she had any assets,  savings or investments other than her 
existing pension plan.  The fact find stated that Mrs G owned her own property. But it didnt 
record the value  of the property, if it was jointly owned or if it was mortgaged.  
The fact find also stated  that the pension  benefits of Mrs Gs existing plan were an 
insignificant part of her overall financial wealth. But there is no detail at all to explain how this 
statement was arrived at. As Ive just said, there  fact find had no record of Mrs G having any 
other assets,  savings  or investments other  than her existing personal  pension plan. I 
understand from Mrs Gs representative  that she also had some savings and several small 
work place  pensions. But the available  evidence doesnt show that AFFS asked about these. 
They are certainly not recorded on the fact find. 
The fact find did state that the pension benefits of Mrs Gs existing plan were an insignificant  
part of her overall financial wealth. But it isnt clear  to me how this statement was arrived  at. 
As Ive just said, theres no record on the fact find of  Mrs G having  any other assets,  savings 
or investments other than her existing personal  pension plan. 
Ref: DRN55933753The fact find listed five levels of risk under a section titled risk and reward.  These  ranged  
from very cautious to speculative.  The fourth box adventurous was ticked. This attitude  
to risk was explained as: 
You prefer to invest in more specialised stock-market  linked investments, in return for the 
potential for increased  capital growth.  Again, investment returns  will fluctuate according to 
market conditions, however, these  fluctuations  will be more pronounced. 
Underneath this is a hand written note:
Client realises pension is not going  to pay a lot so risks need  to be taken to improve it and 
shes happy to take the risks involved. 
But later on in the fact find, Mrs G was asked to list her priorities  in order of importance. She 
listed the financial security of her pension  scheme  as her highest priority.  To me, this 
contradicts the earlier assertion by AFFS that Mrs G was happy  to take the risks involved.  
The fact find also had the following box ticked:
I have no  or very little  experience  or understanding of investment markets.
The additional notes  section of the fact find said that Mrs G hadnt really  had financial advice 
before. 
Theres no detail on how Mrs Gs attitude to risk was assessed.  The available  evidence 
points to her having  very limited investment knowledge, if any at all. Mrs G certainly doesnt 
seem to have invested in high risk speculative products  before, or received financial advice 
before. Other  than her existing pension and small work place pensions, theres nothing  to 
show she had any other investments  whatsoever. So I dont think  I can rely on the fact find 
recording her attitude to risk as adventurous. 
Im satisfied that given  Mrs Gs lack of investment  experience, and lack of experience of 
financial advice, she was relying on AFFS to give her suitable  advice.  Whatever her actual 
attitude to risk was, it was also important for AFFS to look at Mrs Gs financial positon to see 
if she had the capacity to actually take that risk. As Ive already said, the fact find states 
Mrs Gs existing pension wasnt a significant proportion  of her financial wealth. But Im not 
satisfied that this was a realistic assessment of her position. 
As outlined  above,  it seems that apart from Mrs Gs existing personal pension,  and the small 
work place  schemes,  she had no other  retirement provision. So I think its likely that her 
pension pot would be a significant part of her financial wealth. In this position Mrs G could ill 
afford for her investment  to fall in value, or be lost completely.  
A later section of the fact find asked  if Mrs G was intending to invest in an unregulated or 
alternative investment.  The answer  Store First was given. This section went  on to say that 
Mrs G saw commercial  property investment  purchase as a more  solid investment than 
traditional investments.  But Mrs G had already stated, she had very little experience or 
understanding of investment markets. So its not clear to me at all how this position was 
arrived at. 
Ref: DRN55933754AFFS then issued a financial planning report.  The copy Ive seen isnt signed  or dated. But 
Mrs G signed a receipt in early October  2013  confirming  shed  got the report. The report said 
Mrs G especially liked the control  that a SIPP  would  give by allowing her to take a more 
active role in choosing  what she deemed were  suitable  investments  rather  than the 
traditional funds in her existing plan. 
The investment strategy section stated Mrs G sought advice from AFFS about the intention 
of investing in commercial  property,  storage  pods  in particular. It said she hadnt  sought 
advice about the suitability of this investment and had stated she was an experienced 
investor who understood the additional  risks associated with such  an investment. But this 
contradicts page  2 of the report  which stated  Mrs G had a limited knowledge of investments. 
Its also directly  contradicted by the fact find as outlined above. 
Even after the risks had been explained to Mrs G, given  her limited knowledge of 
investments, Im not satisfied she would have had a good enough understanding  of the risks 
to adequately judge the suitability of the store pods investment. Mrs G would have  been  
heavily reliant on AFFS.  
In any case, the report then went  on to consider the proposed store  pod investment. It said 
AFFS had done  research to familiarise itself with the investment. It listed  some of the risks 
involved. This included investing in a single undertaking or having one investment as a large 
part of Mrs G s pension assets  bringing considerable risk. 
This section  of the report ended by saying  in bold type  that Mrs Gs fund shouldnt  be 
placed in one asset class.  Instead, it should form part of a diversified portfolio across  a 
number of asset classes. But at the time,  the report didnt make  any recommendation of 
alternative investments  that could be used. 
I can see that several months after the transfer to the SIPP and the store pods investment 
took place, AFFS did contact Mrs G about another investment.  It recommended  that she 
should make  an additional  investment in a Nucleus portfolio. This was for around  £3,700.  
The advice from AFFS to invest  in the Nucleus portfolio  lists Mrs G as a professional  client. 
Clearly, with her lack of investment experience, Mrs G was far from being a professional 
client. This oversight  was pointed out to AFFS at the time by the SIPP provider.  
While dealing with this complaint, Im very aware that the regulator, the Financial  Conduct  
Authority, and its predecessor, the Financial Services Authority, issued alerts about  advising 
on pension transfers.  These dealt  with transfers  to invest pension  funds into unregulated 
products through a SIPP. One of these was published in early January 2013,  some months 
before the advice  given by AFFS. Another one was issued in April 2014. These alerts didnt 
change or alter the regulations in any way. Instead, they simply re-stated the principles that 
were already  in place  when AFFS advised Mrs G. 
The 2013  alert clearly stated the regulators position  when it said:
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable  advice  generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which  is a 
vehicle for investment in other products  (such  as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes.  It should  be particularly clear to financial advisers  that, 
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing  a wider  investment 
Ref: DRN55933755strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer must take account of the overall investment 
strategy the customer is contemplating.  
Im satisfied it wasnt possible  for AFFS to advise  Mrs G on the suitability  of the SIPP  without 
also considering  how she planned to invest. Its very clear  to me that AFFS knew all along  
that the majority of Mrs Gs pension provision was intended to be invested in store  pods. 
With this in mind, I dont think it was suitable to advise Mrs G to transfer her existing 
pensions into a SIPP to allow  her to make this investment. 
AFFS says it did set out some risks of investing  in store pods in the suitability report.  These 
were: 
Investment in a single undertaking  or having one investment as a large part of a 
schemes assets brings considerable risk.
The buyer may grant a lease for a term of 6 years to the Seller at fixed rents that are 
stepped throughout the term.  This is an attractive  option for the Buyer  as it would 
appear to provide  a guaranteed income for 6 years after purchasing  the property, 
however after the initial period stated, there is no guarantee of occupancy  or rate of 
return.
You may not always  be able to secure  a tenant and if there is a prolonged period of 
unnoccupancy [sic], surplus funds may have to be used up to cover the annual SIPP 
fees,  service charge,  buildings  insurance and electricity rent in addition to the 
nominal ground rent during  the term, you may also be required to make contributions 
to the scheme  if there are insufficient funds available to cover the fees.
You must consider the potential marketability carefully in respect of a specialist  
commercial property  such as this. It will have to be sold in order for you to secure 
pension benefits  at your chosen  retirement  age via an annuity.
 The investment comes with a buy back guarantee  which  does reduce the inherent 
illiquidity risk of this type of asset, however there  is little to back  up this guarantee 
apart from the word  of the company.
As Ive already  said, the report went on to say I recommend that your fund  is not placed 
within one asset class and should form part of a diversified portfolio across a number 
of asset classes. But I dont think this goes  far enough. There  was no warning to Mrs G 
that all of her investment  was potentially at risk. Given Mrs Gs lack of understanding of 
investment markets, Im not satisfied she realised  the extent of the risk she was taking with 
her existing pension.  AFFS  should have been much clearer in its warnings to her. 
The store pods investment was unregulated. It was a specialised, non-mainstream  type of 
investment. I think it was also a high risk investment that wasnt suitable for somebody  with 
Mrs Gs low capacity  for loss. The available  evidence  doesnt show  me that Mrs G was fully 
aware of the risks involved in investing  in store  pods. Im satisfied the investment wasnt 
suitable for her  and thats what AFFS should  have told her. 
But as well as the investment being  unsuitable,  I also dont think  transferring Mrs Gs existing 
pension into the SIPP was suitable. On the fact find, Mrs G was asked how happy  she was 
with the level of charges on her current pension plan. On a scale  of one to five, with one 
being not at all, and five being  very, an answer  of two was given. 
Ref: DRN55933756But the annual  charge  for the SIPP was 1% (up to a maximum of £500). The annual SIPP 
charges were on top of the initial £1,200 paid to AFFS, the initial  scheme fees of £1,096.64 
and solicitors fees of £571. The only charge  on Mrs Gs existing pension plan was an annual 
charge of 0.85%. 
The financial  planning  report compared the costs of the existing pension  to the proposed  
SIPP. Assuming the same rates of growth to age 60 the report  showed Mrs Gs existing 
pension would be worth  more due to lower  charges in comparison to the SIPP.  For example, 
using an illustration of 7% annual growth, her  existing plan would have been worth  £60,300  
at age 60 instead of  £53,800 with the SIPP. If Mrs G was unhappy with her plan charges, 
transferring to the SIPP wouldnt have  improved this. It would only increase what she 
needed to pay. 
Im satisfied that given  a realistic assessment of Mrs Gs attitude to risk as balanced, or 
medium, a standard  personal pension would have been suitable for her needs. I think  the 
extra charges normally associated with a SIPP werent justified.  I think  suitable advice 
should have been not to invest in store pods. If that advice had been  given,  I dont see any 
reason at all why Mrs G would have transferred her existing pension to the SIPP. There 
would simply have  been no need for the SIPP. So the advice  to open a SIPP was unsuitable 
for Mrs Gs circumstances.  
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mrs G, as far as possible, into the position she would likely now be in had 
she been given  suitable advice. I think if Mrs G had been given suitable advice, she would 
have kept her previous pension. 
AFFS should establish the notional  current transfer value of Mrs Gs previous pension plan, 
assuming it hadnt  been transferred. The current transfer value of the SIPP investments, 
including any cash held in the SIPP bank account, should be compared to the current 
notional value of Mrs Gs previous pension plan.  
If there are any difficulties getting  the notional valuation, then the FTSE UK Private Investor  
Income Total Return Index should be used. Thats a reasonable  proxy  for the kind of return  
that could have been achieved if suitable  funds had been chosen.  
I would usually say that if theres  a loss, AFFS should ideally  pay any amount into Mrs Gs 
pension plan to increase  its value  by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The 
amount paid should allow for the effect  of charges and any available  tax relief. 
Compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. 
But in this case, Mrs Gs representatives have specifically asked for any compensation to be 
paid directly to her as shell need to pay its agreed fees. Paying this out of her pension plan 
could cause her unnecessary problems. I want to try and avoid this. Im also mindful  that 
both AFFS and its representative have already had the chance to comment  on the redress 
proposed by our adjudicator. Neither  did. 
I think its unlikely that AFFS will be able to pay the compensation into Mrs Gs pension plan. 
Because of this, and taking the representatives  request into account, in this particular case, 
AFFS should pay any compensation  direct to Mrs G. 
Ref: DRN55933757If it had been possible  to pay the compensation into the pension plan, it would have provided 
a taxable income  when  Mrs G takes  the benefits.  So the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs Gs marginal rate of tax in retirement.  
I think shes likely to be a basic rate tax payer in retirement. The reduction should  equal the 
current basic rate of tax. But, as Mrs G would  have been able to take a tax free lump sum,  
the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Since the store pods investment is now illiquid  it cant readily be sold on the open market   
its value should  be treated  as nil. The resultant sum represents the redress due from AFFS 
to Mrs G. AFFS can then arrange to take ownership of the store pods  investment.  If thats  
not possible, then Mrs G can sign an undertaking that she will pay AFFS any future 
disbursements she may get from the store pods investment. That undertaking must allow  for 
any tax and charges  that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the SIPP. AFFS will 
need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.  
I think its very likely  Mrs G will have to maintain the SIPP for a period of time as the store 
pods investment cant be sold. This will stop the SIPP  from being  closed. If AFFS is unable 
to buy the store pods investment from the SIPP provider, it should  pay Mrs G five years 
worth of SIPP fees to compensate her for these costs. 
In addition, AFFS should Pay Mrs G £250  for the disruption caused to her retirement  
planning. 
AFFS should also provide  details of the compensation calculation to Mrs G in a clear, simple  
format.
Finally, simple interest is to be added to my award  at a rate of 8% gross a year from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. 
If AFFS deducts income tax from the interest,  it should tell Mrs G how much  has been  taken  
off. AFFS should give Mrs G a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
my final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Anthony Feeney Financial Services should 
calculate the loss and pay compensation to Mrs G as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5593375