K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Santander UK plc (when it was trading as National & Provincial 
Building Society) mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mr and Mrs W in 1988 in connection  with a 
mortgage. The policy provided Mr and Mrs W with cover if they couldnt work because  of 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
- If Santander gave  any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Ws needs?
- Did Santander give Mr and Mrs W the information they needed to decide whether to 
take out the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether Mr 
and Mrs W are worse  off as a result. That is, would they have done  something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs W say they were put under pressure to buy the PPI, and that they werent given 
a proper choice.  They say Santander told them they had to buy the policy to get the 
mortgage they wanted. Ive noted everything theyve said.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr and Mrs W when 
the policy was sold.
Santander hasnt  been able to provide  much  documentation from the time of the sale,  as 
these events happened many years  ago. Thats not surprising, and its similar  to some other 
cases Ive seen.
Ref: DRN53298552In the absence of anything  else to support what Mr and Mrs W have told me, I havent been  
able to safely conclude  that Santander  didnt make them  aware that the PPI was optional.
Santander accepts  that it probably  advised Mr and Mrs W to take out the policy and it 
doesnt look like it was unsuitable for them based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at 
the time.  I say this because:
-Mr and Mrs W were eligible for cover, given the policy terms and conditions. 
-Mr and Mrs W say they were  entitled  to sick pay from their employers if they couldnt  
work because of sickness or accident. But the policy  wouldve paid out in addition to 
their employer  benefits, and would have  allowed Mr and Mrs W to use those benefits 
to cover other expenses. So I think Mr and Mrs W would have had some  use for the 
policy, despite their existing arrangements. 
-Mr and Mrs W werent affected  by any of the conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits, such as those affecting  self-employed  people or people  with pre-existing 
medical conditions.  As they could have benefited  from the full extent of the cover I 
think it unlikely they needed better advice or information about the policys  exclusions 
and limitations.
-I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated  to Mr and Mrs W 
before they agreed to buy it. But Mr and Mrs W took out the policy knowing they 
would have to pay something for it. It seems the policy was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable.  So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs W would have made  a 
different decision if better  information about  the cost had been  provided.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs W about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it should have  been. But as Ive already  said, Mr and Mrs W werent affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely  
Mr and Mrs W would have made  a different decision if better  information  had been provided 
 overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 April 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5329855