K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy with how The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  handled his 
investment top-up. He feels he ought to be compensated  for the delay  in making his 
investment because of problems  he had with the form.
background
Mr J has an investment with Prudential. Last December, he wanted to add to it using  money 
from savings and from the surrender of another investment.  So he sent a form and a cheque 
into Prudential.
This was received  on 5 December and Prudential  wrote back to Mr J the same  day to let him 
know they needed some  more  information before they could credit the money  to his 
investment. This was because Mr J hadnt filled in the part of the form that asked about 
where his money  had come from  something  theyre required to ask in line with the money 
laundering rules.
Mr J called Prudential on 18 December to give them  the information they needed. So his 
investment should  have  been made that day. But the member of staff didnt do whatever it 
was they needed to do to get the investment made.  So Prudential ended  up sending  further  
letters to Mr J as they thought the information  was outstanding.
Mr Js investment was eventually made on 10 January after he called again   but as 
Prudential recognised the error theyd made, they backdated the investment to 18 December 
to make sure Mr J wasnt worse off from their oversight. They also paid him £100  to 
apologise. 
Mr J wasnt happy with this. He thought Prudential ought to have backdated the investment 
to the day they received his form and cheque  5 December. He thought this was fair 
because he found  the form confusing and that it wasnt his fault. Prudential didnt agree so 
Mr J asked for our help. 
One of our investigators  looked into what happened  but he thought Prudential  had done  
enough to put things  right. Mr J remained unhappy  in addition to the points hed made 
before about the length, layout and wording of the form, he was also unhappy that Prudential 
cashed his cheque and could have  earned interest  on the sum before it was invested.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with what our 
investigator said, for broadly the same reasons. 
Theres no dispute that Prudential made an error  here  they agree that Mr Js call of 
18 December gave  them the information they needed to get his money invested. But they 
put this right by backdating the investment to ensure he wasnt financially disadvantaged. 
They also paid him £100. I think this is fair and enough to recognise  the additional call that 
was required and the inconvenience  Mr J had. 
But I dont agree that Prudential need to further compensate Mr J by amending  the 
investment date to 5 December  thats  because they didnt have all the information they 
Ref: DRN51412512needed at that point  to process his top up. That was due to an omission of Mr Js, not a 
mistake of Prudentials. 
I appreciate Mr J feels he missed the box regarding  the source of the money  because  of the 
layout  but I dont  agree  the form is confusing.  At the relevant section, entitled Details  of 
the applicant  there  were  a series of boxes  to complete; firstly,  there were sections to note 
the occupation and income of applicant one, followed by a section  to record the occupation 
and income of applicant two. After which were sections around the source of funds and 
source of wealth  Mr J left both blank. While those sections did follow  underneath questions  
around applicant  two, the form did say:
In the revised  Joint Money Laundering Steering  Group guidance, this product has 
been categorised  as "increased risk". We are therefore required to gather additional 
information (enhanced due diligence)  on our customer(s).  Please answer  all the 
questions below. Where  there are joint applicants, please give details of both.
So I think it was made clear to Mr J he needed  to answer all of the questions. And I think  
Prudential were reasonable  to ask about  the source of the money before investing, in order  
to comply with the rules  around money laundering. I therefore dont agree the delay in 
investing from 5 to 18 December is a period for which Prudential are responsible for. 
Mr J also felt the form was confusing as there were interchangeable  uses of the words you, 
I and we. But Prudential  have explained the uses of these  words  and their attempts to 
address an unknown number of applicants.  I think this is reasonable. Mr J was also unhappy 
a date box wasnt free-form, and was instead small squares that prescribed the 
DD/MM/YYYY format.  Again, I think this is reasonable  and something thats  up to Prudential  
to decide, not something which our service would  interfere  with. I know Mr J felt the form 
was overly long for what he felt was a simple action,  but it is up to Prudential to collect  
whatever information  they need  from their customers and to ask questions which may or 
may not be relevant in all instances.  It is, again,  something that we wouldnt interfere with.
Lastly, I know Mr J feels  its unfair Prudential cashed his cheque  soon  after they received it, 
meaning they could  earn interest  on it rather than either return it or just hold onto it. But I 
dont think this is necessarily what Prudential were motivated by  by cashing the cheque 
and beginning  the process  of holding the money  electronically, they were  ensuring that as 
soon as the additional information was gathered, Mr Js investment could be made without 
anything outstanding. So I dont find against them for this either.  
my final decision
So for the reasons explained  above,  it is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint 
as I think The Prudential  Assurance Company Limited have already done enough to put 
things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5141251