K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about the inactivity fees that have been applied to his pre-paid currency card 
by Wirecard Card  Solutions Limited. 
background
Mr R went to a foreign-exchange counter of a bank  in June 2016 because he wanted €50. 
He says that he was persuaded  to take a pre-paid currency  card which  he thought  was 
provided by the bank  but was provided  by Wirecard. He didnt use the card and in February 
2019 went back to the counter and asked  for the €50 to be returned to him but was told that 
inactivity fees had reduced the balance to €4. He complained to Wirecard but wasnt 
satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that it was 
likely that the welcome booklet, which included the terms and conditions,  was handed to 
Mr R when he took out the card,  that hed accepted the terms and conditions by purchasing 
the card and that the terms and conditions  included information about  the fees. So she didnt 
consider that Wirecard had acted  unfairly.
Mr R has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has responded in 
detail and says,  in summary,  that:
the card was misrepresented to him as he was persuaded to take out the card and 
was told that it was just like having  foreign currency and he relied on that statement 
which wasnt true;
the inactivity fee was so unusual that it shouldve been  drawn  to his attention but the 
fees only appeared on page 8 of the booklet  which its claimed was provided  to him 
(but which he disputes);
he wasnt notified of the inactivity fees being debited from his card and he couldnt  
check the account's status on-line as the card wasnt provided to him as an on-line 
account and he wasnt provided  with a user-name and password; and 
the inactivity fee is unfair and unreasonable as its a device for stripping out the credit  
balances of inactive  accounts.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R purchased the card in June 2016 and he says that he was persuaded to take out the 
card by a misrepresentation that it was just like having foreign currency. Wirecard says that 
as part of the purchase process he wouldve been provided with a welcome  booklet  that 
included the card terms and conditions. Mr R says that he didnt receive a welcome booklet 
or the terms  and conditions. So Mr R and Wirecard give different accounts of what happened 
more than three years ago. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory  
(as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, 
what I consider is most likely to have  happened  in light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
I consider it to be more  likely than not that Mr R was given a welcome booklet when he 
purchased the card and that he also received the terms and conditions and a copy of the 
card agreement. And included in the terms and conditions was a statement that by 
Ref: DRN59345942purchasing the card he was agreeing to the terms and conditions  and the fees set out in the 
welcome booklet. Im not persuaded that its likely  that Mr R wouldve been given (or 
accepted) a foreign currency card without any supporting documentation. Nor am I 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the card was misrepresented to Mr R.
I consider that the booklet clearly  sets out the fees and limits  that were applicable to the 
card, including an inactivity fee of £2, and that the terms and conditions  set out in more detail 
the basis on which the inactivity fee would  be applied. Im not persuaded that such a fee is 
so unusual that Mr Rs attention shouldve  been  drawn to it or that there was any 
requirement for Wirecard to do more to draw Mr Rs attention to the fees, including  the 
inactivity fee, that were  applicable to the card.
The booklet  included information on how the card could  be used and included free phone 
contact numbers for use throughout the world, an e-mail address and a web-page. So if 
Mr R had wanted to check the balance on his account (or get any other information about 
the card) I consider that he was given  enough  information that he ought to have been  able to 
get that information. And he also had the option  of going to the foreign currency counter from 
which hed purchased the card and it wouldve been  able to direct him to the relevant contact 
details. But Im not persuaded that there  was any requirement for him to be sent information  
about the balance of his account or notices when fees were being  applied to his account. 
Nor am I persuaded  that the inactivity fee is unfair  or unreasonable.
I sympathise with Mr R because he feels that hes lost €46 but Im not persuaded that theres 
enough evidence  to show that Wirecard has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its dealings 
with Mr R about his card. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require  it to 
credit the inactivity fees back to his account, to pay him any compensation or to take any 
other action  in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5934594