K820x#14complaint
Mr B on behalf of A, a limited company, has complained about the increase in As annual 
landlord insurance premium by U K Insurance Limited (UKI).
background
A has insured its property  with UKI since 2013. On 28 September  2017  UKI wrote to Mr B 
inviting A to renew the policy for another year from 26 October 2017. It said the premium 
would be £204.94.
Mr B noticed  that the postcode in the renewal  letter for the insured property was wrong. So 
he contacted UKI. After  UKI updated its system with the correct  postcode,  it told Mr B the 
premium  would  be increased  to £3,388.43 . UKI said that was because  the property  
represented  a greater  flood  risk.
Mr B didnt  think  this mistake  was his fault.  He said hed given  the correct  address  to UKI 
when  he first took out the policy.  UKI said it couldnt  check  that because  it didnt  keep  call 
recordings  for more  than three  years.  But it didnt  doubt  that it wasnt  Mr Bs error.  It said 
that was why it hadnt  cancelled  the policy  or investigated  the error  further.  UKI gave  A 14 
days  from the renewal  date to seek  alternative  cover  if it wanted  to.
Mr B thought  UKI should  have  kept the premium  at the same  level  as the previous  year 
since  it was at fault.  He also said its revised  premium  was higher  than that of the other  
insurers  hed contacted.  He thought  UKI should  compensate  him for the trouble  hed been  
put to in finding  alternative  cover  which had ended up costing him more.
Our investigator looked into As complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld.
As Mr B didnt agree,  the matter has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr B, I dont think As complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I cant tell UKI what price it should charge A for its landlord insurance. Thats for it to decide, 
based in part on the risk it thinks  there is of A needing to make a claim and its wider 
commercial requirements. What I can do though, when a consumer complains about the 
price theyve been charged, is look at whether the insurer has treated the consumer fairly  
and whether it can explain why its charged the price  it has.
Where I consider that the consumer  has been  treated unfairly,  I might  require the insurer to 
pay some  form of compensation.
Our investigator asked  UKI to show us how it calculated  As 2017 premium. Im afraid I cant  
share the information its provided to us with A because  its commercially sensitive and 
confidential. But Im satisfied that it was calculated using UKIs  risk assessment  tools  and the 
premium was increased because the property at the correct postcode has a very high risk of 
flooding. This service cant tell insurers what information to use or how to use it. 
Ref: DRN51048762I think that UKI has been able to explain why As premium increased  when the postcode was 
corrected. I think it treated A fairly,  in line with the way it would treat all its other  customers 
whose property had the same  flood risk.
Mr B mentioned that the revised premium quoted by UKI was much  higher than that quoted 
by other  insurers. Different  insurers have  different  approaches to risk, including  flood risk. So 
long as insurers treat their customers fairly,  I generally take the view that insurers  are free to 
decide how much  weight they want to place on factors that they think  increase their 
exposure to risk when  they calculate  a premium.
Although it appears  to have been  UKIs mistake at the outset that the incorrect postcode  was 
put onto its system, I dont  think it would be right to require it to pay compensation to A. 
Thats because A has had the benefit  of cover  at a much lower  cost for several years and 
As directors and officers  should have checked  the policy documents in previous years.  I can 
also see UKI gave A a two week time frame from the renewal date to decide whether it still 
wanted this policy.  I think that was a fair offer in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5104876