K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that the amount  of interest  paid by Leeds Building Society is too low and that 
hes received poor service  from the business.
background
Mr K opened  a Regular  Saver  (8) account  with Leeds Building Society and started to pay 
£50 per month into the account in October  2017.  The interest on the account was initially 
2.3% per annum and that increased to 2.55% per annum in November 2017. Mr K earned 
£7.42 in interest  on the account to the end of September 2018 when the interest  rate 
changed.
Mr K had expected  to receive more interest  on the account over the year so he complained. 
Leeds Building Society looked into his complaint but rejected it. It explained the way interest 
was calculated on the account.  But Mr K wasnt happy with this and also complained  that 
service was poor and staff was dismissive. So he came to this service.  Our adjudicator didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld so Mr K asked for review by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise it will be a disappointment for Mr 
K but based  on what Ive seen, I dont think the complaint should be upheld  and Ill explain 
why. Leeds Building Society has provided  a clear explanation of the way interest  was 
applied to the account. Interests applied daily so each £50 monthly  payment would earn a 
slightly different amount  of interest  because it would be earning interest  for a different 
number of days.  I cant see that Leeds Building Societys made a mistake in its calculation. 
Mr K had a lengthy email  correspondence with Leeds Building Society and spoke to staff 
over the phone about this complaint. Ive looked at the correspondence but it seems to me 
that Mr Ks questions were handled politely and professionally. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.  Under  
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mr K to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 16 February 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5578373