K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Close Brothers  Limited  (Close Brothers) didnt tell him a vehicle he 
financed through  them  was a previous lease vehicle. He says the deal was therefore 
misrepresented and he should  be allowed to reject the car and terminate his finance 
agreement.
background
Mr B took receipt of a used vehicle in August 2017.  He financed the deal through  a 
conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers.  But hes subsequently  learnt  the car was a 
previous lease vehicle and he says Close Brothers should have told him about this. He says 
lease cars arent looked after as well as other cars and he wouldnt have entered  into the 
contract if hed known about  this.
Close Brothers didnt  agree. They  said it was a little late for Mr B to be raising  the concern. 
Hed had the car for more than a year and raised numerous complaints in that time, but 
hadnt referred to this issue. They  said the vehicles ownership history  had been  detailed in 
the V5 document hed had since he took receipt of the car and they thought it was 
reasonable to suggest he should  have noticed  this and raised it with them  sooner.  They 
didnt agree that lease vehicles were looked after less well as they said they were party  to 
agreements that usually had strict  return conditions, so they didnt think  theyd done anything  
wrong.
But Mr B disagreed and he referred his complaint to this service.  Our investigator accepted 
Mr Bs suggestion he wasnt aware  the car was a previous lease vehicle. She thought  that 
the dealership  would most likely have had this information available to them  when the deal 
was set up. But she noted it was quite a time since Mr B agreed to take receipt of the car 
and there  was no evidence of what  may or may not have been said.  She hadnt  seen the 
advert either  and that would have helped  her to decide if a false statement had been made. 
So she didnt feel able to conclude that the car had been misrepresented  to Mr B.
But Mr B disagreed and he asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr B but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please  let me 
explain.
Mr B says that he wasnt told the car was a previous lease car. The Office of Fair Trading  
has provided guidance to dealerships to aid their compliance with the Consumer Protection 
from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008.  This requires dealerships to inform  consumers if a car 
they are providing  was an ex business use car that had multiple drivers.
So I have  to decide whether Mr B had been made  aware that his car had been a previous 
lease vehicle and whether  the provision of a V5 is sufficient  to demonstrate this. And if I 
dont think this is the case I have to be convinced  that this information  was most likely to 
have led to Mr B not proceeding  with the deal.
Ref: DRN52427402I think the guidance given to used  car dealerships provides a proactive  duty on them  to 
explain that a car is an ex lease vehicle. So its not good enough  to expect a consumer to 
notice this is the case because the previous owner  is listed  on a V5. I would have to see 
evidence that the business had raised the issue with the consumer.
In this case I dont think  thats  been  shown to be the case. 
But its not enough for me to ask Close Brothers  to allow Mr B to reject  the car because he 
didnt know it was previously used for lease. I have to be convinced  that it was most likely 
that, if he was informed of its previous use, he would not have proceeded with the deal. And 
here I think that wasnt likely.
I say that because Mr B appears to have raised  the issue  because hes experienced a 
similar problem  when successfully rejecting his partners car. The potential 
misrepresentation of this car was an issue that was raised at a late stage and in addition to 
another complaint hes had about the quality of his vehicle at the point  of supply. Its not 
something Mr B brought to the business attention early  on; as soon as he could reasonably 
have been expected to. Its a concern he raised after over a year and I think  its most likely 
that hes complained  about it as its another avenue by which  he thinks  he should be allowed 
to reject the car. But Id need to be persuaded that it was an issue that, if hed known about  it 
at the point of supply,  would have led him not to enter into the agreement  and Im not.
So I dont  think it would  be fair to ask Close Brothers  to take any action here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5242740