K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays)  allowed him to get into financial 
difficulties by giving him lending  he couldnt  repay.  
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 24 June  2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I intended to uphold Mr Fs complaint and order  
Barclays to:
Adjust Mr Fs outstanding overdraft  balance to remove any debt accrued after 30 
September 2016, including all interest and charges applied after this date; 
Adjust Mr Fs outstanding credit  card balance to remove any debt accrued after the 
March 2016 limit increase, including all interest and charges applied after this date; 
Adjust his credit  file reporting to reflect the above adjustments;  and 
Pay Mr F a further £150  compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
I invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make. 
Barclays accepted  my provisional decision  and said:
Mr Fs overdraft balance would be reduced  to £1,047.16 if it was adjusted  to remove  any 
debt accrued after 30 September 2016;
Barclays proposed  to go further  than this and clear the overdrawn balance in full, using 
the £150 additional compensation proposed to offset the difference;
Mr Fs outstanding credit card balance would be reduced to £9,427.75, being the 
balance before the March 2016 increase; and
Barclays was not currently pursuing  this debt.
Mr Fs representative  accepted my provisional decision on Mr Fs behalf and agreed to 
Barclays suggestion.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr Fs representative and Barclays accepted my provisional decision to uphold  the 
complaint, so I see no reason to change this conclusion.
I think Barclays proposal to clear Mr Fs remaining overdraft balance   using the £150 
proposed compensation to offset  the difference  is fair and reasonable. Mr Fs 
representative is also in agreement with this approach.
Ref: DRN50590982my final decision
For the reasons  I've given  here and in my provisional decision,  I uphold Mr F's complaint and 
order Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Clear Mr F's outstanding overdraft balance in full;
Adjust Mr F's outstanding credit card balance to £9,427.75; and
Adjust his credit  file reporting to reflect these adjustments.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN50590983copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC ("Barclays") allowed  him to get into financial difficulties by 
giving him lending  he couldn't  repay.
background
This complaint has been  brought by Mr F's authorised representative but to keep  things simple and 
for ease of reading, I've written my decision as if Mr F has contacted our service  directly.
Mr F complains that Barclays allowed him to borrow money over several years even though he 
couldn't afford  to repay it, and increased  his lending  when he was already struggling  to repay  his other 
debts. The complaint  covers  Mr F's personal  loan,  overdraft  and credit card.
loan
Mr F took out a £15,000  loan over five years in January 2012. He first missed  a loan repayment in 
July 2015, then again in May 2016 and from November 2016 onwards. Barclays recorded  a default  on 
the loan in April 2017. Barclays says that because  the loan was made  over six years ago, it doesn't  
have a record  of whether  it carried out an 'income and expenditure'  check  before approving  it - but 
says that the loan was affordable because Mr F's bank account at that time was regularly in credit and 
he could meet the monthly repayments. Barclays' system  notes show its last record of Mr F's income 
was from 2010 and say that Mr F was self-employed  and his income was seasonal.
overdraft
Before 2014, Mr F had an overdraft limit of £500  and a personal reserve of £1,000.  Then his overdraft 
limit was increased to £975 and his personal  reserve was replaced by an emergency borrowing limit 
of £525 - so in total he could go overdrawn  by £1,495.
Mr F used the overdraft and emergency borrowing limit more from 2015.  Barclays' system  notes  say it 
reviewed Mr F's income and expenditure with him in September 2016 when he missed a loan 
repayment and discussed a payment plan, but it wasn't finalised and his bank account went into 
arrears from October 2016.  In January 2017, Mr F said he was in discussions with a debt 
management charity but again a payment  plan wasn't finalised so the account stayed  in arrears, with 
the emergency borrowing limit removed.  The overdraft  was cancelled in April 2017, a termination 
notice issued in May 2017, and the account  closed in August 2017. The outstanding balance was 
transferred to an external  debt collection agency but returned to Barclays' management  in November 
2017.
credit card
Mr F's Barclaycard credit card limit was increased  three times between 2012 and 2016,  from £6,000 
to £12,950. His card was withdrawn in June 2016 after a missed repayment.  By then outstanding  
balance was at the limit. Barclays says the limit increases  were automatic because  Mr F met the 
criteria, and 'income and expenditure' checks weren't  carried out. Barclays also says Mr F had the 
right to decline  the limit increases but he didn't.  
As well as this lending, Mr F took out a £9,000 loan from another  bank in November 2015 and says 
he borrowed £6,000 from a relative.
Mr F - through his representative - complained to Barclays in January 2018 that he'd been given too 
much debt and couldn't repay it. He provided a doctor's letter dated  October 2017 that said he had 
severe health issues, which  he says have  stopped Mr F working and made  it hard to manage his 
financial situation. He says Mr F's only income is incapacity benefits  and this isn't expected to change,  
and that Barclays  contributed to Mr F's health problems  by offering him unaffordable  lending and that 
this was irresponsible of it.
Ref: DRN50590984In its final response letter to Mr F's complaint,  Barclays didn't agree  that the original  lending was 
irresponsible. As a gesture  of goodwill, Barclays wrote off the loan, agreed to not sell on his remaining 
overdraft debt, or apply any more interest or charges to it. It paid Mr F £200 compensation  for the time 
taken to respond to his complaint - through a cheque it says was cashed in June 2018.  Barclaycard 
also didn't uphold Mr F's complaint about irresponsible credit card lending and said that the remaining  
balance wouldn't be written  off, but it wouldn't apply  any more fees or charges.
Mr F didn't think this was enough because he wants Barclays to write off his debts  in full, so he 
brought his complaint to us. An investigator considered  what had happened and thought  that Barclays 
acted reasonably in most cases  - but that it should've carried out more checks before the final credit 
card limit increase in 2016. The investigator recommended that Barclays reverse the charges applied 
to his account from that time,  increase compensation by £150 and apply interest  to the compensation. 
Barclays agreed to the extra compensation but disagreed  that it should  pay interest. And Mr F's 
representative disagreed  because  he felt Barclays still wasn't doing enough.  Because  neither party 
accepted our investigator's view, the complaint  was referred to me for decision.
my provisional  findings
I've considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I 
have made  my decision  based on the balance  of probabilities - that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available  evidence  and the wider circumstances.
I haven't commented on every point raised  here and I hope  Mr F and his representative  don't take this 
as a discourtesy or a failure to review  the evidence  thoroughly. If I don't comment  on something, I 
haven't ignored it but I don't think it's material  to the decision.  I also haven't  commented on Mr F's 
health in detail because  to do so would  risk his anonymity when this decision is published - but I have 
taken it fully into consideration.
The relevant industry regulations that apply  here say that if a customer  is at risk of financial 
difficulties, a bank must 'take  appropriate action'  - for example, contact the customer  to discuss their 
situation, waive fees and charges, or accept token  payments.  And banks  have a duty to treat 
customers in financial difficulties  positively and sympathetically. I've considered  Mr F's accounts with 
Barclays with this in mind.
loan
Because of the time that's passed, I can't confirm  if an 'income and expenditure'  check  was carried 
out - or, if so, if Mr F's loan would've been considered affordable at the time.  I've considered  Barclays' 
argument that Mr F's bank account statements for the six months before  the loan was taken  out show 
he could afford the loan. I agree  that Mr F's bank  balance  over these six months was usually enough 
to meet the monthly repayments on this new loan and his other lending.  His bank account  was usually 
in credit, with regular payments from work. Mr F used  the overdraft occasionally, but stayed  within  the 
limit  which fits with the seasonal nature of his work  he'd told Barclays about. And there's nothing  to 
suggest he'd told Barclays about health issues or anything else that would've stopped him from 
managing his financial position.  So although the available  evidence here is limited, I don't  see 
anything here to suggest  that when  the loan was taken out in 2012, Barclays could have  reasonably 
been expected to know that Mr F wouldn't be able to afford to repay  it. For this reason, I'm not 
persuaded that Barclays acted  irresponsibly  when  it made this loan.
I've thought carefully about whether Barclays did enough  to treat Mr F positively and sympathetically 
when his position got worse - and, on balance, I think it did. When Mr F missed loan repayments in 
July 2015 and May 2016,  he was able to continue his loan on the same terms and Barclays agreed he 
could miss the June 2016 repayment. From September 2016,  Barclays discussed a payment  plan 
with him and - from what I've seen - didn't charge him the late payment fees it was entitled to under 
the terms and conditions Mr F had agreed  to when  he took out the loan. Mr F made payments by 
standing order over this time, so Barclays didn't  take money  from his account  through  a direct debit 
Ref: DRN50590985when it knew he was having financial difficulties.  And ultimately,  Barclays agreed to write off the 
remaining balance of Mr F's loan. Taking everything together, I think  it would be unfair to say that
Barclays needs to do anything more about Mr F's loan account.
overdraft
Barclays has explained that it changed  its overdraft  policy for all customers in 2014. It replaced 
personal reserves with an emergency borrowing limit, which was "an extra  amount that you can 
borrow If you occasionally exceed your overdraft". Although Mr F's overdraft limit increased, the total 
amount he could borrow  changed slightly  because his emergency borrowing  limit was lower than his 
old personal  reserve.  At the time,  Mr F's bank account was often in credit and there were no defaults 
on his other  Barclays  accounts. Taking everything together, I don't see anything to suggest  that this 
change to Mr F's overdraft was unreasonable and I'm not persuaded  that Barclays acted 
unreasonably when it made  it.
I've considered whether Barclays did enough to support Mr F when it knew he was in financial 
difficulties. As I've already  discussed, Barclays knew Mr F was struggling to manage his lending from 
September 2016 and there were several  conversations about a payment  plan over the following 
months - but one wasn't agreed. From everything I've seen,  I think this was the result of back  and 
forth between Barclays, Mr F, and the debt management charity he was speaking to. I've seen 
nothing to suggest any deliberate attempts by Barclays to give Mr F more  unaffordable lending, which 
he contends. I also see that Barclays brought his debt back under the management of its specialist 
team that works with vulnerable customers once it knew about his medical condition,  and hasn't 
pursued him for repayment  or added more  fees since. Taking  everything together, I think  Barclays 
has tried to treat Mr F positively  and sympathetically.
However, on balance I think Barclays could've done more to support Mr F. I say that because its 
notes suggest that most of the contact with Mr F from September 2016 until the end of 2017 was 
initiated by him. There were long gaps between conversations and letters, even though Barclays 
knew he was struggling with his debts  - so even if the bank was waiting  for him to send information, I 
think it could've done more  to follow up. During this time, Mr F continued  to use his overdraft  so his 
lending increased and he continued to be charged interest and fees. Although I don't think that was 
deliberate, I think that in the circumstances it's reasonable  to expect  Barclays to have done more 
during this time  and that not doing so led to a worse outcome for Mr F. Although I haven't  upheld Mr 
F's complaint about Barclays'  original  lending  decision, I find that Barclays could've  done more to help 
him when it knew he was struggling financially - which  leads me to uphold  this aspect of his 
complaint.
credit card
Mr F's credit  card limit increases were applied  automatically. I see that the Barclaycard terms and 
conditions that Mr F would've  agreed to when he opened  the account allow for this type of limit 
increase. Barclays  hasn't got copies of the letters sent to Mr F when the limit was increased, but its 
shared template letters that explain that a customer can reject or opt out of the credit limit increase 
and how they can do so. This opt-out  is in line with the FCA's voluntary  guidelines for credit card 
providers - which weren't in place  when Mr F's limit was increased,  but represent industry good 
practice. I also can't  see anything to suggest that Barclays had a particular reason to exclude  Mr F 
from these  increases. On balance, I'm satisfied that Barclays followed the account  terms and 
conditions when it considered Mr F's account for limit increases in this way.
I've considered if Barclays acted fairly towards Mr F when  it applied  these  particular limit increases. 
Barclays says there were no missed payments or defaults on Mr F's credit card in the six months 
before, and he met the affordability  criteria each time. I accept this, but for several  months before the 
limit increases in August 2014 and March 2016, the balance had been close to the old limit and 
Barclays had commented on this in his monthly statements.  The statements also note that Mr F was 
making the minimum repayment each month. I don't  think  this is enough to say the limit shouldn't 
have been increased, but I've looked into these two particular limit increases in more detail.
Ref: DRN50590986When the limit was increased in 2014, Barclays' records show that Mr F comfortably met the scoring 
criteria for an increase and it was a fairly  small  increase  of £1,250. Mr F stayed  within the new limit for 
some time, and at that time was managing  his other accounts without problems.  I don't see anything  
to suggest that this increase  was unaffordable. But in March  2016,  Mr F only just met the criteria for 
an increase and his limit was increased  by a higher amount of £3,000. By that time, his credit card 
balance was increasing  each month, including from regular, large cash  withdrawals - a change  in his 
pattern of spending  that could  be seen  from his credit card activity.  I think  that there were  several 
signs of possible financial difficulties by March  2016 that lead me to think  that Barclays should've 
carried out more checks before increasing Mr F's limit as it did here.
I also think  that if these checks had been carried out, Barclays  would've realised Mr F was in financial 
difficulties. Even if its credit card team didn't have access to the bank's information about his other 
Barclays accounts, an 'income and expenditure' review or a credit file search  would've shown his 
reduced income and increased lending.  Because the checks weren't carried out, I can't be sure that 
they wouldn't have been met. But considering  Mr F's financial  position at that time, on balance  I think  
that's the most likely outcome - and that Mr F by not making these checks, Barclays gave Mr F access  
to lending he couldn't afford at that time.
Taking these  points together, I'm not persuaded  that Barclays acted reasonably when it increased Mr 
F's limit in March 2016  because there were signs that he couldn't afford this extra debt. I think  this led 
to his credit card lending increasing and more  fees, charges and interest being  applied to his account. 
For this reason, my provisional  decision  is to uphold  this aspect of Mr F's complaint.
summary
From the available  evidence, I'm not persuaded by Mr F's representative's argument that Barclays 
irresponsibly or deliberately fed Mr F unaffordable debt over several  years.  And I don't  see anything to 
suggest that his loan, overdraft or first credit card limit were  unaffordable when they were originally  
put in place. But, for the reasons I've explained, I think Barclays could've  done more here to support  
Mr F when it knew he was struggling  to manage his lending. I think it could've  done more to stop his 
overdraft lending  increasing after September  2016, which  would  have also saved him fees and 
charges. And I'm not persuaded that Barclays did enough  checks  when it increased his credit card 
limit in 2016, which resulted in him taking on more debt on this account as well. For this reason, I 
intend to uphold Mr F's complaint.
I've thought carefully about what Barclays should do to put things right here. Our investigator thought  
that Mr F should remain responsible for his spending because he had use of the funds - but I've taken 
a different approach.  I think  Barclays  continued  to lend to Mr F when it should've realised he was 
struggling to repay  his existing lending - which  leads  me to think it also should've realised he would 
struggle be able to repay this extra borrowing. Mr F didn't ask for further borrowing  or to be able to 
exceed his overdraft  limit - but, when Barclays made this available to him, he used it to meet other 
repayments and expenses and got further into debt. So I think  that this extra lending - and the fees 
and interest  he was charged on it - made it harder  for Mr F to repay his other accounts and made his 
financial position worse. Because I think this lending was unaffordable, and led to a worse outcome 
for Mr F here, I don't think  Mr F should have to repay it or any associated  borrowing  costs.
For that reason, my provisional  decision is that Barclays should refund  any increase in Mr F's 
overdraft balance  from 30th September 2016 - when  he first discussed a payment  plan - including any 
fees, interest or charges.  Barclays must also refund any spending, interest or fees on Mr F's credit 
card from the date of the final limit increase in March 2016. I'd like Barclays to provide these  
calculations when responding  to this provisional  decision.
Mr F, through his representative, argues  that all his debts should  be written off so I appreciate he'll be 
disappointed by this decision. I sympathise with Mr F and agree  that his ill health and current income 
means that unless something changes he's unlikely  to be able to repay his remaining lending. I've 
considered whether to direct  Barclays not to pursue  Mr F for repayment for any of these remaining 
debts. But, on balance - and recognising that Mr F's situation is complex and he has other lending  
accounts that arent  dealt with in this complaint - I think the most  reasonable outcome  is for Mr F and 
Ref: DRN50590987his representative to discuss a payment arrangement  directly with Barclays.  He might want to work 
with a debt management charity to do so. I expect Barclays to treat Mr F positively and 
sympathetically as its required to.
Ive considered whether  Barclays should  remove the debts from Mr Fs credit file - but I dont think  
that would be appropriate. The credit  file reporting is accurate. And Mr F accepts  that he has difficulty  
controlling his finances, so I think its right that other  lenders can see this information when  deciding 
whether to lend to him in future. But Barclays should update  Mr Fs credit files with the refunds and 
adjustments awarded in my final decision.
Ive also considered whether  the £150  extra compensation proposed by our investigator - and 
accepted by Barclays  - is enough here. Mr Fs representative makes a strong argument that his 
growing debt with Barclays has affected  his health  and recovery. But Im satisfied that once Barclays 
knew about his health issues, it tried to respond positively and sympathetically to them and 
transferred his accounts  to a specialist team.  And although Ive upheld  Mr Fs complaint, I havent 
seen anything  to suggest  that Barclays deliberately  offered him debt that he couldnt  repay  or took 
advantage of his illness. Because of this, I think the proposed £150 extra  compensation is a fair 
outcome here.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I propose to uphold Mr Fs complaint and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to
Adjust Mr Fs outstanding  overdraft balance to remove any debt accrued after 30th September  
2016, including all interest and charges applied after this date;
Adjust Mr Fs outstanding  credit card balance to remove any debt accrued after the March 2016 
limit increase, including all interest and charges  applied after this date;
Adjust his credit  file reporting to reflect the above adjustments; and
Pay Mr F a further £150 compensation for the trouble  and upset  caused.
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5059098