K821x#15Complaint
Mr M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly applied  
increased interest, fees and charges to his overdraft  which caused financial difficulty. 
Background
I attach my provisional decision of 30 July 2021,  which forms part of this final decision. In my 
provisional decision, I set out why I intended to issue a final decision which  found that what  
Halifax had already agreed  to do to put things right for Mr M was fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint. I invited  both parties to make any final comments  ahead 
of my final decision. 
Following this, Halifax confirmed that it accepted my provisional decision and that it had 
nothing further  to add. 
Mr M also confirmed  receiving my provisional decision. In summary,  he said:
It wasnt strictly correct to say that he hadnt paid the interest  and charges;
He should  be directly reimbursed the interest, fees and charges that Halifax  shouldnt 
have added to his account;
Halifax may have preferred to do its business by telephone but he felt that a matter 
as critical as this communications should be in writing. So Halifax shouldnt have 
ignored his further correspondence.
My findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr M did make credits to his account after February 2019. But the interest,  
fees and charges werent the only amounts  being debited from Mr Ms account and there 
were other transactions  such  as direct debits and debit card payments  being  debited 
from the account too. So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to regard the 
credits Mr M made to his account as being interest payments. 
Equally, as Mr M would  still have  been left owing  Halifax a sizable amount even if the 
interest, fees and charges added after February 2019 hadnt  been added in the first place, 
I remain satisfied that Mr M didnt directly pay the interest, fees and charges he now wants 
refunded to him. And a not inconsiderable debt would always have remained even if Halifax 
had done what  it should have done from February 2019 onwards. So while  I appreciate      
Mr Ms strength of feeling  on the matter,  I also think  that Halifaxs  proposal to contact  the 
third-party debt purchaser and reduce  Mr Ms liability by the amount of the refunded 
interest, fees and charges is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ms case.
Ive also thought about what  Mr M has said about not receiving a response to his 
correspondence. I know that Mr M sent us further copies of correspondence between  him 
and Halifax. But Id already been  provided with the letters Halifax  received from him prior to 
issuing my provisional decision. In any event, Mr Ms response  appears to indicate  that he 
was aware of being told to contact Halifaxs recoveries department by telephone. 
Ref: DRN59281462In these circumstances, while  I can understand why it must  have been frustrating for Mr M 
not to have received a response  to his further letters,  Im satisfied that hed already been 
referred to the correct  department. And as I said in my provisional decision, Mr Ms payment 
offer wouldnt have resulted in the overdraft being cleared within  a reasonable period of time. 
Equally its clear that Mr Ms overdraft had already become demonstrably unsustainable for 
him. So I dont think  any further response  or responses from Halifax  would,  in any event, 
have prevented the facility from being withdrawn. As this is the case, I still dont think  that 
Halifax needs to pay Mr M an additional  £250  in compensation. 
    
Having carefully considered Mr Ms further  points, Ive not been  persuaded to alter the 
conclusions reached  in my provisional decision.  I remain satisfied that Halifaxs  proposal to 
reduce Mr Ms debt with the third-party debt purchaser is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case and I dont require it to do anything further. As this is the case, 
its up to Mr M to decide whether he wishes to accept Halifaxs offer.    
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im satisfied  that what Bank of Scotland plc has already done  
to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. 
And Im not requiring  it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN59281463COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr M has complained that Bank  of Scotland plc (Halifax)  unfairly applied increased interest,  fees 
and charges to his overdraft which caused financial  difficulty.  
Background 
Mr M complained about  Halifaxs  changes to its pricing overdraft pricing structure and said this led to 
him experiencing financial difficulty. Halifax  issued  a final response letter  in             September 2017 
and weve already  explained  why were unable to consider this part of      Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M then complained about the overdraft charges added from February  2019. One of our 
adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that should Halifax rework Mr Ms account to 
remove the effect  of all the interest fees and charges which were  added to his overdraft  from February 
2019. He also thought that Halifax had ignored  Mr Ms correspondence about setting  up a payment 
plan and should pay £250 in compensation for this.
Halifax accepted our adjudicators view on the overdraft charges and worked out Mr Ms balance 
would reduce.  But it didnt  agree to pay the £250 in compensation. As it didnt agree with this part of 
the complaint the case was put forward for an ombudsmans decision.    
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Im currently minded to conclude that what  Halifax has 
already agreed  to do to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his 
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Interest fees and charges  refund
It might help for me to start by explaining that where  a business  accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect it to put the consumer  in the position  they would be in if that wrong 
hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world,  wed tell a business to put a consumer in the position  theyd 
now be in if they hadnt been  given the credit they shouldnt have.
So where a business  continued to allow  a consumer to use a credit facility  which it should have 
realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer  in the position  theyd be in 
now if they hadnt  paid any further interest and charges on that credit.  This means  wed normally 
expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the point the lender ought  
to have realised it was unsustainable.  And if those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple 
interest per year.
In this case, the amount Mr M will be left with an outstanding balance with a third-party  debt 
purchaser even though hes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges  applied. A firm is 
only able to refund amounts  to a customer that they have paid. And Mr M didnt actually pay the 
interest, fees and charges Halifax shouldnt  have added to his overdraft. 
So while Mr M has been  left with a balance on his debt with the third-party, Halifax has done what  Id 
normally expect it to do here. And Im currently satisfied that whats been done  in relation to the 
overdraft charges is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of the complaint.
Additional compensation  for correspondence sent before overdraft was removed 
Ref: DRN59281464Our adjudicator thought that Halifax should also pay £250 in compensation  for failing to respond to 
letters that Mr M sent. On the other hand Halifax says that Mr M had already been told that the matter 
had been referred to the ombudsman service and any correspondence Mr M sent was sent after it 
sent a formal  demand notice on the overdraft.
Ive considered what Mr M and our adjudicator have said about  Mr M trying to set up a repayment 
plan of £85 a month.  However, for the reasons Halifax has already agreed to refund the charges  from 
February 2019, Im satisfied Mr Ms overdraft had already become  unsustainable  for him by this 
stage. There was little prospect of him being able to adhere  to the terms and conditions of the facility 
and payments of £85 would not have cleared the outstanding balance on the overdraft within a 
reasonable period of time. 
So while Mr M might  not have wanted Halifax to take the action it did, as a responsible lender,  I dont 
think it was unfair  for Halifax  to have  taken corrective steps in relation to the overdraft. Im also 
satisfied Mr M was correctly referred to the ombudsman service and Halifaxs collections department. 
For the sake of completeness Id also add as Mr Ms payment offer wouldnt have resulted in the 
overdraft being cleared within a reasonable  period  of time, I dont  think any further responses from 
Halifax would in any event  have resulted in the overdraft  not being  closed. As this is the case, I dont 
think that Halifax needs  to pay £250 in compensation and what it has already agreed to do is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint.  
So overall and having considered everything, Im currently minded to conclude that Halifaxs  proposal 
to reduce Mr Ms debt with the third-party debt purchaser is fair and reasonable and I dont require it 
to do anything  further.   
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im intending  to say that what  Bank of Scotland plc has already done 
to put things  right for Mr M is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of his complaint. And Im not 
requiring it to do anything further.
So unless the comments and evidence  I get by 13 August 2021 changes  my mind, thats what Ill tell 
Halifax to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5928146