K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains about a branded policy of car insurance administered by Europa Group 
Limited (Europa). Ive referred  to Europa  throughout this decision for sake of ease, although  
I appreciate that Mr O was actually  dealing with a different  company.
Mr O says Europa cancelled his policy without giving any reason. Hes unhappy that the 
policy was cancelled and he feels Europa  harassed  him by calling him many  times. Hes also 
unhappy that they asked  for payment after the policy was cancelled.
background
Mr O took out insurance with Europa on 23 April 2019 and paid the first instalment. Europa 
sent Mr O a welcome letter and his Certificate  of Motor Insurance and schedule. They told 
him that to complete  his insurance, theyd need to see proof of his no claims bonus (NCB) 
discount within 14 days. Mr O sent proof of his discount and Europa acknowledged  this.
Mr Os previous policy had expired on 4 April 2018  and his new policy began on 23 April 
2019. So, Europa emailed Mr O on 25 April 2019 to say hed need to explain the gap 
between the two policies. On 30 April,  Mr O emailed  back  explaining  it was because hed 
had the use of a company car in the intervening  period.
Then on 2 May, Europa contacted Mr O with a notice of cancellation. They said they hadnt 
heard back  from him about the gap between the two policies. And, as we've not yet heard 
from you, we can no longer  keep your policy running. They told him his policy  would be 
cancelled from 9 May and reminded him it would be an offence to drive without insurance. 
(Europa also issued another notice the next day cancelling Mr Os policy  from 10 May.)
On 9 May,  Europa  wrote again saying  Mr Os details are not acceptable to your insurer. 
And, again, they said his policy would be cancelled for that reason; this time from 16 May.
On 15 May, Mr O complained to Europa about the cancellation of his policy and about the 
service hed received.  He pointed out Europas letter cited the issue  we have previously  
discussed, but Mr O said hed been given no explanation for the cancellation.  And he said 
Europas letter wasnt true because theyd  never  had such a discussion. Mr O also said they 
hadnt mentioned  refunding his premium.  He enquired about this and asked Europa to clarify 
their position.
Mr O has also told us that after he took out the policy, he received about 30 telephone  calls, 
and many texts, which he felt amounted to harassment. He says when he called to complain, 
he was given no explanation for this behaviour. Instead, Europa told him they were 
cancelling his policy but he wasnt told why.
On 21 May, Europa wrote  again, saying they couldnt keep the policy running due to the 
outstanding issue(s) below. But there  was no issue stated  and no reason given. This time 
they said the policy would be cancelled from 28 May.
On 21 May, Europa also sent their final response  letter. They said theyd partially upheld Mr 
Os complaint. Because they accepted hed emailed  on 30 April to explain the gap in cover. 
They apologised for the delay in addressing  this.
Ref: DRN52899352Europa went on to say that, on 9 May,  theyd  been told by Mr Os insurer  that theyd received 
notification from the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (or CUE, a national  database  of 
reported insurance claims) of an undisclosed incident or claim in September 2018. They said 
because Mr O hadnt disclosed  this, they couldnt  have  offered cover with the insurer  his 
policy was with. They explained that while Mr O's complaint was being investigated, the 
initial notice  of cancellation was itself cancelled. But then on completion of the investigation, 
Europa had sent another  cancellation notice, telling Mr O that his policy  would be cancelled 
from 28 May. This date has since been confirmed.
Europa also told Mr O they couldnt trace the multiple telephone calls he said theyd made. 
But Europa  said theyd  reviewed the call Mr O had made to them  on 10 May, addressing an 
issue hed raised  with the way a member of staff had spoken to him. They  said they didnt  
agree that their staff were  unaware of the complaints process and said they thought Mr Os 
call had been addressed in a polite and professional manner.
On 29 May, Europa wrote  again, confirming Mr Os policy had finally  been  cancelled from 
that date. They said this was because his details were not acceptable to his insurer.
On 19 June, Europa wrote to confirm once again that Mr Os policy  had been cancelled.  
They also said Mr O had an outstanding  balance  of £76.42 which hadnt been paid and that 
this debt had been passed  to a debt collection agency.
Mr O wasnt happy with Europas response. In July 2019 he brought  his complaint to us. He 
said that as hed lost his premium, hed paid for insurance he didnt get. And he told us that 
because of all the uncertainty caused  by Europa, he wasn't  sure whether he was insured to 
drive or not, so was unable to use his car for a month. He asked for compensation  of £150.
In October, our investigator sent out her view. In terms  of Mr Os allegations of harassment,  
she said she thought  that if Europa had called him multiple times they were just keen to 
contact him for the outstanding information.  In terms of being refunded following cancellation 
of his policy, she said she thought Europa  were being reasonable in asking him to pay the 
outstanding balance, direct debit and debt recovery fee, and encouraged him to do so.
Our investigator also said she wasnt able to address all aspects of Mr Os complaint, 
because she felt some were the insurers responsibility. So, she set up a new complaint 
against the insurer to deal with the cancellation  of the policy  and the letters Mr O was sent 
about the cancellation and his proof  of no claims. As this is a separate  complaint, I wont  be 
addressing it here.
In November, Mr O said he disagreed with all of the investigators findings  and asked  for his 
case to be considered by an ombudsman. So, his case  has now come to me for a decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
What would the insurer have done  if Mr O had made  full disclosure?
Europa told us that during his online application, Mr O was asked whether he or any of the 
drivers on his policy had had, or caused, any accidents, claims or damage involving any 
motor vehicle, even  if the claim hadnt been  made by him, and regardless of blame, in the 
Ref: DRN52899353last five years. Although Mr O had said that there  hadnt been any, the CUE  identified an 
incident or claim in September  2018.
So, Europa  said they were right to cancel Mr Os policy because  when  it was discovered he 
hadnt disclosed an incident which had occurred in the previous 12 months, the risk became 
unacceptable to his insurer, who have confirmed this.
But I need to establish whether Europa asked  Mr O the right question, and provided the right 
information to help answer it. So, Ive looked  at a screenshot  provided by Europa of the 
claim question  asked.  It asks: Have you had any motor accidents, claims or losses in the 
last five years? This is regardless of who/what  was at fault or if a claim was made  or not. 
And in the note below  the question, it states:  You must declare any claim that has been 
made on your policy If your claim is still being  processed, you need  to declare this too. If 
youre unsure  at this time who was at fault,  please declare that you, the policyholder were at 
fault.
We also asked Mr O whether he could recall what happened and whether hed made  an 
earlier claim but forget to declare it. He said he couldnt remember  whether hed been asked 
about all incidents  or just claims but as the incident  in question had been a no-fault claim 
that was still being decided, he didnt  think Europa expected it to be disclosed.  Because  he 
wasnt unsure as to the question of fault  he was perfectly sure the other party  had been  
liable. And he confirmed that he hadnt  made any claim. He also said he didnt think  hed 
been provided with any guidance in answering the question.
Ive also asked Europa whether Mr O was asked about all incidents  or just claims. Because 
this has a bearing on how Mr O responded too, and on whether Europas  response was 
justified. The brokers Statement of Fact suggests the insurer  wanted  to know  about  all 
incidents. Because it asks: Have you or any person who will drive the car had any 
accidents, claims, damage, theft or loss involving any motor vehicle (including car, 
motorcycle or van) during  the past five years, whether or not a claim was made, and 
regardless of blame?   And Mr O ticked  No.
But it seems  that Mr O had been  in an accident  of some sort, though its not clear what 
actually occurred, so he probably should have answered yes to this question. And a lot of 
his subsequent difficulties might have  been avoided if he had.
But I think the screenshot indicates that the guidance was misleading because  it suggests 
only claims had to be declared, which wouldnt have assisted Mr O. And this was under 
circumstances where  there  was some doubt  as to liability. So, because of the misleading 
nature of the guidance, and the lack of clarity, I think the brokers themselves were  partly 
responsible for the way Mr O responded and, ultimately, for the cancellation of his policy.
And I think the broker should  have investigated  the alleged  misrepresentation more 
thoroughly and considered whether or not it was actually Mr Os fault, given the guidance he 
was offered. And they should have liaised with the insurer and made sure the policy didnt 
get cancelled.  
But if Europa still insisted  the policy was cancelled, then they could have liaised with Mr O 
and suggested  he cancel it rather than it effectively being cancelled by the insurer.  Because  
while they were entitled  to cancel, Id expect them to offer Mr O the opportunity to cancel 
himself. Because  this would avoid a cancelled  policy  on his record,  bearing in mind  it was 
their guidance   at least in part - that led to the cancellation.
Ref: DRN52899354Im also concerned because it looks as if Europa  wrongly told Mr O that if hed declared the 
incident, they wouldnt have offered cover anyway.  Because  the broker  said they couldnt 
have arranged cover  with the insurer  concerned. This looks  like an error, as the underwriting  
criteria suggests they could have offered cover, albeit at a higher premium.
So, for all these reasons,  I think it would  be fair and reasonable for Europa to offer Mr O 
£150 in compensation for distress and inconvenience for providing him with ambiguous 
guidance leading  him to giving an incorrect answer,  then for not allowing him to cancel his 
policy himself,  and for and wrongly  informing him he couldnt be offered cover.
I also think Europa should write  Mr O a letter  explaining that his policy was cancelled  
unnecessarily which  he can show to other  insurers  in the future.
Service provided to Mr O
Mr O said he was unhappy that hed been  given no real explanation  for cancellation of his 
policy. So, Ive looked at the letters from Europa  Ive described above. There are a lot of 
them and they are contradictory. And in the telephone conversation  of 31 May, which Ive 
listened to, the call handler told Mr O it was normal  practice  for them  to send  out generic 
letters which  sometimes was used  to cover many  scenarios . So, I do think  Europas 
various letters were genuinely  confusing for Mr O and I think they could certainly  have 
handled this a lot better.
Mr O also said he was unhappy  that Europa  had contacted him repeatedly. In the telephone 
conversation of 31 May, he said that besides  all the calls, on one occasion,  he got 15 texts  in 
24 hours telling him his insurance would be cancelled the following  day. And he felt this 
constituted harassment. And because Europa  seem to have processed the cancellation of 
his policy  several times, texts on this scale were sent to him on several  occasions.  And Mr O 
said he was also greatly concerned  because he wasnt sure whether his policy was live or 
not. And it meant that he didnt  drive for a month  and was inconvenienced by this.
Europas call handler, who went through Mr Os file in great detail, told him theyd been 
unable to locate  multiple calls. When Mr O challenged this, she stressed  the word multiple 
so I think she conceded that calls had been made.  She also didnt challenge Mr Os account  
of the large number  of texts hed received. And I think  it would  be reasonable for Europa to 
try to inform someone that their insurance was about to be cancelled. But I have no reason 
to doubt Mr Os account, and because Europa accepted they cancelled the policy  at least  
four times, if their letters are anything to go by, I can see that Mr O probably received a great  
many messages. And because Europa had already  got it wrong about his NCB discount 
information, I can also see that he might very well be confused and anxious.
Finally, Europa said theyd reviewed the call of 10 May which  Mr O complained about. They  
didnt agree their staff were unaware of the complaints  process or that the call hadnt been 
handled in a polite and professional manner. Ive listened to this call and, in this instance, I 
agree with Europa. Mr O did have  to wait 25 minutes before his call was answered and it 
turned out to be an overlong and frustrating  conversation. But I think  misunderstanding 
arose when  Mr O and the call-handler  were  at cross-purposes over his latest complaint 
which related to his allegation of harassment. And this wasnt helped  by Mr O dominating  the 
conversation. But I think  the call-handler and her manager were  aware  of Europas 
complaints procedure. And both were polite and restrained throughout. 
Ref: DRN52899355So, while I dont think Europa  did anything wrong  in respect of this last conversation,  I think it 
would be fair and reasonable for Europa to pay Mr O a further £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by their many, contradictory letters and repeated  calls and texts.
Refund of premium and charges
Mr O was unhappy that hed paid his premium and not been refunded  by Europa when the 
policy was cancelled. On 19 June, Europas  letter said he had an outstanding balance  of 
£76.42 which hadnt been paid so the debt had been  passed to a debt collection agency.
Europa explained theyd requested a direct  debit for £51.42. And as the call handler had 
explained on 31 May, this payment was due for the time on cover.  That is, the short  period 
Mr O was being covered  by the policy. A £25 debt recovery fee was also added, totalling 
£76.42. Though this debt was put on hold during Mr Os complaint, Europa said it remained 
outstanding.
As Mr Os policy was cancelled, rather than avoided, Europa, were  entitled to charge for his 
period on cover as this was what the insurer wanted for providing  this cover.  And Europa 
argued that Mr O had had the benefit  of cover even in the short period between his policy 
starting on 23 April and eventually being  cancelled on 28 May. 
But, apart from the premium itself,  its difficult to see what this debt was actually for. So, Ive 
asked Europa  to provide a full breakdown of exactly what  Mr O was charged  - and for what. 
Europa then produced a premium  breakdown  stating  that Mr O was, in fact, charged a total 
of £167.12. But after setting off an amount, Mr O owed  £76.42.  And Europa said this had 
been passed on to a debt collection  agency although there  was no mention in the 
breakdown of the debt recovery fee on this occasion.
After seeking  further clarification, in September 2020, Europa provided a new premium 
breakdown which stated  Mr O owed £159.50.
 
But Im satisfied that Mr O hasnt paid any of these fees. And as he isnt even aware  of the 
most recent breakdown, I think it would be fair and reasonable  for it to stay that way. 
Because Europa have told us that there  was no outstanding balance at the point of 
cancellation and because they made a mistake  in cancelling Mr Os policy  in the first place, I 
dont think Mr O should be made responsible for any ancillary charges at all. 
And as for the cover which Europa said they were  providing for Mr O for the short  time 
before they cancelled  his policy, as Ive demonstrated above, such cover  was intermittent at 
best. So, I think it would be fair for Europa to return any premium  which  Mr O did pay as 
well.
So, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Europa to waive the £159 outstanding because 
Mr O didnt use his car over this period due to the confusion over cancellation and general 
lack of clarity. And they should stop making any further attempts to take any of these 
amounts from Mr O. And they should  also inform their debt collection  agency of their 
decision. And they should also to take all necessary  steps to ensure Mr Os credit file is not 
adversely affected.  And they should return Mr Os premium.
the response to my provisional  decision
Mr O accepted my decision,  suggesting the following additional points:
Ref: DRN52899356that payments  are made into the particular bank account he specifies;
besides Europas official letter explaining his policy  was cancelled unnecessarily, 
Europa also updates CUE, the national insurance database along the same lines;
besides informing  the debt collection agencies that there was no debt to pursue, 
Europa also informs  the credit  reference  agencies along the same lines.
Europa thought my decision appeared to rely on the view that the guidance was misleading  
because it suggested  only claims had to be declared. They  provided a screenshot of the 
online question they said Mr O had had to answer when he took out his policy. They said this 
said requested disclosure of any accidents, claims or losses . And they maintained that clear 
instructions were provided to Mr O on what information was required.  And it was the non-
disclosure of this information on his part which led to the cancellation of the policy.
Europa also argued that as the policy had been  in force  between  23 April 2019 and 28 May 
2020 and cover was provided, the premium  charged  for this period was justified.
So, now the case has been passed  back to me to for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
I think the additional points Mr O has raised are reasonable and Im satisfied that it would be 
fair and reasonable for Europa to carry these  out as Ive specified below.
In terms of Europas argument  that theyd provided clear instructions  on what  was required 
of Mr O, Ive taken another  look at the screenshot  they sent me recently with their response 
to my provisional decision.  And I see that theyd previously sent the same screenshot in 
August 2020 too. It asks: Have  you had any motor accidents, claims or losses  in the last 
five years? This is regardless of who/what was at fault or if a claim was made or not. And 
on that basis alone, Id tend to agree with Europa  that it should have been  clear  to Mr O 
what was required from him.
But having  looked back through our records again very carefully, I can see that this isnt the 
same screenshot that Europa originally  sent us on 7 October  2019,  which  sits on the file. 
And which they themselves described  as being part of Mr Os online journey at the time he 
took out his policy. This asked: Have you had any driving incidents  or made any insurance 
claims in the past five years?
The difference in wording  here is subtle but I do think its significant. Because  the question 
originally asked of Mr O in 2019,  suggests  to me that the applicant is being asked whether 
he or she had made any claims  himself.  And the guidance notes below dont contradict this. 
And of course, Mr O hadnt made  any insurance claims, so he answered the question  in 
good faith. So, I dont think its fair that Mr O should  be penalised for answering the question  
in the way he did.
While I accept that, on one view, Mr Os policy was theoretically in force  between  23 April 
and 28 May,  Europa  also told him that this policy had been cancelled no fewer than four 
times, with effect from a variety of dates,  over the same period. So, I dont think Europa is 
Ref: DRN52899357justified in claiming that a genuinely viable policy was in place and I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for them to retain  Mr Os premium.  So, I maintain  my view that Europa should  
return this. 
So, having  considered the response  to my provisional decision, Ive no reason to depart from 
the essential findings Ive already  reached in this case, other than in the ancillary details I 
have added below.  So, my decision remains the same.
my final decision
Having considered the various parts of Mr Os claim, for the reasons set out above, my final 
decision is to uphold  his complaint. So, I direct  Europa Group Limited to:
pay Mr O £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the ambiguous 
guidance provided with his policy;
write Mr O an official letter explaining  that his policy was cancelled  unnecessarily;
inform CUE, that Mr Os policy was cancelled  unnecessarily;
pay Mr O a further £50 for the distress and inconvenience  caused by contradictory 
letters and repeated calls and texts; 
cancel any outstanding payments due from Mr O, stop claiming these  and inform  the 
debt collection agency that there is no debt to pursue;  
inform the credit  reference  agencies that there is no debt to pursue;
return Mr Os premium; and
make  all payments into the bank  account whose details Mr O has provided
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2021
Simon Stanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5289935