K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Canada Square  Operations Limited (Canada Square), trading as Egg, 
mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
In 2001, Mr M applied for a credit card online. At the same time he was sold PPI. The PPI 
protected his card repayments if he wasnt able to work because of an accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. In these circumstances, it would have paid off ten percent of the outstanding 
balance each month for up to twelve months.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.  Having done  so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr M says that he doesnt remember selecting the option in his online credit card application  
to take PPI. He thinks this selection was pre-populated by Canada Square.  But it doesnt  
seem as if Mr M has a particularly vivid recollection  of this sale. So I need to look at all the 
available information  and decide what I think is most likely to have  happened  at the time.
Canada Square  has provided screen shots which it says would have been seen by Mr M at 
the time he completed  his application. These show two options  for PPI:
Yes, I would like to protect my repayments  against accident, sickness and unemployment...  
No, I do not wish to protect  my repayments... 
There are radio buttons  which can be selected  to choose the desired option and neither 
appears to be pre-selected. Canada Square says that it would have been necessary for 
Mr M to select one of these buttons  for the application to progress further.  And I dont think 
Ive got any good reason for thinking  that this wasnt the case.
Canada Square  has also provided a copy of a computer generated Applications  Report  for 
Mr M which shows Y under the heading Payment  protection.
Ive also considered what we know more generally  about how Canada  Square sold PPI 
online at around  this time. And this leads me to think that Mr M would have needed to 
choose whether  he wanted PPI when he was completing  his card application. And I dont 
think it would  have  been added to his card account  unless he had chosen to take it.
So on the evidence  available  to me, I think its more likely than not that Mr M actively 
decided to take the PPI offered, knowing he could choose not to. And I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Canada Square  gave Mr M the wrong impression that he needed to 
Ref: DRN58781092agree to PPI to get his card application  approved. But this sale took place a long time ago, 
so I can understand  why Mr M may not be able to remember making this choice now. 
In responding  to our adjudicators view, Mr M has said that Canada  Square didnt make sure 
that the policy it sold him was suitable,  given  his circumstances  at the time. But I dont think 
Canada Square  recommended  the PPI policy to Mr M, so it didnt have to ensure that it was 
suitable for him. What it did need to do was to give him enough information about the PPI for 
him to decide, himself,  whether  he wanted to take it.
I can see that the cost of the policy was given  to Mr M when  he was making his decision.  
The policys  key terms and conditions also seem  to have available for him to read. And in 
selecting to take it, he was also being asked to confirm that he had read and agreed  to these 
terms. 
Nevertheless, I think that the information  which Canada Square  gave Mr M about the PPI 
policy could have been better  than it was. But from what  I know of his circumstances at the 
time, I dont think better information would have changed his mind  about taking the cover.  I 
say this because:
Mr M appears  to have been eligible for the policy and not affected  by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
Mr M says he had other means  of making  his card repayments  if he wasnt  able to work 
and didnt need the cover that the PPI policy gave him. But he chose  to take it out, so it 
seems he valued  this type of protection. And the policy would have paid out in addition to 
any other means that he had available. It would have paid off ten percent of his 
outstanding card balance each month,  leaving his alternative means available  to be used 
for other  essential  expenditure. So I think he would  have still found  the cover  useful in 
providing him with this additional security.
The cost of the PPI seems to have been priced relatively competitively when compared 
with similar  products  from other  providers and Ive no reason to think  that it was 
unaffordable for Mr M. And as the monthly  premium for the PPI cover was shown on his 
card statements,  he could have  cancelled the policy  if he thought  it no longer met his 
needs and wasnt  worth paying  for. 
Ive thought carefully about all the reasons why Mr M thinks that the PPI was mis-sold  to him 
by Canada Square. But these havent  changed  my mind about not upholding his complaint. I 
still dont think that hes lost out by anything that Canada Square may have done wrong 
when it sold him this PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against 
Canada Square  Operations Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5878109