K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited (Cabot) sent him letters  
about three statute  barred  accounts in an attempt to deceive him into acknowledging them. 
He also says a fourth  account should be considered statute barred.
background
In August  2018  Cabot transferred the management of Mr Cs accounts to their sensitive 
support team.  They  sent letters to him about  four accounts but Mr C says three of them  were  
historic accounts that were statute barred. And he suggests Cabot were trying to deceive 
him into acknowledging the debts  to make them enforceable.
He says the fourth debt, that Ill call debt H, is also unenforceable as the email Cabot say he 
sent to them  in 2014 does  not refer to the debt they are pursuing  him for. Hed therefore  like 
them to accept debt H is also statute barred and unenforceable  and to close the account.
Cabot accepted that the first three accounts  were statute barred and they closed them. But 
they didnt agree that debt H was statute barred. They referred to the emailed offer of 
settlement Mr C made to them about  this account in September 2014 and said this was his 
written acknowledgement  of the debt.
So Mr C referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided her opinion.  She 
noted that Cabot had sent letters to Mr C about  the accounts when they transferred them to 
their sensitive support team. She didnt think it would be fair for her to tell Cabot how to 
communicate with their customers and she thought they would want  to tell customers about 
changes in the way debts  were being  managed. And, anyway, she noted that Cabot had 
accepted the accounts  were statute barred  and had now closed them.  So she didnt  think 
they needed to take any further action.
She went on to consider  the email that had been sent by Mr C in September  2014. She 
noted that the reference number referred  to in the email was one that related to debt H and 
that in a previous email Mr C had sent in April 2013 hed used the same  reference number 
and quoted the card number for debt Hs account. So she thought  this could reasonably  be 
considered acknowledgement of the debt and she therefore didnt think Cabot were being  
unreasonable pursuing Mr C for payment.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators view and he therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. Please 
let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN55835072Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The appropriate forum  to decide  technical  arguments as to whether a debt is statute barred 
is not the Financial  Ombudsman Service, but a court. But, we can consider whether a 
business is being reasonable in pursuing a debt.
With regard to debt H I think Cabot are being reasonable. There  is evidence that Mr C has 
acknowledged the debt as being  his because he emailed them  in 2013 and quoted  the 
reference number  relating  to the debt and the correct card number.  His settlement  offer in 
2014 used the same reference number so Im satisfied that Cabot are being  fair in pursuing 
him for a debt I think they can reasonably assume  hes acknowledged.
The other three accounts have now been closed by Cabot and theyve accepted  they are 
statute barred. I understand  Mr Cs concerns that he may have been encouraged to respond  
to Cabots letters about these accounts but I dont think  theres evidence Cabot meant to 
deceive him. Their  preparedness to close the accounts and accept they were  statute barred  
appears to support this view. I think Cabot are entitled to contact customers to tell them  
about changes  of management on their accounts and I dont think  its for this organisation to 
tell them  how to communicate. So I wont be asking them to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5583507