K821x#15complaint
Mr Cs complaint against The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS) concerns its treatment of 
two accounts   a current  account and loan account  his business held with it.
background
Mr C complains in his capacity as owner of a business, P. In 2017, P had a loan account,  
and a current account with an overdraft of £14,000, with RBS.
Mr C was finding business difficult due to an undiagnosed illness.  RBS wrote  to him in 
September 2017, saying that Ps overdraft was due to expire in October 2017, and that it 
wanted to conduct a review of Ps accounts.
Despite attempts by both parties to discuss matters, there was no account review. Instead, 
Mr C emailed RBS in response to the letter notifying  him of the intended  review,  asking it to 
reduce Ps overdraft  limit from £14,000  to £8,000.
This request was granted,  but RBS didnt confirm this with Mr C. So when Ps account  then 
went above the £8,000  limit, it contacted him saying  the current account would be sent to 
recoveries. And at the same time it said the loan agreement  which was up-to-date  would 
also be sent there, in accordance with its practice  concerning multiple accounts. 
Mr C was unhappy the accounts had been sent to recoveries. He was also unhappy hed 
been charged £150 for an overdraft arrangement fee. 
He said RBSs actions  had a severe impact on P as a business, and his ability to run that 
business 
He complained to RBS,  and it replied explaining it didnt think  it had done anything wrong, so 
it wouldnt change anything.
Mr C remained  unhappy, so brought his complaint to our service.
Our Investigator  looked  at the evidence, and obtained further information from both parties. 
He concluded  that RBS hadnt treated Mr C/P fairly, and thought it should put things right by 
bringing both accounts  out of recoveries; removing any adverse records  from the relevant 
credit files; refund the £150 overdraft  arrangement  fee; and pay £150  compensation.
RBS didnt agree with this. It said it only reduced  the overdraft because Mr C had specifically 
asked it to do so, in writing. It also said that the overdraft arrangement fee of £150 was 
legitimately charged as P was continuing to use the facility. It also didnt think  it should pay 
compensation.
Our Investigator  issued a further  view, addressing RBSs concerns. He explained that he 
believed the only reason  Mr C asked for the overdraft reduction was because he was 
worried for his business, and didnt know what else to do. And as hed been unable to 
discuss matters, and have  the account  review RBS had requested, this is what he thought 
would help and was what RBS would have  wanted.
RBS didnt say it didnt accept this view,  but it still had some questions. Our Investigator did 
his best to answer these, but ultimately  advised RBS that Mr C would want the matter 
Ref: DRN55737402referred to an ombudsman if it wasnt going to agree with the recommendations in the first 
view. 
I then reviewed the complaint, and was in agreement  with our Investigators  conclusions, 
with the exception of the refund of the £150 overdraft arrangement fee. I felt RBS was 
entitled to charge this. 
Both parties  were advised of my provisional  decision, and asked  to respond.  
Mr C replied saying he accepted my provisional  decision, but we didnt hear back  from RBS. 
As we dont  have  an agreement, Im now issuing  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our Investigator  that this complaint should be upheld. Whilst I 
can understand why RBS might have thought that Mr Cs email  to reduce the overdraft gave 
a clear instruction,  I think its correct  to look at why it was sent.  And I agree with our 
Investigator that its likely  he was reacting  to RBSs stated intention to conduct a review,  and 
in a way pre-empt  any action it might then take or require. I think he was worried, and did 
what he thought  RBS would want him to do. Even  if that wasnt actually a realistic solution.
So when the reduced £8,000 overdraft wasnt enough, I dont think  this was surprising. 
I dont think it was fair for RBS to then place both accounts in recoveries. I do acknowledge  
that Mr C might have made  better attempts to get in contact and resolve matters, but I take 
into account that he had other important issued to deal with at the time. And I think there was 
more of an onus  on RBS to help rather than punish. In particular, we know  the loan account 
was up-to-date, so its action  seems to have been heavy-handed  and perhaps  premature.
Our Investigator  initially  wanted RBS to refund the £150 overdraft fee, but my provisional  
decision explained why I didnt think this was fair. I agree with RBS that this was a 
legitimately chargeable  fee, applied at the time when the change was made  to the overdraft, 
and that I cant take into account how long after that the overdraft was available  for  as its 
not relevant to the fee being charged.
I agree  that Mr C, and his business P, has had a difficult time both trying  to continue  
operating, and in bringing this complaint. I dont think RBS dealt fairly with him, and I think  
that £150 compensation is right here.
Mr C did originally ask that the loan and overdraft be cleared by RBS,  but I dont  think  that 
would be fair. These sums remain due, and in the event of financial difficulties, Id expect 
RBS to deal with Mr C/P positively and sympathetically to agree an affordable  repayment  
agreement.
Ref: DRN55737403my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve matters, Im asking The Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc to:-
1.Take both the current account and loan account out of recoveries;
2.Amend any damage caused to the accounts  standings/credit ratings by having  been 
placed there; and
3.Pay £150 compensation to Mr C.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5573740