K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains of being  unable  to receive payments into her current  account with 
Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax)  under its Pay a Contact service.
Miss C is represented in bringing this complaint by a friend, who Ill refer to as Mr H.
background
The Pay a Contact  service provided by Halifax is known more widely as PayM. This allows  
customers registered for the service to send and receive payments using only a mobile  
number (as opposed  to having to share bank details, for example).
Mr H contacted us on Miss Cs behalf last August. While she was able to make payments 
through Pay a Contact,  she was unable to receive  them. He said this was causing Miss C 
some inconvenience,  in part as shed previously  been using this service  to receive payments 
connected to her work and was now unable to do so.
Halifax looked into things  and sent Miss C its response in October 2018. It said that Miss C 
had first raised the matter back in May 2018  and after some testing, all seemed to be 
working fine. But looking into things again,  it said there were some  errors that wouldve 
impacted Miss Cs ability to register for the service and ultimately to receive  payments  but 
not to make  them, which it could see shed been able to do a number of times  since May. It 
offered Miss C compensation of £100  for any inconvenience caused,  while  also stating that 
the account shouldnt have been  used for any business purposes  in line with its terms and 
conditions.
While the complaint was ongoing, Mr H also reported a number of issues in how the matter  
was being handled. He said Halifax had declined to contact him and instead  had been in 
touch with Miss C directly, causing  her further  stress. 
Our investigator thought Halifax had done  enough  to put things  right. She noted that there  
had been problems in May but these  were put right at the time and Miss C had been able to 
make a number of payments subsequently. When Miss C later raised a further issue,  she 
thought Halifax  had fixed it swiftly. And she didnt see any problems in the way it had dealt 
with things. So she thought £100 was fair compensation for the inconvenience this had 
caused Miss C and didnt  recommend that Halifax do anything further.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators view and asked that the complaint be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should point  out firstly that while Ive reviewed  and considered all of Mr Hs detailed 
submissions on behalf of Miss C, I wont be addressing  each and every  point  hes made. 
Rather, Ill focus on the issues that I consider relevant to how Ive reached  my decision.  
Thats in keeping with the informal nature of our service and I hope neither Mr H nor Miss C 
will see it as discourteous.
Ref: DRN50228302problems with the Pay a Contact service
Miss C first reported problems with the Pay a Contact service in May 2018, but these  were  
looked into and resolved  at the time  with payments of £1 being received and made 
successfully on 17 May and 21 May respectively,  as shown on Miss Cs account  statements.
Statements for the account also show that Miss C was able to make payments through 
Pay a Contact over the months that followed.  But it seems that at some point between May 
and August 2018, she discovered that she was unable to receive them. I cant  see that the 
bank was made aware of this until we relayed Miss Cs concerns on 17 September.  It then 
looked into things,  rectified the error  and confirmed this to Miss C on 11 October.
Its regrettable that Miss C was without  a feature of her bank account with Halifax. The Pay a 
Contact service provides  convenient way to receive  payments without needing to share  bank 
details, which I understand Miss C was keen to use. And she was put to some  trouble in 
getting things  working  again.
At the same time, the absence of the service didnt prevent Miss C from receiving payments 
into the account altogether  she could still do so by a number of other  methods  if she had 
the need (for example, by bank transfer, cheque or deposit in branch). Given the issue was 
only raised in August  and fixed by early October,  it doesnt seem Miss C was affected  by 
loss of this feature for long. I also note that she only went on to use it twice  in the three  
months after it was fixed. So it doesnt strike  me that Miss C was particularly reliant on it or 
significantly put out while it wasnt working.  
I understand Miss C wished to use the service  in connection with her job, but while  I do 
appreciate her intentions  here Halifax was right to say that the account  shouldnt have been 
used for anything other than personal  matters  for a number of reasons.  I dont think its 
comments were  unreasonable  and I dont think any opportunity Miss C lost to use the 
account in this way ought to be factored into the compensation shes awarded.
So taking all of this into account, I think the £100  that Halifax has already offered  Miss C is 
fair compensation for the inconvenience  this matter  caused her. Ive noted  what Mr H says 
about receiving  £150  in response to his own complaint about  a similar issue,  but we decide  
each complaint on its individual circumstances and his banks offer to resolve things  for him 
doesnt set a precedent for me to follow here.
service provided in resolving the matter
After being made aware of Miss Cs further issues with the Pay a Contact  service,  Halifax 
got in touch with her directly to discuss the matter  sending her an email on 27 September  
and calling her on 1 October. I dont think it did anything wrong here, as while Miss C had 
appointed Mr H to deal with us on her behalf that didnt  extend to any interaction with the 
bank.
In order to deal with Mr H on Miss Cs behalf,  Halifax needed her direct  authorisation. Thats  
standard practice and a sensible security precaution.  To get this, the bank wrote  to Miss C. 
She called the bank  on 5 October and confirmed her instruction that it deal with Mr H on her 
behalf.
It seems  Halifax incorrectly  told Miss C that it could only deal with her when discussing the 
matter on 1 October.  That wasnt right  she was entitled to appoint  a representative. But I 
Ref: DRN50228303dont think that caused her any additional inconvenience such that further  compensation is 
warranted, particularly  as things were cleared up within a couple  of days.
Mr H has also made  a number of points relating to Miss C being able to give authority by 
way of a letter. While  that might ordinarily  be possible, it wasnt  an option  here as Halifax 
said it didnt have Miss Cs signature  on file. Again,  I dont think  thats  caused  any notable  
inconvenience given  that Miss C was able to give authority over the phone in a timely way. 
The broader  issues  Mr H raises off the back of the realisation that Halifax didnt get Miss Cs 
signature when  opening  the account werent  raised  as part of this complaint, so the bank 
hasnt yet had a chance to address them.  As a result, if Miss C is unhappy  with Halifaxs  
actions in this respect  she will need to raise  them with the bank by way of a new complaint.
my final decision
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has already offered £100 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  should pay Miss C £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2019.  
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5022830