K820x#14Complaint
Miss K complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC wont refund her transactions  she says she 
didnt make or authorise.  
Background
Miss K had a current account with Barclays. Between  10 January 2019 and 15 February  
2019 Miss K says that four transactions totalling  just over £2,000 were made from her 
account without  her consent.
I wont be listing all the disputed transactions as both parties  are aware  of which  transactions  
are in dispute. But, in summary, Miss K is disputing two ATM withdrawals and two payments 
made via online banking. 
Miss K says prior to the disputed transactions she remembers  using  her bank card at the 
post office on 8 January 2019  to make a cash withdrawal. Shes said that this is the last time 
she used her bank card.  Shes said she hasnt disclosed her PIN to anyone and didnt have 
a written record of it anywhere as it was quite easy for her to remember.  Miss K has also 
said that she hadnt disclosed her online banking details to anyone  else. 
Miss K says she discovered two ATM withdrawals  had been made on 10 and 12 January  
2019 from her account. She says she never made  the withdrawals,  so, she contacted 
Barclays to report the disputed transactions. Barclays cancelled  her bank card, sent Miss K 
out a new card and said it would investigate.
On 15 February 2019, two online  mobile banking payments  were  made from Miss Ks 
account for a total of £1,083. Miss K says she didnt make the payments and cant  
understand how they were able to made as she thought Barclays had blocked  her account. 
Miss Ks said she got a new phone on 18 January 2019, but the phone which was used to 
make the two payments had online banking registered for her account from 10 January 
2019. Prior to the two online payments leaving her account, Miss K says she received a 
phone call from someone claiming to be from Barclays bank and provided a passcode  shed 
received via a text message to the caller   in other words shes  been the victim of a scam. 
Miss K wants Barclays to refund the disputed transactions. 
Barclays investigated Miss Ks fraud claims and decided not to refund the disputed  
transactions to her. It said Miss K had either  made the transactions herself or allowed 
someone else to make  them. In summary  they said:
Miss Ks genuine card and PIN were used to make each ATM transaction and there 
was no plausible  explanation for how an unknown third party was able to gain 
possession of Miss Ks card and PIN
There were  no failed  PIN attempts when  the transactions took place
Miss Ks ATM withdrawal limit was increased from £300 to £500 on 10 January 2019 
online just before the first disputed transaction. And theres  no plausible explanation 
for how an unknown  third party was able to do this as Miss K said she had never 
disclosed her online banking details  to anyone else. And the increase  was done via 
an online  login passcode
Miss K had called  to request  a new card on 12 January 2019, after the disputed 
transactions
Ref: DRN53816452A new bank card was sent out to Miss Ks address
Funds were withdrawn over a number of weeks which was unusual  for a fraudster
the two online payments  were made  to new payees. As the payments were  done 
using mobile banking the new card details wouldve  been needed to complete the 
transfers i.e. card number  and cvv code on the back of the card. As the previous  card 
that would  have been used to setup Miss Ks mobile  banking was since cancelled 
due to the debit card fraud only the new debit card details could have been used to 
validate the transfers to the new payee,  these are again details Miss K has claimed 
she had not disclosed.  
Unhappy with this response Miss K brought her complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into things. She looked at the banks technical evidence  and what 
Miss K had said about events. Having done  so she concluded it was most likely Miss K had 
made the transactions or allowed someone  else to make  them.  
Miss K disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint, so the complaint 
has come  to me to decide.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the transactions, and the 
evidence. Both Miss K and Barclays have read the investigators view. So, I wont  repeat  
every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision.  However,  I can assure  
Miss K that Ive read the file, including her comments and evidence. 
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint  Miss K, but Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator and for much the same  reasons.  Ill explain why.
Ive reviewed Barclays technical evidence, and Im satisfied that Miss Ks genuine card and 
PIN were used to make the disputed  ATM transactions  and that they were authenticated.  
But, the regulations relevant to this case say that this is not on its own enough to enable 
Barclays to hold Miss K liable for them. So, I also need to think  about whether the evidence 
suggests that its more  likely than not that Miss K consented to the transactions  being made 
or whether she has been the victim  of fraud as shes alleged. 
Ill deal first with the two disputed cash withdrawals. Having looked at all the evidence,  Im 
satisfied that its more likely than not that Miss K did consent to the ATM transactions shes  
disputing. I say this because:
Barclays technical records  show the transactions were made using Miss Ks genuine 
card and PIN. So, Im satisfied that whoever made the transactions was able to do so 
because they had both Miss Ks card and knew her PIN
Miss K has said she has not disclosed her PIN to anyone else or made a written 
record of it anywhere.  So, theres  no plausible explanation  for how an unknown third 
party would become aware  of her PIN
There were  undisputed transactions made using Miss Ks bank card on 12 January 
2019, to three different retailers, which suggests  Miss K was still in possession  of her 
bank card
Ref: DRN53816453Miss Ks ATM withdrawal limit was increased from £300 to £500 via an online login, 
on 10 January 2019, at 6.34pm, and the first disputed  transaction  was made at 
6,35pm. Miss K hasnt offered a plausible explanation for how an unknown  third party  
was able to gain her online banking details  and increase the limit on her account, or 
was aware of the limits on her account
I think the timings of the transaction makes Mr Ks suggestion that an unknown  third 
party got hold of her bank  card and PIN and used it to make  the disputed  transaction 
unlikely. I say this because the first disputed transaction took place within a minute of 
Miss Ks ATM limit being increased
the disputed  transactions  dont fit the usual pattern of fraud.  Usually  a fraudster 
would try and maximise  the usage of the account in order  to get the greatest benefit 
from the account before the account holder notices their funds are missing and the 
card is cancelled. But this didnt  happen.  The disputed ATM transactions  took place 
over a period  of two days. I think  its unlikely that a fraudster would take Miss Ks 
bank card after shed  used it at the post office and then wait two days  to steal  money 
from her account
Ill next turn to the two disputed online payments  which were made from Miss Ks account on 
15 February 2019. Having looked  at all the evidence, Im also satisfied that Miss K 
authorised these transactions. I say this because:
Miss K has said she has not disclosed her online banking  details to anyone else
the two online payments  were made  to new payees. As the payments were  done 
using mobile banking the new card details wouldve  been needed to complete the 
transfers i.e. card number  and cvv code on the back of the card. As the previous  card 
that would  have been used to setup Miss Ks mobile  banking was since cancelled 
due to the ATM card fraud  only the new debit card details could have  been  used to 
validate the transfers to the new payee,  these are again details Miss K has claimed 
she has not disclosed. 
Ive not seen any evidence that anyone else wouldve known the bank had sent 
Miss K a new bank  card, so I think its unlikely it was intercepted by someone  looking 
out for it
Ive not seen any evidence that Miss K reported her new bank card lost or stolen
On 10 January 2019, mobile banking was set up on the mobile device  used to make 
the two disputed transactions on 15 February  2019 
On the same day (10 January 2019) mobile banking  was set up on Miss Ks account  
on another device  connected to Miss Ks previous phone number. And Miss Ks 
address details were  amended to her correct address. 
the mobile phone  device  used  to make the disputed online  payments was also used 
to make an undisputed  payment  on 12 January 2019 for £221
for the disputed transactions to have been  completed by an unknown  third party, they 
wouldve needed to have both Miss Ks old bank card (to set up the mobile banking  
on 10 January 2019).  And be in possession  of Miss Ks new bank card to set up the 
new payees in February 2019, which is more than a month later. As Miss K has said 
she hasnt shared these  details  with anyone else I find it unlikely that an unknown  
third party  was able to gain possession of both of her bank cards without her consent
Miss K hasnt reported her mobile phone as lost or stolen
As there  were multiple mobile  banking registrations on Miss Ks account an alert was 
triggered, and Barclays sent a letter out to Miss Ks changed  address details to 
Ref: DRN53816454confirm if it was her. As the address  was changed  to an address confirmed as 
occupied by Miss K at the time, its more likely than not that Miss K received the 
letter, meaning she would have known that there  had been  a mobile banking setup 
which she would have  needed to confirm. And Ive not seen any evidence that this 
didnt happen.  I also find this a rather odd move  for a fraudster to make as Barclays  
letter wouldve  alerted  Miss K that someone  had managed to gain access  to her 
account, and theyd run the risk of being  discovered
Ive not seen any evidence to show how an unknown third party  wouldve been able 
to set up mobile banking on another device  with a phone number already linked to 
Miss K, and know her address, unless  Miss K had provided this information
Miss K has said that Barclays  told her it had blocked her account around the time of 
the disputed transactions, so no payments shouldve been allowed to go out of her 
account. Miss K is right that her account was blocked around this time, but after she 
went into a branch on 8 February 2019,  the block was removed from her account. 
So, there wasnt a block on her account at the time of the disputed  transactions
Miss K has explained she received a call on 15 February 2019 from an individual 
purporting to be from Barclays. But shes said she didnt provide any banking  details 
during the call.  
So, when I weigh everything up, Im not satisfied  theres evidence  of fraud here. In my view 
the most  likely explanation here is that Miss K authorised the disputed transactions. So, in 
the circumstances it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Barclays to refund Miss K. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 March  2021.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5381645