K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2002. Ms L says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Ms L applied  for her credit  card through  the post.  She says that she wasnt aware that PPI 
was optional, and that she didnt take it out. Capital  One has provided  a copy of Ms Ls credit 
card application,  and from this I can see that the PPI is presented as optional,  and has been 
selected with a tick. Ms L has signed the application.  Capital One has also said that the PPI 
was cancelled in 2003, but it cant say why as theres  no note on its system  about this.
We shared the credit  agreement with Ms L, but she says that the tick selecting the policy 
isnt hers,  and that it mustve been added by Capital One. Im not a handwriting expert, so I 
cant say if the tick selecting the PPI is any different to the others  on the application,  but to 
my eye they all look similar. I also have to consider that Ms L completed  the application form 
on her own  and wouldve had to have read through the paperwork to make a number of 
decisions about her card. There  was a clear option to say no to the PPI which  couldve been  
selected, and the section  for PPI was as prominent  as any of the other sections Ms L 
needed to, and did, complete.
So taking everything in to account,  I havent seen enough for me to say that Ms L didnt  
choose to take out the PPI. And I think its most likely Capital One made it clear that Ms L 
didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
she cant remember this as it was so long ago.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Ms L so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Ms L got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Ms L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms L.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms L because: 
Ref: DRN50883062Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms L about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Ms L, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms L has said - but these points dont change my decision, and 
for the reasons set out above,  I dont  think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Ms L.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Ms L any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5088306