K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains about the customer service  he received from Lloyds Bank  PLC when he 
requested a new debit card.
background
On 24 September  2018 Mr T asked Lloyds to cancel his debit card. Lloyds did this and 
issued a replacement  card on 25 September 2018.  It told Mr T the card would take 3-5 
working days to arrive.
Mr T didnt  receive the card. On 2 October  2018 Lloyds cancelled the replacement card and 
issued a further replacement. This card didnt arrive so it was cancelled on 18 October 2018 
and a further replacement card issued. Mr T received the card on 23 October 2018.
Mr T complained to Lloyds that he had been  left without a card for a long time. He said he 
had been unable to pay bills and had only been able to withdraw limited amounts  of cash in 
branch.
In its final response Lloyds upheld Mr Ts complaint. It paid compensation totalling £45 to 
cover Mr Ts call costs  and travel to the branch. It also paid £45 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience.
Mr T wasnt happy with Lloyds response  and complained to this service.
Our investigator said he wouldnt expect to see a debit card being replaced so often in a 
short space of time. He didnt  think  the compensation paid to Mr T was enough  to reflect  the 
trouble and upset  caused to him and recommended that the bank paid further compensation 
of £150.
Lloyds didnt agree. It said Mr T had complained  about a similar issue  before and wouldve 
been aware of the timescales to receive a replacement  card.  It said it was unfair to hold the 
bank responsible for delays in the postal system  and noted that 2 of the 3 cards  issued to Mr 
T had been received. Lloyds said that Mr T had access to another  account which he was 
without a card and that his inconvenience was limited.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the first replacement card was issued on 24 September  2018. Lloyds has said 
it made Mr T aware of the expected delivery  timescale of 5 working  days. Mr T thought  the 
card should  arrive within 3 days and contacted the bank to check,  at which  point he was told 
it was 5 working days. Irrespective of any initial confusion over delivery timescales, its clear 
that the card didnt  arrive  within either timescale, resulting in Mr T contacting  the bank again 
on 2 October 2018.
I can see that the second replacement card didnt arrive within  the expected  timescale either, 
which resulted in Mr T having  to contact the bank again. A third card was issued on 19 
October 2018.
Ref: DRN56513692The bank has said it isnt fair to hold it responsible for postal delays. However, this isnt just a 
case of postal delay.  Neither of the first two replacement cards arrived within  the expected 
timescale and one of the cards wasnt received at all. Whilst I agree that the bank has no 
control over the postal  service, I think this complaint has to be seen in the wider  context of 
overall delay. 
Mr T was left without a debit card for almost  a month and had repeatedly made  it clear  to the 
bank that this was causing him distress  and inconvenience. I think the bank  should  have 
done more to get a card to Mr T quickly  once the first replacement  hadnt arrived within the 
timescale. This couldve been achieved by using a next day delivery service  or a courier, or 
by arranging for the card to be sent to Mr Ts branch. 
Lloyds has said it only sends cards  to a branch in exceptional circumstances. I think  a 
customer being without  a card for more than a week is exceptional.
Ive taken account of what  Lloyds has said regarding  Mr Ts use of his account  and his 
access to a savings  account. I dont think the extent to which  Mr T used his account is 
relevant here. His distress and inconvenience  stems from the lack of having a debit  card 
should he have  wished to use it. And I dont think its reasonable to expect Mr T to withdraw  
funds from his savings  account as a solution  to not being provided promptly with a 
replacement debit card.
Mr T has been  caused a significant degree  of inconvenience at having  to repeatedly call the 
bank and visit branch  to withdraw cash whilst he was without a debit card.  This situation  
went on for the best part of a month.  In the circumstances  I dont think  the compensation 
paid by the bank goes  far enough.  Lloyds should increase the compensation payable so that 
Mr T receives a further £150.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Lloyds Bank PLC should  pay further 
compensation of £150 to Mr T.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5651369