K821x#15Complaint
Mr C has complained about the loans he took out with Uncle Buck  Finance LLP trading as 
Uncle Buck.  He says the loans were unaffordable.
Background
Mr C took three loans from Uncle Buck between September 2017 and March 2018.  A 
summary of Mr Cs borrowing  is shown below: 
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 08/09/2017 30/11/2017 3 £500.00 £239.60
2 30/11/2017 28/02/2018 3 £500.00 £252.75
3 02/03/2018 29/03/2018 4 £800.00 £329.60
Our adjudicator recommended  Mr Cs complaint be upheld. He felt that Uncle Buck ought to 
have realised from the information it collected that Mr C was having problems managing his 
money and that it was unlikely Mr C wouldve  been  able to sustainably repay the loans. 
Uncle Buck  didnt agree with the adjudicators  conclusions, so the case had been passed to 
me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for the same reasons.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when  Uncle Buck lent to Mr C. The 
FCAs Consumer Credit  sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit related 
regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit providers, 
such as Uncle Buck.
Uncle Buck  was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting  other reasonable  commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet 
the repayments. 
It follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Uncle Buck  told us it asked Mr C for details of his monthly income (£4,000) and regular 
monthly expenses including his credit commitments  (£1,700). Uncle  Buck also completed  a 
credit check  and has provided us with the results. 
Ref: DRN56734682Uncle Buck  acknowledges their credit  check showed  Mr C had 23 active  accounts at the 
time of loan 1. He had also opened  12 accounts in the previous 6 months.  The total of 
balances on active accounts  showed on the report as being £43,135.
 
A number  of accounts  with outstanding balances were listed under  account type codes  for 
advance against  income (IL) and unsecured lending (UL).  Whilst the latter may have also 
included other  types of loans  the overall picture  was enough to have alerted Uncle Buck  to 
that it needed to do more  and establish the exact  position regarding Mr Cs outstanding short  
term loans. If it had done it would have discovered he had around  10 short term loans 
outstanding totalling around  £3,800.   
So I think Uncle Buck  would have realised that Mr C was having problems managing  his 
money and he would be unlikely to sustainably  repay this loan.
The overall position was no better when Mr C took out loans 2 and 3, so I think Uncle Buck 
would have realised  that Mr C would be unlikely to sustainably repay these loans either.
So Im upholding  Mr Cs complaint about  loans  1 to 3 and Uncle Buck  should  put things right 
as set out below.
Putting things  right
Uncle Buck  shouldnt have given Mr C loans 1 to 3. In order to put things right for Mr C, 
Uncle Buck  should:
A)add together  the total of the repayments made  by Mr C towards interest,  fees and 
charges on these loans (including  payments made to a third party if the debts were 
sold).
B)calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Mr C which were 
considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Mr C originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C)pay Mr C the total of A plus B.
D)remove any adverse information  Uncle Buck has recorded on Mr Cs credit  file in 
relation to the upheld loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to deduct tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint as Ive explained above. I require Uncle  
Buck Finance LLP trading as Uncle Buck to put things right for Mr C as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Ref: DRN56734683Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5673468