K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) when she took out a 
store card in June  1995.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint.
background
In June 1995 Mrs W applied for a store  card by completing an application form while  she 
was shopping.  At the same time she was sold a PPI policy to protect  her card payments.
The policy cost was no more than £1.00 per £100  Mrs W owed on her store card. The policy 
wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month  if Mrs W couldnt 
work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided life 
cover as well as price and purchase  protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Mrs W disagreed  so the complaint has 
been passed to me for final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. And having done  so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Ive looked at the copy of the agreement Mrs W signed and I can see three options were 
available to customers. They could select single cover; joint cover  or no cover. And on 
Mrs Ws application form theres a tick to confirm she wanted  single cover.  So Im happy  it 
was optional and that Mrs W chose to take it out. If she hadnt wanted to take out the PPI, I 
think Mrs W couldve chosen not to sign the agreement. And Ive noted that she didnt take 
out two other optional  features - card protection and an additional card holder. So I think  
Mrs W knew the policy was optional and chose to take it. And as this was a monthly policy, 
Mrs W couldve cancelled  it at any time if she didnt  want it.
Theres limited  information available to me about  what happened at the time of sale.  So I 
dont know what may or may not have been  said. Given  the information I do have, Ive not 
seen enough to make me think FICL advised  Mrs W to take out the PPI. This means FICL 
didnt have to make sure the policy was suitable  for Mrs Ws circumstances. But it still had to 
provide her with clear  information about  the policy so she could decide if she wanted  to take 
it out - I cant say that FICL did this.
I dont know exactly what information  Mrs W received about the policy at the time of sale. 
But even if I were to accept that Mrs W wasnt given clear enough  information  about the 
policy, I dont think this wouldve affected  her decision to take out the PPI for the reasons 
explained below.
Mrs W was eligible for the policy and doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations which may have made  it difficult  for her to make a claim  she told 
us she was employed and in good health.  Mrs W says she wouldve received  some sick pay 
Ref: DRN58514012from her employer if she was away from work  due to illness  and  she says she had some 
savings  but the policy wouldve paid out in addition to her employment  benefits so couldve 
proved useful to Mrs W if she had an accident,  became ill or lost her job. And it wouldve 
allowed her to use her savings for other  pressing matters. She could also have benefitted 
from life cover and price and purchase protection.
Im not satisfied that FICL  made the cost of the policy clear enough for Mrs W to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But taking everything into account, I think  if Mrs 
W had properly understood the cost and benefit  provided she wouldve thought the policy  
potentially useful. The policy would pay a 15% monthly benefit until the outstanding balance  
was cleared and the monthly cost doesnt seem to be unaffordable.
Overall, I dont  think FICL did everything  it needed  to when it sold the policy  to Mrs W. But I 
think she knew she had a choice about  taking the PPI and I think  she would still have taken 
out the cover if shed  been properly informed about it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5851401