K820x#14complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the settlement options shes been given by esure Insurance  Limited 
(esure) when she made a claim on her home  insurance policy.
background
Mrs H made  a claim under her policy for a lost wedding ring and engagement  ring. The items  
had a total value of £4,675.
After validating the claim, esure agreed  to cover it and offered Mrs H the following settlement 
options:
a cash settlement of £2,898.50.
a voucher for £4,675  to be used at selected  jewellers.
have the rings replaced by esures  personal  jewellery service.
Mrs H wasnt happy with the settlement options and so complained to esure. She said 
choosing jewellery  is a very personal decision and so she didnt want  to have  to use esures 
personal jewellery service, or the jewellers connected to the voucher scheme  she instead  
wants to choose  her own. She wasnt happy  that the cash  settlement  was less than the 
value of her rings. And she raised concerns about the level of customer  service  esure  had 
provided when  dealing with her claim.
esure said it was satisfied the options  provided  to Mrs H in order to settle her claim are in 
line with the terms  of its policy. It said the cash  settlement amount reflects  the costs esure 
would incur in having  the items  replaced  which is less than the value of the rings. It also 
apologised to Mrs H for the customer service  itd provided, and paid £100 compensation for 
this. 
But Mrs H remained  unhappy about  the settlement options and so brought her complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator looked at the complaint. In summary, he said the options provided  by esure 
were in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and so he was satisfied it had acted 
fairly.
Mrs H remained  unhappy and so the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by saying that I empathise with Mrs Hs situation - losing such  sentimental items 
must be very upsetting for her.
What I have to decide is whether esure has acted fairly and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy by providing  the three settlement options it has. Having done so, Im 
satisfied is has. So I wont be upholding this complaint and Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN53686512The aim of home insurance is to indemnify the policy holder. Here, this would  mean putting 
Mrs H back in the position she was in prior to losing  her rings. Its ultimately up to the insurer 
how it does this. Where it can, it should put the consumer back in the exact same position, 
but thats not always possible as it depends on the policy terms, whats  been lost and the 
policy holders circumstances. 
But the starting point  in determining whether  esure  has acted fairly is to look at the policy 
terms and condition to see if its met its obligations. The relevant part of the policy document 
says:
If your Contents, Personal Possessions or Specified Items are lost or damaged [] we can 
choose to:
pay the cost of repairs
arrange for repairs; or 
give you an equivalent replacement
If it is not possible to repair and an equivalent replacement is not available  we will pay you 
the cash based on the full replacement cost.
However if it is possible to make a repair and/or if an equivalent replacement is available  but 
you do not agree with these settlement options,  we will pay you cash based on the 
applicable equivalent repair or replacement  cost to us.
In response to Mrs Hs claim,  one of the options esure has put forward is to provide her with 
equivalent replacement  rings through its personal jewellery service. As the terms of the 
policy set out that esure can give an equivalent  replacement, Im satisfied;  having  not seen 
anything to suggest the replacements would be of a lesser specification than Mrs Hs original  
rings, that this is a fair means  of settling the claim.
But as Mrs H didnt agree to this, esure  offered to pay a cash settlement based on the costs  
it would  incur if the items were replaced  by its personal jewellery service  which  would be 
less than the value of the rings. And thats what  Id expect  esure  to do in these particular 
circumstances. Thats because Im satisfied esure  has given Mrs H the chance to be 
indemnified when it offered to provide equivalent replacement rings.  It wouldnt be fair to ask 
esure to pay the value  of the rings  when its already met its obligations under the policy by 
offering an equivalent replacement.
Its worth  explaining  that the cost to repair or replace items is often less than the market  
price of an item as insurers  are able to negotiate  discounts with their chosen supplier  
which is something esure is entitled  to do.
 
esure also offered  to indemnify  Mrs H by giving her vouchers equivalent to the value of her 
rings. While these  vouchers are restricted to use at certain jewellery retailers, they do allow             
Mrs H to select items of her choice. Ive not seen anything  about Mrs Hs rings which  leads 
me to believe she wouldnt be able to choose reasonably matched replacements for them 
through one of the retailers. And, as the voucher  is for the total value of her rings, Im 
satisfied this is a fair means of settling her claim.
I appreciate Mrs H wants to be able to the select her own jeweller, but thats not something 
esure has to agree to under the policy. Having considered things carefully,  Im satisfied the 
Ref: DRN53686513settlement options  provided by esure are fair. I know my decision  will disappoint Mrs H but I 
hope she understands why Ive reached  this decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Nicola Beakhust
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5368651