K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2004. Ms P says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear  that Ms P didnt have to take out PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this. Ms P says 
she thought PPI was mandatory. The PPI was sold during a telephone  call. Although 
Capital One doesnt  have a call recording of the sale, it has given us a copy  of the call 
script that is likely  to have  been  used at the time of the sale. This instructed the 
representative to make it clear to Ms P that the PPI was optional  and had to get her 
consent before PPI could be applied to the account. I havent seen sufficient evidence to 
say that the representative  didnt follow the script.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Ms P so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Ms P got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Ms P about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms P.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms P because:  
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms P about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Ms P, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms P has said - including what  shes  said about  her existing 
repayment provisions.  But these points  dont change my decision. I appreciate Ms Ps 
husband may have  wanted to help but this couldnt be guaranteed  as circumstances change 
and Ms Ps husband  may not have been  in the position to be able to help if and when the 
need arose.
Ref: DRN51897432my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Ms P.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Ms P any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5189743