K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1991. Mr and Mrs D say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs D agreed  to buy the PPI. Theyve told us they were strongly advised to do so. 
Lloyds hasnt anything  to show how it presented the policy.  But what Mr and Mrs D have told 
us makes me think they were aware the PPI was something separate from the mortgage  
and something they were  advised to take rather than something they were told they had to 
take. On balance, I think Lloyds likely made  it clear that Mr and Mrs D didnt have to take the 
PPI.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, so it had to make sure the PPI was right for 
them. The PPI was insurance on Mr D for injury,  illness and unemployment. Mr and Mrs D 
have told us they didnt need  the cover  and were always  entitled  to employee benefits.  But 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time of the sale,  I think the PPI was 
right for them and I think they had a need  for it.
The cover was on Mr D and he wasnt affected  by any of the limits  or exclusions on the 
cover. For instance hes told us he didnt have existing health  issues.  So, from what  hes told 
us, Mr D wasnt affected by exclusions for existing  health  issues. And hed been employed 
for long enough  to not be affected  by the exclusion that affected unemployment claims if 
there hadnt been long enough continuous  employment beforehand.
Also the cover was to help protect  Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage - a significant  liability  secured 
on their home. The benefit  wouldve been  paid out on top of any work  benefit Mr D received.  
And from what Mr D has told us, his work  benefits for sickness  or redundancy were worth  
less than twelve months pay. The PPI could pay out for up to twelve  months  so it could last 
for longer than Mr Ds work benefits. And by helping  with their mortgage  costs, the benefit 
would help protect Mr and Mrs Ds savings  or leave their savings free to help meet other  
costs at what could  be a difficult time if Mr D were  unemployed or too sick to work.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to follow the recommendation for the cover   so it looks like 
they saw some value  in this type of cover. And if something went wrong it seems like the 
cover would have  been  useful for Mr and Mrs D, for the reasons  Ive given above. Taking 
everything into account, I dont think better information about  the PPI would have  put 
Mr and Mrs D off taking out the cover.
What Ive said above means Lloyds doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs D. But Lloyds will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D 
because:
Ref: DRN54517932Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D about that. Because Lloyds  didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs D, that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about all Mr and Mrs Ds points, including what  theyve said about Lloyds not 
being able to trace their policy at first. But these points dont change  my decision which, for 
the reasons Ive already  given, is that the PPI wasnt mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission  and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should also pay back to Mr and Mrs D any extra 
interest they paid because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr and Mrs D the extra they paid each month because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should 
also pay Mr and Mrs D 8% simple interest  on each payment (15% on payments before 
April 1993)*.
*Lloyds has to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs D can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D. 
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5451793