K820x#14complaint
Mr B is a beneficiary of a group,  private medical  insurance policy  with Vitality Health Limited. 
He complains that Vitality  refused his claim.
background
In August  2018,  Mr B claimed against  the policy in relation to pain in his right foot. Vitality  
refused that claim, as there was no referral from Mr Bs GP.
In September  2018, Mr B sent to Vitality a referral from his GP. Vitality authorised  Mr Bs 
consultation with an orthopaedic  surgeon. Mr B says that his underlying pain wasnt  resolved 
and the consultant didnt  have any further  suggestions to improve matters.      
In October  2018, Mr B told Vitality that hed been diagnosed with a fractured metatarsal and 
wanted to see a podiatrist for possible orthotics.  Vitality refused that claim. It said that the 
policy excludes fitting and measuring of orthotics.  It also said that orthotics are for the 
treatment of chronic conditions, which arent covered by the policy.  
Mr B says that he accepts  that the cost of orthotics themselves are not covered by the policy 
but says that the consultation  which may lead to the prescription of orthotics is covered. He 
says that this was a general consultation with a podiatrist with the possibility that orthotics 
may be discussed. Mr B says he paid for the consultation himself.  He says that he cant 
recall the detail of the consultation. Mr B wants Vitality to pay him the cost of the consultation 
by way of compensation.  
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. She said that as there  was no 
referral from Mr Bs GP, his claim is ineligible under the terms of the policy. So, she didnt  
ask Vitality to do any more. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He said:
There was no referral  from his GP because  Vitality had already refused his claim,  so 
he had to fund his own treatment.
His request for payment of the invoice isnt a claim on the insurance  policy, its for 
compensation for the costs he incurred.  So, its not appropriate for Vitality to rely on 
its terms and conditions to refuse  his request  for payment. 
Vitality wasnt  correct  in refusing his claim.  
Vitality is wrong to say that this is a chronic condition and not covered under the 
policy. 
Vitality hasnt shown that the fitting  and measuring of orthotics  is excluded  under the 
policy: only the supply  of orthotics  is excluded. 
Vitality has sent him a document about important  changes to his plan which  says that 
consultations for orthotics are not covered.  That implies they were  previously 
covered.  
Ref: DRN55657812As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point  is the terms and conditions  of the policy, which  include the following:
The purpose of this plan is to provide you with cover for eligible treatment , once youve  
been referred for further treatment by a GP [] that:
aims to cure an acute condition or the acute flare-up of a chronic condition  or to 
return you to your state of health immediately before suffering an acute  condition  or 
acute flare-up  of a chronic condition.
And
THERAPIES COVER
WHATS COVERED
Charges for the following therapies  or consultations  after referral by your GP or consultant 
[]
[] podiatry
WHATS NOT COVERED
medical aids or appliances (e.g. [] foot supports)
[]
treatment following self-referral where youve  not consulted  a GP, unless this has 
been agreed by us in writing in advance  of the treatment .
Ive looked at the reasons  Vitality  gave in its final response letter for its refusal of Mr Bs 
claim. Its common  ground that orthotics  are not covered  under  the policy.  I dont think  
theres conclusive medical evidence to support  Vitalitys position that Mr Bs pain was 
caused by a chronic condition and therefore  excluded under the policy  or that the orthotics  
were being  recommended  for the treatment of a chronic musculoskeletal issue.  However,  
this doesnt change my thoughts about  the outcome of this complaint. I dont think  it is 
unreasonable for Vitality to decline the claim in the circumstances of this case. I say that 
because, as orthotics arent covered, it doesnt  seem unreasonable for Vitality to decline to 
cover a consultation of that nature. So I dont think it is unfair  to decline Mr Bs claim on that 
basis. 
In any event, thats not the end of the matter. As our investigator said, the policy covers 
eligible treatment following referral by a GP. Mr B didnt have a referral  from a GP. He says 
that was because Vitality  had already  refused his claim.  Its for Mr B to provide the referral in 
the first instance, at the outset of his claim. I dont think Vitalitys refusal of his claim 
prevented Mr B from getting  a referral. 
Ive noted that in a document entitled IMPORTANT  CHANGES TO YOUR PLAN Vitality 
has clarified that it doesnt cover consultations  where orthotics are measured or fitted.  I dont 
think that alters the outcome here, as Mr Bs claim wasnt covered, as he didnt have  a 
referral from a GP. It is also open  to Vitality to clarify  the terms and conditions  in more  detail 
during the life of the policy. I think its clear  from the correspondence Mr B has provided that 
this is a clarification of the policy wording rather than a change to the level of cover. 
Ref: DRN55657813The basis  of Vitalitys liability  to Mr B is the terms and conditions  of the policy. The terms and 
conditions of the policy dont require Vitality  to accept Mr Bs claim in this instance. I dont 
see that anything  Vitality did caused Mr Bs loss. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr B but there are no grounds on which  to direct Vitality to 
compensate him in this case.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5565781