K821x#15complaint
This complaint is a about a credit  card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 
2000. Mr M says Barclays  Bank Plc Barclays (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr Ms case.
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ms postal application  form  when he first applied for his credit card. 
I can see from the application that hes not ticked the box to add PPI to his card.  Barclays  
say the PPI was added  shortly after he took out the card during a telephone call. But it cant  
say whether Mr M phoned them or the other way round. 
Barclays hasnt been able to give me any information about the phone  call where  it says it 
sold PPI to Mr M. It hasnt  been able to give me a copy of the call recording, transcript or a 
copy of a sales script that it would  have expected its representative to have used at the 
time. 
Mr M has said he wouldnt have  chosen to take it out if hed been given the option. 
Barclays hasnt been able to show  me anything to indicate how the cover was presented 
on the phone call, or that he agreed  to have it. And I also question why, if it was made clear 
he had a choice,  he wouldve  agreed  to take it only a short time after choosing  not to take it 
when he applied for the card. 
Barclays have said that the optional nature of the policy shouldve been  clear to Mr M 
because he had his credit card before the PPI was sold. But Barclays have told me Mr M 
didnt use his card until a month after the PPI had been added  to his account. So although 
he may have received  his credit card, its not clear if the phone call that was made was an 
activation call and if Mr M wouldve been able to use it until after this phone  call. I dont 
know how the PPI was presented to him during the call. So I cant agree having the credit 
card would have  made it clear to him it was optional product.  
Overall, I dont have enough  evidence  to make me think Barclays made  it clear  to Mr M 
that he had a choice about  taking the policy during the phone  call. And I cant  be sure that 
Mr M agreed to take it out. So I think I should  uphold this complaint. 
Barclays have sent me information about the rules governing the selling of PPI. But this 
doesnt change  my decision to uphold Mr Ms complaint because I dont have enough to 
show me it was followed  when this PPI policy was sold. 
Theyve also given  me information that they say shows that the policy  was suitable  for 
Mr M. But as Im upholding this complaint because I dont  have enough  to say that I think 
its likely  that the optional  nature  was made  clear  or that Mr M agreed to take the cover,  
that point isnt important to my consideration of this complaint.
Ref: DRN55588272putting things right
Barclays should put Mr M in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.Barclays should find out how much Mr M would  have owed when he closed his credit 
card account if the policy hadnt been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr M owed when he closed  his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  The same applies to any commission refund 
Mr M may have already received.
B.Barclays should add simple interest  on the difference  between  what  Mr M would have 
owed when he closed  his account from when  he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when Barclays works out what Mr M would have owed each month without PPI  Mr 
M paid more than enough to clear his balance,  Barclays  should also pay simple interest 
on the extra Mr M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr M 
wouldve owed Barclays something  on his credit card.  The interest rate should  be 8% a 
year.
D.Barclays should tell Mr M what its done  to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Barclays  to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mr M a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Barclays Bank Plc should put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.  
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5558827