K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy which was taken out in 1999 when Mrs B 
applied for a mortgage in one of the banks branches. The policy covered her for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mrs B didnt agree 
saying, in summary, that:
The bank told her she needed to have the PPI because she was the sole mortgagee; 
and she followed the banks  advice.
She only signed the PPI application because she didnt think  she had a choice.
She wouldve  received sick pay from her employer, so the policy wouldnt have paid out 
anyway.
The bank should refund the premiums shes paid because she didnt need the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.
RBS says it didnt  recommend the policy to Mrs B. Mrs B recalls she was told she needed to 
take the policy because she was the only mortgagee. But, after careful consideration, Im not 
persuaded this was enough to amount to a personal recommendation to take the policy. 
I think, in all likelihood, the member of staff told Mrs B about the policy  and told her why she 
might want  to consider  taking it. There wasnt a joint mortgagee who mightve been able to 
cover the repayments  if Mrs B wasnt working,  so Im not surprised this formed  part of the 
discussion.
For the reasons  Ive explained, I cant conclude that RBS recommended  the policy to Mrs B, 
so it didnt need to check that it was suitable for her.
So the key question I need  to consider  is did RBS give Mrs B information that was clear,  fair 
and not misleading in order to put her in a position where she could decide  for herself  
whether the policy  would be useful.  And, if there was a problem with the way the policy  was 
sold, then I need  to consider whether Mrs B is worse off as a result. That is, would she have 
done something different  such as not taking out the policy   if there  hadnt  been any 
problems with the sale?
Ref: DRN56430862Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint and will explain why.
Mrs B says she thought  she had to take the PPI for her mortgage  application  to be 
successful. I cant be sure exactly what was discussed, so I accept thats possible. But 
I wouldnt expect Mrs B to have a clear  recollection of what  was said nearly  20 years ago. 
Looking at the paperwork which was completed  at the time, there was a separate application 
form for the PPI and a separate direct debit  mandate for the PPI premiums. So, after careful 
consideration, I think it was reasonably clear that the PPI was a separate  product. Overall, 
I think RBS made Mrs B aware that PPI was optional and she chose to take it out.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But I dont think she would have been  put off taking out the policy if she had 
received better information. I say this because:
 Mrs B was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the terms and 
conditions.
 She wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such  as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people  with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As she couldve benefitted  from the full extent of the cover,  I think  it unlikely she 
needed better information about the policys  exclusions and limitations.
 Mrs B told us she wouldve received up to six months pay from her employer if she 
couldnt work due to sickness  or an accident. But, in the event of a successful claim,  
the PPI would have  paid out in addition to any sick pay and for up to 12 months. It also 
covered her if shed become unemployed. The mortgage was a major long term 
financial commitment and her home  was at risk if she couldnt  meet  the repayments. 
So I think its likely that, despite what she now recalls, she wanted some additional 
cover if she couldnt work  to ensure that her mortgage payments were covered.
 I cant  see that the cost of the policy - £10.90 - was clearly  communicated to Mrs B 
before she agreed to purchase  it. For this reason I have considered  whether clearer 
information about the cost would have affected  Mrs Bs decision  to purchase the 
policy. Shed chosen to take out the policy, knowing she would  have to pay something 
for it. The policy was competitively priced  and apparently affordable.  So I think it 
unlikely she would have made a different decision  if better  information about  the cost 
had been provided.
Overall, I dont  think Mrs B lost out because of anything RBS did wrong,  because  I dont 
think better information would have put Mrs B off taking out the policy.
Ref: DRN56430863my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5643086