K821x#15complaint
Mr G originally complained about  the lack of ongoing advice and contact from Steven Barton 
(trading as Steven  Barton  Financial Services or SBFS) on his Self-Invested  Personal  
Pension (SIPP) and Individual Savings  Account (ISA). This complaint is about the SIPP. The 
complaint about  the ISA is being  decided separately.
Mr G found that his investments had been invested  in money market funds since  2015,  and 
had grown by 0.11% (before charges) over that 3-year  period. He also learned  that an 
annual management  charge of 1.50% a year had been collected, of which 0.60% pa was 
being paid to SBFS for ongoing advice which  hadnt  been given. He had expected the funds 
to be invested  in a medium risk portfolio  in line with SBFS original advice in 2015.
He sadly passed  away in December 2018 and the complaint has been  continued by his 
widow Mrs G as executor of his estate.
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  were set out in a provisional 
decision on 31 January  2020. A copy of this (with a typographical  error  in Mr Gs name  at 
one point in the decision corrected)  is attached  to and forms part of this complaint.
SBFS confirmed receipt of the provisional  decision and didnt make any further comments.  
Mrs Gs representative accepted the provisional decision on her behalf.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any comments about  my provisional conclusions,  Ive reached 
the same  view that this complaint should  be upheld, and redress  calculated producing the 
result set out in the attached provisional  decision.
I asked SBFS to make  clear in response to my provisional decision what  its intentions were  
in respect of a payment for upset or delay in the settlement of this complaint, which it was 
previously willing to make but which I cannot  formally award.  Unfortunately as SBFS  hasnt 
responded to the provisional  decision Im unable to convey to Mrs G or her representative if 
any amount will be payable. That is a matter they will need to enquire about when they are in 
contact with SBFS regarding the settlement of my award.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. I require Steven Barton to pay Mrs G, as beneficiary of Mr Gs SIPP 
and executor of his estate, £31,477.35 plus interest  at 8% per year simple from 17 April 
2019 to the date the compensation is paid. Income  tax may be payable on any interest paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G, as executor 
of the late Mr Gs estate, to accept or reject my decision  before 30 March  2020.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN55841472Provisional decision of 31 January 2020
background 
In September  2015 Mr G held a group stakeholder pension plan worth about  £107,000 with 
HSBC, the administration of which he was aware was going  to be transferred to ReAssure (a 
consolidator of closed  pension  businesses).  It was costing 0.7%  per year to administer.
SBFS carried out a fact find which established Mr G was in good health at that time and 
intended to retire at age 66 (about seven  years time).  The pension  was currently  invested  in 
the International Managed  fund.  SBFS asked Mr G a number of questions about his attitude 
to risk which suggested he was somewhere between a low and medium  risk investor.  Whilst 
SBFS pointed out that the existing International Managed  fund was somewhat higher than 
this recorded attitude to risk, it noted  that Mr G was happy to consider a fund of similar risk 
but to switch to a different  provider  with similarly  low charges  and a better reputation.
Mr and Mrs G had a number of other  investments including over £100,000 in savings 
accounts, some of which SBFS recommended consolidating  to obtain better interest  rates. It 
also recommended  they top up their ISAs and that Mr G added an additional £16,000 net at 
the same  time as transferring his pension. By investing the ISAs on the same  platform as the 
pension, this would also enable the overall funds to attract a lower  charge once they went  
above £150,000. SBFS  agreed to make  an initial charge of £500 for this advice, which  Mr G 
paid by cheque, and to take an annual fee of 0.5% per year directly  from the investments.
Whilst the transaction went  ahead,  SBFS  admits that an internal worksheet wasnt  
completed. This resulted  in the transferred pension and new contribution  being  left in the 
SIPP bank  account  rather than an appropriate  fund selection being made. When Mr G 
subsequently complained,  SBFS  carried out analysis for its Professional  Indemnity (PI) 
insurer which was based on an assumption that it would  have  invested  Mr G as follows:
50% in Global Absolute Return Strategies  (GARS)
25% in Fidelity Moneybuilder Inc
25% Myfolio II model portfolio
SBFS agreed that on this basis  the pension would have grown  by £6,297  at the time of the 
complaint. SBFS was proposing to offer this to Mr G, but it appears  a response from the PI 
insurer was not forthcoming. However  SBFS did offer to return  the ongoing  fees it had taken 
from Mr Gs pension directly to his bank account. 
Mr G referred  his complaint to the Financial  Ombudsman Service, where  it was investigated  
by one of our adjudicators. Unfortunately by this point he had been diagnosed  as terminally 
ill. The adjudicator  was satisfied that Mr G wanted to transfer and top up his pension plan, 
with the aim of investing in similar  funds, at as low a cost as his HSBC  pension plan. But in 
addition to refunding the ongoing fees SBFS had taken when it failed to effect or review his 
investment strategy, she also thought he should  be compensated for lost investment  returns  
and the trouble and upset caused  by his funds not being invested.  
She considered the compensation for investment  growth should be based on the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index, and to that figure £150 should be added for the 
upset caused.  
Ref: DRN55841473Mr G passed away  shortly  after the adjudicator had issued her assessment. Mrs G 
demonstrated that she had received Grant of Probate as the executor of his estate and was 
able to continue  the complaint in that capacity.
The adjudicator revised her assessment  so that the FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income Total 
Return Index applied to the period from the dates the transfer  and single premium were  
applied to the SIPP up to the date of Mr Gs death. Subsequently interest would then be 
added at 8% per year simple, reflecting the fact that compensation would be paid to the 
beneficiaries of Mr Gs SIPP, and they would be deprived of that money up until the point the 
complaint was settled.
She also took the view that she was unable to direct SBFS to pay redress  to Mr Gs estate 
for the upset originally  caused to him directly. She suggested that SBFS could consider, if it 
wished to do so, to make a similar payment to a charity of Mrs Gs choosing.
 
SBFS informed the adjudicator that it was in the process of carrying out the necessary 
calculations. She clarified whether this meant it was accepting the assessment,  as it wasnt  
necessary to quantify the loss before agreeing in principle that this was how it was to be 
calculated. In response SBFS confirmed  that it did agree with the adjudicators  view on how 
redress should be calculated.
Since the point  the adjudicator informed SBFS that Mrs G had accepted the settlement on 
behalf of Mr Gs estate (18 April 2019) it has still not been paid. The reasons for this have 
ranged from:
-It was outsourcing the calculations (23 May 2019)
-It was awaiting an update from the claims assessment company (10 June 2019)
-SBFS was completing the calculations and wanted to know if the compensation 
would be added  to the pension (I responded to this question on 16 August 2019  by 
reminding him that the adjudicator had said: I have set out the suggested redress  
below and this is based on my view that the personal pension will pay the fund value 
at the date of death to [Mrs G] and this is in the process of happening. And therefore 
that the compensation would also be paid to Mrs G in cash.
-SBFS then proposed  to retain  its original calculations from July 2018 for both the 
pension and ISA complaints (based  on 50% GARS, 25% Moneybuilder, 25% Myfolio 
in respect of the pension) but, on account of the delay, round up the total from £8,332 
to £9,000. It proposed adding £450 on each  complaint for upset caused, as well as 
an ex-gratia further payment  of £500 (23 August 2019).
Mrs Gs representative didnt agree that SBFS should revert to its original method of 
calculation, having  agreed to accept  the adjudicators view which  in the case  of the pension 
was based on the FTSE  UK Private Investors  Income Total Return Index.
They calculated that £117,854.62 invested  on 23 September 2015 in the FTSE UK Private  
Investors Income Total Return  index would have achieved 25.93%  up to the date of Mr Gs 
death on 6 December 2018,  resulting in a sum of £159,112.48 and therefore a loss (against 
the amount originally  invested) of £41,257.86. And interest added to this at 8% pa simple  
amounted to a further 6% for the nine months since Mr Gs death.
SBFS wasnt able to settle such an amount without PI insurer approval, which  it appears  has 
not been forthcoming. It has therefore been  passed  to me to make  a final decision.
Ref: DRN55841474my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SBFS has already conceded  that it did not invest the funds in Mr Gs pension into the 
market, as a result of a back-office  error.  Given that no evidence  has been offered to justify 
why Mr G remained within money  market  funds (and/or the SIPP bank account itself) from 
2015 to 2018 I agree  that this was an unsuitable  investment choice for a long-term pension 
investment.
The adjudicator explained we cannot  use the benefit of hindsight  when deciding what Mr G 
would have invested in. It isnt possible to say precisely what he would have done, but she 
was satisfied that given his circumstances  and objectives, it was fair and reasonable to 
propose that he would have  invested  broadly in line with the FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return index. This was because:
Mr G wanted capital  growth and was willing  to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  Total Return index is made  up of a range of 
indices with different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government  bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow us to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Gs circumstances and risk attitude.
Whilst I have been  preparing to write this decision, the representative of Mr Gs estate has 
clarified that Mr G had in fact transferred  his pension to the provider for whom she works in 
June 2018, before his death. Given that it is reasonable for consumers to mitigate their loss, 
the approach  we would  normally take if there was a failure to process (or in this case  
formulate) investment  instructions at the outset, is to pause the calculation  and work  out any 
interim loss at the point corrective action was taken  by making  a subsequent fund switch.
In this case the failure to invest into the market  occurred on 7 October 2015 (after Mr Gs 
single contribution and the transfer-in had been received). Given the complete lack of 
evidence of SBFSs  communications  on how Mr G was to be invested,  I cant reasonably say 
that a reference  to the word cash on his statements  would have made him aware he wasnt  
in the correct fund,  particularly  as the statements group cash  together with money market 
instruments (inc cash). I dont credit  Mr G with the level of financial sophistication necessary 
to understand  what a money market instrument  was.
It seems  that it was only as a result of discussing matters with his new adviser, on receipt of 
his March 2018 statement, that Mr G realised there was an issue   and he transferred his 
pension away shortly  after that. I cant hold SBFS responsible for the suitability of any 
investment choices he made after that.
At the crux of resolving  this complaint  is what fund(s) Mr G might  have invested in under his 
SIPP and (according to his original complaint) whether it was appropriate for him to be 
paying 0.60% per year for an ongoing  service he didnt receive. In fact both issues will be 
addressed by applying a benchmark for the growth  Mr G should  have  achieved  in the SIPP,  
net of charges. I say this because it would  be reasonable to expect SBFSs ongoing review 
of the funds Mr G invested in to be to his overall  benefit, despite the charges he paid for that 
service. 
Ref: DRN55841475I note that at the time the SIPP was originally set up, Mr G appears to have been wanting to 
move from the HSBC plan, but to keep to an investment choice similar to the International 
Managed fund. Current information  about  that fund indicates that it falls into the industry  
classification of Mixed  Investment 40-85% Shares. It wouldnt be inconsistent with Mr G 
asserting in his original  complaint that he wanted  to be invested in line with a medium risk 
profile. I further note that SBFS did record details about Mrs Gs health conditions,  so it 
doesnt appear it was aware that Mr G had particular  health issues  that would alter the need 
to make a suitable long-term investment selection.
As Mr G wouldnt have  remained within the HSBC International Growth fund, and there  is no 
contemporaneous evidence that he was going to be invested (or was told he was going to be 
invested) into the Standard Life GARS, Fidelity  MoneyBuilder  and MyFolio INC II funds, I 
consider that the FTSE UK Private Investors Income  Total  Return index provides a fair 
measure as a benchmark for the performance Mr G might have expected to achieve by 
taking a medium risk approach.
It doesnt mean Mr G would have invested  his money in some kind of index tracker  
investment. Rather,  I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of 
return Mr G could have obtained  from investments  suited to his objective  and risk attitude.  
Namely, to have components invested  in cash and bonds as well as directly  held equities 
(the majority of which would be global equities).
However, as Mr Gs funds were transferred out of the SIPP  to his representatives provider 
on 11 June 2018,  this is the first point at which a loss occurred.  The loss at that point will 
then need to be indexed up (or down)  from 11 June 2018 to 17 April 2019  (the date death 
benefits were actually paid out) in line with the overall performance of the new pension he 
transferred to. I consider that is when Mr Gs loss actually crystallised because it was no 
longer his pension fund  it was paid to a beneficiary  (Mrs G). And any resulting loss on 17 
April 2019 should  then have interest added at the rate of 8% per year simple until this 
complaint is settled, because the beneficiary  has been deprived of that sum.  This is set out 
in full below.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr G (and therefore now the 
beneficiary of his pension, Mrs G as close as possible to the position  they would probably  
now be in if Mr Gs funds had been invested  into the market by SBFS.  
Its not possible to say precisely funds Mr G would have  chosen,  but Im satisfied that what 
Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Gs circumstances and objectives when he 
invested.
1.The initial investments  into the SIPP (£117,854.62) would have grown to 
£148,215.89 by 11 June 2018  in line with the Income Total Return index (see 
attached calculation).
2.The value transferred out of the SIPP on that date was £115,423.57 (see attached 
confirmation).
3.Mr Gs interim loss at that date was (1  2) = £32,792.32.
4.The amount  of the death claim paid out from the new SIPP  on 17 April 2019, 
according to the new provider,  was £110,798.22  (see email evidence  attached).
5.The investment  performance of the new SIPP until the death  claim  was paid out was 
therefore (4  2) = 0.9599 (in other words, -4.01%)
6.The adjusted loss on 17 April 2019 was therefore (3 x 5) = £31,477.35.
Ref: DRN558414767.As the beneficiary  of Mr Gs SIPP, Mrs G has been deprived of this sum since  17 
April 2019. Interest  is therefore to be added to the adjusted loss in (6) at the rate of 
8% per year simple  from 17 April 2019  to the date the compensation is paid to Mrs G. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid.
The adjudicators original view suggested a payment to Mr G for the upset caused from the 
failure to make the investment.  She subsequently noted that as an entity rather than a 
person, the estate  could not be caused distress or inconvenience. I note that SBFS was still 
willing to make what I shall describe as goodwill  payments to Mrs G on both the pension and 
ISA complaints totalling £1,400 on 23 August 2019.
I cannot order SBFS to pay specific sums for distress and inconvenience to Mrs G in this 
decision, when  the complainant is now the estate.  This is different to Mr Gs original financial 
loss, which  has now become Mrs Gs. Equally it is not my role to take something off the table 
which SBFS may be willing to pay, separately  to this decision. It is a matter for SBFS  if it still 
wishes to make a payment which recognises  any upset or delay in the settlement of this 
complaint.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold the complaint by the estate of the late Mr G and make the award set out in 
the fair compensation section above. I will require  Steven Barton to pay the amount set out 
in step 7 of the calculation to Mrs G as beneficiary  of the late Mr Gs pension.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5584147