K821x#15complaint
Miss P has complained  that J D Williams & Company Limited  trading  as Fashionworld  
(JDW or the lender) was irresponsible when  it increased her credit limit on her catalogue 
shopping account. 
background
JDW opened an account for Miss P in October  2015  with a credit  limit of £150. This type of 
credit was an open-ended or running account  and was defined in the credit  agreement  as an 
ongoing personal  credit  account  of no fixed or minimum  duration. Miss P used this 
account to pay for goods bought from JDWs  online catalogue. 
JDW subsequently  increased Miss Ps credit limit to £250 in December 2015; £400  in March 
2016; £600 in May 2016; £750 in September 2016,  and £1,200  in October  2016.  JDW  
provided Miss Ps account history. Ive summarised this in the graph below which  shows the 
account credit limits,  balance and arrears. It seems Miss P missed  a payment in July 2016 
and fell into arrears with her payments. She never  managed to clear  these  and by May 2017 
had an account  balance of £890.  I understand the balance was sold to a third-party debt 
collector in June 2017. 
Miss P says that JDW  should never have increased her credit limits because  she says she 
made minimum payments  and had missed some  payments. Miss P says this should have 
shown them that I could not repay my balance  within  a reasonable length of time, so they 
should not have let me borrow more. Also they increased my credit  limit without  asking me 
first. By increasing my credit limit and adding late payment charges they made my financial 
position worse.
JDW says that Miss Ps credit limit increases were modest and lower than the amount she 
could have been offered. It says it monitored  her transactions and she had evidenced that 
she was able to meet her minimum payment which it viewed positively. JDW says it also 
checked how Miss P was managing other credit via a credit reference agency. 
Our investigator assessed the complaint and found  that JDW should have gone further in its 
affordability checks when  it opened  Miss Ps account and each  time it increased her credit  
limit. They concluded  that, had proportionate checks been  carried out on each occasion,  
JDW would have learnt that Miss P wasnt likely to be able to repay  credit  sustainably when 
it increased her account limit in September 2016  and, again, in October. They recommended 
that JDW pay Miss P compensation for this. 
JDW hasnt responded to out investigators recommendation. The complaint has now come  
to me, as ombudsman, to review and resolve.  If Miss P accepts  my decision it will be legally 
binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory  rules and good  industry practice at the time. Having done so, I am 
Ref: DRN52180822upholding Miss Ps complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing  for JDW and I hope  
my explanation below makes  it clear why I have come to this conclusion.
JDW needed to check that Miss P could afford to meet her repayments sustainably  before 
agreeing credit for her. In other words, it needed to check  she could repay the credit out of 
her usual means, within a reasonable period of time,  without having  to borrow further and 
without experiencing financial difficulty or other  adverse  consequences. The checks needed 
to be proportionate to the nature  of the credit  and Miss Ps circumstances,  both of which  
might change over time. There may have come  a point where the lending history  and pattern  
of lending itself clearly demonstrated  that the repayments were unsustainable.
Let me start by saying  that I dont think the checks JDW carried out were proportionate from 
the outset. In order to assess  whether Miss P could meet her repayments sustainably  I think 
it needed to understand she had the means to do so. I havent seen evidence  that JDW 
gathered information  about Miss Ps income before opening an account for her, for example. 
As time went on, I think the lender should have enquired further  into Miss Ps finances 
before increasing  her credit limit to satisfy itself that Miss P would be able to repay the 
money she borrowed within a reasonable period of time, given she seemed to be making 
minimum repayments and her account  balance was building up. 
JDW increased  Miss Ps credit limit to £600  in May 2016 and her balance increased 
accordingly. She missed  a payment that July and her account remained in arrears until it 
was closed. I think had JDW looked  into Miss Ps finances in more detail before increasing 
her credit limit again in September  2016, as our investigator explained, it would  likely  have  
seen that Miss P wasnt  earning at that time and was borrowing regularly from a short term 
lender. Armed with this knowledge, I dont think it would have increased her limit on that 
occasion and so I think it was irresponsible to have done so.
The following  month, October 2016, JDW  increased Miss Ps balance  to £1,200. Miss P was 
several months in arrears  at this point.  Shed  been indebted to JDW for almost a year and 
her balance was four times as much as it was at the outset. I think  at this point the lender 
ought to have realised that Miss P wasnt making  inroads  into her debt and wasnt  likely to 
be able to repay her credit  sustainably. I think allowing a further credit  increase simply 
prolonged her indebtedness and JDW didnt treat her fairly when it did so. 
What JDW should do to put things  right
Where we find credit to have been agreed  irresponsibly,  this Services approach to putting 
things right is to refund  any interest, fees or charges associated with the credit  that were  
paid by the borrower. In addition, we usually direct  the lender to pay a refund of 8% per 
annum simple interest on these payments where  the borrower was unfairly deprived of their 
money. Wed expect the borrower to repay the capital borrowed as they have had the use of 
these funds, in Miss Ps case  to buy goods.
Ive concluded  that JDW was irresponsible when  it increased the credit  limit on Miss Ps 
account beyond  £600 in September 2016. In order to put Miss P back into the position she 
would have been in had this not happened  means  she shouldnt have to pay any interest  or 
charges on amounts above £600 from that point onwards. 
In summary,  JDW  should:
Ref: DRN52180823-Rework Miss Ps account to ensure that from 5 September 2016 onwards interest is 
only charged on the first £600 outstanding on the account to reflect the fact that no 
further credit limit increases should  have been  provided; and
-Apply Miss Ps repayments after this date to this adjusted balance.
-If the effect of this reworking results in there no longer being an outstanding balance 
to pay, then any remaining amounts paid by Miss P should be treated as 
overpayments and returned to her along  with 8% simple  interest*  on the 
overpayments from the date they were  made  (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. In this case, JDW should  remove any adverse  information from Miss Ps 
credit file.
-If an outstanding  balance remains on the account once these adjustments  have been 
made (which I think is likely) JDW needs  to ensure that Miss P is only liable for this 
adjusted balance. As the debt has been  sold JDW should  either repurchase it or 
liaise with the current debt owner to limit Miss Ps liability. This might include paying 
an amount to the third party in order for it to make the necessary adjustments or 
paying Miss P an amount to ensure  that it fully complies with this direction. In this 
case, JDW should remove any adverse  information from Miss Ps credit file once the 
account has been settled. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires JDW to take off tax from this interest.  JDW must give 
Miss P a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im upholding Miss Ps complaint about J D Williams & 
Company Limited  trading as Fashionworld and it needs to put things right for her as outlined.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2021.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5218082