K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that its unfair  for The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) to use her 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  compensation to reduce the debt from which  she was 
discharged when her protected  trust deed  came to an end rather  than paying it directly  to 
her.
background
In November 2019 I issued my provisional  decision in this matter,  explaining  why I wasnt 
intending to uphold this complaint. A copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms 
part of my final decision.
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further information they wished me to 
consider before I made  my final decision.
RBS said that it had no further information they wanted to add. Miss S disagreed with my 
provisional decision. She referred to the recent court  case  which  RBS had lost and wanted 
to make sure we were  taking this into consideration.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When considering what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable, Im required by DISP  3.6.4 R of the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA) 
Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules,  guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good  industry  
practice at the relevant time.
Within my provisional decision (attached)  I mentioned that there were some court cases 
about who PPI compensation should  be paid to when a consumer has been discharged 
from a protected  trust deed. In one of the court cases, Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc v 
Donnelly [2019] CSIH 56. the court said RBS couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation 
to reduce a debt from which  they were discharged when the trust deed came to an end. But 
I explained that this was being appealed by RBS  and that the outcome may change.
Since my provisional decision, the appeal  has been heard at the Inner House of the Court of 
Session. In short, RBS lost the appeal and the court reaffirmed the legal position  that RBS 
couldnt use the compensation to pay down the amount that wasnt  repaid after the trust 
deed ended. The court said when the trust deed  ended the debtor was discharged from her 
debts, so there was no longer any debt owing  from her to the bank which  could be subject to 
set-off.
Ref: DRN59159012At this moment it isnt known whether RBS intend to appeal the decision further  to the 
Supreme Court  so there  is a possibility the outcome may change.
Miss S says as RBS lost the appeal, and as the law is clear on what  happens when 
consumer is discharged from their trust deed,  the PPI compensation should  be paid directly 
to her. 
However, as explained  within my provisional  decision  I have considered  the relevant law. 
And when  initially  providing my provisional  decision,  I did so when  the law had already found  
in the consumers favour. RBS losing the appeal confirms  the legal position within Scots  law 
about what happens when consumer is discharged from their trust deed  (although  Im 
mindful as Ive said above, RBS maybe  appealing  this further  to the Supreme  Court). But as 
I also explained in my provisional  decision, whilst I take into account  the relevant law  Im 
not bound  to follow it. I must also apply an over-arching test of whats fair and reasonable in 
the particular circumstances  of Miss Ss complaint  as required of me by FSMA Section.228 
and the FCAs  DISP rules.
Having done so, I remain of the opinion it would be unfair for RBS to pay compensation 
directly to Miss S  when because of the trust deed, Miss S now wont ever have to repay 
the monies borrowed and left unpaid.
So, taking into account the above, I see no reason  to depart from the findings  set out in my 
provisional decision and I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN59159013Copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Miss S complains  that its unfair for The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to use her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation  to reduce  the debt from which  she was discharged when  her 
protected trust deed came to an end rather than paying it directly to her.
background
Miss S took out three separate loans between 1999 and 2001. Two were part of a chain with RBS and 
the third loan was a standalone loan.  She took out PPI alongside  these loans to protect  her 
repayments.
In 2007 Miss S entered into a trust deed as she was unable to repay all her debts  when they fell due. 
This became  a protected trust deed for her creditors. This is an alternative in Scotland to bankruptcy  
(called sequestration in Scotland). It is a legally  binding agreement between  a consumer  and their 
creditors, which is administered by a trustee.
When Miss S entered into the trust deed, RBS total claim  was £23,116.86  and RBSs  records indicate 
that this was after receiving  a dividend  of £5872.40. RBS didnt chase for these outstanding  sums, but 
it confirmed it wrote off the accounts  as a result of the trust deed. While  RBS didnt chase for the 
outstanding sums the debt still existed. So, a substantial amount of debt was left unrecovered from 
Miss S.
In 2018 Miss S complained to RBS about the mis-sale of these policies. 
On 25 October 2018 RBS wrote to Miss S to tell her that it was prepared to uphold her complaint 
about the mis-sold PPI in relation to loan number  in her sole name ending 8749 it sold in October  
1999 and it offered  to pay £564.95 by way of compensation.
On the same date in another letter, RBS offered  to uphold  the complaint in respect of loan ending 
3935 in her sole name sold in July 2001. It told Miss S it would pay her a total of £1950.68.
On 31 October 2018 RBS sent a further  letter to Miss S. This time it offered  to uphold her complaint in 
relation to a joint loan ending 6643 sold in March 1999  and pay compensation  for the mis-sold PPI of 
£1243.27. This sum represented half of the premiums paid plus statutory interest because it was a 
joint loan and the other party to the loan was not a joint complainant.
In all these letters RBS said the redress reflected a refund of the PPI premiums and the extra  interest 
that Miss S had paid to date together with simple  interest to compensate her for the time shed been 
out of pocket.
Miss S signed  acceptance  forms for the offers from RBS for the loans ending 3935 and 8749 on 31 
October 2018.
Miss S signed  a further acceptance form for the offer of compensation for loan ending 6643 on 5 
November 2018. RBS confirmed receipt of these signed letters of acceptance.
RBS confirmed that Miss S accounts were closed with a balance of £23,116.86  following  completion 
of the trust deed. The outstanding balance included debt on a current account in Miss Ss sole name  
and an account ending 5892 also in Miss Ss sole name. 
RBS used the redress to offset against its total claim in the trust deed. But Miss S doesnt think the 
PPI compensation she was offered should be used by RBS in this way. She says the PPI 
compensation wasnt realised at the time of the Trust Deed and taking into account  the recent court  
Ref: DRN59159014case she doesnt owe the money to RBS. She has asked that the compensation be paid directly  to 
her.
Our adjudicator said that he didnt think this complaint should be upheld.  He thought  that it was fair to 
set off the compensation against the sums owed to RBS. He said that Miss S had borrowed money 
from RBS which wasnt and wont  ever be repaid and he didnt think it would  be fair to ask RBS to 
repay Miss S directly when she didnt have to repay  RBS.
Miss S was unhappy with the adjudicators view.  She said the court case was due to be heard in 
October and any money outstanding was written off. Miss S asked that the matter be referred  to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. So, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable, Im 
required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman]  considers to have been good industry practice  at 
the relevant time.
As RBS has upheld Miss Ss PPI mis-sale complaint, in this provisional  decision Ive just looked at 
whether what  its done to put things right is fair and reasonable. I havent looked at how the PPI 
policies came  to be mis-sold. And Miss S hasnt  raised  any issues about  the amount of compensation 
offered so I also wont consider this. Miss Ss complaint is that RBS has set-off the amount of 
compensation to reduce the loan amounts that havent been fully repaid rather  than paying  the 
compensation directly  to her. 
So in this provisional decision I need  to decide  whether its fair and reasonable for RBS to use Miss 
Ss PPI compensation offer to reduce the much  higher amount of debt which  she wasnt required to 
repay back to it (and was written off by RBS) after her protected trust deed was closed.
And in this case the relevant  law I need to take account of is Scots law. In recent years there have 
been a number of cases looking at what happens to PPI compensation after a trust deed has been 
discharged. 
In Dooneen Ltd v Mond [2018] UKSC 54, the Supreme Court considered  the effect  of a discharge  
following a final distribution by the trustee.  In that case, the discharge was held to terminate the trust 
which meant that any unrealised assets  were returned to the debtor  including the PPI compensation  
that no one had known about at the time.
So, in this case the Supreme Court said that the PPI compensation should not be paid to the trustees 
for the benefit of the creditors. It said it should  be paid to the consumer.
In Donnelly v The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC [2017] SAC (Civ) 1, the Sheriff Appeal Court 
considered whether RBS could offset PPI compensation against the amount that hadnt been repaid 
when the trust deed came  to an end. The terms of the trust deed in this case  meant RBS had, in 
effect, agreed that the debt would be extinguished  and it couldnt later revive  the debt to offset the 
PPI compensation (I understand RBS has appealed this decision, so the outcome may change).
Ref: DRN59159015So, I accept that, unless and until the Inner House  reverses the decision of the Sheriff Appeal Court, 
and on the assumption that the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are essentially the same 
as those in this case, then RBS could  not, in court, successfully argue  for set-off in this case.
In this case I am aware of and have  taken into account the relevant  law. But I must apply an over-
arching test of whats fair and reasonable  in the particular circumstances  of Miss Ss complaint.  
Having done this, I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce  the money  Miss S 
borrowed and didnt repay.
Just because Miss S entered  into a protected  trust deed  and Miss S was discharged from the debt 
when the trust deed ended, doesnt  make  a difference to what is fair. I think it would  be unfair  to tell 
RBS to pay Miss S compensation  when she doesnt now have  to repay  the borrowing which was still 
outstanding.
The fact that Miss Ss protected trust deed had come to an end before this offer of PPI compensation  
was made doesnt, in my opinion, make a difference to what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances here. I dont  think anyone would think  it fair to require RBS to repay the PPI 
compensation directly  to Miss S when she doesnt  now need to pay back  to RBS a much bigger 
amount which  she borrowed  to take out her loans.
So it follows from what Ive said that I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation  its offered to 
reduce the outstanding  debt which was written off by RBS following the closure of Miss Ss protected 
trust deed.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, my provisional  decision is Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
Im currently  minded to decide that its fair for The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc to use Miss Ss 
compensation for the mis-sold PPI to reduce the amount she owed and didnt  repay when her trust 
deed came  to an end. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required  to ask Miss S to accept or reject 
my decision  before 5 December  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5915901