K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains that Lancaster  Motor Company Limited misled her as to the amount of 
interest she would  have to pay under a hire purchase agreement for a new car.
Ref: DRN52218912background
In January 2017 Mrs O decided she would like to buy a new car and visited  a dealership to 
enquire about arranging a finance  agreement to pay for it. Lancaster  Motor  Company 
arranged for a hire purchase agreement to be taken  with a finance  company.
Mrs O says that she asked the salesperson various questions  about the finance agreement 
including the size of the deposit, payments and the amount of interest that was payable. Mrs 
O says that the salesperson informed her that the total amount of interest shed pay was 
£400.
Mrs O was happy with the agreement and signed it. However a few months later she 
received her first statement from the credit provider  and realised that the total amount of 
interest that she would  have to pay was substantially more  than £400. She phoned  the credit 
provider and asked  for it to explain  the loan and the interest calculation.  The credit  provider  
gave Mrs O the correct information and confirmed  that the total amount of interest payable 
during the duration of the agreement was £2,000.
Mrs O complained to Lancaster Motor Company that she had been misled about the amount 
of interest she had to pay under the agreement.  Lancaster  Motor  Company didnt uphold her 
complaint. It said the hire purchase agreement had clearly  set out the cost of the car, the 
deposit paid; the amount of credit  borrowed and gave the total amount payable. These 
figures showed that the total amount  of interest  to be paid over the life of the agreement 
amounted to around £2,000. 
Lancaster Motor  Company said Mrs O had signed the agreement and had also signed the 
Pre-Contractual Explanation checklist which had boxes ticked to confirm information had 
been provided verbally. It said it couldnt agree that she had been misinformed about the 
total amount that was payable.
Mrs O disagreed with Lancaster Motor Companys view and complained to this service. Our 
adjudicator didnt recommend that Mrs Os complaint should be upheld. She said she didnt 
know what had been said when Mrs O visited the dealership but looking at the agreement 
under the section headed Financial  Details the costs  of the agreement were fully broken 
down.
Our adjudicator said that the agreement  set out the cost of the car, the advance  payment 
made by Mrs O and the amount of credit borrowed.  It then said The total amount payable 
(comprising the Advance Payment, Amount  of Credit, Acceptance Fee, Interest and Option 
to Purchase fee) is and gave the total cost which showed that the total interest  payable  was 
around £2,000  and not £400.  Our adjudicator said Mrs O had been provided with enough 
information to inform her of the cost of the applied interest.
Mrs O disagreed with our adjudicators view. She said the car finance hadnt  been properly 
explained to her (unlike the benefits of the alloy wheel repair  insurance cover).  Mrs O has 
also provided a short  newspaper article  about proposed  changes  to car dealerships being 
more transparent about whether they will be receiving commission from a car sale that is tied 
to a particular  financing deals interest  rate.
Mrs O says had she known the amount of interest she would have  to pay under the 
agreement she would  have looked for an alternative finance agreement.
my findings
Ref: DRN52218913Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs O says she asked several questions about the finance agreement,  checking  its 
affordability and whether  she could make over-payments and she asked  about  the total 
amount of interest  that would  be payable  under  the agreement. Mrs O says the salesperson  
informed her that the total interest would be £400 and she was pleased with this figure  and 
so signed the agreement.
I dont know what was said at the dealership between Mrs O and the salesperson so I dont 
know if there has been a misunderstanding or not, but I have been able to look at the hire 
purchase agreement,  and the pre-contractual explanation checklist,  which  were  both signed 
by Mrs O at the point of sale.
The checklist sets out a number of points  of information that should be ticked  once an 
explanation or the information  has been provided.  It also says that the information provided 
should be read carefully before signing.  Mrs O has ticked all the boxes on the checklist and 
signed it. This includes the box confirming she has been advised of how much she will have 
to pay periodically  and the total amount payable under the agreement.
Looking at the hire purchase agreement, on the first page it sets out the cost of the car, the 
deposit paid and the amount of credit being borrowed. It then sets out the APR being applied  
and the total amount that will be payable. This figure  shows that an additional  £2000  is 
payable on top of the cash  price  for the car.
I think its reasonable to have expected  Mrs O to read the hire purchase agreement  before 
signing it. I also think that the figures were clear and easy  to find. I appreciate Mrs O says 
that the salesperson told her that the total amount of interest  payable  was £400 but that 
doesnt match the figures in the agreement. I dont think  I can reasonably  say that Mrs O 
was uninformed about the costs  of the agreement due to the information provided to her. Ive 
also seen hat Mrs O agreed to make  the monthly payments which were calculated on the 
figures provided to her and so appears to have accepted that these were affordable for her.
Mrs O says that had she known the cost of the added  interest  for this agreement she would 
have looked for another way to finance the car. But Ive seen that the repayments were  
affordable for Mrs O and the car was an upgraded model at no extra  cost to her plus the 
APR applied to this agreement wasnt unusual. I think  these are all things that would also 
influence any decision to proceed or not with the agreement.
Mrs O has provided  a short newspaper article  about  Car Dealers Finance Scams . She 
says this shows that others misunderstand  car financial agreements.  I agree there are a 
number of different  ways  purchasing a car can be funded and these financial agreements  
will all have different pros and cons depending on the needs of the consumer.  The scam 
referred to in this article  is about  dealerships not being open about  receiving  commission 
when particular financial products are taken out by customers. This can mean  customers 
arent always given  objective advice about  the various financial products available  However,  
I cant say that this occurred with Mrs Os hire purchase agreement  and I cant reasonably 
say on the evidence Ive seen that Mrs O was misled about  the cost of the interest  for this 
agreement. 
So for the reasons given above  Im not upholding Mrs Os complaint.
Ref: DRN52218914my final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Mrs Os complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  5 April 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5221891