K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1997. Mr and Mrs B say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B say they felt pressured to take the PPI. B&B have given me a copy  of the 
mortgage application form. In this, there was a separate section for PPI that gave them  
the option of selecting accident, sickness and unemployment cover, accident and 
sickness cover or no PPI at all. Mr and Mrs B selected the accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover  to be in Mr Bs name  only. And in my opinion,  I think it was clear 
they couldve selected no if they didnt  want the PPI. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Bs comments,  but Ive not seen enough to say its more likely 
they were placed  under  unfair pressure to take the PPI. And I think B&B made it clear 
that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out.
B&B didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it didnt have  to check  if it was right 
for them. But it did have  to make sure they got the information they needed to decide if it 
was right for them. 
Its possible the information B&B gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted  this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of Mr Bs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
he was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. 
Mr B had 8 weeks of sick pay available to him and no savings at the time of the sale.  But 
the policy couldve covered him for up to 12 months per claim if he was too ill to work 
had an accident  or was made redundant. And that wouldve  been  in addition to his sick 
pay. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better information about the 
PPI would have  put Mr and Mrs B off taking out the cover.  
This means B&B doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But B&B will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because:  
B&B got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because B&B didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs B, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN55560432To put that right, B&B has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
B&B has to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. B&B should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs B any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
B&B should  pay back to Mr and Mrs B the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. B&B should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs B 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs B can claim back the tax if Mr B doesnt pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5556043