K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building  Society  failed to block card payments  when  he 
asked that it do so and failed to take steps to recover payments that he says he hadnt 
authorised. 
background
In 2017 Mr M was undergoing private  medical treatment, which  he was funding  himself. On 
15 March 2018  his healthcare provider (which Ill call A) took two card payments of £170  
from his Nationwide  debit  card.  On 24 March it took two further  payments, each of £250, 
although one of those was refunded a few days later. 
Mr M contacted Nationwide after the first two payments were made. He says he wanted  to 
challenge them and to ensure that no further  payments were taken. Nationwides records 
indicate, however,  that he didnt pass its security checks and so no further  action was taken  
at that time. 
Nationwide didnt block any of the payments, and nor did it take steps to recover  them.  It 
said it couldnt do so because Mr M had provided  his card details to A and so had a 
relationship with that company. The refund of one of the £250 payments was made when A 
identified that it had taken a duplicate  payment;  it wasnt initiated  by Nationwide. 
Unhappy that Nationwide  hadnt tried to recover the payments, Mr M referred his complaint 
to this service, where one of our investigators  considered it. She noted that Nationwide  had 
paid Mr M £75 in recognition of service failings, but didnt recommend  that it refund the 
payments. She didnt  think that Mr M had lost out, since it appeared that he owed the money  
to A. Mr M didnt  agree  and asked  that an ombudsman review  the matter.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached the same overall 
outcome as the investigator did. 
I should clarify first of all that this service  can only consider Mr Ms complaint about 
Nationwide. It cant make any ruling  or award  in respect of As actions. So, whilst  I must 
consider As actions   since they are part of the background that gave rise to Mr Ms 
complaint about  Nationwide  its not for me to say whether A has acted fairly or not. 
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Mr M provided  A with his Nationwide  card details, or 
that A provided  Mr M with medical  treatment. This is not a case where someone 
unconnected with Mr M has used  his card details to take payment.  I dont therefore  need to 
comment any further on the circumstances in which A had Mr Ms card details. 
I do need to consider, however, whether Nationwide should have allowed the payments in 
the first place. Card  payments of this nature are triggered by the payee,  not the payer. That 
means that, other  than providing A with his card details, Mr M wouldnt have had to do 
anything more for the payments to be made.  He didnt  need to give specific  approval  for 
each payment. 
I accept that Mr M tried to contact Nationwide the day before the payments of £250 were 
made. He wasnt however  able to pass security, and so couldnt  instruct  Nationwide not to 
Ref: DRN56970182make further  payments  to A. In the circumstances,  I dont  believe Nationwide  was under any 
duty to block those further payments.  
I must therefore consider whether, once Nationwide knew  that Mr M was unhappy that the 
payments had been made, it should have done  more to try to recover the money from A and 
whether it would have  been successful. The investigator concluded that Mr M probably owed 
the money to A in any event. As Ive said though, thats not for me to decide. I have however 
considered what  is likely to have happened if Nationwide  had sought to recover the 
payments.
Card schemes (in this case Visa) operate chargeback schemes.  They enable card issuers 
such as Nationwide  to escalate certain  types  of dispute arising from card payments. If a 
chargeback is successful, the provider of card services to the merchant (here, that means A) 
must reimburse the card provider and seek payment from its own customer. But chargeback 
largely covers disputes about actual payments, not disputes between customers and 
suppliers. 
As Ive said,  A legitimately had Mr Ms card details  so it could take payments. To that extent,  
therefore, it would have been  able to show that the payments were not fraudulent.  It seems  
likely as well that it would  have been  able to show that it had provided services  by way of 
medical treatment  for the payments it took.  It said in correspondence with Mr M that they 
were payments for treatment on 8 February, 16 February and 3 April 2017; it had charged 
twice for the first of these,  but made  a refund. I think it unlikely that, given that evidence, a 
chargeback request would have been  successful. Mr M has said he doesnt have records  of 
his appointments,  but Ive no reason to think that As records  arent accurate  the provision 
of medical care is highly  regulated and accurate records are vital.   
My conclusion on this point is that, even if Nationwide had sought to recover payment, it 
would have been unsuccessful.  
Mr M has referred to other payments  he made, suggesting he had paid twice. But the 
invoices he has sent refer to appointments on 17 July and 16 November 2017  some 
months after those  that A says the disputed payments relate  to. I dont believe the 
chargeback process  would have resulted in a refund on the grounds that the payments were 
duplicates. 
Finally, Mr M has said that payments shouldnt have been taken so long after the 
appointments to which they related. I can see why hes unhappy  that A didnt apparently 
pursue those payments until around a year after the appointments to which it says they 
relate. But I dont believe  thats a reason for Nationwide (which wouldnt in any event have 
had that information) to decline payment. Nor does it affect Nationwides ability to obtain  
refunds through the chargeback scheme.  
Overall, therefore, I agree  with the investigator that Nationwides payment of £75 in 
recognition of its service  failings is a fair resolution to Mr Ms complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Nationwide Building Society  to do any more to resolve 
Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr M to accept  or reject  my decision before 15 December  2019.
Ref: DRN56970183Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5697018