K820x#14Complaint
Ms E is unhappy with Nationwide  Building Societys  response to a claim she made in relation 
to a payment  she alleges she was induced into making.
Background
Ms E has said that at some point between  2006 and 2008, she used her debit card to make  
payments to a third party in relation to purchasing a timeshare or holiday club membership. 
Ms E has also said that at some time after this, she took out a loan in order to upgrade  her 
membership. She has said that she made  payments to Nationwide for this loan.
However, despite being initially happy with her membership, Ms E has said that she hasnt 
been provided with what  she was promised.  And that she was told that she would be able to 
sell the timeshare if she wanted to, but that this was not the case.   
She complained to Nationwide. It responded saying that it was unable to raise a chargeback  
claim for the debit card payments she had apparently made between 2006  and 2008,  as this 
had not been brought  within the timeframe allowed by the relevant rules.  It was also unable  
to identify any such debit  card payments having been made. 
Ms E wasnt satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt think her complaint  should be upheld though. She agreed  that the chargeback claim 
for the card payments  wasnt possible after such a length of time. And she also said that 
there was no evidence of a loan for which Nationwide was responsible for. Ms E remained 
unhappy and her complaint has ultimately  been  passed to me for a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator.
Ms E hasnt been  able to provide any detail about the loan she says she entered  to upgrade 
her account.  And Nationwide  has said that the only loan she has had with them  ended  
several years prior to the events in question. Without further evidence on this aspect, my 
decision is limited to considering Nationwides handling of her claim for a refund of the debit 
card payments she says she made between 2006 and 2008. 
That said,  I dont doubt that Ms E had a contract with the timeshare/holiday club provider. 
She has provided correspondence showing that she was making payments for the 
management charges  relating to this. But these wouldnt have been a payment in relation to 
making a purchase   they are most  likely ongoing annual fees to pay for the upkeep of the 
relevant timeshare property. 
The claim in relation to the 2006-2008 purchase  payments would have to be considered 
under the provisions for a chargeback. Ms E would  not be able to bring a claim under the 
provisions of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974,  including a claim for misrepresentation under 
section 75 of that Act. This is because  the payments did not involve the provision of credit. 
Ref: DRN51344732Chargeback is a process that is provided  by card schemes. The relevant card scheme in this 
case is VISA. If there's a problem with the goods  or services that have been purchased 
using a VISA card, the chargeback process  allows a customer  to ask for the relevant  
transaction to be reversed. However, theres  no automatic right to a chargeback and this 
process isnt a guaranteed method of getting  a refund.
A bank  also doesnt  have  to raise a chargeback. Although, if there is a reasonable chance 
the chargeback  claim would be successful, I consider it would be good practice for a bank  to 
try  this would likely  be treating the customer fairly and having due regard to their interests. 
The rules  for the process are set out by the card scheme, and all banks, etc. are obliged to 
follow these rules when  raising a claim.  These rules include the time limits in which a claim 
can be made. A failure  to comply with these is a valid defence to a chargeback  claim.
So if a consumer brings their claim outside of the relevant time limits, that claim is unlikely to 
be successful. And if a bank reasonably considers that a claim wont  be successful, I dont 
consider it would have to raise the claim. Indeed, even if it did so, the card scheme is 
unlikely to process it.
In Ms Es case, the relevant VISA rules say that the latest a claim can be made,  regardless 
of the circumstances, is 540 calendar days from the date the transaction was processed. 
It should be noted that Ms E hasnt been able to provide any evidence of the debit card 
payments having  been made.  But given she appears  to have had a contract with the 
timeshare/holiday club provider, there is no reason for me to doubt  that she made the debit 
card payments she has said she did to enter this.
Based on Ms E having made these debit card payment at the end of 2008 (which  is the 
latest it could  have been, based on her testimony),  this is around nine years prior to her 
contacting Nationwide about  the claim in late 2017. This is far beyond the 540 day time limit 
and so Ms E had exceeded the period provided in the relevant rules.
Even if her claim had been raised by Nationwide, and even  if VISA had processed it, it could 
easily have been  defended by the timeshare/holiday clubs  bank and so its most likely it 
would not have been successful. And, in these circumstances,  I consider  Nationwide acted 
fairly and reasonably in not submitting the chargeback claim to VISA.
Ms E has said that she was induced into making  the payments following an alleged 
misrepresentation. And I do have a great deal of sympathy with Ms E if this is the case.  I 
also appreciate  that she may not have  been  aware of the card scheme  rules  and time limits. 
But none  of this means that Nationwide has done anything  wrong.
Ref: DRN51344733My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5134473