K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Aviva Insurance Limited  mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
In 2002, Mr D took a single  premium PPI policy when arranging  finance over a term of 48 
months to buy a car. The PPI was sold to Mr D by another financial business but Avivas 
accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to the seller as Aviva  for simplicity. 
The PPI protected  Mr Ds monthly  repayments if couldnt work due to disability or 
unemployment. It also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr D didnt agree with our 
adjudicator, so the complaint was passed  to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ds case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mr D first complained to us he said he was unaware the PPI had been  added.  More  
recently he said he was told by Aviva that the loan had to include PPI. Clearly these both 
cant be true but I understand  why he might not be able to accurately recall the sale given it 
took place so long ago. 
Equally, I dont find it surprising that neither partys been able to provide the actual 
documentation from the time of the sale. But Avivas provided a sample of the sort of finance 
agreement that it believes Mr D would  have seen and signed  at that time. Im satisfied that 
Mr D would have seen  the agreement, or at least something very similar to it. 
The finance  agreement describes the PPI as Optional Insurance. The agreement explains 
the cost, which  is shown separately  to the cost of the car finance,  and shows that interests 
payable on it. So I think its likely that PPI was presented as optional and Mr D chose to take 
it and thats how it came to be added. 
The parties agree that the PPI was sold without a formal recommendation. Although  Aviva  
still had to give Mr D clear  enough  information about the PPI for him to be able to make an 
informed decision about taking it. Its possible the information Aviva gave Mr D about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont think better information would have 
stopped him from buying it. Thats because:  
 
Mr D was eligible for the PPI. And it seems he wasnt  affected  by any of the main 
things the PPI didnt cover or limited  cover for. 
The cost of the PPI was set out in the finance agreement  and Ive no reason to 
believe Mr D would  have considered it to be unaffordable. 
Ref: DRN54600592Mr D says he was entitled to generous sick pay through his public sector employer. 
But the PPI benefits  would have  paid out on top of that, and up until the end of the 
loan term in the case of disability. While Mr Ds family might have been willing to 
provide support if he was off work, there  was no guaranteed  it would have been  in a 
position to do so. The PPI benefits,  on the other hand, were guaranteed.  Overall, I 
think Mr D would have found the PPI useful.
Its not clear now if the PPI was flexible  that is, whether it would have given Mr D a 
proportional refund  of the PPI premium  if he paid off the loan early. But I havent 
seen sufficient evidence that he intended to settle  the loan early when he took it out. 
So I dont think better information about this would have  put Mr D off the PPI. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr Ds said, including that Avivas  already paid him 
back for another PPI policy it sold him, meaning it should do the same  now. But its entitled 
to defend the sale in 2002  if it believes the particular PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold. And, taking 
everything into account, I dont find that Mr Ds lost out because of how he was sold the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not upholding the complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5460059