K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains, through  her attorney (Mrs B1) and with the help of an 
Independent Financial Adviser (IFA), that the equity  release product she and the late Mr B 
were sold by ReAssure  Limited was unsuitable and inappropriate because:
It had a negative  impact on their existing  benefits and ability  to claim pension credits.
They were not warned  about the loss of increased equity in the property.
The adviser didnt  discuss  alternatives or recommend a more suitable product such  
as a standard equity  release product.
The adviser completed the first illustration before the fact find was completed 
showing he was only ever going to recommend the plan she took out.
background
Mrs B and her late husband  Mr B took out a home reversion  plan (the plan) in 2001 based  
on advice given to them by an adviser for a predecessor business to ReAssure. Such plans 
allow a client to sell all or part of their home and get a cash lump sum and/or an income in 
return. Legal title to the property is transferred to the plan provider but it cannot sell the 
property unless the client dies or moves out as a result of their care needs. 
The plan Mrs B and Mr B took out gave Reassure 80% of the equity with them retaining the 
remaining 20%. They received a lump  sum of £10,000 with interest  payable  at 8.5%, 
together with a gross annual income  of just over £3,600 paid by way of an annuity. The 
interest payments  were paid out of the gross  income.
Reassure didnt uphold the complaint. In short it said that the plan was suitable  and Mrs B 
and Mr B were made fully aware of its terms, conditions,  and risks. It said they were  made 
aware of the consequences of going ahead with the plan, particularly in relation  to their 
estate. It also said they had received separate legal advice before starting the plan. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. In short he made  the 
following findings:
The guidelines  for sale of equity release products  at the time didnt require the 
adviser to go through alternatives.
The original meeting was in November  2000  with the fact find completed  in 
January 2001  and the plan starting  in March 2001 so Mrs B and the late Mr B had 
time to consider  if the plan was suitable for their needs.
Mrs B and the late Mr B wanted to supplement their income and the plan allowed 
them to do this and also provided  a lump  sum they wanted. A standard  equity release 
product would not have provided a guaranteed income each month.
Pension credit was only introduced in October 2003 and it couldnt  be foreseen in 
2001 that the plan might affect  their entitlement to this.
The plans impact  on other benefits  was explained to them  by a solicitor before they 
took out the plan.
Mrs B and the late Mr B were aware they were giving up 80% of the value of their 
property whether or not it increased in value as this was explained to them  by the 
solicitor they saw.
The plan was suitable as it met their needs at the time.
The IFA didnt agree with the investigator and, in summary, made the following points:
Ref: DRN56168462Mrs B and Mr B were  financially unintelligent homeowners and the plan wasnt  
suitable for them.
This would not get through compliance  now and would  not have done so then.
The investigator has relied on spurious documents which is untenable and 
disgraceful.
The plan was unsuitable and the advice flawed irrespective of the documentation.
Can it be acceptable to advise a client to give up benefits  they are entitled to by 
giving up 80% of their home to produce a taxable  income?
Wasnt this against regulation at the time?
Was it not a requirement  even  for a tied agent  to recommend a more  suitable product 
from another provider  if your product wasnt  suitable?
Doesnt the whole  sorry case show the financial naivety of Mrs B and Mr B, and 
regulated advice shouldve protected them.
The persuasive adviser knew what documentation was required to cover him.
Mrs B and Mr B were  financially unaware and had no previous experience of 
regulated advice. They were duped into taking  out this product by a financially 
incentivised salesman.
The investigator responded to the IFA but didnt change his opinion.  The IFA provided a 
further response in which, in short,  he said that there had never been regulatory approval  to 
recommend a product that had a negative impact. He said that financially inexperienced and 
vulnerable clients  are entitled  to best advice and what the investigator is saying is that they 
shouldve known better. He referred  to a case decided by us in an unrelated  complaint about  
a different product and suggested that the investigators findings werent consistent with that 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note the IFA has referred to a decision of our service in which we upheld a complaint about 
a different product sold around  30 years  ago on the basis  that this wasnt best  advice. He 
has not identified  the complaint he is referring  to but in any event each  case is looked at on 
its own merits and an unrelated complaint about a different product isnt relevant to this 
complaint.
The IFA has also suggested  that the investigator has relied  on spurious documents  and that 
this was untenable. But the documents the investigator relied  upon,  and which I also 
comment on within my findings below, are contemporaneous with the sale of the plan in 
2001. Such documents are often the best available evidence of what  happened and no 
evidence has been provided that supports what the IFA has said about  these being spurious. 
It is quite appropriate  for us to rely upon such documents unless there is some reason to 
question what is set out in them. I am surprised the IFA has suggested this isnt appropriate 
given he is required to complete certain  documents at the time of advice and would no doubt 
rely on such documents as being  accurate.
I also note the IFA has said that the plan would not get through compliance  now and would 
not have done so at the time of sale and has queried if it wasnt  against regulation  at the 
time. But, as has already  been pointed out, the sale of home  reversion plans were  not 
Ref: DRN56168463regulated at the time  they didnt become regulated until April 2007, over six years after the 
sale.
There was a voluntary  code of practice  run by Safe Home Income Plans  (SHIP) that 
ReAssure agreed  to comply with. The code had certain requirements for businesses 
including providing  clear information,  allowing clients to remain  in their property for life, and 
clients obtaining independent legal advice. I have  seen  nothing that suggests that the 
adviser didnt follow  the code  when  advising Mrs B and Mr B about the plan. 
I acknowledge that in taking out the plan Mrs B and Mr B lost council tax benefit.  But that is 
not the full picture. The fact find completed in January 2001 shows they were  not in a very 
good position financially. It records a joint monthly  income of only £571  with outgoings of 
£573. It also records that they were managing to just about  keep in budget but that this was 
an ongoing  struggle  unsurprisingly given their outgoings are shown  to be slightly  higher 
than their income. So they were only just about  making ends meet even with the council tax 
benefit of around  £482 each year. 
By taking  out the plan Mrs B and Mr B increased their overall yearly  income  by a net amount 
of around £2,770 after deduction of the amount council  tax benefit lost, the interest on the 
loan amount of £10,000 and the nominal lease payments. In the circumstances they were  
clearly much  better  off as a result of the plan.
Im also satisfied they were made aware  they would lose council tax benefit as a result of 
taking out the plan.  The documents  provided  to them,  such as the key features document,  
referred to this. In addition, the solicitors certificate they signed when they saw the 
independent solicitor as part of the process shows  they were warned that any entitlement  to 
council tax benefit and income support currently or in the future would be reduced as a result 
of the plan. So I think they were  in a position to choose whether this is what they wanted.  
The complaint also refers to loss of Pension Credits.  But given this benefit didnt even exist 
in 2001 it isnt something that the adviser  could have  taken into account when considering  
the suitability of the plan.
The complaint refers to Mrs B and Mr B not being made aware  of the loss of increased 
equity of the property.  But given the documents made clear  that Mrs B and Mr B retained 
only 20% of the equity  I can see no basis  for them thinking when they took out the plan that 
they would  be entitled to more than 20% of the equity on sale of the property at some point 
in the future.
The complaint suggests that the adviser was wrong not to consider alternative  products, in 
particular a standard equity release product - I take this to mean a lifetime mortgage 
product whereby a certain amount  of the equity value of the property is loaned  to the client 
with interest then being payable and added to the loan amount.
ReAssure has said that the home reversion plan was the only equity  release  product that 
was available  at that time,  so it doesnt  appear to have had a lifetime  mortgage option 
available. And there was no requirement to advise  Mrs B and Mr B about products that other  
providers might have  available. 
The fact find shows that the adviser did discuss other ways Mrs B and Mr B might improve  
their financial  position and why these werent  taken up by them. These included; moving to a 
cheaper house, into rented accommodation or to live with family; asking for financial 
Ref: DRN56168464assistance from family; and selling  other  assets.  The fact find records  why Mrs B and Mr B 
did not want to use one of these other options.  
I note what has been said about the adviser  providing an illustration to Mrs B and Mr B 
regarding the plan after he first met them and before he completed the fact find in 
January 2001.  This suggests he had decided to recommend the plan to them based on the 
initial discussion he had and before completing the fact find. But given  this was the only 
equity release product that was available I dont think this is surprising, and it isnt evidence  
that the plan wasnt suitable.
The IFA has referred to Mrs B and Mr B not being  financially aware.  But I dont think  the way 
the plan worked  was difficult to understand. And I think  they were  provided with the 
information they needed to understand it. They also received advice about the way the plan 
worked from a solicitor who certified  he had explained the plan to them.  In the circumstances 
Im not persuaded they didnt understand what they were entering into.
In summary  I dont think Reassure has done anything wrong. I have seen no persuasive 
evidence that the plan wasnt  suitable  for Mrs Bs and Mr Bs needs  at the time of sale or that 
they werent provided with the information they needed to fully understand it. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B1 as attorney 
for Mrs B to accept or reject  my decision before 12 July 2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5616846