K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains about the service Assurant  General  Insurance  Limited provided him after he 
made a claim on his gadget insurance policy
Background
Mr H made  a claim to Assurant General after he damaged his iPad.
Assurant General assessed Mr Hs claim, and in line with the policy, it agreed  to try and 
repair his iPad.
Mr H asked Assurant General if he could have his iPad delivered to a different address, and 
provided it with the address he wanted the iPad delivered to. Assurant General agreed,  and 
said itd deliver Mr Hs iPad to the new address hed provided. 
But when Assurant  Generals repairer looked  at Mr Hs iPad, it advised it was beyond repair.  
In line with the terms of Mr Hs policy, Assurant General  arranged  for him to be sent a 
replacement iPad. But this iPad was sent to the old address, not the updated address Mr H 
had provided.
Mr H let Assurant General know, and it said it would try and deliver his iPad to the correct  
address. But Mr H noticed the delivery address Assurant Generals couriers  held,  was still 
the wrong address. He called the couriers who said they werent able to change the address, 
as they had to be instructed by Assurant  General.
Frustrated, Mr H drove roughly 10 miles to the couriers depot  himself to pick up his 
replacement iPad.
Mr H complained to Assurant General about the inconvenience it had caused him. 
Assurant General acknowledged  itd caused Mr H inconvenience, and offered him £40 
compensation. Mr H didnt accept the offer and remained  unhappy  so he brought  the 
complaint to us. He thought £100 was a fairer  representation of the inconvenience  hed 
experienced.
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint and agreed Assurant General hadnt provided 
him with the best service. He too acknowledged Assurant Generals actions had caused 
Mr H unnecessary stress and inconvenience.  But he thought  the £40 it had offered in 
compensation was reasonable,  so he didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H remained  unhappy and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Hs 
complaint. I understand this wont be the decision he was hoping  for, but Ill explain why.
Theres no question here that Assurant General has made an error. Mr H let it know of a new 
address he wanted  his iPad to be delivered to, and he was entitled to expect his iPad was 
delivered there without  issue.
Ref: DRN59860372Looking at the evidence thats  been provided, its clear Assurant General did update the 
delivery address.  But when Mr Hs iPad wasnt able to be repaired, a replacement  was 
ordered, and this was sent to the previous,  incorrect address.
Mr Hs iPad was delivered to the wrong address, and this would have undoubtedly caused 
him unnecessary stress. Whats also clear  is that Mr H let Assurant General know  of its 
error, and Assurant General agreed  to send the iPad again, to the correct  address the 
following day.
But when Mr H checked what address the courier was delivering to, the old address  was still 
showing. He called the courier, who said it couldnt change  address without  instruction  from 
Assurant General. Mr H then decided to go to the depot himself, and pick up his iPad.  I can 
understand why Mr H took the decision to go to the courier to collect his iPad himself, but 
this was his choice. And its not one I fully hold Assurant General  responsible  for.
Assurant General did ask their courier to change the delivery address for Mr Hs 
replacement iPad. But the courier said they couldnt  do this, because  the delivery had been 
cancelled by Mr H. So while I do understand Mr Hs decision to go and collect  his iPad 
himself, had he not done so, its likely  it wouldve  been delivered to the correct address.
That said,  Mr H has been inconvenienced here,  the iPad should  have  been  delivered to the 
correct address in the first instance.  And the fact it wasnt has caused  him unnecessary  
distress and inconvenience. But Im satisfied the £40 compensation Assurant General has 
offered him, is a reasonable offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Assurant General Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Joe Thornley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5986037