K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1995. Mrs L says Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:  
I think  Barclays made it clear  that Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant remember this. Ive seen a copy  of 
the application form completed  at the time of the sale. And regardless of whether the 
PPI was sold in branch  or through a postal application, I think the application  form made 
it clear that PPI was optional.  Mrs L was presented with two equally clear options  to take 
or refuse PPI. I can see that the option  to take PPI has been selected. I havent  seen 
sufficient evidence to suggest  that it wasnt Mrs L who ticked  this box (or hadnt at least  
asked the representative, if any, to tick it on her behalf) or that she wouldnt have been 
aware that the box was ticked given that she signed  the form. And I havent  seen any 
evidence which would make  me conclude that Barclays ticked  the box without Mrs Ls 
consent after the signed  form was returned to them.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs L so it had to check that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example, she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs L about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L because:  
When the policy was sold,  Barclays expected  got a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mrs L about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs L has said - including what she has said about her existing 
employee benefits. But these points dont  change my decision. The PPI would have paid out 
in addition to Mrs Ls sick pay. Also Mrs Ls sick pay would  have been reduced to half for the 
Ref: DRN57724182second six months whereas the policy would  have paid 10% of the outstanding balance for 
the full 12 months.  It would also have paid out in addition to and beyond  the 6 months  in 
terms of salary Mrs L would have been  entitled to if Mrs L lost her job. Ive also taken into 
account what Mrs L has said about her savings, but given the policy  was of a relatively low 
cost, I still dont think the existence of savings made the policy unsuitable for her.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mrs L any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5772418