K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. Mr C and Miss C say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
background
In 1995 Mr C and Miss C took out a PPI policy with a mortgage.  They  paid a monthly amount 
for the policy.
The policy provided  them with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.  Santander 
no longer has all of the records from the sale but has told us that it has assumed  the PPI 
covered both Mr C and Miss C. And that if either of them had made a successful claim the 
policy could have paid out the monthly  benefit  (split  on a 50% basis  each) for up to 24 
months  the actual  benefit length is unknown as these details are no longer available.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander  disagreed and so the matter has been  
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr C and Miss Cs case.
Ive decided to uphold  Mr C and Miss Cs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Santander has told us that it recommended  the policy to Mr C and Miss C. This means it had 
to take reasonable steps  to ensure that the policy was right for them.  But, based on what 
Ive seen about their circumstances  at the time,  I dont think the policy was right for them.
Santander has given  us a copy of the policy terms and conditions which it says would have 
been the document applicable at the time of Mr C and Miss C taking out this policy.  On this 
document it states that cover  wont  be provided  for;
any period of disablement arising from any existing defect or chronic or recurring disease, 
disorder or condition of which the insured person is aware on the date of signing the 
application
Mr C has told both Santander  and us that he had a pre-existing medical condition at the time 
of taking out the policy. And he has gone on to explain  that this ongoing condition  was made 
worse as a result of some of the shifts he was required  to do in his occupation and that he 
took time off work as a result of this condition   he has told us that this was on average 
about two weeks  per year. I think its likely that any claim for this condition would be excluded  
as a result  of the term stated above. And I think this would  have  mattered to Mr C especially  
when considering the type of condition he was suffering from, the type of job role that he 
had, and the fact that he was already aware  that he did have to take time off, on quite a 
regular basis, as a result of that condition.
Ref: DRN57492452Santander has said that any pre-existing conditions would have been discussed at the time 
of the sale and it would have formed part of a suitability  check  to make  sure the policy  was 
right for Mr C and Miss C. It also said that the exclusion  would have been discussed  with 
them and the policy summary they would have received also provided information  about this 
exclusion. While Ive noted these comments,  I dont have any evidence  to support that 
Santander asked  questions about  Mr Cs health at the time of the sale and, having then 
found out about this condition, it went on to advise him that it was unlikely the policy  would 
provide cover for this. I dont think that, if Mr C and Miss C had been told they wouldnt be 
covered for the condition Mr C was suffering from, they would have thought this policy would 
have been a good choice  for them.
So when taking  everything Ive seen and been told into consideration, I dont think 
Mr C and Miss C would have gone  ahead with the PPI had Santander advised them,  as it 
should have, that Mr C wouldnt be covered for this condition. And so I think  Mr C and Miss C 
have lost out as a result of what Santander  did wrong.
what the business should  do to put things right
Santander should put Mr C and Miss C in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken 
out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  already, and Santander 
should:
-Pay Mr C and Miss C the amount they paid each month  for the PPI.
-Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
-If Mr C and Miss C made  a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Santander can take 
off what  they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Mr C and Miss C a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if 
they ask for one.
Ref: DRN57492453my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr C and Miss Cs complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5749245