K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms S say that they were  mis-sold  a regular premium mortgage  payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy by Santander UK Plc (Santander).
background
During a meeting in 2000 Mr and Ms S applied  for a mortgage with Santander. At the same 
time they took out a PPI policy in Mr Ss sole name to protect their repayments  if Mr S lost 
his job or was unable to work due to accident or sickness.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld as he didnt think  there  was 
enough information to conclude the policy wasnt presented as optional and thought it 
provided a suitable benefit. 
Mr and Ms S disagree. They say they werent made  aware the policy was optional  and didnt 
need it. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Ms Ss complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Ms Ss complaint.
The policy was sold during a meeting. Santander  had to make it clear the PPI was optional 
and not a condition of the mortgage. Mr and Ms S say this wasnt done but havent given us 
much detail about what was said at the meeting to make them  think this. But I think thats 
understandable as the PPI was sold a while ago. So Ive relied more on what  the documents 
from the time show and what I think is most likely to have happened.
The PPI policy is a standalone policy and applied for on a separate  application form with a 
separate direct debit  mandate from the mortgage. Due to the passage of time Santander  
doesnt have a copy of the application form that was completed for Mr S but I think it was 
likely a form was completed as I have seen a copy of the welcome letter sent out to them 
which confirms Mr S applied for PPI and that a direct debit payment had been set up for it. 
So I think Mr and Ms S wouldve understood they had a choice  in taking the policy and that it 
was separate  from the mortgage. 
Also, only Mr S was covered by the policy but both Mr and Ms S were jointly responsible for 
the mortgage. If PPI was compulsory I wouldve expected both parties to the mortgage 
would have to be covered.  
This was an advised  sale of PPI. What this means is that Santander not only had to provide 
information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Ms S could 
make an informed choice  about buying PPI. It also had to make  sure that if it was to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable for Mr Ss needs and circumstances.
Ref: DRN55504592I dont know if Santander took all the steps  it shouldve. But I think  the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr S for the following reasons:
He was eligible for the policy  and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by any of 
the main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy  which couldve made  it 
difficult to make  a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr S says he was entitled  to a good level of sick pay but had no 
other means  of covering  mortgage  payments if he was unable to work. But the policy 
wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and covered their mortgage payments for 
up to 12 months per claim if Mr S was too sick to work or lost his job.
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Ms S in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think Mr and Ms S wouldve been  interested in protecting them.
There was nothing  to suggest  that the policy wasnt affordable  to Mr and Ms S at the 
time. And if they decided they no longer wanted the policy  they could cancel  it. 
I also need to consider  whether Santander gave Mr and Ms S information  in a way which  
was clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or 
not they wanted to take the policy out. I dont  know if Santander gave all the information as it 
shouldve. But for the same reasons  that the policy  was suitable and based on what  Mr and 
Ms S have told us about their circumstances  at the time, I think  they wouldve still taken out 
the PPI policy  if theyd been given  all the proper information at the time of sale.
This means  Mr and Ms S arent any worse off as a result of any wrong doing by Santander.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Ms Ss complaint against 
Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5550459