K822xcomplaint
Mr I complains that Transunion International UK Limited  (Callcredit)  recorded inaccurate 
entries on his credit  file. He wants compensation for the financial loss he says hes incurred.
background 
Mr I tells us that in November 2017  he noticed  that his credit file with Callcredit  contained 
inaccurate details  and showed  him to be in default. He says as a result  of this he lost the 
chance to purchase  a buy to let property at below market price. And he states  that hes 
suffered other financial loss in the form of lost work and a higher  interest  rate on an 
alternative property. Mr I says his losses are in excess of £34,000  and feels  Callcredit  should  
compensate him for this sum.
Callcredit accepted  that it had recorded inaccurate  information on Mr Is credit file. It 
explained that itd received Mr Is complaint on 27 November  2017. It said that enquiries 
were made which led it to conclude that the incorrect details arose  from a report relating to 
another individual with a similar name and the same  date of birth as Mr I. Callcredit  told us it 
had made  an application  on 11 December 2017 to have the entry removed and this usually 
would occur within 28 days. It said it didnt accept Mr I had suffered any financial loss - and it 
didnt offer any compensation - although  it had upheld his complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 24 February  2020.  I indicated  that I 
intended to uphold the complaint and award Mr I £100 compensation. Since then both 
parties have replied. Callcredit said it agreed with the provisional  decision. Mr I replied and 
said he didnt agree with all of my findings. He said he still felt a business opportunity had 
been lost and that the level of compensation was insufficient.
I thank both parties for their replies  but as no new information has been provided I see no 
reason to alter my provisional decision. Its largely repeated  within my final decision which is 
set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr I would be upset at seeing incorrect  information recorded on his credit 
file. That this arose during a period when he was negotiating  a mortgage makes it 
particularly unfortunate.  Regrettably,  mistakes  do happen and where different individuals  
share the same or similar names and dates  of birth it can lead to confusion and the merging 
of details. Thats what seems to have happened here.
As Mr I is seeking a substantial sum of compensation  I think it would be helpful  if I briefly 
explained our approach  to such awards.  Broadly  speaking,  compensation falls into two 
categories. Firstly, compensation for any actual financial  and /or consequential loss 
sustained as a result of an error by the business. But before  we awarded this wed need to 
see proof of the losses sustained. And we also consider making awards for distress and 
inconvenience which a consumer has experienced as a result  of the error. As each case is 
dealt with on its own merits,  previous awards made  by ombudsmen  in other cases are not a 
particularly relevant guide.
Ref: DRN51079472Where facts are in dispute and/ or information is unclear - as is the case here - Im required 
to reach  my decision on a balance  of probabilities.
Mr Is claim is based on the fact that he was unable to complete on a property deal which  fell 
through during the period  his credit file showed  the inaccurate entries.  Hes supplied details 
of the proposed transaction and a confirmation  from the vendors solicitors,  dated 30 
November 2017,  that their clients were unable to proceed with the proposed sale.
In quantifying  his alleged losses Mr I has included figures based on the supposed loss of 
opportunity (the chance to purchase a property at what he says was below market  value);  a 
higher interest  rate on the property he later purchased; time spent on these deals and the 
effect on his personal  life.
I think the most important  point to make in respect of that part of the claim that related to lost 
opportunity is that there was no legal contract  in force  at the time. So - even if Mr I had 
obtained the mortgage he was looking for - the vendors were under no obligation to sell the 
property to him. The solicitors letters gives no indication as to the reason the sale couldnt 
proceed. Its an inherent risk in the legal process   of any deal involving  land and/or house  
purchase that until contracts have been  exchanged neither party  is legally bound. And deals 
fall through all the time for a variety of reasons.
The price  comparisons which have been  supplied relating to other properties in the relevant 
area also dont change my view.  Even  for outwardly similar properties  there  can be a wide 
range of price  variation.  The condition of a property is only one of many  factors  which may 
have such an effect. So whilst a valuation may appear to be at less than market price  (itself 
a subjective matter) it may just be that other  considerations have affected the price. Im not 
persuaded that the information  provided shows that Mr I incurred a loss.
Mr I subsequently  purchased another property  which he feels  provided less value for money. 
But this isnt something that I consider  to be relevant. Even if he could show  hed incurred 
loss when the first property deal fell through I dont think that can have any bearing  on a 
completely different property. He was under no compulsion to purchase an alternative 
property and in my view its an entirely  separate and discrete  transaction  from the original  
deal. I also understand  the transaction was completed after the error  had been removed 
from Mr Is credit file. Whilst  its Mr Is contention  that interest rates had moved  against  him, 
Callcredit isnt responsible  for such changes in the money market.
I accept that there will be disappointment  when a proposed deal falls through.  But anyone 
speculating within the property market would  be aware of the many risks which  can affect  
such transactions. And as the vendors didnt  give a reason for not proceeding it wouldnt be 
reasonable to place  all the responsibility  upon  Callcredit.
In terms of the level of distress and inconvenience, I take into account that Callcredit 
apologised to Mr I and took swift action once it had determined  an error had occurred. As far 
as I can see the application to remove the incorrect details from his credit  record  was made  
within fourteen days of the error  being notified.  Its hard to see how the business could 
reasonably be expected  to respond  any quicker  than it did.
Ref: DRN51079473In assessing any award  of compensation the intention is not to punish  a business. Its to 
recompense a consumer  for actual losses  incurred  and - in appropriate cases - to recognise 
the inconvenience and distress which was caused.  Ive already indicated I dont think the 
information supplied  shows that there was any financial loss due to the error by Callcredit. 
And given  its timely response I think any award  of compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience must be proportionate and reflect this.
I understand Mr I thinks that the award  of £100 is insulting and doesnt cover his basic  
costs in taking  up the complaint. But we wouldnt normally compensate directly for time and 
Ive not been given  details  of any incidental losses such as call charges.
In summary,  Im upholding  this complaint.  But as I dont  think theres sufficient information to 
show Mr I suffered any financial loss I shant make any award in that respect.  And given the 
prompt action taken  by Callcredit to remedy  its error  I think  £100 is a fair and reasonable 
award in respect  of distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding the complaint.
I require Transunion International  UK Limited to pay £100 to Mr I for distress  and 
inconvenience incurred  due to its error.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Stephen D Ross
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5107947