K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that the car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with BMW  
Financial Services(GB)  Limited (BMWFS) was not of satisfactory quality.  He wants to reject 
the car.
background
Mr C entered into a HPA with BMWFS  on 22 March  2018. He experienced issues  with the 
car and it was returned to the garage for repairs on 28 March. Mr C collected the car on 
29 March and was told a new sensor  was required. Mr C says it was agreed that the sensor 
would be sent to him and he would have the repairs carried out locally.  Mr C says the sensor  
didnt arrive and after chasing the car was returned  on 8 April for the sensor and paintwork 
repair. Mr C collected the car on 20 April but says he was told the sensor  had not been 
repaired and the car needed to go to the manufacturer for repairs. 
Mr C took the car to the manufacturer on 8 May and a health check  revealed further issues.  
Mr C said at his point  he tried to reject the car.
BMWFS says that the faults Mr C reported within the first 30 days had been repaired and 
Mr C had accepted  these. It says that the health check  was carried  out more  than 30 days  
after acquisition and so the retailer needed  to have the opportunity to carry out repairs.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He said that under the Consumer Rights  Act 2015  
(CRA 2015)  Mr C had the right to reject the car within the first 30 days if it was of 
unsatisfactory quality.  A fault was identified shortly after acquisition but there was a delay  in 
the repairs being undertaken. Given the delays and when Mr C asked to reject  the car, our 
investigator thought  it fair that rejection should be allowed.
BMWFS did not accept  our investigators  view.  It reiterated that repairs  had been undertaken 
and accepted within the first 30 days. It said that it was willing to assist  with the repairs 
identified in the health check  but as this took place more than 30 days after acquisition  and 
Mr C did not contact it until 25 April (again more than 30 days after acquisition) it did not 
accept that he should  be allowed to reject  the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to consider each case based  on its merits. I take relevant  regulations  into account 
but my decision is based on what I consider fair and reasonable given the unique 
circumstances of the complaint.
Mr C acquired  a used car through a HPA with BMWFS. Under  the regulations BMWFS  can 
be held liable if the car was not of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory  
quality takes into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car. In this case  the car 
had been driven  52,000 miles and was just under four years old at acquisition.
Mr C entered into the HPA on 22 February  and the car was returned to the retailer for repairs  
on 28 February. I have limited information about  the repairs  but based  on Mr Cs testimony I 
accept that he was told the car needed  a new sensor. There  were then issues as the sensor  
Ref: DRN50423612was agreed to be sent to Mr C but this didnt  happen and instead the car was returned  to on 
8 April for repairs.
It is accepted that there were issues with Mr Cs car and given when these arose  I find it 
reasonable to accept  that they were present from the point of supply. The outstanding issue 
is whether it is reasonable that Mr C is allowed to reject the car.
BMWFS says that the request for rejection  and the health check  took place more that 
30 days after acquisition and so the retailer should be allowed the opportunity to carry out 
repairs.
I have looked  at the timing and can see from the notes provided by BMWFS  that Mr C asked 
the reject  the car on 17 April that is within the first 30 days. Also, under CRA 2015, when a 
car is in for repairs the 30 day period is paused and only restarts after repair.  In this case the 
issue with the sensor  was not repaired on 29 March and Mr C then had to wait for a period  
while he was expecting  a part to arrive. The car was then returned  to the retailer  on 8 April 
and not available for collection  until 20 April.  At this time the repair still hadnt taken place. 
Given the above timings  provided by Mr C, I find it reasonable  that the 30 day period would 
be put on hold due to the car waiting  for repairs. Mr C had a health  check  carried out on the 
car on 8 May which raised further issues.
Based on the above I find it fair that Mr C is allowed to reject the car. I say this because 
faults have been confirmed which are still present. The faults were more  likely than not 
present from the point  of supply. The issue with the sensor was identified  within  the first 30 
days and the opportunity  to repair has been  given but the issue is ongoing. I also note Mr C 
asked to reject the car within the first 30 days.
As I find it reasonable  that the car is rejected, I also find that any deposit Mr C paid,  including 
any part exchange  is refunded to him along  with interest. The HPA does not record a 
deposit. Mr C says that he part exchanged a car but BMWFS says that the part exchange 
was linked to another  agreement which Mr C has accepted. However Mr C says that he paid 
a £350 deposit with an agreement that the dealership would pay the other £350.
Mr Cs car was in for repair for around  half of the first month and so I find it reasonable that 
he is refunded his payment for this period. 
Mr C continued to use the car for a period  of time as he was told that it was road worthy and 
he had no alternative  transport. However  he has explained that he stopped  using the car 
when he took out a new agreement for a different  vehicle. Mr C has provided information 
regarding the new agreement and says that the new car was delivered to him on 10 October  
2018. 
Because of this I find it reasonably that he is liable for his payments under the HPA up to 
when he receive  the alternative car. From  10 October 2018  I think all repayments should  be 
refunded. I also note that given the issues with the car Mr Cs enjoyment was reduced  while  
he had use and so I think that 15% of all rentals  up to 10 October  should  also be refunded.
My thoughts regarding the redress in this case have been presented  to the parties. BMWFS 
has accepted  most  points  but says that it thinks the information on Mr Cs credit file shows  a 
true reflection of the credit history. While  I note this point, as I find that the car provided  
under the HPA was not of satisfactory  quality  and I note that Mr C asked to reject his car 
Ref: DRN50423613shortly after acquisition I think it fair now that any adverse information that may have been 
recorded on his credit file in regard to this agreement should  be removed. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. As has been discussed, BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited should:
1.collect the car from Mr C at no cost to him;
2.cancel Mr Cs HPA with nothing  further  owing;
3.refund  any deposit paid (evidence of £350  payment has been provided);
4.refund  half of the first months payment;
5.refund  all payments  made from 10 October 2018;
6.refund  15% of payments  made  up to 10 October 2018 for the loss enjoyment the 
issues have caused; and
7.remove any adverse information  regarding this agreement  from Mr Cs credit  file.
Items 3, 4, 5 and 6 are subject to 8% simple interest  from the date of payment  to the date of 
settlement.
If BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr C a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5042361