K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that MYJAR  Limited  was irresponsible to lend her money.
background
MYJAR lent Miss H £225 on 4 Feb 2017  to be repaid  at £69.90  per month  for six months.  
The last instalment was due on 4 August 2017,  but Miss H repaid it early, on 28 April 2017.
Miss H says she applied  for 18 other loans during a six-month period and MYJAR  should 
have carried out better  checks  before it approved her application. She says she couldnt 
afford the repayments  so borrowed again,  meaning  she got into a debt spiral. Miss H says 
MYJAR should have  seen  from her credit record that she wasnt  a good candidate for credit.
MYJAR says it asked Miss H for information  about her income and expenditure and verified  
her employment. It says it also checked  her credit file.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
MYJAR had done  enough  checks before approving  the loan and found that, based on the 
information it had, MYJAR  wasnt wrong  to consider the loan to be affordable.
Miss H responded  to say, in summary, that she made over 100 credit  searches in a six-
month period  and that MYJAR  was in the minority when it approved her application. She 
says she believes that shows MYJAR  acted  irresponsibly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MYJAR was required to lend responsibly. It should  have made checks  to make sure Miss H 
could afford  to repay the loans before it lent to her. Those  checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Miss H was borrowing, and her lending history. 
But there was no set list of checks MYJAR  had to do.
When Miss H applied  for the loan with MYJAR it asked for information about  her income and 
expenditure. She told it her income was £1,300 per month which MYJAR verified with an 
employment check. It also checked her credit file for new loan accounts  and other  financial 
indicators. MYJAR  increased the figure  Miss H provided for her expenditure based  on 
statistical averages for her household  type. As a result it calculated Miss Hs disposable 
income to be £464 per month, as opposed to the figure of £750 provided  by Miss H.
As the maximum repayment in any one month was less than £70, I cant conclude MYJAR 
was wrong to approve the loan and I am satisfied there was nothing  that would have 
indicated to MYJAR that it needed  to carry out further checks.
I acknowledge Miss H says she was making  numerous credit searches and had loans with 
multiple other lenders. Ive looked at the credit file shes now provided, but it does not show 
any searches prior to the MYJAR loan and I can see nothing else on the file that should have 
prompted MYJAR to do better checks. Even  if the searches were  showing on the credit file, I 
cant conclude that MYAR  should have made a different lending  decision, given this was 
Miss Hs first loan and the repayments  were such  a small proportion of her income.
Ref: DRN56975192So, Im satisfied the checks carried out by MYJAR  were proportionate and that it did nothing 
wrong by approving the loan.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5697519