K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains HSBC UK Bank  Plc will not refund some disputed transactions.
background
Mr P complained to HSBC about  five transactions  on his account which he said he did not 
make.  Two transactions occurred on one card, that was then replaced and then a further 
three on a replacement card.  All transactions were made for online purchases  using Mr Ps 
card and confirmed using Verified  by Visa.
HSBC looked  into the transactions but said it was not going to refund Mr P.  It said it was 
odd that both of Mr Ps cards had been compromised. In August 2017 it told him it would not 
be refunding him.
A year later Mr P complained about  that decision   and again, following a further review, 
HSBC rejected his complaint.
When Mr P came  to this service, our investigator  did not think  HSBC should  reimburse  his 
money  so the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what I have seen, I think HSBC  has dealt with this complaint fairly.
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr P made or 
authorised the transactions, HSBC  is entitled  to hold him liable.  But  its not enough that the 
Mr Ps card was used  the relevant rules say that HSBC need  to show  he consented to the 
payments being  made too.
From the documentary evidence, I am satisfied his genuine card was used  so I then need 
to decide whether he consented to the payments being made too.  Based on what I have 
seen, on balance, I think Mr P authorised these transactions.  I say that because:
-two separate cards have appeared to be compromised and there is no plausible 
explanation as to how.  Mr P initially  told HSBC  that there  had been two burglaries 
where he had been  living.  He told our investigator that he suspected  his auntie (with 
whom he was staying) to be the culprit.  The inconsistencies  in his account leave me 
with some  doubt over his credibility.
-the items  purchased with the transactions were delivered to an address registered for 
Mr P at the time.  He says he had changed  his address  with HSBC by that time  but I 
note he confirmed  his postcode with the adviser  when he called  to complain.
-payments going into Mr Ps account  were  made  at the time of the disputed transactions.   
These appear to cover the amount of the payments going out.  They  are paid in from the 
account of a JD.  Mr  P says thats him using another name from another account.  I 
find that explanation  lacks  any credibility.
Ref: DRN51035532-whilst  not the strongest argument  on its own, but taken together with the rest of the 
evidence, I find it unusual  that Mr P would wait for a year before complaining about 
HSBCs decision.  He had lost a considerable amount  of money and one would expect 
would be keen  to recover  it.  But as I said  significant  only in light of the other  evidence.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5103553