K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs W payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2000.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive carefully considered  everything that Mr and Mrs W have said,  but Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  I will explain why.
Mr and Mrs W have  said they were  told they were required to take PPI. However, Im aware 
this all happened about 19 years ago, and I wouldnt expect someone to recall  in detail 
everything that happened that long ago. Also I would need to have  supporting evidence  
before I could fairly say Bank of Scotland acted wrongly in the way Mr and Mrs W say. 
Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something wrong, 
fairness requires that the person making the allegation should  present evidence that this 
probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt  do 
something, especially when it was such a long time ago. And against  what  Mr and Mrs W 
say they remember,  I can see that the PPI was presented  as a choice in the application 
form, and that they signed to take it. I realise  this doesnt disprove that they were told that, in 
reality, they had to take PPI. But, as Ive said, without stronger evidence I cant fairly say 
Mr and Mrs W werent given a real choice about the PPI. 
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply:
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, and this means  it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for 
Mr and Mrs Ws particular  circumstances. But it looks to me as though  a recommendation 
would have been a suitable  one, based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ws situation  at the 
time. Its likely Mr W (the person covered) was eligible for the policy. And finding yourself 
unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid 
benefits at the same  time as Mr W received any employer sick pay, and potentially for 
longer. It would have  paid unemployment  benefits in addition  to any redundancy pay. 
Ref: DRN57319862Mr and Mrs W have  said they had substantial  savings, on top of the employee  sick pay that 
Mr W was entitled to. They say this wasnt taken into account  when Bank  of Scotland 
recommended the PPI. I dont know why Mr and Mrs W didnt use those funds to reduce the 
amount they had to borrow to buy their house. But, even if Bank of Scotland had been aware 
of those savings,  I dont think it would clearly have  meant it was wrong  to recommend the 
PPI. PPI would  have put off the time when theyd need to fall back  on the savings or any 
other means  they may have had for paying  the mortgage and other living costs. This all 
would have put Mr and Mrs W in a more secure position, if theyd eventually  lost income due 
to Mr W suffering long term sickness or unemployment.
And, finally, Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they 
took it out. 
So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was suitable.  
I think Bank of Scotland could have explained  the costs and benefits of the policy  better than 
it did. But I dont think its likely that clearer information about the costs and benefits  would 
have affected  whether  Mr and Mrs W took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs W would have been  affected by any of these. And theyd be paying 
for it monthly,  so they could cancel it at any time without further  cost if their situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5731986