K822xcomplaint
Miss M is unhappy with how Cabot  Credit Management Group Limited went about collecting  
a debt on her account, and with the customer service it gave her in relation to that. 
background 
In June 2016 Cabot bought Miss Ms overdraft debt from her bank. It seems Cabot tried to 
contact Miss M but received no response. So in November 2016 it passed  the matter  to its 
solicitor, who reached a repayment  agreement with Miss M. The solicitor was acting for 
Cabot, so to keep things simple  Ill continue to refer only to Cabot. 
In April 2017 Cabot  and Miss M agreed  a lower  monthly repayment. Cabot says it didnt 
properly record this and tried to collect the previous amount, so Miss M cancelled the Direct 
Debit. Cabot says it addressed Miss Ms complaint about this in May 2017.  
Miss M last made a payment in April 2017, so in September 2017 Cabot wrote  to her 
seeking repayment. It said it wanted  to reach  an agreement and asked her to provide details 
of her income and expenditure  (I&E) within two weeks.  Cabot said until it had reviewed 
Miss Ms I&E, any payment it accepted from her may not prevent  Cabot taking legal action. 
In May 2018  Miss M asked Cabot  to put the collection of her debt on hold, which it agreed to 
do for 30 days. When that passed  in June  2018, Cabot wrote to Miss M giving her one week 
to provide her I&E and a repayment  proposal. Cabots letter  also said again  that until it had 
reviewed Miss Ms I&E, any payment it accepted from her may not prevent legal action. 
Miss M called Cabot on 21 August 2018 to make an offer and set up repayments.  Cabot  said 
it firstly needed her I&E, and offered to take that over the phone. Miss M said she already 
had an I&E prepared  and agreed  to email it to Cabot  within 14 days.
Cabot says it didnt  receive this so on 5 September 2018 it wrote  to Miss M to let her know  
that unless she sent her I&E and came to an agreement with Cabot within 30 days, it 
intended to get a court order  telling  her to pay the debt, known as a County Court Judgment 
(CCJ). Two days later Miss M began making monthly repayments at a much lower amount 
than shed agreed with Cabot previously. 
On 9 October 2018 Cabot issued court proceedings against Miss M, and a few days  later 
she called  Cabot about this. Cabot said while Miss M had made payments recently, she 
hadnt paid her agreed repayments since April 2017. And that Cabot needed her I&E before 
it could agree a repayment arrangement, but it hadnt received this. Cabot offered to take 
Miss Ms I&E over the phone but she preferred  to complete and return the court forms 
instead. 
Cabot called Miss M back later that day to clarify an incorrect payment date it had given her 
in the earlier  call. And in that call Miss M told Cabot about the upsetting personal 
circumstances she was going through - Cabot  noted  these and agreed to bear them  in mind  
before taking action.  And it explained  that the payments Miss M had made didnt mean it 
couldnt take legal action.  Miss M was unhappy  but by the end of the call didnt  want to take 
a complaint any further. Cabot says it opened  and closed  a complaint for Miss M, but didnt 
send her a final response letter as it should  have.
Ref: DRN57127032Later in October  2019 Miss M asked Cabot for copies  of the data it held for her, known as a 
subject access request (SAR). 
Cabot says it received  Miss Ms I&E on 25 October 2018, which showed her monthly 
expenditure was greater  than her income. It says it called her about that soon after,  but 
Miss M asked it to write to her instead. Cabot says it did so the same day, asking her to 
respond within two weeks.
Cabot says that when it received Miss Ms completed court  forms in November 2018, it 
opened a complaint for her because her defence seemed to be an expression of 
dissatisfaction. It seems Miss M thought Cabot:
was wrong to issue court proceedings
hadnt called her when it didnt receive her I&E
hadnt treated  her sympathetically
gave her incorrect information about  her the last payment shed made  then 
underhandedly closed  her complaint
hadnt sent her the SAR information  shed asked 
incorrectly claimed shed failed to make  payments
Cabot says it updated Miss M about her SAR and sent her a statement of her account. Then 
in January 2019 Cabot sent Miss M its final response to her complaint. 
In that response, Cabot said it hadnt treated  Miss M unsympathetically, and that it had 
correctly issued court proceedings because  it hadnt  received  an I&E from Miss M or 
reached an agreement  with her. And that while it had made a mistake in not noting  Miss Ms 
phone number on her file, it had still contacted her in writing. Cabot said it had mistakenly 
given Miss M an incorrect last payment date, but had quickly  corrected that and apologised. 
And it said it hadnt been underhand in closing her complaint. 
Miss M disagreed so she brought her complaint to our service. She said she thought  shed 
done everything required of her by making  payments  and posting  her I&E to Cabot.  She said 
Cabot hadnt treated  her sympathetically or offered practical solutions. And she said she 
hadnt received  letters  from Cabot.
At around this time Cabot  offered Miss M a Tomlin order,  under which  Cabot would put court  
proceedings on hold as long as Miss M came to a repayment agreement with it and kept up 
the agreed repayments. However, Miss M said she didnt want to accept a Tomlin order  
because she was concerned Cabot would  apply for a CCJ straightaway if she missed one 
repayment. 
After looking into Miss Ms complaint, our investigator thought Cabot hadnt made any 
significant failings  and that it had acted fairly  in trying to come to an arrangement with 
Miss M. He explained that, under its offer of a Tomlin order,  Cabot  was willing  to contact 
Miss M three  times before taking any further  action if Miss M missed  a repayment. 
Miss M didnt agree so her complaint has been passed to me to make  a decision. Cabot has 
agreed to put its legal action on hold until I issued my decision.
Ref: DRN57127033my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I realise this isnt the answer Miss M wanted, so Ill explain why. 
But before I do, Id like to give Miss M my condolences on her recent bereavement. And to 
acknowledge the difficulties shes been  through in recent years,  which must have caused her 
a great  deal of worry and distress. 
Miss M is unhappy Cabot  issued court  proceedings against her. She says shes  done what  
Cabot asked of her, and its not shown  her empathy or offered practical solutions.
I think the letters Cabot  sent to Miss M in September  2017 and May 2018 made clear shed 
need to send her I&E before it could  reach  a repayment agreement  with her. And I think  its 
reasonable for Cabot to ask for this information  so it can check a repayment  plan would  be 
affordable for her. Miss M says she didnt  receive  these letters,  which  Ill return  to later. 
And Miss M says she posted her I&E to Cabot in August 2018. But Ive seen nothing to 
suggest Cabot  received  Miss Ms I&E before  it says it did on 25 October 2018, over two 
weeks after court  proceedings were issued. 
From the statement of Miss Ms account, Miss M didnt make  any payments between  
May 2017 and August 2018.  While  she did start making repayments in September  2018, 
these were essentially nominal payments of an amount Miss M had herself  decided  
on  they were not an amount agreed  with Cabot based on her I&E. So while  I appreciate 
Miss M made some  payments,  I dont think it was unreasonable for Cabot to conclude  she 
hadnt kept up the agreed repayments.  
Id expect Cabot  to treat Miss M positively and sympathetically, even before she told it about 
her difficulties in October 2018. So Ive thought about what  it has done.
Before issuing court proceedings,  Cabot  wrote to Miss M on several occasions asking to 
reach an agreement  - it sent letters to this effect in September 2017, June 2018, August 
2018 and September 2018. Miss M says she didnt receive these letters  and was away from 
home at times. However, Cabot has provided  copies of these letters  and Ive seen  they were 
sent to Miss Ms address.  So while its unfortunate Miss M may not have received them, Im 
satisfied Cabot sent them and took reasonable steps to get in touch with her.
Cabot hasnt added interest to Miss Ms account since  at least  December  2016  and the only 
charges it has added are its court costs,  which  I dont  think  is unreasonable  in the 
circumstances. In May 2018  Cabot agreed to put Miss Ms account on hold for 30 days  to 
give her breathing space.  And in the call in August 2018 it offered to take her I&E information 
over the phone. So Im satisfied Cabot didnt  act unfairly or unreasonably by issuing 
proceedings when it did.
Once Miss M made Cabot aware  of her difficulties,  it agreed to follow  up calls by sending  her 
a text message,  and to be mindful  of her circumstances before considering further  action. 
And at around the time Miss M contacted our service, Cabot offered her a Tomlin order and 
agreed to put things  on hold until I made  my decision. Taking everything into account,  Im 
satisfied Cabot has treated Miss M positively and sympathetically.
Ref: DRN57127034Miss M is also unhappy about the customer service Cabot gave her, and I agree that it did 
make some mistakes.  But I dont think these caused  Miss M any detriment or to be in a 
position she wouldnt otherwise have been in. Ill explain why.
During the call in August 2018,  Miss M gave Cabot  her number and shes  unhappy it didnt 
call her afterwards to let her know it hadnt received  her I&E. Cabot accepts it didnt note 
Miss Ms phone number but I can see it contacted  her two weeks later,  albeit in writing,  to 
ask for her I&E. So Cabot  did take reasonable steps  to make Miss M aware it hadnt 
received her I&E. 
Miss M says Cabot gave  her incorrect information in a call in October 2018. I agree that it 
did, but it also called her back later the same day to apologise and provide  the correct  
information. 
And Miss M says Cabot dealt with the complaint she made in that call in an underhand way. 
From listening to the call it seems Miss M didnt want to take a complaint any further  at that 
time and, while  Cabot accepts it didnt send  a final response letter as it should have done,  it 
told Miss M in the call that she could refer things to our service,  which  she went on to do. 
When Miss M brought  her complaint to our service, she was unhappy Cabot hadnt provided 
the information shed asked for in her SAR. It seems Miss M has now received this, so I 
wont consider or comment  on that further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5712703