K820x#14complaint
Mr L says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr L applied for a credit card by post in 2001  and bought the PPI at the same time.
He says he had good employee  benefits and his partner had savings, so he didnt need it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ls complaint didnt uphold  it. Mr L disagrees and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland needed to make it clear to Mr L he had a choice about  PPI and get his 
agreement to it. Ive looked  at Mr Ls signed credit card application  form and I can see he 
ticked a box saying he wanted PPI. If he hadnt wanted it, I think  he couldve left this section 
of the form blank and PPI wouldnt  have  been  added. So I think Mr L agreed to the PPI 
knowing he didnt have  to.
This was a postal application and I dont think Bank of Scotland recommended  the PPI to   
Mr L. So it didnt have  to make sure it was right for him. But it did need  to give Mr L enough  
clear information about the cover for him to be able to make  that decision  himself in an 
informed way. I dont  know  what steps Bank of Scotland took to do this and it may not have 
made some features of the policy as clear as it shouldve. But I dont think  clearer 
information wouldve  stopped Mr L going ahead with the policy. I say this because, based on 
what hes said of his circumstances at the time and the policy details:
Mr L was eligible for the PPI. And he wouldnt have been affected by some of the 
main things  it didnt cover  like known health issues or unusual employment  terms. 
So thered have been nothing to stop him claiming the full policy benefit if hed 
needed to.
Although Mr L says he got good  sick pay and his partner had savings, I think  the PPI 
still offered potentially useful cover. It wouldve helped with Mr Ls card repayments 
for up to 10 months for each successful  unemployment claim he made and for up to 
12 months for each  successful accident  or sickness claim he made.  This wouldve  
been on top of his sick pay and wouldve lasted potentially for longer than his full sick 
pay. And while Im sure Mr Ls partner wouldve helped if possible,  this sort of help 
isnt guaranteed and isnt the same as having  an insurance policy to fall back  on. So 
it doesnt change  my conclusions on Mr Ls complaint.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr L paid for it. But Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Mr L back  some  
Ref: DRN55019052of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. I understand Bank of 
Scotland has already paid this to Mr L. We dont know if Mr Ls insolvency practitioner needs  
to be told about  the settlement. But any sum of money hes received could affect the terms 
of his Individual  Voluntary Arrangement, so its important he lets the practitioner know.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5501905