K821x#15complaint
Mr B1 and Mr B2, trading  as H, complain that WorldPay (UK) Limited  didnt offer them  the 
protection that they shouldve to avoid fraudulent transactions. They  say that because  of this, 
they suffered  a loss. They would like to be compensated for this. 
background
Mr B1 started  his business, H, in around 2012.  He opened  a Cardsave account with 
WorldPay.  
In 2015, Mr B2 joined the business as his partner. 
In 2017, Mr B1 says that he was approached by his business manager. He says that he was 
told that the CardSave gateway was getting old and that the WorldPay  Business Manager 
Portal was much more advanced  and up to date. 
WorldPay say that the contact from them  was prompted by Mr B1s decision to trade as a 
partnership rather than as a limited company. They say that the application to change the 
account wasnt used  when they first approached Mr B1. A new application was made in 
June 2018, processed in July 2018  and the account  was finally  used from August 2018. 
In late November 2018 and December 2018, a number of customers  made purchases from 
H online. The items purchased were mailed  to the customers. 
In January 2019, Mr B1 and Mr B2 say that they were contacted by WorldPay  and informed  
that a number of fraudulent transactions, totalling  just under £5,000, had been allowed to go 
through the payment gateway. They were told that they should  consider signing up to a fraud 
management service, known as the Risk Management Module (RMM), which would cost 
them 10p per transaction. 
Mr B1 and Mr B2 found that chargebacks  had been raised by the owners of the cards that 
had been fraudulently used. WorldPay said that they didnt think they had any chance of 
defending them so they claimed the money back from Mr B1 and Mr B2. 
Mr B1 and Mr B2 werent happy about  this. They said that they hadnt  been told that they 
could sign up to RMM when they applied for the account. Had they been  told, they say that 
they wouldve  signed up for it as it would only cost them  10p per transaction.  Also, the 
CardSave account had come with fraud  management and Mr B1 had assumed that the new 
account would too. He didnt know that he wasnt covered. 
WorldPay told Mr B1 and Mr B2 that RMM which theyd been advised  to get didnt offer them 
greater fraud  detection  than what they already had. They had access to all the information 
that RMM would give them regarding a risk within their online account on Business Manager. 
They said that it was the responsibility of Mr B1 and Mr B2 to check all transactions  for fraud. 
They shouldve done this via their online account.  
Mr B1 and Mr B2 said that online account that would give them this information timed out 
every 60 seconds. They  also said that they hadnt  had training on how to use it. They further 
said that it was difficult  to contact the chargeback team as they only accepted information by 
fax or mail. As the business  printer part of the fax was broken, they didnt get a receipt to 
show if faxes sent were  successful. 
Ref: DRN54805362Mr B1 and Mr B2 also complained that they didnt  get told about the fraudulent transactions  
until January 2019 when  they had already sent out the goods that had been ordered. They 
say that, had they known sooner, they wouldnt have sent the goods. They say they got the 
letters too late to do anything about  the transactions. 
Finally, Mr B1 and Mr B2 didnt think that they should have to pay the chargebacks and that 
WorldPay had responsibility  for this. 
WorldPay didnt accept  that they had done anything wrong so Mr B1 and Mr B2 brought the 
complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She found that:
Mr B1 and Mr B2 had the responsibility of checking their customers identities. She 
thought that they shouldve learnt how to use the online  system  for checking this. 
The terms and conditions of the account allowed  WorldPay  to claim the chargebacks  
from Mr B1 and Mr B2.
Although Mr B1 and Mr B2 say that they werent  told about the fraudulent  
transactions until January 2019,  WorldPay had sent them letters before then so she 
couldnt hold them responsible for Mr B1 and Mr B2 not getting  the letters. 
She didnt think that RMM wouldve made a difference to the fraudulent transactions  
going through. 
Mr B1 and Mr B2 werent happy with this outcome so the complaint has now come  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that Mr B1 and Mr B2 wont be entirely happy with my decision. I do think  that 
WorldPay gave Mr B1 and Mr B2 poor customer service by not telling them about RMM. But 
I dont think that this wouldve made a difference to the information available  to Mr B1 and 
Mr B2 in deciding what was a fraudulent  transaction. Other than the poor customer service, 
Im afraid to say, that I think that WorldPay have acted fairly  and reasonably.  I will explain 
why. 
I firstly considered whether WorldPay can ask Mr B1 and Mr B2 to pay the chargebacks  that 
they have incurred through the fraudulent  transactions. Ive looked through the terms and 
conditions of the account and found that WorldPay can do this. I know  that this will be 
upsetting to Mr B1 and Mr B2 but Im afraid that they did sign up to these terms and 
conditions so they are bound  by them. Also, I dont think that asking Mr B1 and Mr B2 to 
agree to these  terms and conditions was unfair or unreasonable. 
Next, I considered whether Mr B1 and Mr B2 were  told about RMM when they signed up to 
the account. WorldPay say that all the dealings in opening the account were done  via one of 
their business managers. They dont have  a written account of what  was discussed  and the 
business manager doesnt remember if he discussed RMM with Mr B1 and Mr B2. They say 
that they werent told about RMM. I find that the likely position is that Mr B1 and Mr B2 
werent told about RMM. Especially as they make the very persuasive  point  saying that they 
wouldve signed up to something like this if all it was costing them was 10p per transaction. 
Ref: DRN54805363So I then considered whether having  RMM wouldve made a difference  to the fraudulent  
transactions going through. As disappointing  as I know this must be for Mr B1 and Mr B2, 
this is where I have to say that I dont think it wouldve made a difference.  My reasons for 
this are as follows:
Firstly, I do think  that it was the responsibility  of Mr B1 and Mr B2 to check  that 
transactions werent being fraudulently carried out by people claiming to be their 
customers. WorldPay make this clear online and in the terms and conditions.  I 
wouldnt expect WorldPay to have  to check all the transactions  being carried out in 
the businesses  that use their service. 
I do think that it was for WorldPay to help and advise them  in how to look for 
fraudulent transactions. But I think that WorldPay have done this by having the 
information on how to do this online and by having information available  via the 
online account.
Mr B1 and Mr B2 have an online business account. The information that they 
wouldve got from RMM was available  via this account whenever Mr B1 and Mr B2 
wanted it. I do appreciate  that Mr B1 and Mr B2 say that they didnt get training on 
how to use this. But the information  on how to use this account is readily available  
online. I dont  think that it was for WorldPay to ensure that Mr B1 and Mr B2 knew 
how to use the information. I think that it was for Mr B1 and Mr B2 to learn  to use this 
information themselves.  
I know that Mr B1 and Mr B2 have said that the account times out every 60 seconds.  
Im sure that this must be very frustrating. But, Im afraid, I cant see anything from 
Mr B1 and Mr B2 telling WorldPay about these problems. So, I cant see how 
WorldPay couldve done anything  if they didnt know about  them,  which means  that I 
cant hold them responsible for Mr B1 and Mr B2 not being able to access this 
information. 
I note that Mr B1 and Mr B2 have  said that it was difficult to get hold of the chargeback team.  
But, their reason for this is that they didnt know if their faxes  had gone  through because of 
their machine not giving  sent receipts.  Im sorry but I cant see how WorldPay  can be held 
responsible for this. 
I considered Mr B1 and Mr B2 not being told about  the fraudulent transactions  until 
January 2019  when  it was too late as the goods had already been sent. Ive seen  
WorldPays business file and I can see that they sent letters before January 2019. As they 
were sent,  I cant hold WorldPay responsible for Mr B1 and Mr B2 not getting the letters. 
Finally, I considered if Mr B1 and Mr B2 having  RMM wouldve made a difference to being 
told about the potentially fraudulent transactions sooner. I think that, from what Ive read 
about RMM on WorldPays website, Mr B1 and Mr B2 mightve received an email  about the 
fraudulent transactions which wouldve made  it easier for them to get the information about 
them. Ive noted  Mr B1s comments saying that they wouldve been alerted to the potentially  
fraudulent transactions by email, not by fax, if they had RMM.  I agree  that they wouldve 
been notified by email.  But my point here is that I still think that they had all the information 
to deal with the transactions regardless for the reasons given above. That is, they already 
had the information about the fraudulent transactions available to them  via the online 
business account. I think that it was for Mr B1 and Mr B2 to check  online via their business 
account to ensure that there were no problems with the transactions. I know that this is 
upsetting to them as they believe  that it was WorldPays  responsibility  to tell them of 
potentially fraudulent transactions and Im sorry for this. But Im afraid that my opinion  is still 
that the responsibility lay with Mr B1 and Mr B2 to check the transactions  via their online  
business account before shipping any goods.  
Ref: DRN54805364Im sorry  that this isnt the outcome that Mr B1 and Mr B2 were looking for. I think that RMM  
couldve been offered which mightve  made  it easier for Mr B1 and Mr B2 to get the 
information they needed to deal with potentially fraudulent  transactions.  So, for this poor 
customer service,  I think that WorldPay should compensate  Mr B1 and Mr B2. But, other 
than that, I think that WorldPay  have  behaved fairly and reasonably.
my final decision
For the poor customer service given  to Mr B1 and Mr B2 by not offering them RMM,  I require 
WorldPay (UK) Limited to pay Mr B1 and Mr B2 £200. Other than this, I dont require 
WorldPay to do anything  else.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B1 and Mr B2 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2020.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5480536