K821x#15complaint
Ms F says CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) irresponsibly lent her payday 
loans.
background
This complaint is about eight payday  loans Quick Quid provided  to Ms F between October 
2012 and July 2015. Ms Fs lending history  is as follows:
Loan 1, 27 October  2012 for £50 (£79.50 with interest), repaid 30 November 2012.
Loan 2, 23 December 2012  for £50 (£79.50 with interest), repaid 28 February  2013.
Loan 3, 14 March 2013 for £100 (£188.50  with interest), repaid 28 June  2013.
Loan 4, 12 July 2013 for £50 (£87.62 with interest), repaid 30 September  2013.  
Loan 5, 22 October  2013 for £100  (£188.50 with interest), repaid 11 February 2014.
Loan 6, 3 March 2014  for £100 (£188.50 with interest), topped  up twice, and repaid 
on 30 September 2014. 
Loan 7, 20 March 2015 for £300 (£544.80  with interest)  and repaid on 30 June 2015.
Loan 8, 4 July 2015  for £500 (£852.00 with interest), topped  up once, and repaid on 
6 June 2017. 
There were four extensions for these loans. And there were three top ups for loans six and 
eight. Our adjudicator  upheld Ms Fs complaint  in part and thought  the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. Quick Quid disagreed and so the complaint was passed  
to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms F 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN53840772the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quick Quid was required to establish 
whether Ms F could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Fs complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, we dont  have enough information to say that a proportionate 
check for loans one to three would most likely  have  shown  that Ms F couldnt afford these 
loans: 
Ms F had told Quick Quid that her monthly  income was £800 and these loan amounts 
looked affordable  compared to that.
I havent enough information  about  Ms Fs monthly expenditure for her normal  living  
costs and regular  bills to say that these  loans were unsustainable for Ms F. 
So I cant say it was wrong for Quick Quid to provide loans one to three. Ive also looked at 
the overall pattern of Quick Quids  lending  history with Ms F, with a view to seeing if there 
was a point at which Quick Quid should  reasonably  have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Quick Quid should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Ms Fs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
four. I say this because:
From  loan four onwards Ms F was provided  with a new loan within  days  or weeks  of 
settling a previous  one. Shed  been  borrowing for nine months.  So Quick Quid ought 
to have realised it was more likely than not Ms F was having to borrow  further to 
cover the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances and that Ms Fs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
There was a gap in Ms Fs borrowing between loans  six and seven. But given the 
pattern of Ms Fs previous borrowing, with two top ups for loan six, I dont think  that 
Quick Quid should have taken this as a sign that Ms Fs financial position had 
improved. 
Ref: DRN53840773Ms F wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount she owed Quick  Quid.  Loan  eight 
was taken out about three years after Ms Fs first. And it was for a much larger 
amount. Ms F had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Quick 
Quid over an extended period.
I think that Ms F lost out because Quick  Quid continued to provide borrowing  from loan four 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Fs indebtedness by allowing  her 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Ms Fs ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these  
high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans four to eight and Quick Quid should put things 
right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms F paid on loans four to eight;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan four onwards means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans four to eight should  be removed 
from Ms Fs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Ms F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Ms Fs 
complaint. I require CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) to pay Ms F 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5384077