K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Nine Regions Limited  lent to him irresponsibly when it gave  him a 
logbook loan. He also thinks  that Nine Regions didnt treat him fairly when he found  it difficult 
to repay  the loan.  
background
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint  in November 2020 that I summarise 
below.
Mr R was given a loan by Nine Regions in June 2009 for just over £1,248.  The loan was 
secured against  a vehicle that he owned. 
Mr Rs loan was to be repaid in 130 weekly instalments of around £39 over 30 months. 
The total amount  due to be repaid over the loan term, including  interest,  was just over 
£5,111. Mr R says the loan was paid off and closed  in 2016. 
Mr R took his loan more than six years  ago. An ombudsman considered the relevant time 
limits but decided that we were able to look into his complaint. 
Nine Regions is in liquidation and responses have been provided by the liquidator.  
I carefully considered  all the evidence, arguments and information Id seen about  this
matter in order to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. 
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks  that 
Nine Regions needed to do such  as the amount being lent, and the consumers  income and 
expenditure. 
Nine Regions needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr R 
irresponsibly. Nine Regions had to carry out reasonable  and proportionate  checks  to satisfy 
itself that Mr R would be able repay the loan sustainably. 
As Nine Regions is now in liquidation,  there is very limited information about what  happened 
when Mr R applied for his loan. Nine Regions hasnt been able to confirm  how it assessed  
Mr Rs loan application. So I couldnt fairly  say whether any checks  that Nine Regions may 
have carried out at the time were reasonable or proportionate, in the circumstances. 
This was an expensive loan, repayable over an extended period. I thought  that Nine Regions 
would have wanted to gain a thorough  understanding of Mr Rs financial situation, in order to 
establish whether  he would  be able to repay his loan sustainably. So as well as asking Mr R 
about his income  and expenditure, I thought  Nine Regions  should  have looked in-depth at 
Mr Rs financial  circumstances   for example by asking to see his bank statements. 
Mr R thinks his complaint should be upheld because  Nine Regions isnt able to show  what  
checks it carried out when  it assessed the affordability of his loan. However,  even if the 
lender didnt carry out reasonable  or proportionate checks at the time, this doesnt mean that 
it would  be fair for me to automatically uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
This is because, from the limited evidence available,  it wasnt  clear  to me whether better 
checks by Nine Regions would have uncovered  anything that would have shown that Mr R 
Ref: DRN50876002might have difficulty repaying his loan in a sustainable manner. Without  additional 
information, I couldnt say what better checks by Nine Regions  would  have shown at the 
time.
Mr R was asked to provide his bank statements by this service,  but he hasnt been able to 
do so. This is understandable as so many years have passed since he took this loan. But as 
Mr R hasnt been able to provide any evidence about his financial circumstances which  I 
thought ought reasonably to have  led Nine Regions to decline his application,  I couldnt  fairly 
say that Nine Regions  shouldnt have lent to Mr R or that it lent to him irresponsibly.  
Mr R also complained that Nine Regions didnt treat him fairly when he found  it difficult to 
repay his loan. He complained that Nine Regions  didnt freeze interest and other charges 
when he was unable  to make payments under a repayment plan. Nine Regions has been 
able to provide  some  records of its contact with Mr R from around  2010 onwards. It seemed 
to me that Nine Regions tried to negotiate  an affordable  repayment  plan with Mr R when  he 
found himself unable to repay his loan as planned.  I think Nine Regions was entitled to 
continue charging  interest  on his loan whilst  he was on a repayment plan. From what Id 
seen, I couldnt  fairly  say that Nine Regions failed to treat Mr R positively and 
sympathetically. Or that it treated Mr R unfairly in some other way. 
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. Nine Regions liquidator 
confirmed it had nothing  further to add. Ive not seen  any response to my provisional 
decision from Mr R. The deadline for any further  comments has now passed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information  that has been provided about  this matter.
Given that Ive not received any further  evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm  the conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision. I am sorry to 
disappoint Mr R, but having carefully considered all the information that has been provided,  I 
do not uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Nine Regions Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 February  2021.
Sharon Parr
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5087600