K820x#14complaint
Miss M doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  to use her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which  she was discharged 
when her protected trust deed came to an end.
Background
Miss M complained to RBS in 2018  that she had been mis-sold PPI on three loans.
RBS investigated  and upheld Miss Ms complaint. RBS wrote to Miss M offering 
compensation.
Miss M accepted RBS  offer.
However, in 2006,  Miss M had granted a trust deed  which became a protected trust
deed  for her creditors.
A protected  trust deed is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called sequestration in
Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer and his/her creditors, which
is administered by a trustee.
Miss M was subsequently discharged  from her trust deed in 2009.
RBS used the compensation to reduce outstanding monies that it says Miss M hadnt fully 
repaid despite  Miss M being  discharged  from her protected  trust deed.
Miss M, unhappy she hadnt received  the compensation, brought  her complaint to our 
service.
Miss M says it is unfair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce a debt from which  
she has been discharged. Miss M says the compensation should be paid directly  to her.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint. He thought RBS had acted fairly  in using the
compensation to reduce the borrowing that was left unpaid despite Miss M being discharged 
from her trust deed.
Miss M disagreed with our adjudicators view. As the matter hasnt been resolved, its
been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Before I explain my findings, I would like to explain where our services  powers come from.
We were created by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  (FSMA).  This Act also 
created whats now called the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA).
Section 225 of FSMA explains  that were here to resolve disputes quickly  and with minimum 
formality. And section 228 says a complaint is to be determined by reference  to what is, in
the opinion of the ombudsman, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Alongside FSMA, the FCA sets out, in its handbook, some rules  for us to follow. These rules
are known as the DISP  rules  and they can be found online.
Ref: DRN52672402DISP 3.6.1 R repeats  section 228 of FSMA. DISP 3.6.4 R adds that, when considering what
is fair and reasonable, an ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice;  and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good
industry practice at the relevant time.
It has already been agreed that the PPI policies were mis-sold. So I wont  be looking at how
the PPI came to be sold as that is no longer in dispute. And Miss M hasnt raised any 
concerns about  the amount of compensation RBS has offered. Although from looking at
what RBS has offered it includes everything  I would expect to see.
All that is left for me to decide  is whether its fair and reasonable for RBS to use the PPI
compensation to reduce the outstanding  amount that Miss M says was written  off after she 
was discharged from her protected trust deed.
Miss M says as she was discharged from her protected  trust deed and in light of relevant law 
(Scots law) the compensation should  be paid directly to her.
RBS says it has the right to offset  the compensation against monies Miss M hasnt fully 
repaid.
Is it fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce an outstanding amount owed 
despite Miss M being discharged from her protected trust deed?
There have been  some court cases about  to whom PPI compensation should  be paid when
a consumer has been discharged from a protected trust deed. 
Ill summarise  the relevant  court cases.
In July 2018, the Supreme Court  issued a judgment  looking at what should happen to PPI
compensation after a protected trust deed completed.  The court  case  was Dooneen Ltd (t/a
McGinness Associates) v Mond  [2018]  UKSC 54.
In that case, the Supreme  Court said the PPI compensation  should not be paid to the trustee
for the benefit  of the creditors and should be paid to the consumer.
Another case that is also relevant is Donnelly v Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc [2017]  SAC 
(Civ) 1. And this is the case  that is more relevant to Miss Ms situation.
In Donnelly , the court said RBS couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a
debt from which they were discharged when the trust deed came to an end. However, this
has been appealed by RBS  so the outcome may change.
Above, Ive explained  I must take into account the relevant law when deciding what  I think  is
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. But Im not bound  to follow  it. And if
I decide to depart from it, I must  say so and explain why.
Ref: DRN52672403In this case, I am aware  of, and have taken into account, the relevant law. But, and 
importantly, within my role I must also apply an over-arching test of whats fair and 
reasonable in the particular circumstances of Miss Ms complaint  as required of me
through FSMA Section 228 and the FCAs DISP rules.
Having done so, I think its fair for RBS to use the compensation  to reduce the monies  
Miss M borrowed  and didnt fully repay. Ill explain why.
RBS has provided evidence to show that loan three was written off in 2009. At the time it
was written off, the loan had an outstanding balance of around £28,000. This is money that
Miss M wont now ever have to repay  to RBS.
The fact that Miss M entered  into a protected trust deed and was discharged  from her debt 
when her trust deed came to an end doesnt, in my opinion,  make a difference  to what  is fair.
I think it would be unfair  to tell RBS to pay the PPI compensation  to Miss M, when Miss M 
doesnt now have  to pay back the many  thousands of pounds  she borrowed.
So it follows  that I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce the borrowing 
that was left unpaid and that Miss M wont now ever have to repay.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think its fair for The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc to 
use Miss Ms PPI compensation to reduce the monies owed and left unpaid when Miss Ms 
trust deed came to an end.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5267240