K820x#14Complaint
Mr D complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Bank) didnt process a Faster  
Payment when it said it would.
Background
In March 2019, Mr D transferred money  from his Tesco  Bank account to another of his 
accounts with another  bank. He used  his internet banking to make  the transfer.  Once he had 
completed the transfer, and the funds  had left his Tesco  Bank account, he received the 
following message  your payment has been  set up and should reach the payee within the 
next two hours .
When the money hed transferred hadnt been  received by his other back after three hours  
Mr D became concerned  and called Tesco Bank.  It explained to him that it carried out 
system maintenance  on Saturdays between 4pm and 6am Sunday  morning. And because of 
this the funds would be received around  6am on Sunday, the following day.
Unhappy with this Mr D complained to Tesco Bank. He said that hed been unable to sleep  
on the Saturday night as he didnt  know where  his money  was. Because of this he wanted 
£100 for his trouble and upset. Tesco Bank  looked into what had happened.  It explained  that 
its FAQs, available through a hyperlink where customers are asked to check  the Faster 
Payment details, explained when it undertook maintenance on its system. And Mr Ds 
transfer had been received by his other  bank around  6.10am on the Sunday.
Mr D remained  unhappy with Tesco Banks response and referred his complaint to this 
Service. One of our investigators looked  into what had happened.  She understood Mr D 
wouldve been frustrated  that the payment didnt go through  as quickly  as he thought. But 
Tesco Bank had explained why the delay occurred. And as Mr D had told her that, if hed 
known about the delay  he wouldve carried out the Faster Payment on Sunday, he hadnt 
lost out. She didnt  think Tesco Bank needed to do anything  further.
Mr D asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking Tesco Bank to take any further steps to resolve this 
complaint.
I can understand Mr Ds frustration when the Faster Payment hed made  hadnt  appeared in 
his bank account. 
Mr D has said that he relied  on the message that had shown  on his internet banking.  And if 
hed known that it wouldnt have gone  through until the Sunday morning he wouldve 
delayed making  the transfer until then. Ive thought carefully about this point. The message 
that appeared said your payment has been  set up and should reach the payee within the 
next two hours . They key word in this message is should. I cant  fairly  conclude that this 
message guaranteed the money would be received in his other bank account within  two 
hours. 
Ref: DRN50398652Ive looked at the Faster Payment website and it says some payment  will take longer outside 
of normal working hours and that as a minimum the Payment Services  Directive sets out that 
any payments made via mobile, internet or phone banking must  arrive by the end of the 
following business day at the latest.  So Im satisfied that the Faster  Payment went  through 
as it shouldve done, albeit not as quick as Mr D wouldve liked.  
Ive thought about the trouble and upset this wouldve caused  Mr D. When  the payment 
hadnt been received after three  hours he called Tesco Bank.  It did explain the reason  for 
why the payment hadnt been  received  and when it should be. I dont  think  it couldve done 
anymore at this point to allay his concerns. And whilst I accept calling  Tesco Bank to query 
why the payment hadnt been  received  may have been inconvenient Im not minded to make  
an award.
Mr D has said that he has lost out of one working  days interest due to the delay and this 
works out to be around 77 pence. The payment was made after 4pm Saturday  afternoon  and 
received in his other bank account  around 6.10am on Sunday. And based on this Im not 
persuaded that he has lost out on interest as it is usually calculated  on a daily rather than an 
hourly basis.
For the reasons  given  above Im not asking Tesco Bank to take any further action on this 
complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint  against  Tesco  Personal  Finance  
PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5039865