K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Mrs B complain  that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited unfairly  declined  their 
claim for damage caused  by an escape of water on their home insurance policy.
background
Mr H and Mrs B bought a property for their son to live in while he studied at university.  In 
October 2017, they got a call from their son to say there was a leak coming into the kitchen 
area, and part of the ceiling had collapsed.
A plumber  visited the same day to fix the leak and told their son it was due to loose pipe 
joints under  the shower tray. 
A second plumber  visited the property two days later, arranged through Mr H and Mrs Bs 
home emergency cover. He investigated  and said the leak was caused by water  escaping 
through the tiles in the shower unit. He said this was due to failed grouting around the tiles. 
He recommended the tiles needed re-grouting to stop the leak.
Admiral then sent a loss assessor to the property. The assessor said they couldnt see any 
evidence of damp and no water  marks. Admiral say the assessor  also requested  evidence  
the leak had been fixed, and a quote  for repairs.
Admiral declined Mr H and Mrs Bs claim.  It said that water escaping through  faulty  or failed 
grouting is excluded  under  the policy terms and conditions. Mr H and Mrs B disagreed.  They 
said the leak was caused by a loose pipe, which the first plumber identified. They 
complained about the decision to reject the claim and the length of time it had taken Admiral  
to process the claim.
Admiral agreed with Mr H and Mrs B that there were some delays in processing their claim. 
It offered  them £150 for the inconvenience caused.  But it defended its decision to reject  the 
claim.
Unhappy with Admirals  response,  Mr H and Mrs B referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked at everything and didnt uphold the complaint. He said he felt the second 
plumbers report was more  persuasive,  and he didnt  have any firm evidence from the first 
plumber to refute this. So on balance, it was more likely than not the leak was caused by 
failed grouting.  So he didnt ask Admiral to do anything differently.
Mr H and Mrs B didnt  agree with our investigator. Amongst other things, they said in 
summary:
-They felt the investigator had dismissed  their version of events.
-They felt the second plumber wasnt independent, and they werent  responsible for 
evidencing the actions of the first plumber.
-They thought  a loose pipe, as opposed  to faulty  grouting, caused the leak.
Mr H and Mrs B asked  an ombudsman to look at the complaint. So its been passed to me to 
make a decision.
Ref: DRN52323922my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for broadly the same  reasons. So I wont be asking 
Admiral to do anything  differently, and Ill explain why.
Ive considered whether it was fair for Admiral  to decline  Mr H and Mrs Bs claim under the 
terms and conditions of their home insurance policy. Ive checked the exclusions in the 
policy booklet, specifically  under  whats not covered for escape  of water claims. And under 
this section, it clearly states  Loss or damage caused  by faulty, failed or inadequate grout or 
sealant isnt covered. 
I dont think this term is unusual for policies of this type. I can see that Admiral  said it would 
be willing  to reassess  the claim if they were provided with evidence of how any leak from a 
loose fitting was fixed, but they didnt receive this. And based on everything else Ive seen it 
was fair for Admiral to decline the claim under  this exclusion. Ill explain why below. 
Ive thought about what was the likely cause of the leak. I want to reassure Mr H and Mrs B 
that Ive thought carefully about  this. Ive looked  at the photographs they provided, along with 
their testimony of the events. Ive also considered the invoices from both plumbers, and the 
contact notes from Admiral throughout the claim.
Mr H and Mrs B say the cause of the leak was due to a loose pipe, which  the first plumber 
fixed. Theyve provided an invoice from this plumber that I can see dates from the same day 
as the incident. It states he fixed a loose pipe from under the shower tray. But Admiral  says 
the cause of the leak is due to failed grouting. Its provided the invoice from the second  
plumber, which states he sprayed water on tiles and water escaped  through  the tiles. 
The invoice recommends the tiles need re-grouting to stop the leak. And its signed by Mr H, 
Mrs Bs son and the plumber.
Mr H and Mrs B have  provided photographs of the collapsed ceiling and the shower. But I 
dont think I can rely on either  of these to determine the likely cause of the leak.  I say this 
because the dispute is about  whether  the leak was caused by a loose pipe or faulty grouting.  
And Im unable to see what  repairs took place, or, what might have been  a likely source of 
the leak from the photographs alone.
I can see that our investigator  made reasonable attempts to contact both plumbers in order 
to get their version  of events. The first plumber was unwilling to discuss  the complaint with 
us, but the investigator was able to speak to the second plumber. Ive listened to his 
recollections, as this is the next best evidence available to me. And Im satisfied that his 
recollections of attending  the property are plausible and persuasive  the second plumber 
was able to accurately recall the layout  of the property, and the work he carried out.
The plumber said he carried out a number of tests  to determine the cause of the leak. He 
concluded the source wasnt a constant  leak, and sprayed water around the shower tray and 
seals on the floor, which didnt  leak either. He said that once  hed started spraying the tiles 
inside the shower,  water  started seeping through.  He observed there werent  any cracked  
tiles. He said it was likely  the water had seeped through  the tiles and straight  down to the 
ceiling. 
Ref: DRN52323923I appreciate Mr H and Mrs B have concerns over the second plumbers report, including the 
fact that he was contracted by Admiral  to attend  the property. But they havent provided me 
with anything firm to refute his findings. So, in my opinion, its more  likely than not that the 
leak was caused  by failed grouting. I also understand they have concerns with the loss 
assessors report, and feel they were mis-led by being asked to obtain two quotes. But I 
cant see this has impacted them in any way, as there was no guarantee the claim would be 
settled at this stage.
So, for the reasons Ive stated above, my view is that its more likely the damage to the 
kitchen ceiling was caused by faulty  grout, and it was fair for Admiral to decline the claim.
is Admirals offer of compensation for the delays fair?
Admiral has acknowledged there  were  delays in processing Mr H and Mrs Bs claim. Its 
offered £150 for these delays to compensate Mr H and Mrs B for their time and phone  calls. 
Our investigator thought this was fair and I do as well. I appreciate  it took some  time for 
Admiral to deliver the outcome  of the claim to Mr H and Mrs B and this couldve been  done 
sooner. But based on everything  Ive seen I think the amount offered fairly reflects  the upset 
and inconvenience  Mr H and Mrs B suffered because of the delays they had.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar)  Limited  to do 
anything differently. Under the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Mr H and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2019.
Dan Prevett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5232392