K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy 
when she took out a credit card with Bank of Scotland plc (BoS).
background
Mrs H took out a credit card in 2004 and she took out a PPI policy alongside it. The PPI cost 
£0.78 per £100  of her outstanding balance. It paid out 10% of her monthly balance if she 
wasnt able to work due to sickness, accident or unemployment for up to 12 months.  It also 
had life cover that paid off the total balance if she died or was diagnosed  with a serious 
illness.
Mrs H has said BoS didnt  tell her PPI was optional, give her a proper recommendation about 
PPI or tell her about the cost of the premium, so she thinks  the PPI policy  was mis-sold.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed and asked for the complaint to 
be looked at by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
The sale took place  in 2004.  Mrs H has said she thought it took place over the phone,  but 
BoS say Mrs H applied  for the credit card and PPI at the same time by filling  in a form and 
posting it back. Ive seen  a copy of Mrs Hs application form and it looks like a form that was 
filled in and returned by post, so I think thats what is most likely  to have happened.
On the application form and there is a section  dealing with the PPI policy. Its titled  Credit 
Card Repayments Cover and there Mrs H has selected to take out PPI. Another type of 
insurance was offered  called Card Care and Mrs H hasnt chosen to take that out, so I think 
Mrs H was given a choice  about  which insurances she wished to take out and she chose PPI 
only. I know this doesnt fit with her recollections,  but the sale took place some  years ago and 
memories naturally fade with time.
As I think  the sale took place by returning a postal application, I dont think  BoS advised  
Mrs H to take out PPI. So it didnt  need  to consider whether the PPI policy was suitable for 
her needs.  But it did have to provide her information  that was clear, fair and not misleading 
so she was able to decide for herself  it she wanted  to take out PPI. 
Im not sure that Mrs H was given all of the information about the PPI policy at the time it was 
taken out, for example the policy exclusions arent  detailed on the credit agreement and its 
not made clear  she would have to keep on paying the premiums during any claim. But Ive 
looked at her circumstances at the time and I can see that she was eligible for the policy  and 
its unlikely Mrs H would have been  affected by any of the main things the policy  didnt cover. 
Ref: DRN51506852Although the cost of PPI was variable  as it depended on Mrs Hs outstanding  balance, I think  
that the policy was competitively priced compared  to other policies that were available  at the 
time. Theres nothing about  her circumstances which suggests it wasnt affordable.  
Mrs H has said she was employed and she had good sick pay from her employer. But the 
policy would have paid out on top of any sick pay she had and potentially for longer.  Mrs H 
has also said she had some savings,  but the PPI would have meant  she didnt have to use 
those savings to repay  her credit card at what could have been  a difficult time if she was out 
of work. And Mrs H has said she had some  insurances provided by her employer, but she 
hasnt been able to provide full details of these. So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think 
that Mrs H had a need  for the cover  and she would have thought the policy  was right for her.
Overall, I think Mrs H chose to take out the policy so it appears that she wanted  this type of 
cover. I dont think theres anything in the information she didnt have that would have put her 
off taking it out. So I think that she would have taken it if she had all of the right information.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs H paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mrs H back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand BoS has already paid this to Mrs H. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint against Bank of Scotland  
plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5150685