K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that he was given incorrect information by the HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) 
when calling  their call centre to enquire  about an international transaction  he wanted  to 
make. He would like compensation for the wasted time and effort  he has had in dealing with 
the complaint.
background 
On the 1 March,  Mr M used an app and attempted to make  a money transfer  from an 
overseas bank to his HSBC account  in the UK. As he was experiencing difficulty  he called 
HSBC and spoke  to an advisor  explaining that the app would not allow  him to choose the 
new Branch Identifier Code (BIC).  The advisor  told him there should be no issue in using the 
old BIC and so he went ahead with the transaction expecting the money to arrive in his 
account the same day or at least within a day or two.
When the money had not arrived as he had expected, Mr M contacted the sending  bank and 
the money eventually  reached his UK account on the 7 March.
HSBC acknowledged  that the information  their advisor  gave Mr M could have been clearer  
and offered him £30 in compensation. Mr M was unhappy with HSBCs  response  and so an 
adjudicator from this service looked  into the complaint. 
The adjudicator found that the information Mr M had been  given was not in fact wrong, as 
the transfer did in fact go through.  However  he thought clearer information around  the 
timescales for the transaction could have been given. He managed to negotiate with HSBC  
an increased level of compensation  of another £100,  but Mr M did not consider this to be 
sufficient and so the matter has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I will not repeat the adjudicators summary of the background to this complaint because it is 
accurate and full and I want  to avoid repetition. But, if it appears that I havent mentioned 
something it is not because I have  ignored  it, but because  I dont  think its relevant to the 
issues I have to decide.
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. 
Mr M was faced  with a difficult situation as the options on his app were  clearly not right.  He 
took advice from the HSBC advisor  who did give him correct  information in one sense. I say 
that because the transfer actually took place, so when Mr M entered  his old BIC details they 
still worked and the transfer was successful. I accept that Mr M made contact with the 
sending bank but there is no evidence that it was purely  because  of any involvement on their 
part that the transfer took place. This is a point which  Mr M has candidly acknowledged.  
What I need to decide is whether HSBC  acted fairly  and reasonably  in how it dealt with 
Mr M. When he was given  advice on the telephone, he was told that using the old BIC would 
still allow the transfer to go through. And it did. What went  wrong here was that the advice on 
Ref: DRN59641942the timescale for the transfer could have been much clearer. That is something HSBC have 
accepted. So I cant say that beyond  that issue HSBC has done  anything wrong. 
I have thought about the offer of compensation HSBC made  to Mr M and I do agree with the 
adjudicator that the initial £30 was insufficient. I know  Mr M believes that he should  receive  
more compensation  than the additional £100 the adjudicator  was able to negotiate, but I do 
think that £130 overall, is a reasonable sum and in line with the awards  this service would 
make for distress  and inconvenience in circumstances like this. So, I think it is fair.
So in summary,  Im not satisfied that HSBC  have treated Mr M unfairly, and Im not 
upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already paid £30 into Mr Ms account and made an offer to pay a 
further £100 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc should pay £100  to Mr M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5964194