K821x#15Complaint
Mr D complains about the motor home he acquired  with hire purchase finance  from 
Close Brothers Limited (CB).
Background
In April 2016 Mr D bought a new motor home which cost £47,800. This was funded by a 
deposit of £2,050, a part exchanged vehicle  valued  at £15,750 and the balance  of £30,000 
financed by CB. The payment of £2,050 was for extras.  
Mr D says hes experienced numerous faults  with the motor home from the outset. He says 
he hasnt used it since August 2018 when he received advice about safety concerns due to 
electrical issues. Repairs were carried out by the manufacturer, but these have not proved 
successful and now Mr D wants to reject  the motor  home and be repaid his deposit and all 
payments hes made under his conditional  sale agreement.
In dealing with his initial complaint CB refunded five months worth of monthly  payments 
which comes to £1,707.20  and the merchant paid him £1500 compensation.
CB says that, due to its obligations  under the Consumer Rights  Act, it had proposed  that the 
vehicle be returned  to the supplying dealer  and Mr Ds credit agreement  be closed down; 
that he be refunded  80% of his deposit as hed had the vehicle for nearly three  years  out of a 
10 year agreement; and that Mr D shouldnt be refunded any further  payments  as hed 
previously been  refunded  for his time without the vehicle and hed had full use of it since  
then. During our investigation  CB agreed to refund Mr Ds deposit in full.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Ds complaint should  be upheld. She said CB should end the 
agreement with nothing  further for Mr D to pay and collect the motor home from him at its 
own cost; refund the full amount of the £15,750 hed paid, together  with 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement; refund Mr Ds payments under the 
agreement from August 2018  to the date of settlement as redress  for impaired usage over 
this period; and pay him £500  as compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed 
experienced.
CB disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions. It said the recommendation to reimburse  
Mr Ds instalments since August 2018  was based purely on his verbal testimony  about not 
using the motor home since then. It said theres  no evidence the issue  with the rear end 
electrics wouldve been present  or developing at the point of supply. And it said it feels the 
compensation of £500 isnt in line with the inconvenience Mr D had suffered since he was 
refunded five monthly payments  for loss of use when the motor home was repaired 
previously.
So, CB said it didnt  think any further instalments should be returned to Mr D and it thought a 
compensation payment of £150  for his distress and inconvenience would be fair in the 
circumstances. It said it had seen  no evidence that Mr D hadnt  used the vehicle since  
August 2018 and the electrical  problems which had caused him not to use it may not have 
arisen at the point  of sale. 
Mr D said he agreed with the adjudicators conclusions, but he thought CB should also be 
required to refund the cost of the additional  items hed paid to have fitted  to the motorhome 
when he acquired  it. 
Ref: DRN57951152My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such this service is 
able to consider  complaints relating to it. CB is also the supplier of the goods  under this type 
of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a vehicle the other  relevant circumstances  a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint  and Ill explain why.
It is clear that from the outset the motor home  was faulty. Mr D took it away to Europe for 
four months shortly after acquiring  it and many items  failed. For example it leaked and rain 
came in. The manufacturer  effected repairs, but it clear  that these werent satisfactory and I 
can see from an independent report carried  out in October 2018 that there are still faults 
many of which are deemed to be manufacturing  faults.
So we have  a vehicle which was clearly faulty at the point of sale and repairs  that have 
proved ineffective.  This means that under consumer law Mr D is entitled to reject  it. CB 
agrees and the only issue is the level of recompense to be paid to Mr D. 
I am satisfied with the testimony of Mr D that he hasnt used the motor home since  August 
2018. It has a number of problems  that would make  use problematic. I gather it has done 
only some  10,500 miles since he bought it in April 2016. He has offered to supply further 
evidence on this matter,  but I dont consider that necessary. Even if those problems arose  
subsequent to the initial defects I am satisfied  that he has still be unable to make use of it 
and so I believe it is reasonable  to return the monthly payments he has made  since he 
stopped making  use of it. I also believe  he should  be recompensed for the extras  he 
purchased less a sum to recognise he has use of them. To that end I think a sum of £1500 is 
fair. He also paid for an independent report and as I am upholding this complaint it is fair that 
this expense should also be covered.
The one area where  I disagree with the adjudicator  is her proposed compensation of £500 
for distress and inconvenience.  I have to take into account that Mr D received £1,500 from 
Ref: DRN57951153the retailer and I think any further payment would be unreasonable. I appreciate  he has 
encountered distress  and inconvenience, but looking at the sums he has received from all 
parties I believe that to pay a further  £500  is not appropriate. Mr D has informally accepted 
my position  on this matter. 
In conclusion I am upholding his complaint and allowing him to reject the motor home and 
awarding what I consider  to be fair recompense. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint against Close Brothers Limited  and I direct  
it to: 
end the agreement with nothing further  for Mr D to pay and collect  the motor  home  
from him at its own cost; 
refund  the full amount  of the £15,750 hed paid by means of part exchange, together 
with 8% simple interest from the date of payment  to the date of settlement; 
refund  Mr Ds payments under the agreement from August 2018 to the date of 
settlement as redress for impaired usage  over this period; and pay 8% simple 
interest from the date of each  payment to the date of settlement
pay him £1500  towards the cost of the extras for which he paid £2,050  plus interest 
at 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
pay Mr D £175 for the cost of the report.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5795115