K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complained because Ageas Insurance Limited said it would only pay for 
damaged carpet in the dining room in settlement  of a contents insurance claim.
background
Mr and Mrs B claimed for a damaged carpet  in the dining room. Ageas has told them that it 
wont pay for undamaged  matching carpet in the adjoining living room. It feels  the living room 
is a separate area as its separated from the living  room by a double door. Mr and Mrs B are 
unhappy with what Ageas has said as the room is a lounge/dining room  and its carpeted  as 
such with one continuous carpet.  So they felt its not a matching carpet at all  its one carpet  
covering the whole area.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. As it was a continuous piece of 
carpet between the rooms  without any separation by a door bar, he felt it was unfair for 
Ageas to only pay for half of it. Ageas disagreed with our investigator. It said the living  and 
dining rooms are two separate rooms as theyre dived by double  doors.  And the policy  stated 
that each room and area is treated separately.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says:
if you have a matching  carpet or other  floor covering  in more  than one room  or area, 
we treat each room  or area as separate. We will only pay for the damage to the 
carpet or floor covering  in the room or area where  the damage happened .
Having seen photos of the layout of Mr and Mrs Bs house, I think  its fair to say that the 
living room  and dining room are separate rooms. Theyre clearly separated by double  doors,  
and its not what  I would consider to be a strict  open  plan layout. So, given the wording of the 
policy, theres an argument to say that contractually  Ageas is only liable for the carpet in the 
dining room.
However, when deciding complaints Im able to look beyond the strict legal (or contractual) 
position to what  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I often see complaints like this where  a carpet  extends beyond a single room. If theres a 
division between the two rooms  like a door and/or door bar, which  marks the boundary 
between two rooms   Ive sometimes said that its fair for an insurer to rely on a policy term 
similar to the one mentioned above  to restrict its liability to the carpet  in the room  where it 
was damaged  even  if the carpet matches.  But I decide each case on its individual 
circumstances.
The general principle  when settling a claim is that the insurer has to put the policyholder 
back into the position they were  in immediately before  the claim. If Ageas is only going to 
pay to replace the carpet in the dining room, I dont think  that properly puts Mr and Mrs B 
back into the same position  they were in. Thats because prior to the damage they had one 
continuous carpet (albeit covering two rooms). And after the claim  if its settled as Ageas 
Ref: DRN59183442intends  they wont  have.  On that basis, I dont  think its fair in this instance for Ageas to rely 
on the above clause to restrict its liability to the dining  room  only.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Ageas  Insurance Limited to settle Mr and Mrs Bs claim 
without restricting its liability by relying on the above  clause.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 May 2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5918344