K820x#14complaint
Mr G, and the representative of the late Mrs G, have complained they were  mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) by Newcastle Building Society (Newcastle) alongside 
their mortgage.
In my final decision, I shall mostly refer to the representative of the late Mrs G as Mrs G. 
background
Mr and Mrs G took out a PPI policy with a mortgage (account ending number 9438) in 1997, 
which they paid a monthly amount  for. At the same  time they also took some additional 
borrowings (account  number ending 9439) for some home improvements. The PPI policy  
covered both accounts. There  werent  two separate policies. 
The policy was in the name  of Mr G only.  If Mr G was made  involuntarily  redundant, and 
made a successful claim, the policy would have  covered the mortgage repayments,  and for 
up to 12 months. The policy wouldnt have covered Mr G if he was off work because  of 
sickness or disability as those options werent taken.  
The policy was cancelled in December  2004  when Mr and Mrs Gs finances  were 
rearranged. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and didn't  think it should be upheld. Mr G 
and the representative of the late Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr G and the representative of the late Mrs Gs case. 
Ive decided that PPI policy wasnt mis-sold to Mr and Mrs G  Ill explain why.
I think that Newcastle  made Mr and Mrs G aware  they had a choice about buying the PPI, 
and that they chose  to take it. Ive been given a copy  of the mortgage application that was 
completed at the time. There is a section entitled  your insurance cover which included a 
sub-section headed payment protection plus insurance There  are several yes boxes that 
have been ticked  to confirm that cover was to be taken,  in the name  of the first named 
applicant  Mr G  and that the cover was for unemployment only. 
Both Mr and Mrs G have  signed and dated the form. And I see that as a result  of their 
application, they were  given  details  of offer for both of the borrowings and the monthly cost 
of the PPI was shown  separately, and included in the total monthly repayments 
Mr and Mrs G would have to make. So I think if they didn't want the PPI they would have 
questioned it. And I think its reasonable to assume  Mr and Mrs G made  an informed 
decision as they chose to take it out in the name of Mr G only,  and for unemployment only, 
which suggests they understood how the policy  could have been of most benefit to them. 
Ref: DRN50303542Newcastle has told us it didn't recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs G but it had to give them  
enough clear, fair and not misleading information  about the policy for them to decide if they 
wanted to take the policy. But Ive also looked  to see if it was right for them. And based  on 
what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. 
The policy was in the name  of Mr G only which seems to have been right, as Mrs G wasnt  in 
paid employment  at the time and as the income earner it was Mr Gs income that needed to 
be protected. Mr G has told us he would receive some employee  benefits if he lost his job. 
But the policy would have paid the monthly cost of the repayment  over and above any 
employee benefits he may have received. 
The mortgage was a significant and long-term  commitment for Mr and Mrs G, secured 
against their home. The consequences of them not being able to make  the repayments  
could have been serious  even so far as losing their home. So the PPI would have given 
Mr and Mrs G peace  of mind and security, and particularly as Mr G was the sole income 
earner. The policy was there to reduce the pressure of meeting  repayments in a financially 
difficult time. 
Even though  the cost of the PPI was shown on the offer documents, I cant  know for sure 
how the policy was presented to Mr and Mrs G and it may be the case that Newcastle could 
have explained  the cost of the policy better than it did at the time of the sale. But it looks  like 
the PPI was affordable. So the policy would have  been useful for Mr and Mrs G if something 
went wrong. And so I dont think better  information  about the costs would have put them  off 
taking out the cover.
Its possible that Newcastle didnt point out the main things the policy  wouldnt cover   a pre-
existing medical condition as an example. But Mr G doesnt appear  to have been affected by 
any of those things.  
Ive also thought about whether Newcastle needs to give Mr G and the representative of the 
late Mrs G some of the commission Mr and Mrs G paid back. The Supreme Court  ruling and 
new rules and guidance dont apply to certain  types of mortgage  agreement  including  a 
regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage  became a regulated  mortgage  before 
6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Halifax doesnt  need to refund any of the commission  
Mr and Mrs G paid for the PPI he had with that mortgage.
Ive taken into account Mr G and the representative of the late Mrs Gs comments, including 
what they said about the policy not being  explained or adequate advice being  given.  But 
because of what Ive said, their comments dont change my mind. 
Ref: DRN50303543my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr G and the representative of the late 
Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G and the 
representative of the late Mrs G to accept  or reject my decision before 15 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5030354