K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs complaint against Cabot Credit  Management Group Limited  (Cabot)  is that it 
incorrectly registered a default against  him, which has caused him distress  and losses.  
background
In February 2017,  Cabot  recorded a default on Mr Hs account.  
He complained, saying hed been in a repayment arrangement, with no missed payments, 
and that he hadnt been made aware of the impending default. He said had he been  notified, 
hed have repaid the debt in full. So he said thered never have  been  a default.
Mr H said that as a result  of this default, his credit  record was ruined and he was declined  for 
a mortgage. He also said this impacted his health, and that hes been  suffering from a 
serious illness. 
When Mr H wasnt  able to resolve  matters with Cabot, he came to our service for help. Our 
Investigator didnt  originally think Cabot had done anything wrong, but after further 
consideration and discussion, it agreed  to remove the default from Mr Hs credit file, and to 
offer him £200 compensation.
Mr H didnt think this was good enough to resolve his complaint, so asked for an 
ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im pleased  to note that following  my review of the case  Cabots  agreed  to 
remove the default from Mr Hs file, on the basis that it cant  show us that the proper process  
was followed in applying  it. Im also encouraged to see that Cabots made a goodwill gesture 
of compensation  of £200 in acknowledgement that it cant prove the correct process was 
followed. I know Mr H doesnt  think this is enough  to make up for what hes been through, 
but I think its fair and sufficient. Id like to explain why.
The reason  Cabots agreed to remove the default,  as I suggested, is because I wasnt  
satisfied the full and correct process had been followed when it was applied.  As a result, Mr 
H receives the benefit of the doubt, and I make no finding as to whether the default itself was 
fair. It may have been.
As such,  I cant say that any suffering or loss caused by the default is Cabots sole 
responsibility. Thats not to say I dont acknowledge that Mr H has suffered. Both with the 
consequences of his financial difficulties and the impact on his credit file, but also with his 
health. Im genuinely  sorry to hear how difficult things have been. 
My role is to reach an outcome thats  fair to both parties. Ive never  said the default 
shouldnt have been applied. Ive made no finding on that. What Ive said is that Im not 
satisfied it was properly  applied in terms of process. And for that reason I felt it should be 
removed. But I didnt  necessarily think that compensation should  also be paid to Mr H, as of 
greater benefit  to him is the removal of the default.
Ref: DRN51470122However, Cabot has now made the goodwill gesture of offering £200. While I accept that Mr 
H feels that the distress  and loss (in particular  a mortgage offer)  warrants  much  more than 
this, Im afraid  theres insufficient evidence to convince me this is the case. So I wont  be 
asking Cabot to increase  this offer. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint to the extent that Cabot Credit Management 
Group Limited should remove the default from Mr Hs credit file, as has now been agreed. 
Its also offered Mr H £200 compensation, and I dont intend to ask it to increase this sum. 
Its now for Mr H to decide whether to accept it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5147012