K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains Barclays Bank UK PLC removed £5,400 from his account  and wont  return  it 
to him. It then applied  safeguards to his account  which caused him problems. 
background
Mr B tells us that on 12 February 2012  someone  hed lent money to in the past paid £5,400  
into his account.  But Barclays removed this money the following day without telling him and 
blocked his account. That meant he couldnt withdraw his wages when he went to his local 
branch. Its now refusing  to return the money to him.
Barclays said itd received instructions to return the money to the remitter of the payment so 
it had to comply with that request. It said it then carried out a review which it completed on 
19 February 2019 which was within its timeframe  of 10 working days. It said it hadnt done  
anything wrong  because itd acted in line with its terms and conditions. But it apologised for 
its poor customer service when Mr B went  to his local branch and couldnt withdraw his 
wages. And it offered  him £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused. It said it couldnt 
return the money because  itd been sent back  to the remitters  bank  but suggested Mr B 
contact the sender of the funds.
Our investigator didnt  think Barclays had done  anything wrong when it removed the money 
from Mr Bs account or when it blocked  his account while it was carrying  out a review. It was 
entitled to do that in line with its terms and conditions. But he thought Barclays should pay 
an additional  £75 compensation for not letting Mr B have access  to his wages.
Mr B didnt agree. He said he was entitled to the £5,400. And he said the compensation for 
the problem over him not being able to access his wages was not enough.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays received a request to return the credit of £5,400 because an allegation of fraud had 
been made. In those  circumstances and in line with its terms and conditions  its entitled to do 
that. So I cant fairly find its done  anything wrong and I cant  make  it return the money to Mr 
B.
While Mr Bs account was blocked he couldnt  get access to his wages. Barclays apologised 
for that and offered  him £75 compensation. Our investigator thought that a fairer offer would 
be £150. I agree. Barclays  applied a block on his account on 13 February 2019. It removed 
that block on 19 February so he could access his account again. During that relatively  short 
time Mr B couldnt access his wages. And I know Mr B wont  agree with me but in those 
circumstances I think £150  for the distress and inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable.
Its not clear to me whether Barclays has already  paid £75 to Mr B. If not it must  pay him a 
total of £150. If it has paid him £75 it must pay him an additional £75. 
Ref: DRN54856622my final decision
My decision  is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should  pay Mr B compensation of £150  in total.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5485662