K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains HSBC UK Bank  Plc has treated him unfairly by not sending him a written 
breakdown of the transactions on his current account showing which  debit card was used to 
make them.
background
Mr A has an account with HSBC which he holds jointly  with his ex-partner who Ill call B. 
Hes explained he and B have a dispute in court and he believes B stole  from him. As part of  
the dispute, he needs to find out which transactions made from November 2017 until the end 
of January 2018 were from the debit  card in his name and which were from the debit card in 
Bs name.
Mr A got in touch with HSBC via its chat service around the beginning of August 2018  to ask 
for this information. As the enquiry  wasnt resolved, he sent an email  to HSBC asking for 
help on 9 August  2018. HSBCs  given us copies of the correspondence between Mr A and 
HSBC. 
HSBC has said it doesnt have the facility  to give Mr A a list of transactions  detailing which  
card has been used. Its said it would need  to do this manually and it would take several 
days to pull the information together. It said its given him a list of the transactions  without 
details of which card was used. HSBC has said if Mr A has concerns about specific  
transactions, he can contact it by phone and the representative  will be able to tell him which  
card was used. HSBC has said it thinks Mr A should  know which transactions  are his to 
narrow down the ones he isnt sure about.  If he can do that, he can cross check  those 
transactions with HSBC.
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mr A brought his complaint to our service. Hes unhappy 
HSBCs said he could get the information over the phone but not in writing. And hes 
complained about the time it took for HSBC to get back  to him. Our adjudicator didnt uphold 
the complaint.  He thought  HSBC  had acted reasonably in the circumstances. He suggested 
Mr A get the information he needs  over the phone and ask HSBC for a recording of this call 
to use as evidence  in court. He also thought HSBC had responded to the complaint  quickly  
enough.
Mr A didnt agree with our adjudicators findings  as he thinks  HSBC is withholding his data 
from him, so the complaints been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I dont think this complaint  should be upheld for broadly the same reasons as the 
adjudicator, I know Mr A will be disappointed.  Ill explain  why.
Ive looked at the list of transactions HSBC has given us. And I can see there are around  57 
in total. From what HSBC  has explained to us, it seems to me the type of information Mr A 
would like it to provide isnt readily  available. And pulling the information together will take 
someone a long time to go through each transaction,  find out which  debit card was used to 
make it and record it for Mr A.
Ref: DRN52455312Whilst I dont think  its impossible for HSBC to give Mr A the information  hes asked for in 
writing, I dont think its obliged to just because hes asked for it. HSBC has said gathering 
the information Mr As asked for will be time consuming and outside  its normal  processes. 
And I think its given him other options to enable him to get the information he needs. 
HSBCs said if Mr A identifies  the transactions he doesnt recognise as his own, he can get 
in touch via the phone and it will give him details about which card was used.  Its also agreed 
to provide the relevant  call recording as evidence of the information  Mr As received  over the 
phone if he asks for it. And I think this is fair. 
I appreciate Mr A thinks HSBC is withholding  information from him but I dont agree. I say 
this because HSBC  is willing  to give him the information hes asked for  but just not in the 
way hes asked for it. I understand this must be frustrating for Mr A as he thinks its a simple 
request. But I dont think HSBC has treated him unfairly in this case by not going outside  of 
its usual process.
Ive also thought carefully about the time it took for HSBC to get back  to Mr A about  his 
request to explain it couldnt do what hed asked. I can see he first got in touch in 
August 2018 by email and explained  no one was able to help him on the chat service. He 
then chased HSBC a few times and as he expressed his dissatisfaction,  it treated  his 
messages as a complaint  as I would expect it to. I can see it gave its final response to his 
complaint within  the timeframe set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And it 
explained to Mr A why it couldnt do what he wanted. 
So overall, I dont  think HSBC has treated Mr A unfairly or acted unreasonably in this case. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5245531