K820x#14Complaint
H, a small business, says Clydesdale Bank Plc didnt do enough  to help when it fell victim to 
a scam. It says Clydesdale should  have done more to prevent  the payment going  through  
and to recover the money from the scammer.
Background
On 8 September 2017, H made an online payment  of £2,150 from its Clydesdale  current 
account on the email  instruction of who it thought was a supplier of imported goods  that it 
had previously dealt  with. 
H later realised it had actually made the payment to a scammer who had impersonated the 
supplier and sent an email containing the scammers own account  details. H contacted  
Clydesdale on 19 September 2017 to tell it what had happened,  and to see if there  was 
anything the bank could do to help.  Clydesdale contacted the scammers bank the following 
day to see if any of Hs money could be recovered.  But the scammers bank eventually 
confirmed that wasnt  possible.
H was unhappy  with how Clydesdale handled  things, so it ultimately  referred a complaint to 
us. One of our adjudicators looked  at what had happened and didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. The adjudicator felt Clydesdale had done all it reasonably could to try 
and help, so they didnt  think  it needed to do anything more.
H disagreed saying, among other  things,  the details Clydesdale had asked for when making 
the payment didnt  match the details of the intended recipient. H felt Clydesdale had been 
negligent in allowing the payment to go ahead despite the mis-match  regarding the 
recipients name. So, the complaint was passed  to me to review  afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at laws that a banks  expected  to process  payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises  it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services  
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And Ive taken that into 
account when  deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Ref: DRN50816202Regulated firms like Clydesdale are also required to conduct  their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  
taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Clydesdale acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings 
with H when it made a payment of £2,150 in September  2017, or whether it should have 
done more than it did.
Both H and Clydesdale agree that H authorised the transfer itself, so Clydesdale  had an 
obligation to follow Hs instruction and make the transfer. But as explained above, there are 
some circumstances in which Clydesdale should reasonably  have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding  the transfer and asked further questions,  for example,  if the 
payment was out of character for H. 
But I dont think the payment  was particularly suspicious or unusual  enough  to say 
Clydesdale ought  to have had concerns that H was being scammed.  The amount of the 
payment that H made wasnt particularly unusual for it  I can see from bank statements 
around the time that H regularly  made payments for similar  or higher amounts from the 
account. Having  reviewed Hs account  activity  in the weeks and months leading up to the 
transaction, I dont  think it was sufficiently suspicious to conclude  Clydesdale  ought  to have 
identified that it may have  been potentially fraudulent.  
H has noted that, in making the payment, it was required  to provide three sets of details to 
identify the recipient  their name, their International Bank Account Number (IBAN) and their 
Bank Identifier Code  (BIC). H says, and Clydesdale accepts, it only checked the recipients  
IBAN and BIC and ran no check  on the recipients name.  H says had Clydesdale  carried out 
such a check, the scam might have been revealed  before the payment was made.  
Ref: DRN50816203Ive thought carefully about the point H has made  here and I can see its point of view. That 
said, there was no requirement  at the time for Clydesdale to ask H for the recipients name  
or to carry out any checks on it once  it had asked. Nor do I consider that it was accepted at 
the time to be good industry practice  to carry out those checks. Clydesdale has confirmed us 
that at no stage did it have access to the details of the beneficiary  banks customer to enable  
it to check the information. It attempted to get this information for H after the scam  was 
reported but was unable  to get a hold of it from the international beneficiary bank. So, in the 
circumstances, I think  Clydesdale acted  fairly  by following  the instructions H gave and 
sending the money.
When H told Clydesdale that it had been  scammed, Clydesdale  contacted the scammers 
bank the next day to see if any of Hs money  was still in the receiving account and could be 
retrieved. Unfortunately, the money couldnt be recovered. Its not unusual in scams  like this 
for the scammers to withdraw funds quickly. 
Any further investigations into what happened  to the money  after it left the scammers 
account werent the responsibility of Clydesdale,  and it wouldnt have unrestricted access to 
that information. So, contacting the scammers bank to try and retrieve the money was all 
Clydesdale could do to help H at that stage, which I can see it did. 
On a more positive note, I see that in June 2018  a third party partially reimbursed  H for the 
money it lost. 
Its unfortunate that H has lost out on the remainder, and I understand that this whole  
experience will have  been hugely frustrating.  But, in the circumstances, I dont think  I can 
fairly say that Clydesdale should have done more to prevent H losing its money and I think  it 
did what it could to help once it knew what had happened.  So, I dont think  it would be fair to 
ask Clydesdale  to compensate H for its remaining loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5081620