K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy with Cabot Credit Management Group  Limited asking him to repay  a debt, 
because he doesnt  think it has sufficient evidence to enforce it.
background
Mr J contacted Cabot  in 2018 to ask for further  information about a debt it was asking  him to 
repay. Cabot said the debt related  to a bank account  and overdraft  hed had.
Mr J said the bank  has no record of the account  as it was over 15 years  old, so he felt Cabot 
should provide  evidence  that its entitled to repayment.
Cabot issued its final response letter to Mr J, and in this provided him with as much 
information as it said it could. This included when the account  was opened and closed,  and 
the date a default entry was added to his credit  file. Cabot said the bank had told it the last 
repayment it had received  was in September 2008.
Cabot also provided  Mr J with the sort code and account number  and said it believes it to be 
the legal  owner  of the outstanding balance.
Mr J didnt agree so an investigator  here considered the matter. He explained to Mr J that we 
arent here to decide whether or not a debt is enforceable,  as that would be the role of the 
courts. The investigator  felt the fact that Mr J had been regularly paying toward the debt for 
over 10 years was a good indication that it was owed  by him  even  if full details cannot now 
be established.
Mr J didnt agree so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr J might believe the debt to be unenforceable,  but as our 
investigator has explained only a court can decide that. Rather, we will look at what each 
party has said and reach a conclusion as to whether  its reasonable for Cabot to request 
payments from Mr J.
Cabot has given a reasonable  level of detail in relation to Mr Js debt, including the account it 
related to and the repayments  hes made over the years. Mr J has been  making  frequent  
payments dating  back to 2008, some of which show as having been made through  a debt 
charity. If this debt was something Mr J was saying never existed then I dont think hed have 
been paying toward it for so long.  Instead, it seems  to me that Mr J feels the lack of records  
from the bank, in particular the lack of a signed credit agreement, makes the debt 
unenforceable.
But, as explained,  thats not something  I can decide. Bearing in mind how long ago the bank 
account was closed and defaulted it doesnt  surprise me that neither the bank nor Cabot 
have full details  or a credit agreement. So Im not going to hold the lack of such evidence  
against Cabot  in this particular case.
Ref: DRN58038312And whilst it may not have  a credit agreement, Cabot has provided  information that shows  
me Mr J had a debt with the bank, and to show that Cabot is now responsible  for collecting 
that debt.
I dont consider there to be such a lack of evidence so as to suggest the debt never  existed, 
nor that it doesnt still exist. And I dont think  Mr J is arguing that either. Hes been in touch 
with the bank asking for information  and he referred  to the debt as being my overdraft  in his 
dealings with our service.
So, regardless of whether the debt is enforceable in law, I think  Cabot is reasonable in 
asking Mr J to continue  his repayments. And according to industry guidelines as well, 
demanding payment, issuing a default  notice and bringing court  proceedings dont constitute 
enforcement, so are still allowed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Will Weston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5803831