K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that MYJAR Limited gave him loans irresponsibly.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision that I issued in 
February 2020. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I thought the complaint should  be upheld  in part. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr H and MYJAR have confirmed  they have nothing further to add, and that they 
accept my provisional decision. So, in these circumstances, I see no need to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
putting things right
I dont think that MYJAR shouldve given loan five to Mr H and so it should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loan five; 
pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to 
the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  about  loan five from Mr Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  this complaint and direct MYJAR Limited to put 
things right as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Richard France
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN50812052EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
background
This complaint relates to five instalment loans given  to Mr H during 2017  and 2018, as follows:
Loan No Amount Date lent Repaid Instalments Amount  pm
1 £250 28.12.17 28.12.17 3 £124
2 £650 12.1.18 24.1.18 6 £211
3 £500 25.1.18 27.4.18 12 £76
4 £800 8.5.18 3.7.18 12 £122
5 £2,600 3.7.18 31.1.19 24 £202
Mr H has instructed a third party company to bring this complaint on his behalf but, for ease, I will 
simply refer to Mr H throughout.
Our adjudicator didnt think that MYJAR had been wrong  to provide loans one to three to Mr H  but 
he didnt think that loans four and five shouldve  been given.
MYJAR didnt  agree and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr H could repay the loans  
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and 
reasonably have done  more  to establish  that any lending  was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a higher  
repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during which a 
customer has been  given loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  its important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish  whether  Mr H 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Ref: DRN50812053Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting  
other reasonable  commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows that a lender  should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably  to realise, that a borrower 
wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Before each  of the loans were approved, MYJAR asked Mr H for details of his income and 
expenditure. It also carried out some credit  searches and, whilst  I havent seen  the results of these, 
MYJAR has provided summary outputs  from its own files.
loans one to three
I agree with our adjudicator that, in the circumstances  of loans one to three, there isnt anything  that I 
think ought to have concerned MYJAR as regards the affordability of the loans to Mr H. The loan 
repayments were relatively modest compared to Mr Hs apparent disposable income and, at this early 
stage in their relationship, I think that the lender  was entitled  to rely upon the information provided  to it 
by Mr H. I think MYJARs checks were proportionate and it follows  I dont think it was wrong to give 
these loans.
I can see that loan one was borrowed and repaid on the same day. Loan two was provided  a couple  
of weeks  later and, whilst  it was scheduled  for repayment over six months,  it was actually repaid by 
Mr H after just 12 days.  On the following  day, Mr H borrowed loan three  which was for a lower 
amount and was repayable  by 12 monthly instalments.  Loan three was also repaid early, after three 
months.
Loan four
Mr H applied for loan four a couple of weeks after loan three had been repaid. This was for an 
increased amount again.
I think  that, given this was Mr Hs fourth loan in less than five months and a number of the loans  had 
been taken out very shortly after the previous one had been repaid, MYJAR  shouldve carried out 
deeper checks. Most particularly I think it ought  to have been considering if Mr H was becoming 
dependent upon short term borrowing  and so I think it shouldve asked him for specific details  of his 
outstanding short term loans. I cant see that MYJAR  did this.
So, Ive looked at Mr Hs credit report to establish what he would most  likely have declared to MYJAR 
if it had asked  him for more  information about  other  short  term loans. I can see that there was only 
one other,  relatively-modest,  short  term loan outstanding at the time of loan four. In these 
circumstances I think its most likely  that, if MYJAR had been aware of this through carrying out the 
better checks I consider  proportionate, it would  still most likely have decided to lend.
It follows that I dont currently think  MYJAR  was wrong to give loan four.
loan five
Loan four was repaid early, after just two months, but Mr H was given loan five on the same day. This 
was for a significantly  greater amount, and was scheduled for repayment over two years.
Ref: DRN50812054Ive reviewed Mr Hs bank  statements and credit report and can see that, at the time of loan five, he 
had outstanding commitments with three other short term lenders. Here  again  I cant  see that MYJAR 
asked Mr H for any more  information  about  what short term loan commitments he had. As such, I 
dont think its checks went far enough.
If MYJAR  had undertaken the better checks that Id consider proportionate I think  it wouldve  been 
aware of these loans. And, as a consequence, I think it wouldve realised that Mr H was experiencing 
financial difficulties - which  meant he was unlikely to be able to repay  the loan sustainably, and was 
most probably borrowing to cover the gap in his finances caused  by repaying other loans.
For these  reasons I dont currently think that MYJAR  shouldve given loan five to Mr H and so it 
should:
refund all interest and charges Mr H paid on loan five; 
pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the date of 
settlement;
remove any adverse  information about loan five from Mr Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  MYJAR to take off tax from this interest.  MYJAR must give Mr H a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN5081205