K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Close Brothers Limited  (Close Brothers) failed to report her account 
as settled after shed  paid the final instalment.
background
In December 2015 Ms B took out a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers to 
finance a used car. She made her final payment on 1 January 2019. But she was 
disappointed that Close Brothers  didnt  report her account as settled until mid March  which  
meant the agreement remained live on her credit  file until April.
Close Brothers apologised for the problem. They explained that credit report amendments 
are sent monthly  and Ms Bs may have  missed  the run. So they ensured the credit file was 
updated. They offered Ms B £25 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience  shed 
been caused. But Ms B didnt think this was enough and she referred her complaint  to this 
service.
Our investigator noted that Ms B didnt appear  to have suffered any financial loss as a result  
of the record not being  updated  in time. So he was persuaded  that Close Brothers  offer of 
compensation had been  sufficient in the circumstances. He explained that information was 
sent to credit  reference agencies monthly and could take a further  4-6 weeks to show  on the 
credit file. And he was persuaded  that Close Brothers had now rectified  the situation.
But Ms B was still unhappy  with the compensation offered and she therefore  asked  for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms B but I agree with the investigators view and for similar reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I can see that Ms B had to chase Close Brothers to report her account  as settled and it took 
a little longer than expected for the credit  file to be updated. Close  Brothers has explained 
that reports are made to the credit  bureaus monthly  and that they in turn take 4-6 weeks to 
add them to the credit file. That sounds reasonable and as Ms B has confirmed that she 
didnt complete any credit applications I dont think shes  been particularly inconvenienced  
by the problem. In those  circumstances Im persuaded that £25 compensation is sufficient.  
Ref: DRN57822262my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5782226