K821x#15Complaint
Ms D has complained about a conditional  sale agreement which Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc (Santander) entered into her with in 2018. Shes  said she was elderly with no financial  
assets so couldnt afford  the payments. Shes also said she was led to believe she was 
guaranteeing to make  payments in the event her grandson wasnt  able to, rather than 
agreeing to be the primary borrower. 
Background
In July 2018, Santander entered into a conditional sale agreement  with Ms D to facilitate the 
purchase of a used  car. The purchase price  was £13,979.45 and the entire  amount was 
funded by the loan from Santander.  The loan had an annual  percentage rate (APR) of 
8.9% and was due to be repaid in 60 monthly  instalments  of around £287.39.  As I 
understand it, Santander took possession of the vehicle, in January 2019,  after it received 
notification it had been seized by police,  due to being driven by an uninsured  driver.   
 
Ms D subsequently complained to Santander.  She said she was led to believe that she was 
only guaranteeing to make  payments  in the event her grandson didnt and, in any event, the 
monthly payments  for the agreement werent affordable.  Santander didnt uphold Ms Ds 
complaint and as she remained dissatisfied she referred the matter to us for consideration.
Ms Ds complaint was then considered  by one of our investigators.  He thought  Santander 
unfairly entered into this agreement with Ms D because reasonable and proportionate 
checks would have  shown  Ms D couldnt  afford to make the monthly payments she was 
asked to commit to. Santander  disagreed and so the complaint was passed  to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments provided from the outset in order to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance  and law, and considering  the main reason 
for Ms Ds complaint, I think there  are two overarching questions  that I needed  to consider in 
order to decide  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  These  
questions are:
Did Santander complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Ms D 
would be able to make her payments in a sustainable way?
oIf so, was a fair lending decision made?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Ms D wouldve been  able to do so?
Did Santander act unfairly or unreasonably  towards Ms D in some  other  way?
If I determine that Santander  did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with Ms D and 
that she has lost out as a result, Ill go on to consider whats  fair compensation.
Ill proceed to consider  the first of the overarching  questions.
Ref: DRN59693422Did Santander complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Ms D 
would be able to make the monthly  payments in a sustainable way?
There appears to have been  a significant amount of back and forth between  our investigator 
and Santander  over its obligations. But for the avoidance of doubt  and sake of 
completeness, I want to be clear in stating that the regulations in place when Santander lent 
to Ms D required  it to carry out a reasonable assessment of whether Ms D could afford to 
make her repayments in a sustainable  manner. This is sometimes  referred to as an 
affordability assessment  or affordability  check.
Crucially any affordability checks carried out had to be borrower-focused   so Santander 
had to think about whether making the payments sustainably would cause difficulties or 
adverse consequences for Ms D. In other  words, it wasnt enough for Santanders lending 
decision to only consider the likelihood  that it would get its money  back, or that it had the 
ability to repossess the vehicle, without considering the impact of the repayments  on Ms D 
herself.
The checks  also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application. In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check  will be dependent 
upon a number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular  circumstances of the 
borrower (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
Even for the same customer,  a proportionate check could  look different for different loan 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check generally ought to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to repay a 
given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the 
credit is likely to be greater  and the customer is required  to make payments for a 
longer period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
should be for a given  loan application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, or any substantial 
time gaps  between loans. Ive thought  about  all the relevant factors  in this case.
Ref: DRN59693423Santanders checks
Ive considered the checks Santander says it carried out in this particular case. It seems to 
me that Santanders  confidence that its checks were proportionate is based on its systems 
having approved the lending and Ms D having signed documentation  confirming that she 
considered the payments affordable. But it hasnt told us what if anything it was in the 
information gathered,  in fact it has provided  nothing  at all on the detail, which led its systems  
to conclude Ms D could afford the monthly  repayments. Indeed it seems  to me Santander 
simply expects  us to accept Ms Ds loan was affordable because  its system approved  it.
Considering Santander says it gathered sufficient  information,  in line with its regulatory 
obligations, to inform its lending decision, its extremely disappointing that Santander hasnt  
provided it to me. Equally  its also disappointing  that Santander has been unable to tell me 
what it knew about Ms Ds circumstances when this loan was provided to her. 
I say this while especially  mindful of the fact that Santander will have been aware Ms D was 
approaching 80 years old and it recorded  that limited information from the application details  
that shed been retired for approaching 20 years.  Im not saying that this in itself meant that 
Ms D shouldnt have been  lent to in these circumstances. But I would expect a greater 
degree of care to have  been taken and a higher level of scrutiny of her ability  to repay to 
have been applied, rather than Santander  simply relying Ms D having  signed documentation 
to confirm shed  thought  about whether the finance  was affordable for her. 
Id also make it clear that this service cannot and will not look for evidence  and construct  an 
argument to support Santanders defence of Ms Ds complaint.  If Santander cant, or wont,  
provide the information relied on and describe  why it showed it was fair and reasonable to 
lend to Ms D, in the circumstances that it did, then I cant and wont  reach the conclusion that 
its checks before providing this loan were proportionate. Without  any explanation from 
Santander on this matter, I cant take it as read that its lending decision  was fair. 
In these circumstances, and in the absence of anything else to indicate that Santander took 
any further steps to ascertain Ms Ds monthly income or regular expenditure, Im not 
satisfied that the checks Santander carried out before reaching the conclusion the monthly 
payments were affordable for Ms D were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks more likely than not have shown that Ms D was 
able to sustainably  make the repayments to this agreement?
As proportionate  checks werent carried out before this agreement  was provided, I cant say 
for sure what they wouldve shown.  So I need  to decide whether it is more  likely than not that 
a proportionate check would have told Santander that it was unfair to enter into this 
agreement with Ms D. 
Ms D has provided us with evidence  of her financial circumstances at the time she applied  
for the finance.  Of course,  I accept  different  checks might show  different things. And just 
because something  shows up in the information Ms D has provided,  it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Santander  mightve carried out. But in the absence  of 
anything else from Santander  showing  what  this information would have shown, I think its 
perfectly fair and reasonable to place considerable weight on it as an indication  of what     
Ms Ds financial  circumstances were  more likely than not to have been  at the time.
Ref: DRN59693424To be clear, Ive not looked  at Ms Ds bank statements because I think  that Santander ought 
to have obtained them before lending to her  although it could be argued  that this would 
have been sensible  given what Santander  did know about Ms D. Ive consulted Ms Ds bank 
statements because they were readily  available  at this stage and they contain the 
information I now need to reconstruct the proportionate check Santander  should  have but 
failed to carry out. 
Ms Ds bank statements  show  that she was in receipt of an average of around  £650.00  or so 
a month. Its clear the monthly payments alone for the finance would have swallowed up a 
significant portion   approaching 50% - of Ms Ds monthly income. Santander would also 
have been aware  that if Ms D was to be the driver of the vehicle as it suggests, she would 
have been faced with a significant outlay for insurance. And when the running costs of the 
vehicle are added to monthly  finance payments, its clear Ms Ds income was nowhere  near 
enough to meet the cost of this vehicle in a sustainable manner. 
Indeed, Ms Ds statements indicates she was already struggling to meet her existing 
commitments let alone take on even more. For example, I could  see that her payments to 
essential bills such as her utilities were regularly returned as unpaid. I also understand that 
Ms D had previously had significant  arrears on an existing car finance agreement  too, which  
again calls into question  just what it was Santanders system  considered  when concluding 
Ms D could afford the monthly repayments in question.
Overall and having carefully considered  everything, I think  that reasonable and proportionate  
checks would have  alerted Santander to the fact that Ms D wasnt  able to make the 
payments to this agreement without experiencing financial difficulty  and/or borrowing further. 
And so it follows that she wasnt  in any sort of financial position to sustainably  make the 
required repayments under this conditional  sale agreement.     
Did Santander act unfairly or unreasonably  towards Ms D in some  other  way?
Ive thought about everything provided.  Ms D says that she was led to believe that she was 
agreeing to act as a guarantor, rather than borrowing the funds herself.  
I dont know what Ms D was told at the time of the application. And I do have concerns about 
some of the actions of Santanders agent.  But given Ive already found Santander unfairly  
entered into this conditional sale agreement with Ms D, I dont think  that any finding I may 
make in relation  Ms D being misled  into thinking she was acting as a guarantor,  will 
materially affect Ms Ds position.  
So, in these circumstances,  as its not necessary for me to do so, I make  no finding  on 
whether Ms D was misled in the way she says she was. And in these circumstances, I dont 
find that Santander acted unfairly  or unreasonably towards Ms D in some other way. 
Conclusions
Overall and having thought about  the two overarching questions, set out on pages 1 and 2 of 
this decision, I find that:
Santander didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks  on Ms D to satisfy  
itself that she was able to make the payments to this agreement; 
Ref: DRN59693425reasonable and proportionate checks would more  likely than not have shown Ms D 
was unable  to sustainably make the repayments  to this hire purchase agreement;
Santander didnt act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way towards Ms D; 
The above  findings leave me reaching  the overall conclusion that Santander unfairly and 
unreasonably entered  into this conditional  sale agreement with Ms D.
Did Ms D lose out as a result of Santanders  shortcomings?
Ive considered whether Ms D suffered adverse consequences as a result of Santander 
unfairly entering into this conditional sae agreement with her. As I explained  Santander took 
possession of the vehicle in January 2019. Given Ms D paid and is still being  expected  to 
pay for a vehicle that was repossessed relatively  quickly, I think  that Ms D lost out because 
of what Santander  did wrong.
So overall and having thought about  everything  provided and whats  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of this case,  I find that Ms D lost out because  Santander unfairly  
entered into a conditional  sale agreement,  which it ought to have realised was unaffordable 
for her, with her. And this means I think that Santander needs  to put things right.
Fair compensation  what  Santander needs  to do to put things right for Ms D
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation  in this case. Where I find that a 
business has done something  wrong, Id normally expect that business   in so far as is 
reasonably practicable   to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken  place.  In essence,  in this case, this would mean Santander putting Ms D 
in the position shed  now be in if she hadnt  been  sold the car in the first place.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Ms D 
was given the vehicle in question and Santander  has since taken back possession. So, in 
these circumstances,  I cant  undo  whats already been done.  And its simply not possible to 
put Ms D back in the position she would be in if she hadnt  been given the vehicle in the first 
place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to explain  the 
reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Santander to put things right in 
the following  way.
Our website  sets out the main  things we consider when looking  at putting things right in 
cases where we conclude that a lender did something wrong in irresponsible/unaffordable 
lending complaints. We usually say that the borrower needs pay back  the credit amount 
provided and that the lender should refund any interest, fees and charges that the borrower 
paid. This is because the borrower will have had the benefit  of the credit that they were  
provided with and its usually the extra paid over and above this  any interest fees and 
charges  that will have  caused the consumer to lose out. 
But I dont think that a refund of the interest fees and charges is appropriate  here. The car 
was taken back relatively soon after the agreement started and a settlement on this basis 
would mean  Ms D paying for the full amount lent without owning  the car at the end. Ive 
Ref: DRN59693426therefore given  careful  thought to how else it might  be fair and reasonable to put things right 
for Ms D bearing in mind she was provided with a conditional sale agreement  here.  
In circumstances  where a borrower was provided  with finance to purchase a car they were
unable to afford to make  the payments for, its usually appropriate for the car to be returned
and the agreement ended. Santander  took possession  of the car in January 2019.  So clearly 
there is no need for Ms D to now return the car. But Santander does need to write off the 
remaining balance on the agreement and ensure Ms D has nothing  further to pay.
Ms D was provided with the vehicle for a period. So I think its fair and reasonable for my 
award to reflect this. I appreciate that Ms D has argued that the vehicle was never  supposed 
to be hers and Ive given  some thought  to how this should affect any direction regarding  the 
usage of the vehicle.  
Having done it seems to me that there is a strong argument for saying Ms D would have  still 
made the payments she did. Whether as the borrower or in her capacity as a guarantor,  
even if she was as she say misled into believing shed have to make  payments when her 
grandson didnt. So in these circumstances,  Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for 
Santander to retain  the payments it collected as a result of having  been without the vehicle 
for a period  of time.
Ms Ds credit  file
Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of any credit they shouldnt have been given. Having 
carefully considered  everything, Ive not seen anything here which  leads me to think  such a 
direction would be unfair here.
So having  carefully thought about  everything, Santander should remove  any negative 
information that it has recorded on Ms Ds credit file about this agreement. 
All of this means  that it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Ms Ds complaint for 
Santander to put things  right in the following  way:
Terminate the agreement and write-off any remaining liability/outstanding  balance;
Removing  any adverse information  it has recorded  about this agreement  on Ms Ds 
credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Ms Ds complaint. Santander  Consumer (UK) 
Plc should put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5969342