K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about an application for a mortgage that Mr W made  to HSBC UK Bank 
Plc. Mr W is unhappy  that HSBC made him supply a great deal of information  and evidence 
of his income only then to turn him down. He says the bank assessed his application unfairly  
and wasted his time.
background
Mr W applied  for the mortgage in the spring  of 2018;  he was looking to borrow £75,000 and 
was initially given a decision in principle for a higher figure. However, when  he formally 
applied, HSBC required him to submit  detailed information about  his investment income. 
Mr W went to considerable lengths  to provide  everything the bank asked of him, but HSBCs 
underwriters eventually declined the application on affordability grounds. 
Mr W was able to get the mortgage he wanted  from another lender, but the delay in doing so 
meant that for two months,  he paid interest to his existing lender at its standard variable rate 
(SVR). Mr W estimated  this cost him an extra  £65 a month, which HSBC agreed to 
reimburse him for. It also offered Mr W £250 compensation for his time and trouble.
When Mr W referred his complaint here, our adjudicator thought  HSBCs settlement offer 
was fair. But he asked the bank to increase the amount  it was willing  to pay to reimburse  
extra interest after Mr W provided  evidence  that the additional amount hed paid was higher 
than hed initially thought. HSBC agreed  to do this but Mr W didnt accept the proposed 
settlement. He asked  for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, but not just 
because he thought more compensation was warranted. Mr W remains  of the view that 
HSBC assessed  his application unfairly  and inconsistently.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr W has set out his account of events in 
considerable detail. I trust he wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint 
in the way that I have. Ours  is an informal dispute  resolution service, and Ive concentrated 
on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Mr W, but although Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep  my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  
point its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think I need  to comment  on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. 
As a starting point,  no one is entitled to borrow money. But a lender must  treat customers  
and potential customers fairly. In the context of an application for lending, that means 
assessing it in accordance  with the banks lending criteria. Lenders criteria are commercially 
sensitive and not generally made public. Theyre also unique  to each business, so the fact 
that one is willing to lend doesnt  mean  another must also do so.
Generally speaking, its not the role of an ombudsman  to interfere with a lenders  commercial  
judgement on how much it will lend, and I see no reason to depart from that position here. 
Mr W has provided us with a lot of the detail information about his income that he submitted 
to HSBC, but its not my role to second-guess HSBCs under-writing decision or to assess 
his application  myself  and substitute  my own lending decision for that reached by HSBC. 
Ref: DRN50952032I appreciate Mr W considered himself a safe lending risk, but the fact is that HSBC wasnt  
persuaded that he met its affordability  criteria. I understand hes upset by that but it wouldnt 
be appropriate for me to say HSBC was wrong to reach that conclusion. It was undoubtedly  
an unwelcome decision, but not an unfair one.
Whats not in dispute is that Mr W was put to a lot of time and trouble before  HSBC got to 
the point where  it felt able to make a decision. That caused him loss, both financial and 
non-financial. The financial loss has been  quantified  at £215.72, and HSBC has agreed  to 
pay this. 
Assessing compensation for non-financial loss is more a qualitative  exercise,  and inevitably 
theres an element  of subjectivity to it. Mr W initially said was looking for around £1,000 in 
compensation for his time, trouble  and upset; more recently hes said he thinks £350 would 
be acceptable. My view, mindful of the general  level of award we make  in broadly similar 
circumstances, is that £250 is fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only.  In full and final settlement, 
I direct  HSBC  UK Bank Plc to:
reimburse Mr W £215.72  for extra interest paid on his previous mortgage; and
pay him £250 compensation.
 
I make  no other order or award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means  Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5095203