K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2005. Mr K says Nationwide Building Society (NBS)  mis-sold  him the policy.
background
Mr K took out a credit card PPI policy in 2005 to cover  Mr K if he was unable  to work 
because of illness, injury  or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think NBS had provided  sufficient  evidence to show  that it had 
presented the PPI as optional so thought the complaint should  be upheld. NBS disagreed,  
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
In my provisional decision of 16 January 2019  I set out why I wasnt minded to uphold  the 
complaint about  the miss-ale of the policy and I invited  both parties  to provide any further 
submissions before I reached a final decision.  Neither party has made any additional 
submissions. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  the following.  
Currently, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold and Ill explain why
The PPI was sold a long time ago now so there is limited information available from the time 
of sale. So I havent  for example, seen a copy of Mr Ks actual application form. Given  how 
long ago it was sold, thats not surprising. But where  I have limited  information about the 
sale, I have to decide what I think is more likely given the evidence  I do have and the wider 
circumstances.
Mr K says he bought  the PPI in branch but doesnt feel NBS made  clear  the policy  was 
optional. While NBS accepts it no longer has a copy of Mr Ks actual agreement,  it has sent 
me several  sample applications  forms it says it was using around the time Mr K bought his 
PPI. These are dated  several  months before the sale,  the month of the sale, and the month 
after he bought  the PPI.
Based on what Ive seen,  I think its likely Mr Ks form wouldve been largely similar to at least  
one of these samples.  And each application form does present the PPI as optional. 
Customers either have the option to tick a Yes/No  box to add/decline  PPI, or had a separate 
box they had to actively select to add PPI. So I think its clear  from these forms that 
customers had the option to choose PPI. And I dont think  NBS wouldve added the PPI to
Mr Ks account had he not agreed  to have  it.
So, overall, based on everything  Ive seen, I think its more likely  NBS made it clear the PPI 
was optional and that Mr K agreed  to take it.
Ref: DRN58148512Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think NBS advised Mr K to take PPI so it didnt have  to 
check if the PPI was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr K got the information he 
needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information NBS gave Mr K about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this type of cover.  
Mr K was eligible for the policy  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time 
it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. For 
example, he was employed and hasnt told us about any pre-existing health conditions. This 
means he wouldnt have  been affected  by the terms related to unusual  employment 
arrangements or the terms excluding cover for known health  issues.  So the PPI would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mr K had some sick pay provided by his employer and he also says he had some savings he 
couldve used to help him meet his repayments  should he have found  himself unexpectedly 
out of work. But the PPI wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay for up to 12 months  if Mr K 
was unable to work  because  of illness or injury.  It also provided up to 12 months of cover  for 
unemployment. And it wouldve helped him keep his savings intact or free to be used on 
other outgoings. So I still think he couldve found  the PPI useful and I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover.
Which means NBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K. 
But NBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because:
NBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr K about that. Because  NBS didnt  tell Mr K, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, NBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
Having again  reviewed Mr KS case in full and without any further  points for me to consider, I 
find no reason to depart from my original  findings  as set out in my provisional decision.
what the business needs  to do
NBS has to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  NBS should also pay back to Mr K any extra  interest he paid because  of 
that.
NBS should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr K the difference between 
what Mr K owes and what he wouldve  owed  if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. NBS should also pay Mr K 8%* simple  interest  if he 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr K can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
Ref: DRN58148513The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Nationwide Building Society have to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5814851