K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that a car he financed  through an agreement with Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS),  trading as Audi Financial Services,  was not of satisfactory 
quality.
background
Mr D took receipt of a used car in December 2014.  The car had completed 22,000 miles at 
that point and was first registered in 2011.  He financed the deal through  a hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS.
But in June  2018 Mr D had a problem with the car. The alternator belt tensioner  failed 
because a bearing had collapsed and the alternator belt had become tangled with the timing  
belt and caused  additional damage. Mr D said that the alternator tensioner was a lifetime 
part and should have lasted longer. 
He complained to VWFS  but they didnt uphold his complaint.  They said they were  only 
responsible for faults with the vehicle at the point of supply and couldnt be held responsible 
for subsequent issues. They said that as this problem had happened 43 months after Mr D 
took receipt of the car and he hadnt  been  able to demonstrate the issue  was developing 
from the start, they couldnt accept his claim.
But Mr D was dissatisfied with their response and he referred his complaint to this service 
and our adjudicator  provided an opinion. He spoke to the manufacturer; the dealership  and 
the garage where Mr Ds car was being repaired.  Having done  so, he was persuaded that 
the tensioner wouldnt necessarily last the cars lifetime.  The garage confirmed that when the 
car had completed  63,375 miles theyd changed  the alternator belt and timing belt. At that 
point they said they wouldve checked the alternator bearing to ensure it was working 
satisfactorily. They explained that the current failure  had occurred some 40,000  miles later. 
So the adjudicator wasnt persuaded there was evidence the car was developing a fault at 
the point of supply and, as the component wasnt expected to last a lifetime, he wasnt  
persuaded the car hadnt proven  to be durable  either. So he didnt think VWFS  needed to 
take any further action.
Bur Mr D was still dissatisfied.  He said it wasnt fair wear  and tear for a bearing to fail so 
early and that if the bearing had failed  ahead of other engine  parts  it was not sufficiently 
durable. He said there should be no reason to change the component  during its lifetime  and 
it was unreasonable to suggest a vehicle that failed at 100,000 miles  was satisfactory. He 
explained that the brand had a reputation for dependability and longevity and, as his car had 
failed so early, a reasonable person would think it unfair of VWFS not to accept responsibility  
for the issue. So he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN55052112Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
was the car faulty at the point of supply?
Mr D acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS are 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
But VWFSs  responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
Mr Ds car failed 43 months after inception of the finance arrangement and after hed 
completed about 80,000 additional miles. 
I think its reasonable to suggest the bearing on the tensioner was fine in 2016 when the 
garage has explained it replaced the alternator and timing belts. Theyve  explained that they 
wouldve checked the bearing  as part of the fitting process and it seems Mr D was able to 
cover an additional  40,000 miles  in the car after this work was completed.  This would 
support the assumption the bearing was working in 2016 and the new belts were  fitted  
correctly.
So Im persuaded  that the chain  tensioner bearing has failed at some point after the work  
done in 2016 and there were no signs that the component was failing in 2016 and it was 
therefore likely to have  been of satisfactory quality when Mr D took receipt of the car in 2014.  
was the car suitably  durable?
But when considering whether a vehicle is of satisfactory  quality the relevant legislation  also 
suggests we should consider whether the car has proven durable. 
Mr D tells us that the car has completed 100,000  miles and I think a reasonable person 
would expect some issues to develop within that period. Its very unfortunate that the failure 
of one bearing has led to such  extensive  damage but I dont  think it would be fair to suggest 
that because one bearing has failed  the car hasnt been durable. 
The manufacturer doesnt supply  a lifetime warranty on this component and I think  its 
reasonable to suggest thats  a reflection  of an understanding that it is subject to wear and 
tear. 
Im not therefore persuaded that Mr Ds car hasnt  proved to be sufficiently durable or was 
faulty at the point of supply and I dont  think  VWFS need to take any further action.
Ref: DRN55052113my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5505211