K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2002. Ms L says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Ms L applied for her credit card through  the post.  Ms L says that she wasnt aware that 
PPI had been added to her credit card account.  But I think BoS made it clear that Ms L 
didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why she cant remember this as it was so long ago.
I say this because  BoS has provided  a copy of Ms Ls credit card application   I can see 
that the PPI is presented as an optional  product  and has been selected  with a tick. Ms L 
has then gone  on to sign her application, agreeing  to the information on it. 
BoS didnt  recommend  the PPI to Ms L so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Ms L got the information  she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Ms L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Ms L has said - including what  shes  said about  having 
generous sick pay at the time she took out the credit card. But the PPI couldve paid out on 
top of her existing cover,  and for longer than she wouldve  received  full pay for. So this point  
doesnt change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Ms L paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Ms L back  some of the cost of the PPI. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
I understand BoS has already paid this to Ms L.
Ref: DRN52487902my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5248790