K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Drydens  Limited  told him the offer he made to settle a debt was 
acceptable, but then later said it wasnt.  
background 
Mr M owes a debt to a lender. This lender  employs Drydens to recover  repayment of this 
debt from Mr M on its behalf. 
Drydens agreed a debt management plan with Mr M, which  allowed him to pay back  what  he 
owed through  monthly payments. Then  in March 2019, Mr M called Drydens to offer £700 in 
full and final settlement  of the debt. Drydens  initially accepted this and therefore cancelled  
Mr Ms repayment plan. But before Mr M made  the payment, Drydens said that it had made 
a mistake because the lender, as the owner  of the debt, had declined Mr Ms offer due to a 
charging order secured  against his property.
Unhappy, Mr M made a complaint to Drydens. In May 2019, it apologised for giving him the 
wrong information, but said it wasnt  responsible  for deciding if the offer settlement should  be 
accepted  so it did all it could do by forwarding this offer to the lender.   
Mr M remained unhappy, so he brought the complaint  to our service. Our investigator looked 
into it and found  that Drydens had incorrectly advised Mr M, so he recommended £50 
compensation for distress or inconvenience. But he thought Drydens  was right in saying that 
it could only make the lender aware  of the offer.
Mr M disagreed with this and also questioned  the outstanding balance  and what is showing 
on his credit file. Our investigator confirmed the amount owed, but explained that any 
question of how this was made up or recorded,  or any further offers of settlement that Mr M 
might be unhappy  about,  would  need to be raised  as a separate  complaint  because  
Drydens hadnt had the time that its entitled to have to look into these concerns.
Mr M asked  for an ombudsman to give a final decision, so the complaint has been escalated  
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive upheld the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Within this complaint,  I can only consider the concerns Mr M has raised  about  Drydens  
giving him incorrect information about the £700 settlement offer he put forward  in          
March 2019. I say this because  Drydens  responded to this complaint in May 2019, and is 
entitled  under the regulators rules (DISP 1 of the Financial Conduct  Authority  Handbook) 
to an opportunity to investigate and informally resolve any subsequent concerns Mr M has, 
as part of a separate complaint. 
Ref: DRN56838452Because this complaint has been  made  about  Drydens, I can only consider its actions here 
as a debt collector   and not the actions of the lender (including the sum owed and its 
willingness to settle). If Mr M is unhappy with the lender,  he would need to complaint to it 
directly first. 
As the legal  owners of this debt,  the lender would have to give its authorisation in order for 
Drydens to accept a settlement offer that Mr M makes. I understand that the lender declined  
Mr Ms offer because there is a charging  order in place and it decided  that £700 was not 
enough to settle the overall  balance of the debt.  
However, because  I can only consider Drydens actions, its not for me to determine  here 
and now whether the £700 offer was acceptable. And I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to tell Drydens to honour it just because of its relatively minor admin error  that 
would be disproportionate.  
When the settlement  was put forward, Drydens  should have explained to Mr M that his offer 
would need the lenders  authorisation,  before  it could be accepted. Instead, Drydens 
purported to accept  the offer and told Mr M that the charging order would be removed, once 
payment was made. This led Mr M to believe that the debt had been paid in full and final 
settlement.
Ive reviewed the call recording of this conversation and its clear  that it was important to    
Mr M that this debt was settled. He expressed  his relief that the charging  order would be 
removed and he could  move on from the debt.  So Im persuaded that it wouldve caused him 
some disappointment to find out that the debt was in fact still owed,  with the order  still in 
place. And that he needed to either increase  his offer or continue to make repayments on a 
debt management  plan.
However, I am not persuaded that this incorrect advice caused Mr M actual financial loss, as 
theres no evidence  that he acted in reliance on it to his detriment. 
In an attempt to put things  right, Drydens attempted to get the lenders authorisation. When 
this was turned down,  Drydens offered to arrange another debt management plan, as the 
original plan had been cancelled. 
It recognised that Mr M wanted to settle the debt and tried to help him, including  confirming 
the outstanding balance  with the lender, alongside  explaining the right settlement process 
that needed to be followed.  So Im satisfied that following its error, Drydens took positive 
steps to assist Mr M.
Overall, I conclude  that Drydens should  compensate Mr M  but only for distress  or 
inconvenience; and in the circumstances, I agree  that £50 is fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN56838453my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. 
So Drydens Limited should  pay Mr M £50 compensation, if it hasnt already done so, within  
28 days of receiving notice from us of his acceptance of this decision, failing which  interest 
will start to accrue on this sum at the simple rate of 8% a year (less  any tax properly  
deductible) until the date of payment. 
Mr M should note that if he accepts  my decision, it will be legally binding and he wouldnt be 
able to take further action over the subject-matter  of this particular complaint against  
Drydens. If, however, he rejects the decision or doesnt reply on time, his legal rights will 
remain intact. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Matthew Belcher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5683845