K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy (when Lloyds  was trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester).
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in March 2000.  The policy covered 
Mr T for accident,  sickness  and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr T didnt agree. 
He said, in summary, that:
The paperwork  didnt say the PPI was optional. He completed the paperwork he was 
asked to to obtain the mortgage.  And he felt he wouldnt have obtained the mortgage  if 
he didnt complete everything he was asked to.
The costs and benefits  werent  made clear.
He didnt need  the PPI because of his existing arrangements.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ts complaint.
Lloyds doesnt  have a full record  of the sale, which isnt surprising given it took place so long 
ago. In cases like this, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words, 
what I consider is most likely to have  happened  in light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint  for the following reasons:
Mr T says the paperwork didnt make it clear  that the policy  was optional.  But I think it 
wouldve been reasonably clear  from the need  to complete a separate application form and 
direct debit mandate  that this was a separate product  which he could chose to take or 
decline. Ive considered what Mr T says about wanting to complete  everything the bank 
asked him to, to make  sure his mortgage application was successful. But this isnt enough 
for me to conclude  that Lloyds  told him he had to complete it. Overall,  I think  it more likely  
than not that Lloyds  made Mr T aware that the PPI was optional  and that he chose to take it. 
The bank advised Mr T to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time.  Let me explain why.
Mr T was eligible  for the policy given  his circumstances and the terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN58587102Mr T says he didnt  need the PPI because he wouldve received six months  full pay followed 
by six months half pay from his employer if he couldnt work due to sickness  or an accident. 
And he had some savings. But the mortgage  was a significant long term financial 
commitment and Mr Ts home was at risk if he didnt keep up with the repayments. The PPI 
would have paid out for up to 12 months  in the event  of a successful claim for accident  or 
sickness. So I think the PPI couldve been a useful  benefit, in addition to Mr Ts existing 
arrangements.
Mr T wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main  benefits such  as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he 
couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover  I think  it unlikely he needed better advice 
or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
I cant see that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated to Mr T before he agreed to 
purchase it. I dont think he was told it would cost £45 each month until after the mortgage 
had started. For this reason  I have considered whether clearer information  about the cost 
would have affected Mr Ts decision to purchase the policy.  He had chosen to take out the 
policy, knowing he would have to pay something for it. The policy  was competitively priced  
and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely he would have made a different decision  if 
better information about the cost had been  provided.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Lloyds recommendation was 
unsuitable and I dont think Mr T would have made a different decision about  taking out the 
policy if better information had been  provided to him  overall, I think he would  still have 
taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5858710