K820x#14Mr S complains that he was turned down for a credit  card account  with Capital One (Europe) 
plc after being  told that he would be accepted. 
background
Mr S said he completed an eligibility  checker for the Capital One credit card.  He was 
approved, so he went on to complete the application. He said that this was approved  too, so 
he waited for the card.  But he said he didnt get it. Instead, he was contacted  by Capital One 
to say that his application  had been rejected after all. 
Mr S said that he had only continued with the full application for the card account  because 
hed passed Capital Ones own eligibility checker.  He said that having been  declined for 
credit would leave  a footprint on his credit file, which he told us hed been working hard to 
rebuild. 
Mr S said Capital One had written  to him to say that even though it had approved  him for the 
card with a 100% guarantee, there  was still a small chance it wouldnt be able to open an 
account for him. It said that there could still be problems. And it said that it was unable  to 
honour the offer it had made. Hed been declined correctly, in line with its internal lending 
policy. 
Capital One also said that it wouldnt remove the credit search it had done as part of his 
application from his credit file. It said this was a genuine application for credit  made  by him. 
Mr S said that he wanted Capital One to give him the card it had promised. 
Capital One sent us details of Mr Ss application.  And it also showed some screenshots  from 
the eligibility checker  pages on its website. One of these pages contained a prominent 
message, that said 
If you decide to apply  for a card you can apply with confidence knowing you will be 
accepted, at which point we do a visible update  to the credit reference  agencies to let 
them know  you asked us for credit. 
We stand behind our answer  and confirm that weve carried out all the appropriate 
credit checks we need. However, there  is a small chance that we may be unable  to 
open your account  if we identify certain information on fraud  prevention databases or 
if we are not able to verify your identity.
Mr S said that if Capital One wouldnt give him the card, then he wanted it to remove  this 
search from his credit  file. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that it was a commercial decision for 
Capital One whether it offered credit, and our service wouldnt interfere with that. Our 
investigator said that Mr S was told that if he applied, a search would show  on his credit  
record. Our investigator thought that Mr S had accepted this, and the risk involved,  so it 
wouldnt be appropriate to have the credit  search  removed. 
Our investigator said that he knew that Mr S had had further credit applications declined 
since, but Mr S had told our service  that hes had previous financial problems. So our 
investigator said that this might be why hed been declined  for other credit.  Each bank has its 
own process, and our service cant comment on that. 
Ref: DRN55286342Mr S said that he could accept that hed been refused an account, but he didnt accept that 
Capital One shouldnt have to remove the search.  He said that if there had been  anything 
less than a 100% guarantee  of acceptance he wouldnt  have applied,  and there  wouldnt be 
a search recorded  on his credit file. 
Mr S wanted  his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so his case  was passed to 
me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-Capital Ones eligibility checker provides an indication of whether Capital One will open a 
credit card account  for an applicant. It tells successful applicants,  in large bold text We 
100% guarantee youll be accepted for the relevant  card.  
-There is a small  line of text that states  Apply with confidence. The text which  Capital 
One has shown  us from its website, which I set out as part of the background above, is 
only visible if the applicant clicks on the words Apply with confidence . This isnt 
required in order to progress to the next screen.  Capital  One hasnt suggested that 
applicants have  to confirm that theyve  seen this qualification to the 100% guarantee 
before they apply.  
-There is also another line of text thats  only visible if the applicant  scrolls down the page  
where the eligibility checker results  are shown. That text says If you apply, theres a 
small chance that we may be unable to open your account  if we identify certain 
information on fraud prevention databases or if we are not able to verify your identity. I 
note that, again, applicants  dont  seem to be required  to agree that they are aware  of 
this. And this information also isnt visible if the applicant just clicks on the button to 
apply now.
-An eligibility checker, for someone  like Mr S who has told us that hes trying  to rebuild his 
credit, is important. It should  allow Mr S to more realistically  assess  the risk of being 
turned down for a credit card, before he makes a visible application for credit  which  will 
affect his credit  file. I think that Capital One has a responsibility to make clear,  if its not in 
fact 100% guaranteed  that Mr S will get the card, that theres still a small risk of being 
refused. 
-I think that its potentially misleading for Capital One to provide a web page which says, 
in large prominent  text, that there is a 100% guarantee that an application will be 
accepted, if this isnt actually  a 100% guarantee, and if, as Ive provisionally  decided, the 
qualifications to this guarantee seem to be hidden. I do appreciate  that there are 
qualifications on this guarantee  on Capital Ones website. But they seem to be 
significantly less prominent  than the 100% guarantee text. My provisional decision is 
based on my finding that it seems to be not only possible but easy to continue to an 
application without  ever seeing  those  qualifications. 
-Capital One doesnt have to give Mr S a credit  card account  if it doesnt want to. It can 
take its own business decisions about whether it wants to lend Mr S money.
Ref: DRN55286343-But I think that Capital  One misled Mr S. And I think that limiting  the number  of credit 
searches on his credit file while  he is trying to rebuild his credit record is particularly 
important to Mr S. At the moment,  it seems as if this has produced unfairness in this 
case. So my provisional decision  is that Capital One should remove  the credit  search  
that it has recorded on Mr Ss credit  file. 
I closed my provisional decision by inviting the parties to make any final points, if they 
wanted, before I issued  my final decision. Mr S confirmed  hed received the decision.  Capital 
One replied, disagreeing  with my findings.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Capital One said that its eligibility  checker  shows the following statement at the bottom  of the 
page, If you apply, there is a small chance that we may be unable to open  your account if 
we identify certain information on fraud prevention databases or if we are unable to verify  
your identity. It said that this statement is a condition of an actual application for a credit 
card, but it didnt  state how or where  that condition was applied. 
Capital One said that Id told it, in my provisional decision, that it should have a tick box, to 
confirm that a consumer has read the above  statement.  But it said that in a lot of other 
complaints it deals with, when it said the consumer ticked the box to say they had read the 
additional information, it has been told just because there is a tick does not mean the 
information was read.  So Capital One thought that the same could be said in these 
circumstances, that making  a consumer tick a box to say they have read something,  does 
not mean they have read it. I understand that Capital One is saying that making  its 
customers tick a box to say theyd read this disclaimer  wouldnt add anything useful to the 
process.
Capital One said that its eligibility  checker  does  not contact the credit reference agencies  for 
information, so the check  is done using the limited  information provided  by the consumer. As 
such certain information is not included, nor available  from the credit reference  agencies and 
this is why a visible mark is not shown on the consumers credit  file. Capital One said that 
ultimately, it is down to the consumer to make the decision to make  an actual application or 
not. And they will know the information  on their credit file.
I think that some consumers will probably  know the information on their credit file, others  will 
not. I think its likely that Mr S did. But I dont think that he knew  how Capital One would 
assess that information, and whether it would decide  to give him a card or not. Thats what  
he was looking for, when he used the eligibility checker, and I think thats what  Capital One 
led him to believe  that the checker  would  provide   an assessment of whether he would get 
a card or not. 
Capital Ones eligibility  checker then told Mr S that he was 100%  guaranteed to get the 
card. So he applied. 
Capital One said that Id proposed, in my provisional  decision,  that it should  include a check 
box on its application page, to get consumers to confirm that they had read the disclaimer 
saying that they wouldnt  all get the card theyd been  promised.  But thats not what  I said.  Its 
Ref: DRN55286344not our services role to tell Capital One what it should do for all its customers.  We look at 
the impact on the complainant, and whether whats happened to them is fair and reasonable. 
In this case, Mr S apparently had some  concerns over his credit file, and was reassured by 
the eligibility checker.  Ive said that when that page  loads  onto an ordinary laptop screen, the 
extra wording that warns applicants that the card isnt actually 100% guaranteed just isnt 
visible. Theres no indication that theres  any footnote, or other  qualification on the 
guarantee, on the visible portion of the page. To see that warning, Mr S wouldve  had to 
either scroll  down (which he didnt otherwise need  to do, and wasnt  prompted to do) or click 
through to a disclaimer  (which again,  he didnt  need to do, and wasnt  prompted to do). 
Its up to Capital One how it sets out its web pages. But, in this instance, I think  that it made  
a clear and unqualified promise on the visible section of its page, without indicating  that 
there was any other information that wouldve been  important to Mr S. I think if Mr S had 
been able to see any disclaimer about  the 100% guarantee, he wouldve read it. And if hed 
read it, I dont think that Mr S wouldve gone ahead with this application. Which would mean 
this search wouldnt  be on his credit file. So, for those reasons, I think  that there hasnt been 
a fair outcome here for Mr S. And because of that, I think that Capital One should  remove 
this credit search from Mr Ss credit file.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Capital One (Europe) plc must remove  the credit  search  that it 
recorded on Mr Ss credit  file. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.  
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5528634