K820x#14complaint
Mr Ws unhappy that Lloyds Bank  PLC has asked for a debt of £60,000 to be paid in full 
despite him offering to increase the regular payments hes been making.
background
Mr W took out some business  loans  with Lloyds which were secured on his commercial  and 
residential properties. The loan fell into arrears  and some property was sold off leaving a 
shortfall owing. The arrears are now about  £60,000  and Lloyds has asked for this to be paid 
in full. Mr W is unhappy about this as hes been  making payments of £300 a month and has 
offered to increase them to £550.  Hes also unhappy that Lloyds has said it wants to obtain 
possession of his home  and sell it off to pay off the debt.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
Lloyds isnt happy to accept Mr Ws offer of making a long term payment plan. 
Mr W provided his home as security to support his lending. And Lloyds has a right to 
repossess the property  if repayments arent met. It can ask for the full amount to be 
paid off and can refuse  offers  of repayment  which would take years to complete. 
So, she cant agree  Lloyds has made  an error rejecting Mr Ws offer of paying £550 a 
month and requesting  payment of the amount owed.
Mr W didnt agree. In summary he said hed raised  £45,000 to pay off part of the debt and 
hoped a PPI claim can be used for the rest. He didnt think  Lloyds had been very helpful.
Lloyds said if Mr W paid £45,000  this would leave a balance of around £13,212 owing which  
would need to be paid off within three months. Mr W said he couldnt  do so over three 
months but could over 12 months. But Lloyds hasnt  agreed to this and said it was now 
seeking possession  of Mr Ws property  although its more recently said legal  proceedings 
have been put on hold for the moment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with the difficult  position Mr W finds himself in. But as he wasnt able to 
maintain the agreed loan repayments Lloyds is entitled to ask him to pay back the 
outstanding debt in full.
Lloyds has confirmed that Mr Ws loan and accounts  were  closed in 2013 and it isnt 
collecting payments  from him such as through a monthly direct debit. The £300  monthly  
payments it has received  have been made manually by Mr W to its recoveries department. 
And theyve  been  applied  to reduce his liability.
As a result I dont think Lloyds is obliged to accept Mr Ws offer of making higher payments 
of £550 a month or his request to pay off £45,000  as lump sum and then pay off the balance 
over twelve  months.
Ref: DRN54536372Mr W secured  his borrowing by giving Lloyds legal charges over his properties including over 
his home.  As a result  Lloyds is entitled to seek possession and sale of that residential 
property to help pay off Mr Ws debt.  
But that will require a Court order. And the Court will no doubt  consider  in the course  of 
those proceedings  any proposals  Mr W can make  to pay off his debt without the need for 
Lloyds to gain possession of or sell his home.  The court  will also no doubt  consider the 
position of Mrs W who appears  to be a joint owner and occupier of the home.
I note Lloyds has apparently put a hold on starting court proceedings for possession and 
sale of the home. And I would strongly  urge it to reconsider Mr Ws offer to now pay off a 
lump sum of £45,000  and the remaining balance of around £13,000 by affordable monthly 
payments over a reasonably short period. Particularly as if an agreement can be reached 
and Mr W maintains his payments it will not be necessary for the matter to go to Court.
Even so I dont think Lloyds has made an error  rejecting  Mr Ws offer of paying £550 a 
month and asking for payment  of the full amount  owed
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5453637