K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that a used car he acquired  via a conditional sale with Clydesdale 
Financial  Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance "BPF") wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.  Mr A wants  to reject  the car and receive a full refund.
background
In June 2018  Mr A acquired  a used car via a five year conditional  sale. The car was 
three  years old and had a mileage of 14,500.
Shortly after taking the car Mr A says he found there were issues with the gears, 
handbrake,  one of the seatbelts and the Bluetooth  system. Mr A says he was unhappy that 
the dealership  wanted  him to take the car to another dealership to be inspected as it was 
some  distance from his home. He complained  to BPF.
BPF didnt uphold Mr As complaint as it said the dealership had offered  on 
multiple  occasions  to inspect the car but Mr A had declined as he wanted a refund.
Mr A complained  to this service, and BPF agreed for Mr A to have  the car inspected by a 
local garage. Mr A arranged  this and provided  a quote for £5,500 worth of repairs that 
the local garage said were required.
BPF offered  to have  the car independently  inspected and, although Mr A was unhappy  
about  this, he agreed as our investigator  said it was fair. Our investigator  explained to Mr A 
that under the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 a retailer has one opportunity  to fix faults, and this 
had not yet been provided to the dealership. Further, the local garage had provided a quote 
but no report  as to its findings.
The car was independently inspected in January 2019. The engineer reported that he could  
find no faults  with the cars gearbox or handbrake. The engineer also said that although  
there were possible issues with one of the seatbelts and with the Bluetooth  system  he 
recommended that checks should be carried out as to whether this model of car actually  
came with these  particular functions.
Mr A then arranged  for the local garage that had provided the repair estimate  to inspect the 
car. This garage provided  a detailed  report as to the faults it found. It said the repairs were  
essential as the car was unsafe to use. It also identified a new issue with the cars steering.  
The garage said that the manufacturer had recalled this model of car for issues  with 
steering  and the exhaust, and the dealership  should  have been aware  of this as it would 
have been  with them at the time the recall notice was issued.  
Our investigator said that the two reports were very different and that it would be fair to 
allow  the dealership to inspect  the car with a view to repairing any faults. As safety issues 
had been raised,  the dealership offered  to collect the car from Mr A. But Mr A said he 
should now be able to reject  the car.
As the parties were unable to agree on a way forward, the complaint was passed to me. 
However before the matter could proceed, Mr A informed us that the car had been written-
off in an accident and that his insurance  company was arranging  a settlement.  So I issued  a 
provisional  decision  along  the following  lines.  
Ref: DRN50969812Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 ("The Act") a car must  be of "satisfactory quality"  at 
the point of sale.  And satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would  expect,  taking  
into account  all the relevant circumstances  such as age, condition and mileage  of the car. 
Durability is also part of satisfactory quality,  as although no one would  expect all the 
components of the car to last forever they also wouldnt reasonably expect issues to arise 
with the car until after a period of time.
If the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality  at the point of sale,  then the retailer would get an 
opportunity to repair it. If that wasnt successful then the consumer would be able to 
reject  the car. And where a car is supplied under a finance agreement then its the 
finance  company, in this case  BPF, who is responsible for dealing  with the faults.
Mr A said hed raised complaints about the car a short time after acquiring it. I didnt have 
any evidence as to when  this was, but it seemed likely  to have  been after the first 30 days.
The dealership said it had offered to investigate his complaints but Mr A had declined this 
as he wanted to reject the car. However,  I didnt think the dealership  (and so BPF) acted  
unreasonably in asking to look at the faults that Mr A had raised. I noted the car had 
passed  its MOT in February  2018 with no advisories  and I thought it was reasonable to 
have expected the brakes and seatbelts  to have  been checked at that time.
Mr A took the car to a local garage  that had provided an estimate  for repairs that amounted  
to just over £5,500.  With a cost this high, I didnt think BPF was unreasonable in asking  for 
the car to then be independently  inspected. The estimate  wasnt  a report and I think in these  
circumstances more  details about what  was wrong  with the car were required. Under the Act 
BPF still had the right to affect a repair before Mr A could reject the car.
The independent report set out that no faults with the handbrake and gearbox could  be 
found during the test drive. And that the issues with the seatbelt and Bluetooth required  
some  further investigation. The engineer said these issues may have been due to the actual  
model of the car as opposed  to any fault.
Mr A then took the car back to his local garage  for his own report.  I appreciated this 
appeared to be a detailed report  but I have to take account  that its not independent as this 
was the garage  that provided the earlier repair estimate. The findings of the garages  report 
were substantially  different  from the findings of the independent engineer. And so I didnt 
think our investigators  view that the car should  be inspected by the dealership with a view 
to repairs  being carried out was unfair or unreasonable. I didnt think  it was clear what  was 
wrong with the car, and I noted the garage  raised  an issue with the steering that hadnt 
been raised by Mr A.
Id also noted that Mr A had driven the car for a further 7,000 miles  by this time. In this 
respect, Mr A had queried whether  there was an error  with the odometer as he said 
hed rarely used the car. But neither the independent engineer nor the garage noticed 
any problems  with the car recording its mileage so I thought this was unlikely.
So I thought it would  have been  fair to have given the dealership  (and so BPF) an 
opportunity of fixing  any faults  that had been present or developing at the point  of sale.  
However, as the car has been written-off this obviously couldnt  go ahead.
Id seen Mr A had said that the accident was due to the condition of the car and, although 
Id seen  the local garage said the car was unsafe, I didnt have  any evidence regarding  the 
cause of the accident. In any event, Id seen that the insurance company  had agreed to 
Ref: DRN50969813settle and so, under  the terms of his conditional sale, Mr A must transfer his rights  under  the 
insurance  policy to BPF and arrange for the insurance settlement to be paid directly to it. 
This would need  to be dealt with as a separate matter to this complaint. And if Mr A was 
unhappy about  anything arising from the accident and settlement  process  he would need to 
make a new complaint to BPF.
As the issues  with the car could no longer be investigated, and because  I didnt  think  that 
BPF had acted unreasonably  before circumstances  changed when the car was written-off,  I 
was not intending to uphold  Mr As complaint.  In summary, I didnt have  enough evidence to 
say that Mr A was entitled to reject the car and have the agreement unwound.
Mr A disagrees  with my provisional  view which  he thinks  is unfair.  He doesnt  think  the 
insurance  claim  should  proceed  if the accident  was due to the car being  faulty.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my view. I dont have enough evidence to say the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality  at the point of sale. And I also dont have any evidence about the 
accident the car was involved in. 
I still think that up until the point of the accident  BPF had acted reasonably and it should 
have been given a chance  to rectify any faults  found  with the car that had been present or 
developing at the point of sale. 
The agreement sets out Mr As responsibilities  if the car should  be damaged or be written-off 
due to damage. If Mr A finds he is unhappy  about  the settlement process he will need  to 
raise a separate complaint  with BPF.
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr As complaint. .
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5096981