K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe  SE gave her poor 
service, wrongly recorded claims against  her motor insurance policy and increased her 
premiums unreasonably.
background
Mrs P told us that following an accident in June 2017 she paid to have  the damage to her car 
(caused by an unknown driver) repaired.  She said she didnt make  a claim on her policy. In 
September 2018 Mrs Ps car went missing, so she reported it to Aioi as stolen. 
In looking at her policy  documents whilst making the 2018 claim, Mrs P noted that her 
premium had risen. When she queried it, Aioi told her it was because  it had paid for the 
repairs to her car in 2017. Mrs P disputed  that. Shortly afterwards, Mrs P found her car 
hadnt been stolen  but by then, Aioi had paid the theft claim.  Initially she wasnt happy that 
Aioi kept the theft claim on its records, but later she decided  not to pursue the issue. She 
also accepted  that Aioi had made  a clerical error about the sum it paid her for her car.
One of our investigators  considered Mrs Ps complaint about the 2017 claim.  He said Aioi 
had shown that it paid for the accident  repairs in 2017. He noted that Mrs P had paid for 
other repairs (not accident-related) at the same  time. He pointed out that Mrs P had signed  a 
note saying she was happy with the repairs Aioi had paid for. So he thought it was fair that 
Aioi had recorded the claim as a fault claim.  He thought it had shown that an increase in 
Mrs Ps premium  was also fair, given that Aioi had paid the claim shed made.    
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think some  confusion arose when the garage repaired two sets of damage at the same  
time. It seems that Mrs Ps recollection  of paying the garage is correct - but the evidence  
shows she didnt pay for the accident-related  repairs. Aioi has provided the invoice from the 
repairer and has shown that it paid £948.85  for those repairs.  The invoice  shows that Mrs P 
paid the garage  her £100 policy excess.  She signed  a satisfaction / collection sheet on 
21 June 2017  that also shows she paid the policy excess  and collected the car.
I think further confusion  arose as the invoice Aioi provided had a different business  name  on 
it to the garage  where the work was done.  Aioi explained that the second business  received 
the bill for repairs from the garage  but sent the invoice to Aioi in its own name. Mrs P wasnt 
happy with that, but I think Aiois explanation was reasonable. I dont think  the name  used on 
the invoice changes the fact that Aioi paid for the repairs. 
From what  Ive seen, I dont think theres  any doubt  that Mrs P made a claim on her policy  in 
2017 and that Aioi dealt with the claim.  As the driver who caused the accident wasnt  known, 
it couldnt claim back the sum it had paid out. So I think it was fair for Aioi to record  a fault 
claim on Mrs Ps record. Mrs P thinks the record of the claim should  be removed, but given 
what happened in 2017 I dont think its reasonable to ask Aioi to do that. 
Ref: DRN55813462Mrs Ps premium  rose by £244.30 in 2017,  but only rose by £36.96 in 2018. Mrs P didnt 
complain to us about the amount the premium  increased by in 2017. Her concern was that it 
had risen at all, given  that in her view she hadnt made a claim in 2017. Aioi said the fault 
claim in 2017 had a direct  effect on the rise in premium in 2017.  It regarded Mrs P as a 
higher risk because of the claim. I think that seems  fair and reasonable. 
I think its understandable that Mrs P had concerns about the 2017 claim, given the 
confusion about  the two sets of damage  - and later the business  name  on the invoice. But I 
dont think shes been able to show that Aioi did anything wrong, so I cant  uphold her 
complaint.        
    
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5581346