K822xcomplaint
Mr W has complained about Calpe Insurance Company Limiteds decision to settle a third 
party claim under his car insurance policy. Mr W is unhappy that the excess amount he 
owed and hasnt  paid has been  referred to a debt collection agency. 
background 
Mr W said he was driving in snowy  conditions  and collided into a parked car. Nobody was in 
the parked car at the time of the collision. 
Mr W said he could  have arranged for the replacement and fitting  of a new bumper for 
around £500. Hed wanted  to settle  the costs without involving insurers. But Mr W said the 
third party produced an estimate  for repairs at £850. Mr W thought this was too high, so the 
third party made a claim through his insurer.  They in turn contacted  Calpe as Mr Ws insurer. 
Calpe settled the third party claim. It wrote to Mr W to request payment of the excess. 
Mr Ws policy has an all sections excess of £3,000.  The total claim costs Calpe requested  
was for £1,667.40.  This was made  up of £1,467.40 from the third party and £200  for Calpes 
investigators fee.
Mr W complained  to Calpe. He said he didnt receive any policy  documents  when he bought 
the policy. So he wasnt aware of the £3,000  excess. He believed  the third party  repair costs 
were exaggerated.  He was also unhappy  that Calpe had passed  the costs  to a debt 
collection agent and fees had incurred  since then. 
Our investigator explained that as Mr Ws policy was sold to him through  a broker, hed need 
to raise a complaint with them about  not receiving the policy  and how it was sold to him. 
She thought  Calpes decision  to settle  the third party claim was reasonable  and therefore 
pass the debt to a debt collection agency as Mr W hadnt paid. But she didnt think  it was fair 
for Calpe to pursue Mr W for the costs of the investigator it instructed. She said these were 
investigation costs  which the insurer should expect to absorb  as part of its contract with 
Mr W when dealing with a claim.
So she recommended  Calpe reduce the total claim costs by £200. And she recommended it 
pay Mr W £100 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused.  
Calpe accepted the reduction in costs  by £200. But it said as Mr W owed  £1,467.40  in any 
event, it didnt agree that compensation of £100 was proportionate for distress and 
inconvenience caused by the investigators costs being added to the total amount. Calpe 
said it thought  £50 compensation was more reasonable. 
Mr W didnt agree. He doesnt agree with the repair invoice provided  by the third party 
insurer. And he believes the amount paid is more than the total loss value  of the third partys 
car. Mr W believes it wasnt economical to repair the third partys  car and he should have 
instead paid the total loss valuation for it which was less. 
As both parties disagree, the case has been passed  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN53174662my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the invoice  and breakdown provided  by the third party  insurer in relation to 
their claim costs.  I agree with Mr W that the invoice  amount  in relation to the labour costs  
is more than the estimate breakdown attached. 
Calpe has provided  a copy of an entry in its claim notes where it referred the third party  
claim costs  to its engineer. The engineer was satisfied that the costs  were reasonable. 
I appreciate that Mr W doesnt agree. In May 2019  Mr W said he would approach  a couple of 
garages for estimates for the repairs to show that the costs were  too high. But no estimates 
have been received. 
So based  on the invoice provided by the third party insurer, I cant say it was unreasonable 
for Calpe to settle the claim  after it referred  it to its engineer  for his opinion. However, I 
noticed that the total on the invoice is £10 too much.  So the total before VAT should be 
£1,212.83 and not £1,222.83 as set out by the third party.  I think Calpe should have checked 
the costs were correct.
VAT of £244.57 was added to the total at 20%. I think Calpe should  reduce the third party  
costs it says Mr W owes by £12 taking into account  the £10 error and VAT added  to that 
amount. The investigator let both parties know of my intentions  as this wasnt  included  in his 
assessment. Neither party has commented on this issue.
Mr W says that the third party repair costs are three  times more than the value of the other 
drivers car. I dont  agree. Insurers rely on the retail transacted figure provided by the main 
motor trade  guides  when  deciding a total loss valuation.  In this case, we checked  the main  
motor trade  guides  and the average of the valuations came to £2,200 for a car of the same 
make, model, condition,  age and mileage as the third partys.  The trade in valuation 
averaged at £800. So I think  it was reasonable for Calpe not to challenge the third party  
repair costs as it was economical to repair  the car. In any event,  this is a decision for the 
third party insurer to make. 
If the third party insurer  had decided it wasnt economical to repair  the third partys car, it 
would have sought costs in the region of £2,200 from Calpe.  And this cost would have been 
passed on to Mr W to pay under  the excess. 
Mr W has provided a photo of the third party vehicle which he said was taken a day after the 
incident. Mr W says they witnessed another car collide into the third partys car later on the 
same day. But there isnt any evidence of that. Although Mr W says there was no damage  to 
his car, Calpe identified damage to his car consistent with the collision as described.  From  
the photo provided by Mr W, its been taken too far away  to be able to identify  the damage.
Mr W doesnt agree that he should be liable for a £300 fee charged as a result of Calpe 
passing the claim costs  to a debt recovery agent.  Mr W said they were  challenging the 
amount and Calpe  wouldnt reply to their requests for further information. 
Ref: DRN53174663However, Calpe  explained  in its policy that it would pass  the debt to a debt recovery  agent if 
it wasnt paid within 14 days  and that further  charges would accrue.  And as Calpe had 
settled the third party claim, it was entitled  to do this. Payment  of the amount wouldnt have 
affected Mr Ws right to bring his complaint to Calpe  and us. 
Calpe believes the recommended  compensation of £100 is disproportionate to the distress  
and inconvenience  caused by including the investigators costs  in the total claim costs.  But 
the total amount Calpe requested from Mr W wasnt reasonable. Overall I think  £100 
compensation is fair and reasonable and in line with similar awards which  we make.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Calpe Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
Reduce the claim costs it says Mr W owes by a total of £212:  £200 for the 
investigators fee and £12 for the error  in the third party claim costs total including  
VAT. 
Pay Mr W £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Calpe Insurance  Company Limited must  pay the compensation  within  28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Calpe Insurance  Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs 
to withhold income  tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Mr W a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5317466