K820x#11complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mrs V says Capital  One (Europe) Plc mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Vs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mrs V applied for her credit card through the post  she didnt take PPI at this time and 
declined the policy on her application.  Capital  One sold her the policy  when she called up to 
activate her new card. Theres no call recording available, but this isnt surprising for a call 
that took place  so long ago, and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely,  so I 
cant know what was said. 
Capital One has been able to provide  a copy of the script that was in use at the time for 
selling PPI. This shows that the person selling the PPI wouldve been prompted to point out 
that the policy was optional,  and gain proper consent for the PPI to be added to the account  
 and I havent seen anything to suggest  it did anything differently when it sold PPI on this 
occasion. 
So taking everything in to account,  I think Capital One made  it clear  that Mrs V didnt have to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant 
remember this as it was so long ago.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs V so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs V got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs V about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But as I think she chose to take out the PPI - it looks  like she wanted  this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs V.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs V because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs V about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell 
Mrs V, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN59190662Ive thought about everything Mrs V has said, but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc does  not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs V.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs V any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5919066