K822xComplaint
Mrs F is unhappy  with the increases in her premiums on her home insurance policy, held 
with St Andrews Insurance Plc (StAIP).
Background 
The policy was taken  out in 1986  through Mrs Fs bank (Bank  H). StAIP became the 
insurer / underwriter of Mrs Fs policy from 2001.
In 2001, Mrs Fs policy cost £249.97.  The policys cost increased over the years  and in 2016, 
Mrs Fs premium was £1,382.66. Mrs F cancelled the policy  in July 2017.
Mrs F says she doesnt consider she has been treated fairly as her premiums kept 
increasing over the years, despite her circumstances not changing and with no claims made  
under the policy.  
StAIP didnt uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Unhappy, Mrs F referred the complaint to this service.
While the complaint was with our service, StAIP offered to refund some  of the cost of the 
insurance. 
StAIP offered to the refund to Mrs F the amount paid above  the 2005  premium from 2006 up 
until 2011 (totalling £232.70). Its offer also included an amount  of compensation set at 8% 
per year simple interest to compensate Mrs F for being  out of pocket of that money.  StAIP 
also offered an additional  £200 as compensation for the trouble  Mrs F had been caused.
But StAIP say in 2011 it reassessed  the risk of providing insurance.  Given the location of 
Mrs Fs property, StAIP say it was considered as being at a high risk of flooding. It says this 
was the main factor in Mrs Fs premium  increasing.  
Because it had revisited the risk, and to mitigate  any significant increases in Mrs Fs 
premiums, StAIP  says it capped the increases in Mrs Fs premiums  between the years 2011 
and 2016, to no more than 20%. StAIP says the aim was to start to bring the policy  cost in 
line with the risk it says was now associated with insuring Mrs Fs property.
StAIP also say that it revisited the flood risk again  in 2014 and 2015. It said Mrs Fs property 
was still considered high risk, and despite the capped increases from 2011 it was still 
charging Mrs F less in 2014  and 2015 than the true cost it says was associated  with the risk 
of insuring Mrs Fs property. 
So StAIP say it doesnt consider the years 2011 onwards should be included within its offer.
 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and thought StAIPs offer was a fair way to resolve  
things.
As Mrs F disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been  resolved, its been passed to me for a 
final decision.
Ref: DRN54790682My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my findings, I would like to clarify a couple of points  for the benefit  of Mrs F.
Mrs F was concerned that her complaint was set up against StAIP. StAIP  was the 
underwriter of her home insurance policy. This means it was responsible for setting the cost 
of her insurance each  year alongside the risk it considered the property presents. So Mrs Fs 
concerns about  the increase in her premiums  is something that StAIP is responsible  for from 
the point it took over the policy in 2001.  
Mrs F was also unhappy that the cost of her home  insurance was added to her mortgage 
each year  meaning  the yearly premium  was added to her mortgage and attracted interest. 
Mrs F says she wasnt happy to discover she had been paying interest on her home  
insurance. 
The way the policy was to be paid for would have been set up when the policy was sold. Any 
concerns about  the method of payment for the insurance would need to be taken up 
separately with Bank H - who sold Mrs F her initial policy. StAIP  as the underwriter  wasnt  
responsible for this. They are two separate businesses with different responsibilities  
regarding the insurance. 
This means,  within this decision, I cant look at Mrs Fs concerns about the cost of her home 
insurance being added to her mortgage each year. 
Within this decision I can only look at whether  StAIP,  as the underwriter, treated  Mrs F fairly 
throughout the time she held her home  insurance  policy with it. 
If I find that StAIP hasnt treated Mrs F fairly,  I will look to see what  compensation would be 
fair, and in this case, whether I think what StAIP has offered is fair.
Having carefully considered whats  happened,  I think StAIPs  offer of compensation is fair. I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs F, so Id like to explain why.
First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. 
Second, each  insurer, in determining its policys costs,  is entitled to form its own view of risk 
regarding things such as flooding. And from this, it decides the costs associated with the 
risk. Insurers  often  use independent organisations to help determine flood risk ratings  
associated with properties or areas.  Insurers will typically,  over the years,  revisit  and 
reassess the risk  using more up to date and refined models.
 
When StAIP underwrote Mrs Fs policy in 2001, it cost £249.97 for the year. By 2016 the 
insurance cost £1,382.66.  
Mrs Fs policy automatically renewed  each year. With automatic renewals there  is a chance 
that if a consumer doesnt engage with the renewal process or shop around, they can find 
they are paying  much  more for their cover than a new customer.  
Ref: DRN54790683An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal  
and there  are often  risk related reasons  for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer  knew,  
or ought reasonably to have known,  the consumer wasnt  engaging  with the renewals  
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these consumers fairly   
and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing their 
premiums just because  they didnt engage  with the cost. 
In light of the above, StAIP has offered to refund  some of the costs  of the insurance 
premiums Mrs F paid.  Its offered  to keep the premiums from 2006 until 2011 at the cost 
Mrs F paid in 2005, which was £401.99.  So its offered to pay her the difference she paid 
above that, which for the period after 2006  until 2011 works out to be £232.70. It has also 
offered Mrs F additional compensation  for her being out of pocket (which will be set at 8% 
simple interest per year)  and £200 for the trouble caused. If I thought StAIP  had taken 
advantage of Mrs Fs lack of engagement I would think this was a fair way to put things right 
for the premiums paid up to 2011.
Why hasnt StAIP included the years after 2011  in its offer  and is this fair?
In 2011, StAIP says it reassessed  the risks presented to it by its consumers  who were 
potentially at risk of flooding. After  reassessing the risk  which  it is entitled  to do, StAIP  
considered Mrs Fs property was at a high risk of flooding.  The premiums StAIP considered it 
should charge  because  of that risk, were more than the amount it was charging  Mrs F.
So StAIP wasnt charging Mrs F the true cost of the risk it associated with insuring  the 
property from 2011 onwards.  It wouldnt  have been  fair for StAIP  to jump Mrs Fs premium  
up so significantly and so quickly   so it increased  the cost slowly, capping the percentage 
increase each year to steadily bring  the premium up to the level it associated  with the 
property.
In 2014 and 2015, StAIP again reassessed the risk. StAIP has shown the amount it charged 
Mrs F in those  years was still less than the updated risk cost it says should have been 
charged.
So, from what Ive seen,  there seem to be legitimate  risk related reasons for the premium  
increasing from 2011. And StAIP slowly  increased the cost of Mrs Fs policy rather  than 
immediately charging  Mrs F the amount that it considered to be the true cost of insuring  her 
property. 
I appreciate Mrs F might not agree with StAIPs risk assessment but ultimately  it is StAIPs 
decision as to how much  risk a property  represents and in turn the cost it sets for the 
insurance. 
So for the period 2011 onwards I think StAIP has acted fairly.
Mrs F thinks because she got a policy with another insurer for a lot less, this shows she was 
overcharged. I do understand  why Mrs F thinks this and why she thinks she may have been 
overcharged over the years she held the policy. 
Ref: DRN54790684As explained above, the cost increased  in 2011 because  there  were  legitimate risk related 
reasons. StAIP  considered Mrs Fs property to be at high risk of flooding. As Ive explained 
earlier, I dont have  the power  to tell a business what its insurance should cost. But Im 
satisfied that in Mrs Fs case, StAIP have shown that the increases in her premiums are for 
genuine risk related reasons. StAIP reassessed  the risk in 2011,  2014 and 2015  with each 
reassessment showing Mrs Fs property as high risk. StAIP  also reassessed the risks that 
all of its consumers presented in those years  so I cant say that StAIP  was treating Mrs F 
any differently.
The alternative home insurance  Mrs F obtained through  an alternative provider may be 
cheaper, and there could be a number  of reasons for that. For example it may not place the 
same high risk as StAIP placed on Mrs Fs property in the later years. That doesnt mean 
StAIPs perceptions  of the risks were incorrect or that it treated Mrs F unfairly. 
Overall, StAIPs  offer to refund some  of the cost of the insurance from 2006 until 2010 is fair. 
And StAIP has shown  that there were legitimate risk related reasons for the premiums  
increasing from 2011. So Im satisfied  StAIP  doesnt  need to include the years after 2011 
within its offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, St Andrews Insurance Plcs  offer to refund some of the costs 
of Mrs Fs home insurance  policy  from 2006  until 2010 is fair.
St Andrews  Insurance Plc should also calculate the additional compensation (set at 8% 
simple interest per year)  owed to Mrs F for being out of pocket of that money.
St Andrews  Insurance Plcs additional  compensation offer of £200  for the trouble caused to 
Mrs F is also fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5479068