K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that The Royal  London  Mutual Insurance  Society  Limited (trading at the 
time as Scottish Life Pensions) failed to notify her of its intentions to move  her pension  fund 
into a late vesting account in 2009.
background
Mrs L took out a pension  plan with Scottish Life. That company  was taken over by 
Royal London in 2001, and from 2014 both companies have used the Royal  London name. 
So Royal London  is responsible for Mrs Ls complaint. And although a number  of actions 
were undertaken by Scottish Life, for simplicity I will generally refer only to Royal  London 
throughout this decision.
When she took the pension plan, Mrs L told Royal London that she intended to retire in 
August 2009  when she reached  60 years  of age. Royal London says it wrote to Mrs L in 
the lead up to that date to ask her to decide what she wanted to do with her pension 
benefits. Mrs L says that she didnt receive  any of those letters. When Mrs L didnt respond 
to the letters  Royal London wrote to her to confirm  it had moved  her pension benefits into a 
late vesting account.  And it went on to explain  that this meant that whilst the account 
wouldnt benefit from profits, it would  benefit from investment growth as normal.  Mrs L says 
that she didnt  receive  this letter  either.
Mrs L says that her husband received  some  paperwork  from Royal  London in 2017  about his 
benefits that he passed to their financial advisor. She says that it was only then that she 
discovered her pension had also been  moved  into the late vesting account and that it had 
achieved a very poor level of investment growth  over the previous nine years.
Mrs Ls complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators.  He concluded that 
Royal London hadnt acted unreasonably  in switching the investment approach  on Mrs Ls 
pension fund once  she had passed her stated retirement date. And on balance he thought  it 
most likely that Royal London  had made reasonable attempts to get in touch with Mrs L at 
that time.  So he didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs L didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Mrs Ls husband has also been affected  in the same way, albeit a couple  of years later, by 
the movement  of his pension  funds  to the late vesting account. He has a near identical 
complaint that I am deciding separately. And I must stress that I have  considered each of the 
complaints on their individual merits. But given the similarity in Mrs Ls and Mr Ls 
complaints, and the evidence presented by them and Royal  London, I hope they will 
understand why my decisions on the two complaints are commensurately alike.
Ref: DRN50509942At the outset, I want to say that Ive got no doubts  that Mrs L has given us her complete  and 
honest recollections of what  happened  when she reached the retirement age on her pension  
plan in 2009. But Im mindful  that those  events took place almost ten years ago, and over 
such a lengthy  period  of time,  even  the most careful  memories can and do fade.  Where  
there are differences between what Mrs L and Royal London think  happened, I have needed 
to use the balance of probability  in reaching my decision  or, in other words, what I think is 
more likely to have  happened.
First I will consider the letters that Royal London says it sent to Mrs L as she approached the 
retirement age on her pension plan in 2009.  Royal London has given Mrs L copies of what  it 
says would have  been sent. Mrs L says that none  of the letters  were received.  She has also 
expressed some concerns that the letters Royal London has provided  are not accurate 
representations of what might have been  sent. She says they are on Royal  London headed 
notepaper, and in 2009 the letters  should have been branded as Scottish Life.
I think Mrs L is correct  that the letters weve been  given  by Royal  London are not exact 
copies of what it says was sent in 2009. As well as the branding difference  that Mrs L has 
identified I can see that the footer of the letter shows  RL_LETTERHEAD_2014.  So that 
persuades me still further that these  arent  exact  copies of what might  have been sent to 
Mrs L. I think it is disappointing that Royal London didnt make that clearer when it sent 
these letters to Mrs L and to us.
But that doesnt lead me to the conclusion that Mrs L has reached   namely that the letters 
werent sent at all. It is common  for businesses to not retain full image copies of 
correspondence. Instead they will hold template letters, and the infill data that was used to 
populate them. And so at a future  date the text of any letters  that were sent can be 
recreated. And that is what I think happened here. In particular I note that the text of the 
letters refers to the Financial Services Authority. That organisation was abolished on 
1 April 2013 so leading me to the conclusion the letters were certainly issued before then,  
and most  likely in 2009 as shown by the date on the letters.
I have no reason to doubt what Royal London says  that the letters were sent to Mrs L. The 
letters were sent to Mrs Ls home address.  The address  that Royal London  used is near 
identical to the one that Mrs L has provided  to us although missing part of the postcode. So 
I cant see any reason why those letters wouldnt have reached  her. And although 
occasionally a letter might  go astray  in the post I think it very unlikely that all of them failed to 
reach Mrs L. 
So that would lead me to the conclusion that Mrs L received the letters but didnt understand  
the importance of acting  on them. I would  agree  that the letters  dont explicitly explain what 
would happen  if Mrs L were to not act upon  them.  But they do say that Mrs L would need to 
get in touch by telephone if she wanted  to change the date at which she would take her 
pension. 
I have looked  at the terms and conditions of Mrs Ls pension dating  back to when she 
originally took it out. Given the time that has passed  the copy  that Royal London has been 
able to provide  to us is of very poor quality.  But I do note that section 2 of the policy 
conditions does state that ..no amount may be applied to the With Profits  Account after 
the Vesting Date shown  on the Policy Schedule.  So I think  Royal Londons actions  in 
moving Mrs Ls pension  plan from the With Profits fund to the late vesting  account  is entirely  
in line with the policy conditions when she first took her pension  plan.
Ref: DRN50509943I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs L. Her pension  benefits havent 
grown by as much as she would have expected in the past nine years.  But from the 
evidence I have seen  I cannot conclude that Royal London didnt act reasonably or 
appropriately in trying to contact Mrs L when she approached the retirement date detailed on 
her pension plan.  And when Mrs L failed to respond  to those letters  I think  it was reasonable 
for Royal London to move  Mrs Ls funds to the late vesting  account and await her further  
instructions.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
The Royal London  Mutual Insurance Society  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5050994