K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
Background
Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy having taken out a mortgage in 1997. Mr and Mrs C paid 
for the PPI with a regular monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr C in 
case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs C, I have  not found  that this policy  was mis-sold 
 Ill explain why.
This sale was over two decades ago and the account has long since closed. So I think its 
understandable that neither side have the documents  from the time. Indeed, under data 
protection regulations Bank  of Scotland were required to dispose  of Mr and Mrs Cs data 
rather than hold onto it for too long. Mr and Mrs C dont remember buying PPI, but I also 
think thats understandable given just how long ago the sale was, and since buying 
insurance is not often  memorable. Ive thought carefully about whats most  likely to have 
happened based on the limited information  I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Bank of Scotland to have added  the PPI without 
Mr and Mrs C choosing it. But I have no evidence which  shows thats what  Bank of Scotland  
did here. Nor have  I seen  any wider problems with its sales process from the time. And the 
sale was too long ago for me to reasonably  expect Bank of Scotland  to be able to produce 
evidence to defend itself now.  So I dont  think I have a fair basis on which  to conclude that 
Bank of Scotland misled  Mr and Mrs C. I think its more likely that it followed a fairly normal 
sales process, gave Mr and Mrs C a choice about buying PPI, and that they chose it at the 
time  though  I can certainly understand if they no longer remember doing so after so long.
Its not clear whether  Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Bank  of Scotland if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr and 
Mrs C, Ive assumed it did. That means Bank of Scotland  had to check  the policy  was right 
for them  and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For 
example, Mr C was eligible for cover  and doesnt seem to have been  affected by any of the 
main exclusions  or limitations.
Ref: DRN50666622Mr and Mrs C said Mr C had generous  benefits through work.  Understandably because of 
the time thats  passed, they havent been able to give us a consistent account of exactly how 
much these were, or any evidence to back it up. Similarly, they said they had savings, 
though its not clear  exactly how much these were or whether  they were  accessible enough,  
and it was too long ago for Mr and Mrs C to still have evidence  of the savings. The mortgage  
wouldve normally been a significant and long-term commitment,  so even if they had good 
benefits or savings  there was no guarantee theyd still be the same in the years  to come. 
And the PPI meant Mr and Mrs C could, in effect,  protect their savings and use them  for 
other things.  Ultimately, its worth  bearing  in mind  that Mr C was the main earner at the time, 
and if Mr and Mrs C fell behind on their mortgage payments they couldve lost their home. 
So it doesnt  seem  unreasonable  to have insured Mr C to protect their home and have  some  
peace of mind in case things really went wrong.
Its possible that the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs C about  PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely  
to have changed their minds. But as I explained  above, Mr C wasnt affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve been useful in case  something went 
wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much  it would pay out in a claim, and 
Ive not seen any indication that it was unaffordable.  And the PPI was paid on a rolling 
monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs C could cancel it at any time without  a penalty. Overall, I dont 
think that better information was likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 August  2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5066662