K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about a mortgage  endowment policy, originally sold by Abbey 
National, now Santander UK Plc.
background
Mr and Mrs L complained  about  their policy, believed  to have been sold in 1984. Limited 
information relating  to the sale is available. Santander said it was unable to confirm that the 
policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Ls needs. It upheld  their complaint, but said that they had 
not suffered  any financial loss. 
Mr and Mrs L were  unhappy with Santanders calculations and referred the matter to us. 
They thought it was wrong  of Santander  to take into account lump  sum payments they had 
made towards their mortgage. They said that these  additional payments  were only made in 
response to receiving warning letters about their policy, received from 2003 onwards. These 
letters told them  there was a high risk their policy would  not pay out the target amount. And it 
gave information  about actions they could consider taking, in view of the projected shortfall.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the calculations  undertaken by 
Santander were consistent  with the approach set down by the financial services  regulator.
 
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
We typically award compensation worked out using the guidance "Handling Mortgage  
Endowment Complaints" issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (previously the Financial 
Services Authority). 
Having accepted responsibility for the policy being  mis-sold, Santander  needed to consider 
the position Mr and Mrs L wouldve been in, had they instead taken out a repayment 
mortgage  the most likely alternative. The standard calculation  compared the amount that 
Mr and Mrs L paid in endowment premiums  and interest on their mortgage loan with the 
amount they wouldve  paid on an equivalent  repayment mortgage. Having run this 
calculation, Santander  found that Mr and Mrs L had not lost out financially.
Mr and Mrs L say its unfair to include lump sum payments they made towards their 
mortgage in 2005 and 2006, in response  to high risk warning letters.  But the calculation  has 
to reflect  the true account history, so lump  sums  will be included,  just as arrears  would have  
been taken into account, had that been relevant in their case.  And although the policy  ran 
until maturity in 2009, this was Mr and Mrs L choice.  Its right the calculation should only 
include policy premiums paid until the mortgage  was paid off in 2006.  
So having  looked at the calculations provided by Santander, Im satisfied theyre  correct  and 
in line with the industry guidance for complaints  of this nature. 
Ref: DRN51425692Mrs and Mrs L also complain about the length of time its taken to identify who is responsible 
for the sale of the policy. 
I do appreciate that this has been a long-running issue for Mr and Mrs L, who initially raised  
their concerns in 2005. However, at the time, Santander relied on information from the 
product provider, which suggested  the policy was sold by an independent advisor. Given  
this, I dont think it would be fair to hold Santander  responsible for the delay in getting the 
complaint dealt with.
So overall, I dont  uphold this complaint. Im sorry to give what I know will be disappointing news.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 January 2020.
Jo Chilvers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5142569