K821x#15complaint
Mr R says Helm Godfrey Partners Ltd (HGP) gave him unsuitable advice about his pension  
investments and arrangements which has resulted in financial detriment.
Mr R is represented in his case by Mac Fin Consulting Ltd.
background
Mr R had been a client of HGP since 2006, when he received pension  transfer advice. He 
brought three separate  complaints against HGP in 2017. It decided to deal with these as one 
case with a single final response.
In summary,  Mr R complained that HGP was responsible for unsuitable advice and pension  
arrangements between 2008  and 2016.  In particular,  his complaint letters focussed on:
-In 2008, incorrect  risk profiling which led to an unsuitable  recommendation for him to 
invest in the Romanian Dynamic  Property Fund (RDP), an unregulated collective 
investment scheme (UCIS).
-In 2010, inappropriate classification of him as an Elective Professional Client (EPC) 
and the unsuitable advice  for him to invest in the specialist Seneca  US Oil and Gas 
Opportunities Fund (Seneca)  another UCIS.
-In 2012, unsuitable recommendations related to planning around the Lifetime  
Allowance (LTA) regime, leading  to the switch  of his pension  provision into an AXA 
SunTrust plan and putting in place a discretionary fund management (DFM) 
arrangement. Theres also a complaint point about taking his tax-free cash  (TFC).
To keep  things as simple  as possible and to avoid  unnecessary paperwork and further 
delays, Ill deal with two of Mr Rs complaints together in this single decision - those  relating  
to his RDP  and Seneca investments. His complaint about the advice he received concerning 
the AXA SunTrust,  the DFM arrangement and associated matters  will be dealt with 
separately.
I Issued my provisional decision last month, I said that I was expecting to uphold  Mr Rs 
complaint in relation to the Seneca investment. HGP  disagreed with my findings and 
provided a detailed response. Ive carefully  considered all the points it raised and have  
addressed its key arguments as part of this final decision.
HGP said Mr Rs complaints about  the RDP and Seneca investments were out of our 
jurisdiction because theyd been  brought too late. So, this is where I must begin my 
consideration.
Our jurisdiction to consider Mr Rs complaints
The rules  about  complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. The Dispute Resolution rules (DISP) which determine which complaints can be 
considered by this Service are in the regulators handbook. The rules include time limits  by 
which complaints must be made. The relevant rule in this case  is DISP  2.8.2.  It says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
Ref: DRN52293602(2) more than:
(a) six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become  aware) that he had cause for complaint;unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limitswas the result 
of exceptional  circumstances
I note an ombudsman has already investigated whether we have jurisdiction  for Mr Rs 
complaints concerning his RDP  and Seneca investments. He concluded that we didnt have 
authority to review the former, but that we could consider the later.
I agree  with the ombudsmans  conclusions for broadly the same reasons. Im not going to 
rehearse all the arguments again   instead  Ill summarise the main  points.
RDP
Mr R was advised to invest in the RDP in May 2008.  He says the fund wasnt  appropriate for 
his risk appetite.  His complaint to HGP in August 2017 was more than six years after the 
transaction. But I also need to think about whether he was aware, or ought reasonably to 
have been aware , he had cause for complaint more than three  years  before he did.
In September  2012, Emergo Investment issued  a report  on the RDP fund. This explained it 
would require a minimum sum of £1,455,000 to meet various commitments. It also referred 
to a legal  action against the fund, which was described as frivolous, but which was adversely 
affecting the prospect of obtaining a loan.
The report  said that the fund was in negotiations  with developer seeking a mutually 
acceptable solution. It also referred  to a new structure for the fund. But it said this was likely 
to generate a significant loss of capital  to the funds  investors, which  was estimated at 
between 50% and 100%.
I think Mr R ought reasonably to have  understood the fund was facing severe problems 
which could lead to a large loss of capital. Indeed, theres a record  of a meeting between  him 
and HGP  in March  2013. This contains  a note that indicates a discussion about the litigation 
and cash flow problems  referred to in the September  2012  report.
Mr R decided to invest a further £30,000 in RDP  in July 2014, this time in the form of loan 
notes. This appears to have been in response  to a fund circular issued in April 2014 seeking 
additional monies to stave off collapse. His representative suggested this showed Mr R 
didnt have cause  for complaint about his original investment. Rather,  I think  it evidences 
what was clear to him - the precarious state of the fund.
Mr Rs representative said there were exceptional circumstances why he didnt  make  his 
complaint about  RDP in time. For example, it made  arguments about misleading  information 
he received about  the valuation of his investment.  Given  the other reports he was receiving 
about the fund I think  this ought to have  served to confirm that something  odd was going on 
that he needed to get to the bottom of. Im satisfied exceptional circumstances dont apply  to 
this specific complaint.
Mr Rs complaint about his RDP is brought out of time.
Ref: DRN52293603Seneca 
Mr R was advised to invest in the Seneca  fund in July 2010.  His complaint to HGP in August 
2017 was more than six years  after this. So, again the issue for me to consider is whether he 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been  aware, he had cause for complaint more than 
three years before he brought his case.
HGP says Mr Rs complaint is essentially about  him being wrongly classified as an EPC. 
And because the classification took place in 2010, at the same  time as the advice was given, 
he shouldve  been aware he had cause  for complaint  at that time.
HGP categorised Mr R as an EPC.  At the material time, COBS  3.5.3  stated the following:
A firm may treat a client as an elective  professional  client  if it complies with (1) and (3)
(1) the firm undertakes an adequate assessment of the expertise, experience  and 
knowledge of the client that gives reasonable assurance, in light of the nature of the 
transactions or services envisaged, that the client is capable of making  his own investment 
decisions and understanding the risks involved (the qualitative test);
(3) the following  procedure is followed:
(a) the client must state in writing to the firm that it wishes to be treated as a professional  
client either generally or in respect  of a particular service or transaction  or type of transaction  
or product;
(b) the firm must give the client  a clear written warning of the protections and investor  
compensation rights the client may lose;  and 
(c) the client must state in writing, in a separate document from the contract, that it is aware 
of the consequences of losing such protections.
As Ill go on to explain, Ive concluded HGP fell short of what was required under the rules  
regarding the categorisation of Mr R as an EPC.
Mr R says he was wrongly  classified. So, for his complaint to be out of time, he ought  to 
have been aware  more  than three  years  before he complained in 2017. I agree with the last 
ombudsman to consider  this point. I dont think its reasonable  for him to have known the 
regulators rules regarding  how consumers  should  be classified by financial businesses.
So, although  he was aware in 2010  hed been  classified  as an EPC, I dont think  he was in a 
position to know  whether  or not this was correct. And Ive not seen evidence he gained such 
knowledge more  than three  years  before he complained.
More broadly, considering Mr Rs complaint  about the Seneca fund, in its final response to 
him, HGP said that by 2012 the value of his fund had fallen by around 20% and this 
shouldve alerted him of a cause for complaint.
In responding  to my provisional decision, HGP broadened its argument  stating  that the fund 
hadnt recovered its value between 2012 and August 2014. It says it understands the fund 
actually fell further in value. And so, it says this performance couldnt  conceivably be 
described as fluctuations  over the short run.
Ive reviewed the portfolio and fund valuations  for Mr Rs Seneca fund that are on file, taken 
at various points in the financial year, for the period in question. These  are as follows:
Ref: DRN52293604-2011/12 £103,000
-2012/13 £ 83,430
-2013/14 £ 80,340
-2014/15 £ 97,850
-2015/16 £ 97,850
I don find the further  erosion of Mr Rs fund value  between 2012/13 and 2013/14 to be 
significant, given  the scale of his investment. And while  he complained the Seneca  fund had 
exposed his capital  to too much risk, he hasnt said he wasnt prepared to take any risk. 
Rather, he thought  his risk profile  was increased  beyond what he was comfortable with.
I accept that a fall of around 20% would probably be unwelcome  to most investors. But, as 
someone who was prepared to take some risk, its likely Mr R wouldve understood the value 
of the fund could go up or down from time to time. And as we can see, the information he 
was given suggested that by 2014/15 the fund had bounced back significantly.
I dont think the apparent  reduction in value  was of such a degree that it wouldve prompted 
Mr R to question the advice hed been given. As HGP has noted, it made clear to him the 
investment was designed to run for the full five-year term.
HGP hasnt  done  enough to satisfy me Mr R was, or ought reasonably to have been,  aware  
he had cause for complaint before he brought his case forward.
Mr R told us he contacted  his current representative  after listening to a radio  programme 
about issues with pension investments in June 2017. His initial focus  was on what  had 
happened to his RDP investment. In that regard Ive already concluded, he ought reasonably 
to have been aware of his cause to complain earlier than he did. But this seems  likely to 
have been the point  at which  he was put on the road to discovery  about  problems  with his 
Seneca fund.  
Mr Rs complaints about his RDP and Seneca investments have resulted in different 
outcomes as far as the application of our time limits  are concerned.  Thats because the 
circumstances and events  relating  to each were different.
Mr Rs complaint about his Seneca investment has been brought  in time.  Ill now review  the 
merits of that case.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Where theres  conflicting  information about 
what happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and 
to decide, on the balance  of probabilities,  whats most likely to have happened.
Both parties  have provided information and argument concerning the events complained 
about. Ive not given  a detailed response  to all the points raised. Thats deliberate;  ours is an 
informal service  for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers. 
While Ive taken into account and considered all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings 
on what I think is relevant and at the heart  of this complaint.
Ref: DRN52293605In my provisional decision I indicated I expected to uphold Mr Rs complaint about the 
Seneca fund investment. HGP disagreed, so Ill cover its key arguments  as part of this final 
decision.
Ill begin by addressing one of HGPs main concerns. It said that I shouldnt  undertake  my 
own subjective reassessment of the advice given to Mr R in 2010;  rather Im required by 
DISP 3.6.4 to take into account the relevant law.
HGP was also concerned  that my provisional  decision  represented  a highly subjective 
reassessment of the advice  given  to Mr R which was potentially influenced by currently  
prevailing attitudes to UCIS and UCIS advice. 
Its reasonable for HGP  to raise challenges like this. Ill set some of these matters  out more  
fully to explain my approach.
Section 228 of the Financial Services and Markets  Act 2000 provides for how an 
ombudsman should  arrive  at a decision. This approach is set out in the regulators 
handbook, DISP 3.6.1 says:
The Ombudsman will determine a complaint  by reference to what  is, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
In doing this, DISP  3.6.4  says I must  also take into account the relevant law, regulations, 
regulators rules,  guidance and standards, codes of practice and where appropriate what  I 
consider to be good industry practice.
Im satisfied that Ive worked within and according to the rules  governing  how I should 
operate and arrive at my determination in this case. 
At this point its helpful to consider some of the extensive regulation  around  transactions  like 
those performed by HGP for Mr R. For example, the FCA Handbook contains eleven 
Principles for businesses, which it says are fundamental  obligations  firms must adhere  to 
(PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These  include:
-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
-Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise  and control  its 
affairs responsibly and effectively,  with adequate risk management systems.
-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
In British Bankers  Association v The Financial Services Authority & Anor [2011]  EWHC  999 
(Admin), Ouseley J said [at paragraph 162]:
The Principles are best understood  as the ever-present substrata to which the specific rules 
are added. The Principles always have to be complied  with. The Specific rules  do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them.  They are but specific  applications  of 
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate...
Ref: DRN52293606And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach  
a view on a case without  taking the Principles into account in deciding  what  would be fair 
and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even  if no Principles had been produced by the 
FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory  duty without having regard to 
the sort of high-level principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated 
them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about 
their relationship to specific rules.
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated  firms like HGP. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Rs complaint.
The Seneca UCIS
The Seneca fund was described by HGP as follows:
This fund will provide  project finance  to established production  companies  through  the 
purchase of equity stakes in oil and gas extraction projectsThe majority  of investment will 
be in oil extraction projects, rather than higher  risk exploration ventures, using enhanced oil 
recovery techniques;The fund is structured to cater for investors  seeking  higher rates  of 
return via capital appreciation with units expected  to achieve a target return of 23.5% per 
annum payable at the end of the funds life [after 5 years].
The following  extract  is taken from a presentation about the investment opportunity (bolding 
is my emphasis):
This presentation is not available to the general  public in the United Kingdom  ("UK"),  may 
be issued by Stratus Capital LLP which is authorised and regulated in the UK by the 
Financial Services Authority ("The FSA"), on a confidential basis, to a limited  number of 
potential sophisticated investors and to other persons authorised pursuant to the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (the "FSMA") for the sole purpose of providing  
information about a potential investment in the Scheme. The Scheme referred  to in this 
summary constitutes  an "[UCIS]"  for the purposes of the restriction  on the promotion of 
unregulated schemes  under section 238 of the FSMA and, accordingly, the Scheme cannot 
be marketed in the UK to the general  public by any FSA authorised  person.
The publication went on to emphasise that the Seneca UCIS was only suitable for 
sophisticated or professional investors.  HGP promoted the opportunity to Mr R. For investing 
in the fund, he would receive a 3% enhancement of the value of his share of units. And HGP  
would receive a 4 % commission.
HGPs categorisation  of Mr R in the transaction  as an EPC 
Its appropriate to consider  the regulations as they related to Mr Rs status  in this transaction. 
HGP categorised him as an EPC.  At the material time, COBS 3.5.3 stated the following:
A firm may treat a client as an elective  professional  client  if it complies with (1) and (3)
(1) the firm undertakes an adequate assessment of the expertise, experience  and 
knowledge of the client that gives reasonable assurance, in light of the nature of the 
transactions or services envisaged, that the client is capable of making  his own investment 
decisions and understanding the risks involved (the qualitative test);
Ref: DRN52293607(3) the following  procedure is followed:
(a) the client must state in writing to the firm that it wishes to be treated as a professional  
client either generally or in respect  of a particular service or transaction  or type of transaction  
or product;
(b) the firm must give the client  a clear written warning of the protections and investor  
compensation rights the client may lose;  and 
(c) the client must state in writing, in a separate document from the contract, that it is aware 
of the consequences of losing such protections.
Ive reviewed the documentation  associated  with HGPs assessment with regard to the 
qualitative test it was required to conduct under 3.5.3. In respect of Mr Rs expertise in the 
transactions, investment types  and services engaged, its recorded:
[Mr R] has previously invested in limited partnerships and closed ended investments, and 
the client has vast experience  in shipping and freight forwarding and an understanding  of oil 
costs and price changes. 
In respect of Mr Rs experience of the transactions,  investment types and services engaged, 
its recorded:
The client was on the Board of one of the largest  transport operations.  
In respect of Mr Rs knowledge of the transactions, investment  types and services engaged,  
HGP recorded:
as above.
The suitability letter HGP produced for him said:
You have been  in the haulage business for a long period  of time and fully understand how 
oil and gas prices can fluctuate.  You confirmed  that you understand the risks involved by 
investing in the Seneca  Fund and confirmed that you would  like to be classified as an [EPC]  
for the investment". 
HGP says it identified support for the statement concerning Mr R's experience as a printout 
taken from his company  website described  him as follows:
coming from a shipping and freight  forwarding background and that he "became involved 
in the burgeoning computer/electronic business  in the late seventies and was soon invited  to 
join the main board  of one of the largest  specialist transport  operators that had expanded  
with the growth  of this industry".
HGP says it was entitled to rely on this and the specific comments and instructions Mr R 
provided at the May 2010 meeting when his EPC status was discussed and agreed.
I understand the points HGP  has made but its not added anything new to the arguments its 
made throughout. And on balance,  Im not satisfied  what it set out constitutes  an adequate 
qualitative assessment of Mr R for EPC purposes, sufficient to give it reasonable assurance,  
in light of the nature of the Seneca proposition. It follows  then, I also disagree with the 
conclusion reached  by the adjudicator in this regard.
Ref: DRN52293608I dont think Mr Rs background in shipping and freight forwarding was wholly  relevant to the 
investment proposition. While I think he wouldve been aware of matters  such  as the price  of 
oil and the implication  of fluctuations, its somewhat of a leap to infer he had knowledge 
sufficient to understand the particular risks associated with a niche element of the US oil 
extraction industry.  Certainly, Ive seen  nothing on the case  file and HGP hasnt 
demonstrated otherwise.
Theres no evidence Mr R had expertise in the particular operating environment the Seneca  
proposal was seeking  to exploit. For example, I cant see from the case  file, and HGP hasnt 
demonstrated, he wouldve been  aware  of the competitiveness of the market, the potential  
effect of new entrants  and new technologies, the power of customers  and suppliers in the 
sector, nor the impact of the regulatory  landscape. Its an appreciation of these matters 
which ultimately would determine the attractiveness of a market  and investment prospects.
I note that two years earlier Mr R had invested  £200,000 in another UCIS, so theres an 
argument he had experience of the type of investment he was making through  the Seneca 
fund. But actually, the latter proposal wasnt substantively similar in terms of risk profile or its 
underlying property.
The information provided by Mr R and derived by HGP during the advice process, about his 
knowledge, experience and expertise as it related  to the Seneca  proposition couldnt be 
safely regarded by it as sufficient to gain assurance that he understood what he was getting 
into. Rather it shouldve  been the starting  point for HGPs probing, exploration and 
assessment of how suitable the fund was for him. This doesnt seem to have happened.
So, Im not persuaded by the qualitative test which was conducted by HGP. It didnt 
demonstrate due diligence nor was it treating Mr R fairly. Given my finding here, I dont need 
to explore whether it met the other requirements  of EPC categorisation.
I note that one of the outcomes of taking Mr R through the EPC route couldve been to erode  
certain protections he wouldve  had as a retail  client. To be fair to HGP,  these  implications 
were set out clearly on the forms he signed. For example, that he wouldnt be able to 
complain to this Service about  the transaction and it wouldnt  be obliged to provide certain 
information or disclosures.
I might  be mistaken, but I detected an inference  in some of HGPs earlier  submissions that 
as a result  of Mr R being an EPC,  the transaction here was beyond  the ambit of our Service.  
I just wanted to make sure it understood the position  fully in this regard.
As Im not satisfied Mr R was correctly categorised as an EPC,  Im not bound  to consider 
him as one for the purposes of DISP 2.7. However, for the sake of completeness, I want  to 
make clear  Im also content those rules wouldnt have inhibited  his complaint even if Id 
concluded HGP had followed proper process  in categorising  him as an EPC. Ill explain why.
DISP 2.7.1 says: 
A complaint may only be dealt with under the Financial Ombudsman  Service if it is brought 
by or on behalf  of an eligible complainant.
DISP 2.7.3 goes  on to say an eligible complainant must be:
(1) a consumer;
Ref: DRN52293609Mr R meets  the definition  of a consumer as defined  by the regulators glossary:
an individual acting  for purposes which are wholly  or mainly outside that individuals  
trade, business, craft or profession.
However, DISP 2.7.9 gives several exceptions to the list of eligible complainants. One of 
these is for professional  clients. Just to be clear,  this doesnt apply to Mr R because  an 
amendment to the rules  came into effect  on 9 July 2015. DISP 2.7.9A says:
DISP 2.7.9 R (1) and DISP 2.7.9  R (2) do not apply to a complainant who is a consumer  in 
relation to the activity to which the complaint  relates. 
In other  words, from 9 July 2015  Mr R, as a consumer,  was no longer subject  to the 
professional client  exception meaning he wouldve been an eligible complainant.
Was the advice, recommendation and arrangements made by HGP for Mr R to invest 
£100,000 of his Self-invested Personal  Pension (SIPP) into the Seneca UCIS suitable?
In any event, HGP said it was unconvinced that much should turn on its assessment of Mr R 
as an EPC. It said he hadnt suffered any loss as a consequence  of that categorisation. It 
said it was permitted to recommend  an investment  in the Seneca  fund to him as an 
established client provided it took reasonable steps to satisfy  itself that the investment was 
suitable for him. It said the obligations  it was under were materially  the same as those 
provided for under COBS  9.2.1.
This part of the FCA handbook sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of 
investments recommended. They are the same  things  that I look at when reaching a 
decision about whether the advice was suitable.  In summary, the business must obtain  the 
necessary information  regarding:  the consumers knowledge and experience in the 
investment field relevant  to the advice;  their financial situation; and their investment 
objectives.
Ive reviewed fact-finds and suitability  reports on file to try and understand Mr Rs 
circumstances and objectives around  the time of his investment into the Seneca UCIS. I note 
the fact-finds  we have  for May 2009  and May 2010  were each 1 page  long and lacking in 
detail. There are a few more details  in the July 2010  suitability report  HGP produced to 
support the investment. And theres  a fuller fact-find  from November 2010 (although  that is 
after the transaction).
Im satisfied the following details provide a broad indication of Mr Rs circumstances at the 
time of the Seneca investment advice.  Mr R was married with three children (one 
dependent). He was 59 and was planning  on retiring when he was 65. He was managing 
director and sole shareholder  of a business  which  had a turnover  of around £1.75m. A 
recent offer on the business for £500,000 was under consideration although  he believed this 
under-valued its worth.
Mr R was taking around  £60,000 a year from his business in income  and dividends  of 
around £50,000. His buy-to-let properties were generating income of around £15,000 per 
year. Outgoings were indicated as around  £500 per month, although there  was little detail 
provided. Nevertheless, his disposable  income  wouldve  been  ample.
Ref: DRN522936010In terms of assets and liabilities. Its recorded  Mr Rs home was worth nearly £1m with an 
outstanding mortgage of about £200,000. He had properties in the US and UK which were 
unencumbered and worth somewhere in the region  of £750,000. In addition, he had 
investments worth about £110,000.
In July 2010 HGP noted Mr Rs SIPP, which was invested in a portfolio of interests, was 
valued at around  £1.1m. In order to invest in the Seneca UCIS as recommended, he was 
advised to dis-invest  £100,000 from other funds.
One of the arguments made  by Mr Rs representative is that as soon as he became  a client  
of HGP, his recorded  attitude to risk increased substantially. It said this was in HGPs 
commercial interest but didnt represent his real outlook. 
Actually, as Ill set out, Mr Rs risk appetite appears  reasonably consistent from 2008.  And if 
matters had gone awry, given how many assessments HGP made  and suitability reports  it 
produced, I wouldve expected him to have  raised  concerns about  that. He didnt because I 
think its more likely  than not the assessments were consistent with his outlook around this 
time.
Its a matter of record that in 2006 Mr R was assessed by his financial adviser as having a 
risk attitude  that was balanced (5 out of 10). In 2008  his appetite  appears  to have increased 
to balanced plus (7 out of 10). I dont find this a major jump given his circumstances and 
objectives. In 2009  he was again assessed  as having a balanced plus risk appetite.
Its of note that when  HGP recommended Mr R invest in the RDP UCIS in 2008 it said the 
following (bolding is my emphasis):
You will understand that although the investments I am recommending may be above or 
below your actual  attitude  to investment  risk, when combined with your other investments 
the overall effect is that of your true attitude  to investment risk.
In this instance I would like to advise you that the [RDP] fund and the Merchant 
Securities FTSE 100 Hindsight  Note are above your attitude to investment  risk.
Theres nothing wrong in principal with balancing risk across a portfolio. But one of the things 
to guard against would  be a self-fulfilling drift to ever increasing risk accumulation  which  was 
out of kilter with the clients genuine  risk appetite.
When in July 2010 HGP delivered its suitability report  for the Seneca  UCIS proposal, it again 
said the following  about its assessment of Mr Rs risk outlook:
In terms  of your overall attitude to investment  risk, we have previously completed a risk 
profile questionnaire  which was developed  by Watson Wyatt. This shows that you have a 
balanced plus attitude to investment risk. This means that any recommended 
investments are likely  to suit an investor  that is willing to tolerate a little more risk in order  to 
achieve higher  growth over the longer term.
Its possible HGP was over reliant  on the ECP process here, noting the effect  on Mr Rs 
protections and the obligations it had to him. Ive already set out my findings in relation to 
how it conducted the ECP process and its failings in that regard.
Ref: DRN522936011But in any event, HGP couldnt simply  deal with the Seneca transaction in isolation. It was 
recommending another increase in his exposure and it shouldve drawn this out for him. The 
new UCIS investment  was for £100,000, just over 9% over his SIPP funds - it was a 
significant transaction. Ive seen no assessment of the impact of the risk he was taking on 
the balance of his overall  pension portfolio.
A few months after the Seneca transaction there are other risk assessment documents 
signed by Mr R. For example, I can see HGP completed a client fact-find  on 17 November 
2010. This noted no less than three different risk appetite scores for Mr R: "Adventurous"; 
"Balanced Adventurous" and using a separate system "Aggressive".
A box was ticked to indicate Mr R was experienced in investments  the alternatives were 
little and average experience. And under the heading Your  objectives" it stated: "Happy  to 
invest in both higher  and adventurous  funds dependent on timescale  and amount" and Mr R 
was said to have  confirmed that he fully understood the "risk/reward  trade-off".
A risk profiling  document dated 18 November 2010 seems  to paint a slightly  different picture  
of Mr R. Capturing his responses to a questionnaire,  Mr R identified  his investment 
experience as:
Moderate  Ive been investing  for several years within a broad  range of different assets. 
There were two other descriptions for those  with more experience:
Good  Ive been  investing for quite a while and Ive lived through at least one market 
downturn. 
Very Good   Im an experienced  investor  and am comfortable with all the ups and downs in 
the market. 
This time the assessment  indicated an aggressive  attitude to risk (5 out of 6 on the scale). 
This was defined as follows:
You have a willingness  to accept high investment risk This enables you to include wide 
range of equity  assets with good  long-term  growth prospects. Although asset class 
diversification will usually be compromised  in an effort to achieve higher real returns  the 
Fund Manager can use both UK and overseas equities to react  to specific market conditions  
You should note that these funds are subject to market movements and currency risk.
The highest  category was very aggressive  and defined as follows:
You have a very high tolerance to investment risk. This will allow you access to a wide 
range of funds,  which will target specific assets  with potential for high growth. These funds 
can offer a high level of real return in the longer  term.  As they focus on asset types or 
specific markets that undergo a high degree  of price change, they can, and often do, 
experience greater than average  volatility. Diversification will usually be compromised in an 
effort to achieve  higher  real returns and there will be a significant  chance that the value of 
your assets  may fall and could take several years  to recover their original value...
I need to be careful  about the weight  I place on these documents  from November 2010  for 
two reasons. First, they were clearly completed  somewhat after the transaction in question. 
And secondly there appears to be an odd chronology and some dissonance between the 
results from those exercises.
Ref: DRN522936012Nevertheless, even if I were to rely on the later attitude to risk outcome from 18 November  
2010, I think the Seneca UCIS more likely than not fits best under very aggressive risk 
category. So, theres already a strong argument  it wouldve been specifically an investment  
beyond his assessed appetite for risk in November 2018.
Clearly, its more appropriate to consider the Seneca investment in light of what  was 
recorded at the time of the transaction about  Mr Rs attitude to risk. As we know,  HGPs  
suitability report noted (bolding is my emphasis):
you have a balanced plus attitude  to investment risk. This means that any 
recommended investments are likely to suit an investor that is willing to tolerate  a little 
more risk in order to achieve higher growth  over the longer  term.
I dont think the Seneca fund can reasonably be characterised as a good  fit with his 
established risk outlook  at the time of the transaction. Ive still not seen the analysis I 
wouldve expected  from HGP about the impact  of this investment on his overall portfolio. And 
its a matter the adjudicator didnt explore adequately in his view.
HGP hasnt  engaged effectively on this point and so I see no reason to alter my initial  
conclusion here.  Im satisfied the Seneca transaction  wouldve  had the effect putting Mr Rs 
overall SIPP investments  further out of kilter  with his risk appetite.
HGP says it provided Mr R with the necessary suitability assessment,  information, advice, 
comparisons and risk warnings. It says it wouldnt be right to conclude  that no other financial 
adviser acting reasonably  wouldve recommended the investment.
But as Ive already set out, Ive found Mr R didnt have the knowledge, experience or 
expertise necessary for him to understand the Seneca investment. And Ive concluded the 
fund wasnt an appropriate  fit for his risk appetite, both specifically  and when taken across 
his whole SIPP portfolio. It follows that I dont agree with HGPs  assertion that other financial 
advisers acting reasonably wouldve  done  the same  as it did.
Mr Rs Seneca investment meant  that at least 37% of his SIPP  funds were  invested beyond 
his appetite, perhaps more. HGP  hasnt  done enough to show  how the remainder of his 
SIPP - which  remember  was required to fund his income in retirement   effectively  
rebalanced his overall position.
HGP says its advice should  be assessed  by reference to the standards set at the time its 
service was provided. It says there was a more permissive  regime  in force  at the time with 
regards to UCIS advice.  It says it shouldnt be held to the more restrictive regulation and 
critical approach to UCIS  advice which was subsequently adopted by the Financial Services  
Authority (FSA), and later the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
I agree  with the general point HGP makes here about being held to account  against the 
standards of the time. Ive already noted  the obligations on firms like HGP, including  
adherence to the Principles, which predate the advice  in question. For example, it had to 
conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence. It also had to pay due regard  to the 
interests of its customers.
Ref: DRN522936013Turning specifically to UCIS advice,  the FCA issued guidance about unregulated 
investments in a Good  and Poor Practice report in July 2010. The report  contained 
examples of good practice in relation to UCIS  investments,  for example where  a firm had 
robust controls in place  and limited client exposure  to 3% to 5% of their portfolios, where 
those clients had been assessed as being  suitable  for unregulated investments. An example 
of bad practice given  by the FCA was where up to 100% of a clients  holdings  were in such  
funds.
The FCA was concerned about practice  in relation UCISs because  investors  had no access  
to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). Funds were often illiquid, highly 
specialised in something out of the ordinary and reliant on third parties. Funds often  had little 
or no track record and there was some  uncertainty about how to value the assets and 
whether valuations were  correct.
With the addition  of the Seneca  fund, Mr R had over a quarter of his SIPP in UCIS funds. 
Even if I take into account all his other  assets, excluding  his home but including his business 
(which had an uncertain value),  his exposure  was high.  Ive not seen there  was a clear 
strategy set out for Mr Rs involvement with such funds.  And they were in excess  of his 
appetite for risk, as acknowledged  by HGP  at the time.
HGP has advanced other arguments in support of its case. For example, it notes Mr R was a 
very wealthy  person  and experienced in matters of business and finance.  It says hed shown 
considerable interest in getting  involved with investments like the Seneca fund.
Mr R had significant capacity for loss compared  with many people.  But just because he was 
wealthy doesnt  mean  he wanted  to take risk beyond his recorded  appetite.  HGPs 
responsibility was to make sure this didnt happen   but Ive concluded it failed in this regard.
Ive no reason to doubt that Mr R was very interested in investing  in the Seneca  fund  but it 
wasnt HGPs role to facilitate his wants.  Rather it shouldve  been providing advice that was 
in his best interests. On this occasion, I dont think it did this.
So, HGP hasnt demonstrated  due care, skill and diligence in promoting the Seneca fund to 
Mr R or in the advice  it gave him to invest  a significant portion of his pension  provision in 
another UCIS. And I dont  think the transaction can be regarded at the material  time as in his 
best interests.
Putting things  right
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim should be to put Mr R as close to the 
position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable  advice.
I take the view that Mr R wouldve invested  differently.  Its not possible to say precisely what 
he wouldve done  differently. But Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given his circumstances and objectives  when he invested.
To compensate Mr R fairly, HGP  must:
-Compare the performance of Mr Rs investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Ref: DRN522936014-HGP should also pay interest as set out below.
-Pay to Mr R £200 for trouble and upset caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start  
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
Seneca 
Fundstill 
existsFTSE UK 
Private  
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of 
my 
decision8% simple  per year from date 
of decision to date of 
settlement (if compensation is 
not paid within 28 days of the 
business  being notified of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid  (meaning it could not be readily  sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult  to work  out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed  to be zero. This is provided Mr R agrees to HGP taking ownership 
of the investment, if it wishes  to. If its not possible  for HGP to take ownership, then it may 
request an undertaking from Mr R that he repays it any amount he may receive from the 
investment in future.
Fair value
This is what  the investment wouldve been worth  at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
-Mr R wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept  some investment risk.
-The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset  classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
-Although its called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index 
is close enough to allow  me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr 
Rs circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision  
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend the business  to pay 
the balance.
Ref: DRN522936015Determination and award: I uphold the complaint.  I consider that fair compensation should  
be calculated as set out above.  My decision is that Helm Godfrey Partners Ltd should  pay 
Mr R the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £150,000  (including 
distress and/or inconvenience  but excluding costs) plus any interest set out above.
If Helm Godfrey Partners  Ltd does not pay the full fair compensation, then any investment 
currently illiquid should be retained by Mr R. This is until any future benefit that he may 
receive from the investment together with the compensation paid by Helm Godfrey Partners 
Ltd (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as set out above. 
Helm Godfrey Partners  Ltd may request an undertaking from Mr R that either he repays to it 
any amount he may receive from the investment  thereafter or if possible, transfers the 
investment at that point.
Helm Godfrey Partners  Ltd should  provide details of its calculation to Mr R in a clear, simple  
format.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Helm Godfrey  Partners  Ltd pays Mr R the balance plus any 
interest on the balance  as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  It does not bind Helm 
Godfrey Partners Ltd. Its unlikely that Mr R can accept my decision and go to court to ask 
for the balance. He may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept  this decision. 
Ref: DRN522936016For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. And I require Helm 
Godfrey Partners Ltd to put things right in the way Ive indicated.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R either  to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 April 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5229360