K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs L says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs L took out on a store  card account in October 1998. 
It was added  to her account when she applied for the card in store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
I think FICL  made Mrs L aware that she had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. I say this because FICL  has given  us a copy of the store  card application form 
from the time of sale. This shows there was a separate section for PPI and that it is presented 
as optional. Mrs L signed on the application  form to say she consented to the information 
contained in it. So I think this reflected what she wanted. Had Mrs L not wanted  the PPI she 
could have completed the application  and not ticked a box in the separate section agreeing to 
have the cover.
I cant be sure what happened at the time of sale when this application  form was completed by 
the parties, but based on what I know of how sales were conducted  and without further 
information to support  what Mrs L is saying, I cannot  safely conclude anything  other  than the 
form demonstrates a fair reflection of what Mrs L wanted at that time (and she signed at the 
bottom of the application agreeing to have the card and PPI.)
So, on balance,  I think Mrs L was aware  the policy was optional  and she agreed to take it 
out, knowing  it was something she could say no to.
This application was made by Mrs L completing  an application in a store.  So because of this, 
I dont think a recommendation  was made  by FICL.  So FICL didnt have to check  if the policy 
was suitable for her. But it still needed to make  sure it gave Mrs L enough information to 
make an informed choice  whether  the policy was right for her, taking into account her 
personal circumstances.
Its possible the information FICL  gave Mrs L about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should have 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs L would have acted differently and not bought the policy, if 
better information had been provided.  And on balance I dont think  better  information  
wouldve led her to act differently.
Ref: DRN54141322I say this because  I think  the PPI could have been useful to Mrs L in that her store  card 
payments would be met in addition to any other provisions she held (she says she had 
sickness pay that would have covered her for 3 months full pay and 3 months half along with 
between £2000 and £5000 in savings). The policy  would have provided additional cover for 
longer than her provisions  at that time and would  have been useful if Mrs L had lost her job. I 
also couldnt see any significant or limiting  terms that would have affected Mrs Ls decision 
to take the policy  out either.
Im not sure FICL gave clear information  on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think  this 
would have affected Mrs Ls decision to take out the policy for the reasons I have already 
given. 
Ive taken into account all Mrs Ls comments, but for the reasons mentioned  above,  these 
points dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5414132