K821x#15complaint
Mr C says Emergency Cash Limited  (trading  as Wizzcash.com) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three short-term instalment loans  Wizzcash provided to Mr C 
between January 2015 and March 2016.  Mr Cs lending history  is as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Repaid
1 19 Jan 2015 £225 3m £94.70 On time
2 30 Mar 2015 £400 12m £63.70 On time
3 31 Mar 2016 £500 3m £245.42 13 Jul 2018
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Cs complaint and thought  that it was unfair  for Wizzcash  to have 
provided loan three  in the circumstances that it did. Wizzcash disagreed and so the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman. 
As Mr C didnt  disagree with our adjudicators  assessment this decision is only looking at 
whether it was fair for Wizzcash to provide loan three to Mr C.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Wizzcash needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  loan three in a sustainable  manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Wizzcash  should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN53113622There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr C was provided with high-interest loans, intended  for short-term use. Indeed the fact 
Wizzcashs authorisation  is under the name Emergency Cash Limited appears to be a 
reflection that any loans  would be sought to tide over an emergency and not to supplement  a 
consumers income. But when Mr C was provided  with loan three,  hed already been 
indebted to Wizzcash for an unbroken  period of 14 months.  And for loan three, Mr C was 
now seeking significantly more than what hed borrowed  before. 
So by this stage  it ought to have  been clear that Mr C may not have  been  using these  loans 
to tide over an emergency or even as a short term solution to a temporary cash  flow problem 
and that he may have  instead been  using these loans to routinely get by. And, in these 
circumstances, I think  that it wouldve been  reasonable and proportionate for Wizzcashs 
checks to reflect this.   
In my view, the length of time Mr C had been borrowing plus him seeking more than hed 
ever borrowed  at the time of loan there means  that it wouldve been proportionate  for 
Wizzcash to have  taken steps to verify  Mr Cs actual financial position,  in order to fairly and 
reasonably determine whether hed be able to sustainably make the payments he was being 
asked to commit to. 
It could have done this by asking for information such  as bank statements, copies of bills, or 
even proof  of Mr Cs income.  But the crux of what Wizzcash needed to do was confirm that 
Mr C could make the contractual payments, even though its lending history with him was 
suggesting this may not have been the case.  As Wizzcash didnt do this, I dont think  that the 
checks it carried out before providing loan three were proportionate.
Even though  I dont  think the checks Wizzcash carried out were proportionate this doesnt,  
on its own, mean that Mr Cs complaint should  be upheld. After  all if further checks wouldve 
simply shown  Wizzcash  that these loans werent  unsustainable for Mr C (and so there  was 
no reason why Wizzcash  shouldnt  have  lent to Mr C), then further checks  wouldnt have 
made a difference. This is because Mr C wont  have lost out as a result of Wizzcashs failure 
to carry out proportionate  and sufficient checks and thered be no reason for me to uphold  
the complaint.  
But if further checks would most  likely have shown Wizzcash that Mr C wouldnt have  been  
able to sustainably  repay these loans  then this would mean Mr C lost out because of 
Wizzcashs failure  to carry out proportionate and sufficient checks. And thered be grounds to 
uphold Mr Cs complaint.  As proportionate  checks werent carried out I cant  say for sure 
what these checks would  have shown. But Mr C has provided  us with some  information on 
his financial circumstances at the time he applied for loan three.  And Ive been  able to get an 
idea of what his financial circumstances were like. 
Of course I accept this isnt perfect as different checks show different  things.  And just 
because something  shows up in the information Mr C has provided it doesnt  mean  it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Wizzcash  mightve carried  out. But the information  Mr C 
has provided is the best indication I have of what his financial circumstances were like at the 
time. And in the absence of anything  else I think its perfectly reasonable to rely on it. 
Ive carefully looked through everything Mr Cs provided. The information  Ive been provided  
with shows Mr C entire monthly salary was already committed to his normal  monthly  living 
Ref: DRN53113623costs and his existing contracted commitments. And so he simply didnt have anywhere near 
enough funds  to be able to repay loan three. 
So I think that proportionate checks would more  likely than not have  shown Wizzcash  that  
Mr C wouldnt  have been able sustainably make the payments he was being asked to 
commit to. As this is the case, I think that proportionate checks would more  likely than not 
have shown Wizzcash  that Mr C was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay loan three.
As Mr C had to pay interest  and charges as a result of being provided with a loan he 
shouldnt have been given, I think that he lost out because of what Wizzcash did wrong. So I 
think that Wizzcash needs  to put things right
putting things right  what Wizzcash needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loan three;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan three from Mr Cs credit  file;
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Wizzcash to take off tax from this interest. Wizzcash must 
give Mr C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Cs complaint. Emergency Cash  
Limited (trading as Wizzcash.com) should  pay Mr C compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5311362