K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Equiniti Financial Services Limited (trading as Selftrade) made an 
error when  shares  were  purchased  in December 2018.
background
Mr M held an online, execution only ISA account  with Selftrade. In April 2018 Mr M 
purchased shares  in a business  using  his online account. An order for 9450 shares at 
£22,122.35 was accepted at 8.16am. Eight months  later on 24 December 2018, Mr M was 
alarmed to discover that a further 8983 shares had been purchased in the same business for 
£22,147.98. Mr M is adamant that he did not instruct Selftrade  to carry out this transaction.  
Mr M contacted Selftrade on 27 December  2018  to raise his concerns. Selftrade explained 
that Mr M had a regular  investment set up on his account. The purchase of shares  in 
December 2018  was triggered because  sufficient funds had credited to Mr Ms account at 
the time.
Mr M denies that he set up a regular investment and says he was unaware  that this function 
was even possible. He did not receive any notification that such a plan had been set up. 
Mr M says he has suffered a loss as the value of the shares  subsequently  dropped.  He asks 
Selftrade to take back the shares  and provide  compensation  for the trouble and expense  he 
has been put to in this matter.
 
Selftrade say theyve done nothing  wrong. Mr M set up a regular  investment  with an 
instruction to invest £22,149  into specific  shares,  where the order would execute  when  
sufficient funds were in Mr Ms account. This was an execution  only account and they acted 
on the instructions  given  by Mr M. Selftrade  say that if a mistake was made, it was down to 
Mr M. Selftrade offered  to waive commission if Mr M chose  to sell the shares,  Selftrade  say 
Mr M hasnt  taken steps to mitigate his loss, to sell the shares promptly.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and decided not to uphold  it. She thought it was 
more likely than not that Mr M had set up a regular investment  online.  The timestamped  
transactions showed that Mr M set up a regular investment online at 8.10am, he then went 
onto make place an order  at 8.16, which was accepted. As this was an execution  only 
account, Selftrade did nothing wrong in facilitating an online request given by 
Mr M. Our investigator  took into account  that it was for each  customer  to familiarise  
themselves with operation of an online account.
Mr M does  not agree  with the view. He maintains that he was unaware of the possibility of 
setting up a regular  investment  and did not intend to enter  such  an arrangement. His only 
intention was to transfer his permitted  subscription  to his ISA. Mr M raises concern that 
timestamped evidence  was not provided to him before the complaint was considered  by this 
service and believes that Selftrade  made a mistake. Mr M would like Selftrade  to 
compensate him for the losses he has sustained.
The matter  has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive made my decision based on the 
Ref: DRN50710142balance of probabilities, in other words, on what I think is more  likely than not to have 
happened.
The issue  in this case is whether Selftrade  made  an error in executing  the purchase of 
shares in a particular  business in December 2018. There is a dispute between  the parties as 
to whether Mr M set up a regular investment in April 2018.
Mr M held an execution  only, online account with Selftrade, which  meant he gave the 
instructions for the sale/purchase of shares and it was for him to monitor  his account. 
Ive reviewed the timestamped evidence provided by Selftrade.  It shows Mr M set up a 
regular investment at 8.10am on 6 April 2018  for £22,149 worth of shares in a particular 
business. A quote for a purchase of shares  in the same business was received at 8.14am 
and then cancelled.  Another quote  was generated at 8.16am, which was subsequently  
processed. The regular investment was set up in close proximity to the time Mr M placed an 
order to purchase shares in the same business  and Selftrades records  show  that Mr M was 
the only user logged into the account  at this time.  So, I consider it is more likely  than not that 
Mr M did enter details into the regular  investment  screens.
Selftrade have  provided copies of the screens Mr M would have passed  through in order  to 
set up a regular  investment.  The first page is headed Regular  investment,  the date for the 
next investment  has to be populated  and details of the stock  to be added  to the regular 
investment have to be entered.  These screens  differ from the screens for placing a one-off 
order. Ive also taken  into account that once  a regular investment has been set up, an on-
screen confirmation will be displayed.  On balance, having reviewed the evidence,  I consider 
there was adequate information to show that a regular investment instruction  was being 
made.
I appreciate it is likely that Mr M made an innocent mistake and thats  supported by his 
honest concession  that he isnt computer  minded.  This is an unfortunate situation and I dont 
underestimate Mr Ms strength of feeling about this matter, but there  is nothing  to show  that 
an error was made by Selftrade. In these  circumstances, I cant fairly say that Selftrade  
acted unfairly or unreasonably when they processed the instruction  which  Mr M gave.
Under the terms and conditions  for the account, investors can set up a regular investment, 
which will execute when sufficient funds  are in the account. Selftrade say that Mr Ms 
account didnt  have sufficient funds for the purchase of the shares until December 2018 and 
it is agreed that once  the purchase was made,  Mr M was sent a contract  note. 
Selftrade say it was open to Mr M to have accessed  and cancelled  the instruction online, 
through the Regular Investment page.  I appreciate Mr M says he didnt realise that it was 
possible to set up a regular investment but as this was an online execution only account, it 
was for Mr M to familiarise himself  with it.
When Mr M identified  that something  had gone  wrong he called Selftrade to query it. Ive 
listened to these calls, in which Mr M was told that a regular investment had been set up on 
his account. Whilst  Seltrade said there was no error on their part, they did suggest Mr M 
could mitigate his loss by selling the shares and as a gesture of goodwill they offered to 
waive commission. I think that was fair and I wont be asking Selftrade to do anything more.
my final decision
Ref: DRN50710143Im sorry  to disappoint Mr M but for the reasons given, I wont be upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2020.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5071014