K820x#14The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say NRAM Limited (trading as Northern Rock) mis-sold  them  a mortgage  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
What happened
It looks like Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy in 1996 alongside their mortgage. There is 
very limited information available, but it looks like the policy was in Mr Ms name only and 
they paid a monthly amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion,  so the complaint has been  passed to me. 
What Ive decided  - and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
 
Having done this, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M say they werent aware  PPI had been added to their mortgage. NRAM should  
have taken reasonable steps to make  Mr and Mrs M aware that they had a choice  about  
buying the PPI. NRAM hasnt  been  able to provide any documentation  from the sale,  which  
isnt surprising considering this took place such a long time ago. But it has provided a 
sample of the application form which it has told us would have been  completed at the time. 
Ive looked at everything we know about  how NRAM normally sold PPI around  that time. And 
based on what we know about such sales, consumers were  usually asked  to choose 
whether or not they wanted PPI. Looking at the sample of the application,  it asked applicants  
to choose the level of cover they want and who should  be covered. It also asks questions 
around their health and employment status.  So, it seems  likely a discussion would have 
taken place about the policy and what needs Mr and Mrs M had. 
There is nothing to suggest NRAM didnt follow its normal procedures.  So, I think  its more 
likely that Mr and Mrs M were given a choice and they chose to buy the policy,  even if they 
dont remember this now, many years later.
NRAM says the policy  wasnt personally  recommended to Mr and Mrs M. So, it didnt need 
to check that it was right for them. But it still needed  to give them clear enough information 
so they could decide for themselves whether they wanted it.
Its possible that NRAM didnt give Mr and Mrs M as much information as it shouldve  done. 
But I dont think better  information wouldve put them off taking  out the PPI. I say this 
because Mr M was eligible for the policy and he doesnt appear  to have been affected by 
any of the main things  that the policy doesnt cover, such as unusual employment status or 
suffering from any medical  conditions  which he was already aware of.
Mr M says he would have received sick pay benefits from his employer if he was too ill to 
work. And Mr and Mrs M say they had savings  or other means  they could rely on and their 
Ref: DRN58670402family would have helped if they couldnt  meet their mortgage repayments. The policy would 
have paid out alongside any employee benefits.  And having the PPI would have meant any 
savings Mr and Mrs M had could have been used  for other costs. Also  whilst I dont doubt 
their family would have  wanted to help  peoples circumstances  change,  and this help cant 
be guaranteed.  
Mr and Mrs M had on a long-term financial commitment  secured against  their home. So, I 
think they wouldve  wanted the security  that their mortgage repayments would have been 
covered if Mr M was unable to work.   
So  on balance  I think this policy would have been useful to them.  
I dont know what information was given to Mr and Mrs M about the cost of the policy. It may 
be that NRAM could  have explained the costs better than it did. But I havent seen anything 
to make me think that the policy was unaffordable  for them  or any compelling evidence  
that - they had a particular need  to keep costs down.  And for all the same reasons why I 
think this policy was useful for them, I still think they would  have  bought the policy  even if the 
cost had been clearer. 
Overall, I dont  think Mr and Mrs M have lost out as a result  of anything NRAM might  have 
done wrong. 
Its been difficult to decide  on this complaint, as I know so little about how Mr and Mrs M 
came to have the PPI. Ive thought about the questions Mr and Mrs M have raised but as I 
have so little information about the sale, Im not able to provide definitive  answers  to them.  
With regards to their question around the type of cover they had  I can find no mention of 
carers cover  in the policy document which would have been in place around  the time of 
this PPI. On balance of probability, I think its likely a misuse of a term by the third party  who 
referred to it in a letter to Mr and Mrs M.  
Overall, based on the information I have got, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably  say the 
PPI was mis-sold to them. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs M, but I 
hope my explanation helps them to understand how I reached my decision.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 November  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5867040