K821x#15complaint
Ms G and Mr G have  complained about the way a claim under  their home insurance policy  
for accidental damage to a diamond ring has been handled by Liverpool Victoria  Insurance  
Company Limited  (LV) and about its settlement offer.
background
In February 2015  Ms G made  a claim to LV for damage to a diamond in a ring. Shed insured 
the ring for £16,500 on the basis of a professional valuation.  She was asked to send the 
diamond to LVs specialist  supplier  for them to assess  the damage and value it. Ms G told 
LV shed prefer to keep  the original stone  for sentimental reasons. 
At first LV said the cost of a replacement stone  was £15,000 and the salvage value of the 
damaged stone was £1,500. So it offered Ms G a cash  settlement of £13,500 less the policy 
excess of £100.  It said if Ms G didnt want to keep the damaged  stone, the cash  settlement 
would be £14,900.
Ms G decided she didnt want to keep the damaged stone,  so LVs supplier took it out of its 
setting in the ring. LV said it then became clear  that the stone was an inferior colour from 
what it had first thought  and it would cost Ms G £10,500 to replace it. LV said it could 
replace it at a discounted price of £8,400, so it reduced its cash  settlement offer to £8,400 
less the excess.
Ms G had the diamond assessed by an assay office. The assessor  agreed  with LVs grading 
of the colour but thought  the clarity was less than LVs supplier had quoted.  LV then 
reassessed its offer and said it would only cost £5,000 to replace the stone. So it reduced its 
cash settlement offer to £4,400 taking into account the 10% discount LV would be able to 
obtain and the deduction of the excess.  It also offered Ms G the alternative of it replacing the 
stone.
When LVs supplier looked into replacing  the stone, it found  the cost to LV would actually be 
£6,800. So LV increased its cash settlement offer to that amount less the excess  and said 
alternatively it was still prepared to replace the stone. It said the cash  offer would be reduced 
by £1,500 if Ms G wished  to keep the stone.
Our investigator didnt  think LV needed to do any more in relation to settling the claim.  But 
she did recommend  that LV should  refund  Ms G and Mr G the difference between  the 
premiums they paid and the premiums they would have paid if her ring had been insured for 
an amount based  on its true value from the outset.
As the parties didnt agree, the matter  has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G is unhappy with LVs valuations  for a number of reasons.  Ill deal with them  in turn. 
And Ill also look at the issue  of the premiums.
Ref: DRN50373022Ms G says there are two attributes to valuing a diamond  colour and clarity. She thinks  the 
clarity was affected  by the damage claimed for and so it wasnt fair for LV to reduce its 
original valuation of £15,000 on account of that. 
Its not in dispute  that the diamond turned out to be of a less valuable colour than originally 
thought. However  the clarity  of the diamond  also turned out to be less than the original 
valuation. But the evidence from LV points to the colour as being the reason the stone  was 
downgraded as opposed to the clarity. In addition the loss adjuster  noted that according to 
an earlier report on the ring there  were  a few flaws in the diamond  which  would have 
affected the clarity. Im not persuaded that the damage claimed for by Ms G affected  the 
clarity of the diamond and led to its value  being  further reduced.  
Ms G maintains that her stone is a specialist item that should have been assessed  by an 
appropriate specialist  rather than a general  jeweller.  I think LVs specialist realised this 
because he sent Ms Gs stone to a diamond  broker in Hatton Garden for assessment. I think 
this was appropriate in the circumstances.
Ms G is also unhappy that the valuation was given by a firm that regularly assesses claims 
for LV and she says they werent independent. LV is entitled to choose who it wants  to 
investigate its claims and I dont think that it was unreasonable for it to choose the loss 
adjuster and jewellery expert it appointed for Ms Gs claim. I dont think Ms G has thrown 
sufficient doubt  on their conclusions to make  me think that LV should change  its position. 
Ms G also doesnt think its fair that LV should reduce the cash settlement on the basis  of the 
discount it would have had from its supplier. The term of the policy  which concerns repair  or 
replacement of damaged contents  items  says:
Cash payments
If we can offer a repair or replacement through one of our suppliers and you choose not to 
have the item repaired or replaced,  well not pay more than the amount we would have paid 
our supplier.
This effectively means if LV offers a cash settlement  when it could replace the item,  it only 
has to pay what it would  have cost it to replace the item in question and so it can deduct 
from the settlement  any discount it would obtain  from its preferred supplier. This is a 
common clause and so long as an insurer can provide an appropriate replacement, I think 
its reasonable for an insurer to reduce a cash settlement in line with this clause. LV has 
shown that it was able to provide a replacement stone of at least the same quality. So I think 
it was entitled  to deduct the discount  from the cash settlement offered to Ms G.
LV is obliged to put Ms G in the position  she would  have  been in if the damage hadnt 
happened based on values at the time the damage happened.  If Ms G wants to keep the 
original stone and have a cash settlement, its only fair that LV should  be able to deduct  from 
the cash settlement  the amount it would be able to get if it sold the stone. I note that one of 
the valuations  provided by Ms G gave a salvage value of £1,500, being the value used by 
LV. LV has provided  evidence  that it received an offer of £1,500 for the stone from the 
diamond broker who inspected it. Since  LV based the salvage value on an actual offer it had 
received and its in line with one of the valuations provided by Ms G, I dont think it treated 
Ms G unreasonably in this respect.   
I appreciate that the difference in LVs various offers is significant  and will have caused  Ms G 
some upset. But I think LV has been  able to justify  why each  offer was reasonable at the 
Ref: DRN50373023point when it was made.  In my view LV was entitled  to make a final offer to Ms G based on 
the cost to it of buying an equivalent  diamond  and fitting it into the ring.
I acknowledge that LV was not responsible for the fact that Ms G insured her ring for more 
than it was worth. But, despite this, the established  approach of this service is that if an 
insurer receives a premium for running  the risk of indemnifying the insured and, for whatever 
reason, the insurer doesnt actually run that risk, the premiums normally ought to be returned 
to the insured. LV has been receiving premiums  to cover a ring Ms G thought should be 
insured for £16,500 when in fact it was worth much  less than that. So the value of the ring on 
the policy didnt  properly reflect the level of risk to which LV was exposed. While I accept 
that this situation  has arisen through no fault on the part of LV, I consider that it should 
nonetheless be prepared to refund an appropriate proportion of the premiums  in accordance 
with the above approach. Since LV wasnt  at fault, I dont think it would be appropriate  to add 
interest onto the amount refunded.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  Liverpool Victoria Insurance  Company Limited to 
refund the difference between each premium which Ms G and Mr G paid for their policy  and 
the premium they would have paid if theyd insured the diamond ring for what  it would have 
cost them  to replace  it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 September 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5037302