K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains MBNA  Limited reported inaccurate information to the credit  reference 
agencies.
background
Mr S has two credit cards with MBNA.  For the purposes of this decision, I will only be 
considering account ending  1801  as this is the account Mr S has complained  about. 
However, I will also refer to the other account,  as it is relevant to my decision. 
Mr S was experiencing  financial difficulties and called MBNA to see what his options were. 
MBNA agreed to apply  breathing space  to his accounts, that is, suspend any interest  and 
charges for a period  of 30 days.  It also cancelled  the direct debit payments on the accounts, 
including the ones that collect  the minimum payment due each month. Mr S was also 
encouraged to talk through  his situation with its debt solutions team and other debt advice 
agencies. 
The minimum payments for Mr S cards were due at different times. The payment for the 
card hes complaining about  was due in the middle of the month and the payment for his 
other card, at the end. Mr S says the representative only mentioned a payment being  due to 
at the end of the month, so he thought  he had enough time to get his finances in order. 
Mr S didnt make a payment to account 1801  on time and because of this, MBNA applied  a 
late payment marker to his credit file. Mr S wants MBNA to remove  this, as he wasnt told a 
payment was due. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend Mr S complaint  be upheld. He said Mr S was aware his 
direct debits had been  cancelled  and that hed agreed to this. He also thought MBNA had 
offered appropriate  assistance to Mr S; the payment date was clear  on the statements and 
because of this MBNA  had correctly reported the late payment information. 
Mr S disagreed, he said he didnt understand what breathing space meant and thought, 
based on what hed been told, payments  for both accounts were due at the end of the 
month.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments  including  the letter Mr S sent us 
on 16 July  to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a few issues I need  to decide here, so I will deal with each of them in turn. 
should Mr S have been aware of when  his minimum payment was due?
Mr S is sent a statement each month,  which shows the date the minimum payment is due. 
Mr S hasnt told us hes had a problem receiving these, so I think he was getting them. 
I accept Mr S has always paid the minimum payment  by direct debit, and therefore the 
money has been automatically  taken from his account. But I do think  he had the information 
available to him, both from his credit card statement and from his bank statements, to be 
aware his minimum payment was due in the middle of each  month. 
Ref: DRN55561632was it reasonable  for MBNA to cancel the direct debit?
Financial businesses should look to take into account a customers  circumstances and treat 
them fairly when  they become aware they may be suffering financial difficulties. This may 
involve taking action  such as suspending interest  and charges, as MBNA did here. Or 
considering other payment arrangements - usually  after a full assessment of income and 
expenditure has been made. 
In this case, as well as restricting spending  and stopping interest and charges for three 
months, MBNA also cancelled Mr S direct debit which  took the minimum payment from his 
bank account  each month.  
I think this was a reasonable thing for MBNA  to do. Mr S explained in the call he had 
overcommitted on his borrowing and now had little to no money  left each month  after hed 
paid all of his debts.  He had six credit cards,  which all had similarly high repayment amounts 
and a loan to repay. He was looking to see what his options were for reducing his payments. 
The representative had explained the debt solutions team  could tell him what his options 
were after they had had a full picture of what he could afford each month.  She also stressed  
to Mr S he should contact  them quickly. 
Mrs S called the debt solutions team a couple of days later.  He said he didnt want to go 
through his finances at that time and hed speak to a debt advice agency, as theyd be able 
to deal with all of his creditors. 
The direct debit wasnt reinstated,  as at that time,  Mr S overall finances and ability to repay 
hadnt been assessed. It was left that he would speak  to the debt advice  agency.  
Given the reason  for Mr S call was to speak about  ways of reducing his payment, MBNA 
wasnt in the position at that time to know how much Mr S could afford. Had MBNA left the 
direct debit in place, this could  have worsened Mr S financial position further.
was Mr S told he didnt have to make  his minimum repayment? 
Mr S has referred, in detail, to the calls he had with MBNA.  I dont intend  to go into the same 
level of detail here, Ill concentrate on what I feel are the relevant points.
There were two phone calls between  Mr S and MBNA before the date the minimum payment  
was due. Ive listened  to both of these. MBNA has also supplied phone calls after this date 
but I dont think  they are relevant to my decision.  Its important to note here most of the 
conversation in the first call focussed on Mr S other  credit card account, but the 
representative confirmed  at the end of the call the same actions would be taken on this 
account as well. 
In the first call, Mr S explained the difficulties he was facing. The representative explained  
the actions she would  take and gave Mr S details of the debt solutions  team and a free debt 
advice agency.
Having listened  to the whole conversation,  I accept  that at the start Mr S did question what 
breathing space was and the representative  didnt  answer at that time. But towards  the end 
of the call when  she was recapping the actions she was taking, she explained  what  she 
Ref: DRN55561633meant. Because of this Im satisfied that Mr S was aware that it was only interest,  and 
charges for arrears, that were being suspended for 30 days. No mention was made about 
payments not needing to be made.
In the middle of the conversation, the representative explained shed be cancelling  the direct  
debit for the minimum payment and that Mr S would  have to arrange  another method of 
payment. It was here the adviser mentioned his payment was due at the end of the month 
and stressed Mr S needed to speak to the debt solutions team  quickly  to put a plan in place. 
She did mention  he shouldnt need  to worry about that [the payment] because theyd usually 
be in contact within 48 hours. 
At that point, the representative  was primarily talking about Mr S other  credit  card.  Mr S 
however was aware he had two accounts as he specifically questioned later in the 
conversation if the adviser could deal with this one as well. The adviser  then went on to look 
at this account and confirm  the same actions  would be taken.  Im satisfied therefore, Mr S 
was aware this account was separate and the payment date referenced  by the 
representative related  to his other  account.
Mr S has said the representative  told him he wouldnt  be contacted about payments until the 
30 days were  up, so this led him to believe he didnt need to make any payments. What the 
representative explained in the conversation  was that if Mr S missed  any payments, the 
arrears would still be due and he would still be sent letters about them. Then  she went on to 
explain he wouldnt be contacted  about those arrears for 30 days  but after that time he would 
receive calls and letters about them. 
Having considered everything, and while I appreciate the situation Mr S has found  himself 
him, I cant say that MBNA told Mr S he didnt  have to make any payments to his account. I 
think its more likely  than not Mr S simply didnt realise a payment was due. Because  of this, 
MBNA has correctly recorded  the late payment marker and I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Alison Gore 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5556163