K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that Santander mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I have attached my provisional decision from July 2019, which forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out why I was not minded to uphold Mr Ws 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Mr W provided some further comments that I will address 
below.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that, from what we know of Santanders sales processes at 
the time,  the policy would  have been presented  as optional.  Mr Ws response is that this is 
based on what Santander has told us, and by staff who probably werent even  working at 
Santander at the time. Id like to assure  Mr W that we havent just taken  Santanders word  
for what would  have happened at the time. This service  has dealt with a great  many  
complaints about  this issue and Santander has provided enough  evidence  to satisfy  us that it 
should have been clear  to consumers that the mortgage PPI was separate  to their mortgage. 
Weve seen evidence  that consumers needed to complete a separate application form, and 
have seen lots of examples of the forms. Weve also seen  evidence  that a letter would  have 
been sent confirming receipt  of the completed PPI application form, and have also seen lots 
of examples of this letter.
In this case Santander provided  a copy of the PPI welcome letter that it sent to Mr W. Mr W 
says that the copy doesnt prove  that it was actually sent to him and that hed need to see a 
recorded delivery slip. However we wouldnt expect Santander to send  routine  
correspondence by recorded delivery.  I dont consider that Santander would have a copy of 
a letter  that it didnt intend to send. I have to consider  the complaint on a balance of 
probabilities and, as the letter was correctly addressed, my view is that it is more  likely than 
not that it was sent to Mr W and that he received it.
Overall I still consider that the policy was presented as optional and that Mr W probably 
decided to take it out, knowing  that he didnt have to.
Mr W has said that the policy wasnt suitable for him. The policy covered  him for accident 
and sickness, but not unemployment. This suggests that there was some discussion about  
Mr Ws needs prior to the policy being  set up.
Mr W has reiterated that he would  have received six months sick pay from his employer. 
Hes also confirmed that he never had any extended  periods of time off work as a result of 
his pre-existing medical condition. But, as mentioned in my provisional decision,  these things 
did not make  the policy unsuitable, so it was reasonable  of Santander  to recommend it to 
him. 
Ref: DRN56624462Mr W has said that they could have coped on his wifes salary if he was unable to work. Ive 
thought carefully  about this, but overall  Im unable to conclude that this made  the policy  
unsuitable. In circumstances where Mr W wasnt able to work and the couples household 
income would  have been more than halved,  the policy could  have provided  a useful benefit 
at what would have  been a stressful time. And at £18.06 a month for a benefit  of £554, the 
policy was not unsuitable in terms of affordability  or value for money.
A mortgage is a significant financial commitment, and defaulting  on a mortgage  can have 
serious consequences. So it wouldnt be surprising if Mr W had an interest in protecting his 
repayments.
Having considered Mr Ws further  submissions, I havent been persuaded to alter the 
outcome I reached in my provisional  decision. It follows that I do not uphold  Mr Ws 
complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN56624463COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr W has complained that Santander mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr W took out the policy in 2001 at the same  time as arranging the mortgage.  Our adjudicator upheld 
the complaint. Santander  disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive currently decided  not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr W says the PPI was just sold as something that he had to take out with the mortgage.  Ive seen a 
copy of Mr Ws mortgage  application. Theres no mention of PPI on the form,  which  suggests that PPI 
was sold as a separate product. And Ive seen a copy of the policy  welcome letter that was sent to Mr 
W in June  2001 that thanked him for choosing  the policy. From  what  we know of Santanders sales 
process at the time,  the policy would  have been presented as optional.  I havent seen any evidence  to 
persuade me that a different process was followed in this instance.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Ws memory of events  has 
faded. From the evidence  Ive seen, I think it is more likely than not that the adviser made it clear that 
Mr W had a choice about taking out the policy.  It seems to me that he probably decided to buy it, 
knowing that he didnt  have to, even if he no longer remembers  doing so.
Santander advised Mr W to buy the policy. That means that, in recommending it to him, it needed to 
ensure that it met his needs. Overall, looking at the available evidence,  I think that the policy was 
ultimately suitable  for Mr W.
Mr W has told us about a couple of health conditions  that he had at the time of the sale.  Although the 
policy did not cover pre-existing medical conditions, I dont think  that would have made  a difference  to 
Mr W.
Mr W had had his health conditions for a number  of years before taking out the policy and so had a 
good understanding of how they affected  him. Hes told us that he had occasional days off work as a 
result of these  and couldnt  recall exact  amounts of time that he may have had off. So it seems clear  
that Mr Ws pre-existing  conditions were not something that required him to take extended  periods off 
work  which  is what the PPI is designed to cover. So it seems unlikely that Mr Ws existing conditions 
would be the reason he might need to make a claim  on the policy.
Mr W says he would have received six months sick pay from his job. But the policy would  have paid 
out in addition  to this and potentially  for longer  than Mr W would have received full pay for. Mr W says 
he had some  savings. But having the policy  would  have enabled  him to retain these or to use them  to 
cover other  outgoings at what would  have  been  a difficult time.
Mr W says he had private health care at the time. But that covers the cost of medical treatment and 
so is a different type of insurance  than PPI.
Ref: DRN56624464I think  Mr W knew something  about the policy   that it would protect his mortgage repayments if he 
was unable to work due to sickness   because I dont think hed have chosen to buy it without 
knowing anything  at all about the PPI.
Its possible that Santander  didnt provide as much information about the policy as it could have. For 
instance Mr W says that he didnt know about  the four week  excess  period. But such  waiting periods 
are common  in insurance policies. As the policy would have  covered his mortgage repayments for up 
to 12 months,  I dont think that knowing about the excess period would  have put him off buying it. 
Overall I consider that, because Mr W had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, further 
information would not have caused him to change his mind. It follows  that I do not currently uphold the 
complaint.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ws complaint.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5662446