K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Lloyds Bank PLC (trading at the time as TSB)  mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1998.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ss credit  card account when he applied for the card in person, at a meeting with the 
bank.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
 I think Lloyds made  Mr S aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it  
although I can understand why he can no longer remember  this.
 Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr S. This means that it had a responsibility to check  
that it was suitable  for him. But it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable, based on what 
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
 Ive borne in mind  that Mr S has told us hed have been entitled to sick pay from his 
employer. But if hed made  a successful claim on the PPI for accident, sickness  or 
unemployment, it would  have  helped with his monthly credit  card payments for up to 12 
months per claim. Thats longer than Mr S has told us hed have been entitled to full 
sick pay for. And he wouldnt have had to use his savings to make  his credit card 
payments. So I think the PPI could have been  useful for him.
 Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But Mr S chose  to take out the policy and so appears to have  
wanted this type of cover. From what hes told us about his circumstances at the time, 
he wasnt affected  by any of the main things the policy didnt cover.  
 Based  on what we know about  the cost of similar  policies that Lloyds was selling at the 
time, Im satisfied that the policy  would have  been competitively priced. And Ive seen 
nothing to make  me think that Mr S couldnt afford it. 
 So taking everything into account,  I think its unlikely Mr S would have  made a different  
decision if better information had been provided. On balance  I think  hed still have  
taken out the policy.
Ref: DRN58466082Ive taken into account all Mr Ss comments,  including what his representatives have said 
about his having felt pressured to take the policy, and having agreed to take it out because  
the advisor told him his credit card application would be less likely to be approved  if he didnt 
take the PPI. 
I accept that Lloyds recommended the policy to Mr S. But pressure is a different matter,  and 
I cant fairly conclude that Lloyds pressured Mr S to take the policy, based purely on his 
recollection of a conversation more than 20 years  ago. Whats more, I find what  Mr Ss 
representatives say about his having taken the PPI because he was pressured  into it difficult 
to reconcile with what Mr S has said about never  having been told he had PPI, and the 
policy having been added without his knowledge.  So these points dont change my 
conclusion that the policy wasnt mis-sold.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5846608