K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc, trading  as Santander Consumer Finance (Santander), has 
not been of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr S took receipt of a used car in June 2016.  He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with Santander. At the point of supply the car was five years  old.
Mr S accepted there would be a repair to the paintwork on the bonnet of the car before he 
took receipt of it. But in September 2019  he complained to Santander as he said the paint 
repair had deteriorated.
Santander rejected  his complaint as they said they were only responsible  for faults that were 
present on the car and this failure  had happened  more than two years  after Mr S took receipt  
of the vehicle. They thought the fault was due to normal wear and tear.
Our Investigator  didnt agree. She thought comments  from a franchised dealership 
suggested the paint repair was of a poor quality and she therefore thought it was fair to ask 
Santander to take some  further action and repair Mr Ss car for him.
Santander didnt  agree with the investigators view so they asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Santander  so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Santander,  who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Ref: DRN56498202In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr S. The car was 
five years old here and had completed about 48,000  miles. 
Under the relevant legislation the general position is the consumer must show there  is a fault 
with the car. But if they can do this and the fault demonstrates to us that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality in the first six months after supply  then broadly speaking the onus is on 
the supplier to show that the goods did actually conform to the contract when supplied. If the 
fault happens after six months wed usually  expect the consumer to show  the goods  didnt  
conform when supplied.  
Im persuaded here that Mr S has demonstrated  there is a fault with the car. The franchised 
dealership have confirmed this. They said that the lacquer peel issue  on the bonnet is due 
to a poor previous repair  the paint  finish is mottled and appears dry with quite  a large area 
of orange peel.
Its not disputed  that the bonnet was resprayed just after the car was supplied  because the 
dealership agreed  to do this at the point of supply. So I think its clear  there  is a fault that has 
arisen out of a repair that was completed at the point of supply.
Im persuaded that Mr S has been able to demonstrate that the paint was not of satisfactory  
quality at the point of supply. I say that because I think a reasonable person  would  expect 
the paintwork  on a car, which was only five years old, to last for much  longer than two and a 
half years.  
I dont accept Santanders suggestion  that the paint  has been subject to normal  wear  and 
tear. Ive not seen that other paintwork on the car has failed and I think  the damage is limited  
to the repair  that was completed. I think a reasonable person would expect a paint repair to 
last as long as the paintwork elsewhere on the car and for significantly longer than two and a 
half years.  I think the franchised dealerships comment that due to wear  and tear the 
lacquer will peel quite  severely over time demonstrates that Mr S could not have been  
aware the paintwork was going to peel when he took receipt  of the car. He therefore could 
not be considered  to have accepted the repair quality or its limited lifespan.
Mr S is responsible for returning the car in good repair and condition. I think it would be 
unfair for him to have  to pay to refurbish the bonnet  when he returns the car if, as Santander 
suggest, the repair was always likely to fail due to normal wear and tear.
The relevant  legislation  allows Santander  one opportunity to repair a fault present at the 
point of supply.  So they should  be allowed  to complete the repair or refund Mr S if hes 
already paid for that work.
Ref: DRN56498203my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc to repair the bonnet on the car or refund the cost of the repair if Mr S has already had 
that completed and is able to provide the invoice.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5649820