K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mr P says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Barclays had to make Mr P aware  the PPI was optional and gain his consent before adding it 
to his card. I cant be certain what was said at the time Mr P took out his card and PPI but 
Barclays has sent me a copy of the available paperwork. Mr Ps credit  card application form 
had a separate section for PPI with options to accept or decline the policy. The option to take 
the PPI has been  selected and the application  has been signed  in agreement with the 
selections made on it. With this in mind I think Barclays made  it clear  that Mr P didnt have to 
take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out although I can understand why he may not 
remember this.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr P so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
Mr P has told us he was entitled  to sick pay when he took the policy,  he also had savings  he 
could have used  to help make his repayments. But the PPI would  have paid out in addition  
to Mr Ps sick pay and for longer than he would have received full pay. It would also have 
protected his savings  so they could  be used towards any other expenses he may have had.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ps circumstances at the time he wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
So I think it was right for him  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr P about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Ref: DRN52361662Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5236166