K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr H says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Hs signed  credit  agreement. On it there  is a section related to PPI 
and the box opting  for the policy  has a printed  cross in it. As this policy  was sold in a 
face-to-face meeting  I think its likely this selection  came about as a result of a 
conversation between Halifax and Mr H, where PPI was discussed.  Mr H has signed the 
form so I think  its likely to reflect what he wanted. And theres nothing on the form to 
suggest the PPI was compulsory. So on balance I think its likely Halifax made it clear 
that Mr H didnt  have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although  I can 
understand why he cant  remember  this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr H so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr H says he wouldve received some sick pay at the time the policy  was sold.  He also 
says he had some savings he couldve relied  on, and a critical illness policy.  But the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay he wouldve  received   and for up to 12 
months if he was unable to work because of accident or sickness.  It also wouldve paid 
out for up to 10 months if he lost his job. And having the policy meant he could use his 
savings and other means to cover other necessary  expenses at what couldve been a 
difficult time financially. The PPI wouldve provided different cover to that of his critical 
illness policy. 
Mr H says he was in full time secure  employment and was rarely off sick so didnt need 
the policy. But I have  to bear in mind that the purpose of insurance  is to protect against 
the unexpected. And circumstances can change. So I think  he wouldve found the policy 
useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said. But his points dont change my decision. 
Ref: DRN58569632This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr H paid for it. But it appears Halifax has already paid Mr H back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5856963