K820x#14complaint
Miss H and Mr M, through  their representative  Mrs F, complain that 
Hampton Mortgage  Servicing  Limited hasnt acted  fairly or reasonably when dealing with 
their shared  equity mortgage. They want the mortgage moved  into Miss Hs name  alone.
background
Miss H and Mr M took out a shared equity mortgage, which is now administered  by Hampton 
on behalf of the owner. Miss H and Mr M ended their relationship and wanted Mr M released 
from the mortgage. The main lender has agreed  to release Mr M, but Hamptons client 
refused. This meant that Mr M cant buy a new property.
Mrs F complained to Hampton. It said the mortgage was taken out in joint names and this 
ensured that both Miss H and Mr M were liable  for the debt, even if one couldnt pay. The 
fact that the main mortgage lender was willing to release Mr M didnt affect Hamptons 
clients position, and it said that its client wasnt a mortgage lender. Hampton explained that 
it was felt that it was too risky to change the mortgage, and pointed out by releasing Mr M, 
the mortgage would be more risky as only Miss H would then be liable for the debt. Hampton 
also said that its client had previously offered to waive its right to enforce repayment if the 
property was re-mortgaged,  and noted that it was always an option to repay  the mortgage.
Mrs F complained to us. Hampton explained  that it was simply communicating  the decision 
made by its unregulated client.  The adjudicators  view was that this service  couldnt review 
the actions of Hamptons client as it wasnt within our jurisdiction. But we could look at the 
actions of Hampton  as it was within our jurisdiction  the adjudicator said that Hampton had 
acted fairly  and reasonably as it had contacted its client and got its decision (which it then 
communicated) in a timely and appropriate way. She said that it had set out the position 
clearly and set out some  of the options and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs F disagreed. She said that as Hampton was the regulated  business, it assumed 
responsibility to ensure  the rules were  followed by its unregulated client, such  as treating 
consumers fairly. Mrs F felt the refusal  to release  Mr M from the mortgage was only made in 
the best interests of Hamptons client, and not Miss H and Mr M. She said Hampton should 
over-ride its clients decision. The adjudicator didnt change her view and said that Hampton 
couldnt over-ride its client. Mrs F was adamant that the loan was regulated.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to focus on the core of this 
complaint, which  is about the inability of Mr M to be released from the mortgage.
Mr M, with Miss H, chose to take out the mortgage  and agreed to pay it, even if Miss H 
couldnt (and Miss H is in the same  position  if Mr M cant repay).  The whole  agreement  was 
set up on the basis  that two people would repay,  not one. While  lenders are required to act 
fairly and reasonably, releasing a party to a mortgage is a very substantial  change and isnt 
something which a consumer can force a lender to do. I note the nature of this particular 
mortgage but a shortfall claim is possible,  given  the fact that Im told the property has only 
recently come out of negative equity. I dont need  to determine the regulation status  of the 
loan as this doesnt change the fact that I can only look at Hamptons actions.
Ref: DRN55399242Hampton isnt the lender;  its a regulated business  administering the mortgage. As a matter  
of law, it doesnt have the power  to over-ride  its clients decision. And as Hamptons client  
isnt within  the jurisdiction of this service, I cant consider whether it has acted fairly or 
reasonably in any event. 
Hampton is required  to refer such decisions to its client. It did so. Its required to respond to 
consumer in a timely  way; it did so in this case.  And its fair and reasonable to set out the 
reasons why the application has been refused; Hampton did so and set out some of the 
options available (the other options being  outside of the sphere of Hampton or its client). I 
appreciate why Miss H and Mr M are frustrated and disappointed,  but I cant say Hampton 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances,  having  looked at the evidence 
available to me. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 8 May 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5539924