K822xcomplaint
Mr W has complained about Mattioli Woods PLC. He is unhappy about incorrect 
unauthorised payment  charges being  applied to his Mattioli Woods  self-invested personal 
pension plan (SIPP). These were applied in January 2015  when he requested an 
unauthorised payment  and asked for the pension scheme to be wound up. And hes also 
unhappy about the way Mattioli Woods has handled  his complaint. He believes his complaint 
wasnt taken seriously and handled in an informal manner when it should have been dealt 
with formally.
background
the unauthorised  payment
Mr W made an initial request for an unauthorised payment from his SIPP in November 2014. 
This payment was made.  Then, in December 2014,  he wanted to take a further unauthorised 
payment from his pension. He emailed Mattioli Woods to arrange  for his remaining 
investment funds to be transferred and for the SIPP to be closed. He acknowledged  the 
proceeds would be payable to him after the unauthorised payment tax charges  and the 
Mattioli Woods  SIPP  fees had been  paid.  
Mr W received  his unauthorised payment in January 2015  and Mr Ws SIPP  was closed. 
Mattioli Woods  says that Mr W contacted  them about the unauthorised payment  tax charges 
in May 2017  as he believed these had been calculated  incorrectly.
In June 2017 Mattioli  Woods  accepted that the unauthorised payment charges calculated for 
the 2015 payment had been calculated incorrectly. It accepted that errors  had been made 
when calculating the 40 per cent unauthorised  member payment charge, the 15 per cent 
unauthorised member payment surcharge and the scheme sanction charge. These errors 
had led to an overpayment  to Mr W of almost £8,000. 
Mattioli Woods  went on to confirm that it was required to notify HMRC of its error, which 
resulted in a personal tax liability to him of over £6,000. It also suggested that Mr W contact 
his accountant  regarding this. Mattioli Woods has confirmed that it notified HMRC about the 
calculation errors.
Mattioli Woods  offered to refund some  of its charges and offered £500 for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by its errors. Mr W didnt accept and referred his complaint to this 
service.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and felt it should be upheld. Mr W was 
seeking a refund of his final SIPP invoice fee which amounted to over £1,800 and for  
Mattioli Woods  to make up any shortfalls  to cover all tax liabilities. The adjudicator  didnt 
consider that a full refund  of the SIPP  final fee invoice was fair. That was because some  of 
the fees related to closing  the SIPP which had been at Mr Ws request. However, the 
adjudicator did consider  that is was fair that he should be refunded  for the fees which  related 
to the calculations that had been  incorrect and caused the incorrect unauthorised payment  
charges. Mattioli Woods agreed an additional  refund.
The result of the incorrect unauthorised tax calculations meant Mr W received an 
overpayment of almost £8,000. He was advised of his personal  liability  for the underpayment 
of tax and the scheme sanction  charge was applied  due to his requirement for the 
Ref: DRN55729382unauthorised payment.  The adjudicator  was not persuaded  Mattioli  Woods should  be 
accountable for the tax liabilities due to overpayment. This was because Mr W had the 
benefit of the overpaid funds.
Ultimately, the adjudicator  felt that the reduction  in fees charged which totalled £518.41 and 
an award of £500  for the trouble and upset was a fair offer.  
The handling  of the complaint
The adjudicator considered the exchange  of emails between Mr W and Mattioli Woods from 
the time when Mr W first made them aware a mistake  had been  made  in the unauthorised  
payment calculations. He noted that Mr W had been told of his right to refer the complaint to 
this service. He also noted that offers had been  made to settle the complaint and so it did 
appear that Mattioli  Woods were  taking the matter  seriously. Overall, he didnt think  Mattioli 
Woods had acted inappropriately in its handling  of the complaint.
Mr W didnt agree and asked for decision from an ombudsman. He said that Mattioli Woods  
had made  serious  errors. He had experience in the finance industry  but he didnt have  
expertise in the calculation of unauthorised payments like these. He wouldnt have gone 
ahead had he known  the true figures  and waited until the following year.  He feels that all 
fees should be refunded.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator and for essentially  the same reasons. I uphold  this complaint 
but I consider  the offer Mattioli Woods has made to be fair and I make no further award.
Ill address the issues in the same order as the investigator.
The unauthorised payment
Mattioli Woods  has accepted that errors  were made  in the calculation of the 2015 payment. 
The errors are actually quite patent. The calculation itself is not particularly complex once the 
applicable rules  are known. The calculations provided to Mr W contained basic errors  of 
arithmetic, for example  40 per cent of the gross payment of £22,828.88  was said to be 
£5,371.50, and despite the calculation setting out reductions which should have amounted to 
70 per cent of the gross sum, Mr W was paid £13,428.78 from £22,828.88.
On the one hand, its not easy to understand quite  how these calculations,  prepared by 
technical experts could  have  been so badly wrong. But on the other  hand,  and whilst I 
accept Mr W may not have had expertise in this particular  area,  the errors were  so patent 
that I think it could reasonably be anticipated that he may have noticed  them  at the outset. 
He had experience in the finance  industry and must have been familiar with tax calculations, 
even if not in these exact circumstances. As Ive said,  these  werent complex calculations 
and the errors were  very basic arithmetic ones.
Overall, Im not satisfied  that Mattioli Woods should  be responsible for the additional  tax 
liabilities. It was responsible for the incorrect calculations  that led to the overpayment but Mr 
Ref: DRN55729383W did have the benefit of the funds that were paid to him. And, as Ive said,  the calculations  
were obviously  wrong.
Mr W says that had the correct calculations been completed and hed seen the impact of the 
reductions to it, he wouldnt have gone  ahead  with the payment. Ive considered what  he has 
said, but I dont  agree.  This was not the first unauthorised payment hed taken and he took 
another one quite soon afterwards. It seems to me that he was in fairly dire financial straits  
and was quite  desperate  to secure these  funds. Having considered all the circumstances, I 
think its more likely  that he would  have gone  ahead with the payment even if the correct 
calculations had been provided.
Given its errors, I agree with the investigator that Mattioli Woods  should refund all its fees 
associated directly with the unauthorised payment, and it has now agreed to do this.
The complaint handling
I agree  with the adjudicator. Although Mattioli  Woods initially  dealt with the complaint 
informally, it informed Mr W of his right to refer the matter  to this service.  And it did make 
early offers which demonstrate that it was taking the matter seriously in my view.
Conclusion
I can appreciate Mr Ws concerns. The consequences of the overpayment  will not have 
helped him in times when he was already suffering financial difficulty. But for the reasons 
given above, Im not satisfied that Mattioli  Woods should meet the additional tax liabilities.
I think Mattioli  Woods should refund its fees associated with the unauthorised payment 
which it has agreed to do.
I accept that these issues and the consequences of the overpayment will have caused Mr W 
trouble, upset and inconvenience. I note that it was already a time when he was suffering 
from ill health and financial difficulty. I think an award of £500 is fair in all the circumstances.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about Mattioli Woods PLC. It must pay Mr W £500  for the trouble and 
upset caused.
It must also refund fees totalling £518.41.  It should add interest  of 8 per cent simple to the 
fees refunded  from the date of payment to the date of refund to reflect the fact that Mr W has 
been kept out of these funds.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN55729384
Ref: DRN5572938