K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complained  that they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide)
background
Mr and Mrs H bought  the PPI policy when they took out a mortgage in 2002.  They  applied  
for the mortgage  through a broker, and the application form shows a request for information 
about PPI. It appears  that the PPI was taken out after that, as a result of the information that 
Nationwide sent out. Mr and Mrs H said the PPI was sold during a meeting, but that they 
werent advised to take it. They said that they didnt know about the PPI being  added to the 
mortgage, and werent  given  a choice about  it. 
Mr and Mrs H later said they were unhappy about the level of commission  paid on the PPI. 
The policy provided  accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr and Mrs H at a 
monthly cost of £26.93 (although the first years cover was free).  The monthly benefit was 
£450, split equally  between Mr and Mrs H. If either  had made  a successful claim, the policy  
couldve paid out for up to 24 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed, and asked  that it be 
referred to an ombudsman for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide sent in copies of the mortgage application form, PPI application form and 
mortgage offer, as well as copies of mortgage statements.
I can see from the mortgage application form that Mr and Mrs H ticked a box to say they 
wanted more information about PPI, but they couldve ticked a different box to say they didnt 
want it at all. They later filled in a separate application form for the PPI  and theres nothing 
on that form to suggest that the PPI was compulsory. So I think  Mr and Mrs H were aware of 
the PPI and were  given  a choice about  taking it  and decided to do so. I think they probably 
just dont remember it as it was so long ago. 
Its not clear whether  Mr and Mrs H spoke  to anyone at Nationwide about the PPI, or 
whether they took it out by post.  But that doesnt affect my decision.  Ive no reason to think 
Mr and Mrs H were given advice  about  the PPI, so Nationwide  didnt need  to make sure that 
the PPI was suitable for them. But it shouldve given them enough information for them to 
make an informed choice  about it.
The PPI application  form refers to a policy summary   and it seems likely that this was 
included with the application.  The summary includes the main limitations and exclusions in 
the policy, and I cant see that Mr and Mrs H wouldve been affected  by any of these. 
Ref: DRN57757032Mrs H said she wouldve  had sick pay from her employer of six months  full pay followed by 
six months half pay, but Mr H said he wouldnt have been  entitled to sick pay at all. They 
mentioned having some  savings but didnt  say how much they had. From  all this I think  Mr 
and Mrs H couldve found it difficult to meet the mortgage payments if one of them  was off 
sick or had lost their job. And Ive kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to 24 
months in the event  of a successful claim. So overall, I think  the PPI couldve provided  a 
useful benefit  to protect what  was a major commitment.
Its not clear how the monthly cost of the PPI was set out to Mr and Mrs H, but the policy 
summary included a cost per £100 of cover, so I think  they would have had some idea of the 
scale of what theyd  have  to pay. The first years cover was free, and Nationwide  said that it 
wouldve reminded Mr and Mrs H of the cost before  they had to start paying. The monthly  
premium at this point was £26.93, and Ive no evidence to suggest that cost was an issue. 
And as Ive said, I think Mr and Mrs H could reasonably have wanted to protect  an important 
commitment. 
On balance, although I cant say for certain  that Nationwide clearly  explained all of the policy  
details, I think Mr and Mrs H would still have bought the policy.  It couldve provided useful 
protection if theyd  been unable to work. This means  I dont think  the PPI was mis-sold. So 
Nationwide doesnt  need to refund everything  Mr and Mrs H paid for it. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs H paid on their PPI  and whether 
Nationwide treated them unfairly. 
Nationwide told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Hs PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Nationwide has been working  this out and, 
based on what weve seen, it looks as though its right  Mr and Mrs Hs commission  was 
less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them  about 
the commission, so I dont think Nationwide treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt 
need to pay Mr and Mrs H back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5775703