K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited declined to pay for repairs to his 
car following a claim under his breakdown repair cover.
background
Mr F had breakdown repair cover with Acromas and on 30 July 2018, he made  a claim 
because his car engine kept cutting out while  he was driving. On 20 August 2018, he paid 
£459 for repairs. This included a replacement fuel pump, but not the diagnostics testing. He 
then tried to claim the repair costs  from Acromas, but it said they werent  covered.
When Mr F complained to Acromas, it said the car had broken down because of an issue 
with the Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) and that was excluded under the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Mr F wasnt satisfied  and so he complained to this service. Our investigator  initially 
concluded there was more evidence to support there having been a faulty  fuel pump, and 
was persuaded  by the fact that the three different garages Mr F had taken  it to had 
concluded that was the problem. He felt Acromas  decision  not to pay for the repairs  on the 
basis issues with the DPF were excluded was unfair and he recommended  that the 
complaint should  be upheld.
But Acromas  responded with a number of points.  It argued that the mechanic who attended 
the breakdown,  the garages  and the independent  engineer were  all unable to find anything 
wrong with the car, and its technical specialists had confirmed a faulty fuel pump would have 
shown up during the fuel pressure measurement test, which didnt flag any problems. It said 
that all the evidence suggested there was an intermittent fault and therefore the car hadnt 
suffered a sudden mechanical failure. 
Subsequently, our investigator changed  his mind. He said there was conflicting  information 
from the various parties who had inspected or repaired the car and he couldnt be certain 
what the problem  was. But he noted the car was still driveable, the fault appeared to be 
intermittent and there was no evidence of a sudden mechanical failure. Therefore he felt 
Acromas decision to decline the claim was fair.
Mr F wasnt satisfied  and has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  He 
argues that the independent expert  didnt check the car and that the roadside engineer  had 
told him there was a sudden and unexpected breakdown and that he could continue  driving  
the car. He wants a further report and queries why he was given a courtesy car when the 
claim was ultimately declined.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusion  as 
our investigator for broadly the same reasons.
The policy includes  clearly worded limitations,  one of which  states the vehicle must have 
suffered a sudden or unexpected breakdown  which would render the vehicle unsafe to 
continue its journey and will pay up to £535 per paid claim towards costs of repair or 
replacement of insured  parts, labour, VAT following a breakdown, less the £35 Excess. 
Ref: DRN57501602Acromas refused to pay for the repairs on the basis that Mr Fs breakdown  policy was 
designed to cover sudden and unexpected breakdowns. Its explained  the cover isnt a 
warranty nor is it intended  to cover pre-existing damage or damage caused accidentally  in a 
collision, by incorrect fuel, theft or vandalism. Rather, its an optional extra intended  to cover 
the costs of parts which need replacing or repairing  after a breakdown.
The roadside engineer recorded  that Mr F had said the car kept cutting out but he stated 
there were no fault codes  and he was unable to identify  any faults. I note the comments Mr F 
has made about what was said at the roadside, but the record  shows  he was told the car 
would need to be inspected at a garage, and that any repairs would need to be authorised 
by the claims department.  
The first garage Mr F took the car to diagnosed, fuel pump  failure,  in response to which  
Acromas arranged an independent inspection. 
The independent engineer reported that the technical advisor at the garage had told him the 
car had been  diagnosed electronically and the fuel pressure was found to be low. Mr F had 
also told them the car had been  serviced  recently. But the engineer felt this wasnt evident 
from the fuel filter, which he concluded  hadnt  been replaced recently.
The engineer commented that, in his opinion, the car was in good general condition,  but the 
fuel system  hadnt been checked over thoroughly prior to electing to replace the high-
pressure fuel pump.  He also commented  that the fuel filter hadnt  been changed recently  and 
a lack of fuel delivery could be the cause of the issue. He concluded the symptoms were  
synonymous with partial blockage of the DPF filter, which resulted in inconsistent 
performance of the vehicle and could often show a low fuel pressure fault code. He said the 
defect was intermittent  and that it was also his opinion that there was no evidence of a 
sudden mechanical  failure.
Mr F took the car to another garage where a further diagnostics check  was completed.  It was 
confirmed that the pump was faulty, but the DPF was clear with no faults. And the car was 
eventually repaired at a third garage, which charged  Mr F £459 to repair  the fuel pump,  
inclusive of labour.
I accept theres a dispute about the exact cause of the problem, but Mr F didnt obtain an 
expert report to support  his complaint and in the absence  of such  evidence,  I find the 
independent report  persuasive. However, Im satisfied that, whether the problem lay with the 
DPF or with the fuel pump, it was intermittent in nature. I accept Mr F was given a courtesy 
car but that didnt preclude Acromas  from declining the subsequent claim for repair  costs. 
The policy is clear that for there to be a valid claim, there must be a sudden or unexpected 
breakdown which would  render it unsafe for the vehicle to continue  the journey. And, while I 
dont think the car was necessarily safe to drive, the intermittent  nature of the issue  
persuades me it wasnt sudden. 
Therefore, while  I understand Mr F will be disappointed, Im satisfied that Acromas decision 
to decline the claim  and not to reimburse him for the money he spent on repairs was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN57501603Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019. 
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5750160