K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains, through her financial adviser,  that The Prudential Assurance  Company 
Limited has unfairly charged her penalties for withdrawals of capital from her investment 
plan.
background
Mrs L invested £17,340 into a Prudential Investment plan in November 2011 form which  she 
took regular withdrawals. One of the terms of the plan was that a charge would be payable  
for any other  withdrawals  in the first five years of the investment. The original  investment  
was initially made  into the PruFund Protected Cautious fund before being  switched into the 
PruFund Cautious  fund in 2016.
In January 2018 Mrs L invested a further £20,000 into the plan through  her financial adviser. 
The investment was into the PruFund  Growth fund. She then withdrew £10,000 from the 
plan in March  2018 and a further £1,000 in June 2018. 
She was subsequently  charged £989  and £37 for these  withdrawals.  This was because the 
withdrawals were from the Growth fund which the top-up of £20,000 was invested in and the 
charge for withdrawals  in the first five years  of investment applied  to any top-ups  to the plan 
from the date of the top-up.
Prudential didnt uphold  the complaint. It referred to an illustration sent to the financial 
adviser before the top-up payment was made  which  it said showed the fees payable if a 
withdrawal was made from the plan in the five years after the additional  investment.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. He 
said the withdrawal  of £10,000  in March 2018  was from the Growth  fund and the only money 
invested in that fund at the time was the top-up of £20,000. 
He said the illustration sent in January 2018 confirmed charges were applicable during the 
first five years. He also said that the Key Features Document (KFD) Mrs L wouldve been 
given when she first invested  in 2011 confirmed an early cash-in  charge  applied for 
withdrawals from any top-up.
The investigator said that by the time Mrs L withdrew £1,000 from the Growth  fund in June 
2018 all of her investment, including the amount originally invested  in 2011, was in that fund. 
He said that as the money in the fund was split equally into segments Mrs L had only been 
charged on the part of the withdrawal that was from the top-up, which  amounted to £374  of 
the £1,000 withdrawn.
Ref: DRN52585842The financial  adviser didnt agree  with the investigator. She summarised  the points she 
made as follows:
Initial advice was sought from Prudential Adviser Support prior to the top-up  and she 
was never made aware that the new money would be subject  to a five year penalty 
period.
Advice was also sought at the time of withdrawal  help with forms etc.  and there  
was again no mention  of the penalty.
A fund switch letter requesting all funds to be moved to the Growth  fund was sent 
before the request for withdrawal but the withdrawal  went ahead before all the funds 
were invested in the Growth  fund.
During the fund switch  process  Prudential confirmed the plan is 100% invested in the 
Growth fund which doesnt appear  to have  been the case.
She was never made aware of the Holding Account  in which  the funds would be held 
until the quarter  transfer into the Growth fund.
When she contacted  Prudential about  the penalties her adviser contact  didnt know 
why they had been applied so how was she meant to know.
Prudential said it wasnt possible to listen to the calls between her and her adviser  
contacts.
The adviser support  wasnt good enough in this instance and as a result Mrs L has 
been penalised.
As Mrs L didnt agree  with the investigator  the matter  has been referred to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The KFD that Prudential  provided when the plan was taken out in 2011 explains that an 
early cash-in charge  will be taken if there is a withdrawal  other  than regular withdrawals  
within the first five years of the start of the plan. The financial adviser  has confirmed she was 
aware of this when  the plan was taken  out but that she wasnt aware that this also applied to 
any top-ups to the plan.
I note the KFD includes  the following:
This charge also applies  to each of your top-ups separately. This means that the charge  
period for each  top-up starts from the date you invest it  not the date when your plan 
started.
So I think if the KFD was read it made reasonably clear that a charge also applies for any 
withdrawals in the first five years after a top-up is made.
In addition to this, as Prudential  pointed  out in its FRL, it sent the financial adviser an 
illustration for the proposed top-up before it was made. This set out clearly, by way of a 
table, what the percentage cash-in charge would be for each year in the five years  after the 
top-up. In the circumstances I think Prudential provided the information needed about there 
being an early  cash-in charge to any top-up.
Ref: DRN52585843The financial  adviser  in response  to the investigators opinion - has referred to seeking  
advice from her adviser support contact at Prudential  but not being made aware that the top-
up would  be subject to a five year penalty  for withdrawal.  But in her initial  complaint what she 
said was simply  that her contact hadnt told her about the early withdrawal charge. Im not 
satisfied she sought any advice or this is something that Prudential was responsible for 
providing - it wasnt for it to advise her about  what she should do on behalf of her clients.  
I accept she wasnt told by her contact about the early withdrawal charge for top-ups.  If she 
had been I dont think she wouldve gone  ahead with the withdrawals in the way she did. But 
given this information was provided in the KFD and illustration provided Im not persuaded 
that her contact had any responsibility to specifically refer to the early  withdrawal charge 
when she made the top-up of to the plan, or at the time the withdrawals took place.
I acknowledge that a fund switch to switch the original investment into the Growth fund was 
made in the middle of February  2018, before the first withdrawal request was sent to 
Prudential on 26 February 2018.
But the fund switching form completed  by Mrs L makes clear that there is a 28 day holding  
period that applies  to switches and that switches are made into the relevant Holding Account 
until automatically transferred to the selected fund on the next quarter day  which  in the 
case of Mrs L was 25 May 2018.
So although  the request  to switch to the Growth fund had been  made  before the request for 
withdrawal of £10,000 from that fund had been made  the switch  wasnt  completed until a 
couple of months  after the withdrawal - in accordance with what was set out in the fund 
switching form.
I note the financial  adviser  has referred  to an email dated 2 March  2018 from Prudential to 
her administrator which states  that:
the plan is 100% invested in the pru fund Growth
I accept that this may have given the impression to the financial adviser  that both the original 
investment and the top-up were  invested  in the Growth fund as at the date of the email.  But I 
note her administrator  sent an email to Prudential on 19 March 2018 which referred to the 
original investment as still showing as invested in the Cautious fund and not the Growth  
fund. So I think the financial  was on notice that the original investment may not have been in 
the Growth fund at that time.
And even  if the financial adviser did think the original investment was in the Growth  fund 
when it wasnt I dont  think it is more  likely  than not she wouldnt  have gone  ahead with the 
withdrawal on behalf of Mrs L if she had known that wasnt  the case.
This is because the main  issue raised by the financial adviser in this complaint is that she 
wasnt actually aware that a charge  would  apply to early withdrawals made  from the top-up. 
So she had no reason to think there was any issue with taking the withdrawal  from just the 
top-up anyway.
It is also worth noting in this regard  that even if the original investment had been switched 
into the Growth fund before any withdrawal  an early repayment charge  although  reduced  - 
would still have been payable.
Ref: DRN52585844I note the financial  adviser  has referred  to Prudential being  unable to provide the telephone 
recordings of her discussions with her contacts. It has explained this is because of problems 
that arose as a result of changing to a new system. Whilst these wouldve been helpful  the 
fact they arent available doesnt change my findings.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5258584