K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that their mortgagee Topaz  Finance  Limited trading as Rosinca  
Mortgages mishandled the end of their mortgage  term, causing  the redemption  to be 
delayed.
To resolve  their complaint  they want a refund of the additional interest they had to pay after 
the term had ended until the mortgage  was redeemed. And compensation for their trouble 
and upset.
background
Mr and Mrs B had a mortgage which was transferred to Rosinca in February 2018. It was to 
be repaid with the proceeds of an endowment policy maturing at the end of April 2018.  The 
term expired on 1 May 2018 and the mortgage  was redeemed on 23 August 2018.
Mr and Mrs B say their complaint is about  the way Rosinca handled the end of their 
mortgage term. They had an endowment  policy with a company which Ill call P to pay the 
money they owed  at the end of April 2018. But P didnt pay. P told Mr and Mrs B it had 
written to Rosinca for proof of its interest  in the policy. Rosinca said it hadnt received this.
On Mr and Mrs Bs complaint to Rosinca it said it had received  a telephone call from them on 
7 March 2018 saying the endowment  policy  was due to mature  on 21 April 2018 and that P 
required information surrounding the transfer  of the mortgage. Rosinca had written to P on 
20 March 2018  to confirm it was now the legal owner of the mortgage and it told P how to 
pay the endowment  policy  proceeds  to Rosinca. P didnt respond.
Rosinca said Mr and Mrs B had phoned  it on 27 April 2018 and said they would speak to P. 
Later that day Rosinca  received two further phone calls from Mr and Mrs B. They  said theyd 
spoken to P who said it had written to Rosinca twice  requesting  more  information. However, 
Rosinca hadnt  received  the letters. 
Mr and Mrs B said P required an abstract  of title. So Rosinca referred the matter to its legal  
team. And on 17 May 2018  it again wrote to P to confirm  it was the legal owner  of the 
mortgage and all the necessary documentation  was enclosed. Rosinca said it then received 
a letter  from P dated 1 June 2018, saying it had been unable to locate a policy  in 
Mr and Mrs Bs names. Rosinca replied to P on 13 June 2018  confirming the policy number.
Rosinca said its legal  team then queried why P required  an abstract of title. Rosinca  could 
provide a copy of the land registry title, showing  its charge, which  would serve  the same  
purpose as an abstract. Rosinca had written  to Mr and Mrs B on 27 June 2018 to enquire  
why the abstract  was needed and it had enclosed a copy of the land registry title showing its 
charge over the property. It had received no further correspondence  from P.
Mr and Mrs B then brought  their complaint to our service. They said they were unhappy 
about how long it took for Rosinca to get the money from P to repay  the mortgage. This had 
led to their having to pay interest from the term end until redemption.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He was unable to say for sure 
whether or not Rosinca had received the letter P said it had sent seeking  proof  of Rosincas 
interest in the policy. But he didnt think this caused  significant delay as Mr and Mrs B were  
in contact with P and Rosinca. And the notes showed that on 17 May 2018, Rosinca had 
Ref: DRN52288282sent another letter to P with evidence to show it was the legal owner of the mortgage. So the 
investigator thought  P had enough  information at this point to pay the endowment policy  
proceeds to Rosinca in order  to redeem the mortgage. There  was no evidence to suggest 
Rosinca caused  delays in redeeming the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the case. They  said 
Rosinca gave poor customer service and didnt contact them for long periods, so they had to 
keep calling.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 20 March 2018, Rosinca wrote  to both Mr and Mrs B and P to confirm the mortgage had 
been transferred  from the previous owner to Rosinca. Rosinca provided P with the account 
details where the endowment policy proceeds  should be sent.
Mr and Mrs B complain  that they had to keep calling  Rosinca, but I cant see that they did 
have to do that, because there was nothing Rosinca could tell them  until it received the 
policy proceeds from P. Nor was there any occasion for Rosinca to contact Mr and Mrs B in 
the meantime,  except to ask them  what was happening, rather than the reverse.
The mortgage was redeemed on 23 August 2018 and theres no evidence to suggest that 
Rosinca actually received the money  earlier than this and neglected to redeem the 
mortgage. However I asked Rosinca for evidence and it has provided screenshots  from its 
system showing  the money  being received on 23 August 2018 and being  applied to the 
account on 28 August  2018.
Nor is it clear why P asked Mr and Mrs B to obtain an abstract of Rosincas title to the 
mortgage. Ownership  of the mortgage  would have been shown on the land register.
In these circumstances Im not persuaded that Rosinca has done anything wrong here.
Ref: DRN52288283my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 May 2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5228828