K820x#14complaint
Miss G is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  mis-sold her a 
mortgage payment  insurance policy. 
background
Around the end of 2003 Miss G was sold a mortgage protection  insurance  policy   a type of 
permanent health  insurance policy (the policy)   around the same  time as applying  for a 
mortgage along with life and critical illness policies. 
If Miss G was unable to work as a result  of illness or accident  for 13 weeks,  the policy could 
pay a monthly benefit until she returned to work, the end of the policy term (in this case 24 
years), or she died, whichever was the earliest.  The monthly benefit was equivalent  to her 
monthly mortgage repayment.
Subsequently, in 2005, Miss G sought to make  a claim on the policy. The claim was declined 
because she says she was receiving full pay for up to six months from her employer whilst 
off sick and had the benefit of a mortgage protection insurance policy  which covered her 
mortgage payments  for up to 12 months  if she was injured or too ill to work. Under the 
policy, she couldnt claim in those circumstances. 
After Miss L complained  to L & G, it upheld her complaint in part. Rather  than being  sold the 
policy with a deferred period of 13 weeks, L & G said she shouldve been sold a mortgage 
protection insurance policy  with a deferred period  of 52 weeks. The monthly premium for a 
policy with a longer  deferred period wouldve  been less expensive.  So, L & G calculated the 
difference in premium for the period December 2003  (when she took out the policy) and 
June 2007 (when  the policy was cancelled).  It offered to pay the total sum of those payments 
back to Miss G together  with 8% simple  interest per year (the offer). 
Miss G didnt  think that was fair and complained to our Service. She says she wouldnt have 
bought a policy with a deferred period of 12 months. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold her complaint. Miss G disagreed so her complaint has been 
passed to me to look at everything  afresh and decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. I know 
Miss G will be very disappointed but hopefully shell understand  why, when I explain.
L & G advised Miss G to take out the policy, so it had to ensure that the policy  was suitable 
for her needs before recommending  it to her. It also had to give her clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the main policy terms. 
L & G accepts that the policy Miss G ended up with wasnt suitable for her. Given her 
circumstances at the time, it says she shouldve been sold a permanent health insurance  
policy with a deferred period of 52 weeks rather than 13 weeks.  If that had happened,  it says 
the cost of the monthly premium  wouldve  been  around £25 less per month compared to 
what she paid for the policy.
Ref: DRN50329942Miss G says she was entitled  to six months  full pay with her employer at the time the policy  
was sold, that she had the benefit of a mortgage payment protection  insurance policy  which 
couldve covered  her monthly mortgage  repayments  for up to 12 months, savings she 
couldve dipped into and shares she couldve sold. But I dont think  a permanent health  
insurance policy with a deferred period of 52 weeks  wouldve been  an unsuitable 
recommendation  particularly  given  how long the policy couldve paid out for if shed made  
a successful claim.
But I must also consider  whether Miss G is likely  to have  accepted  a recommendation to 
take out a permanent health insurance policy  like that. And if, she had been given clear,  fair 
and not misleading information about  the main features of the policy  at the time including  the 
monthly benefit, how long the policy could pay out for, the cost and deferred period whether 
she wouldve still chosen to take it out.  
Of course,  I cant  know for sure what wouldve  happened.  Miss G says she wouldnt have 
taken out a policy where shed have to be off work  for 12 months sick or injured in order to 
claim. I can understand why she says that and its, of course, possible she wouldnt. 
But Im persuaded,  on the balance of probabilities, that Miss M wanted  this sort of protection,  
after all she chose to take it out. And even taking into account other income she mightve 
received for all, or part, of the first year being off work through  sick pay and another 
insurance policy she had the benefit of, if she was unable to return to work after 12 months 
there wouldve been value in her having a permanent health insurance policy paying an 
amount equivalent  to her mortgage repayments each month.
Miss G says if she was unable to afford to keep her home and was off work  for a longer than 
12 months, she couldve moved into accommodation provided by employer linked to her job 
role and her children were  of ages that they were no longer reliant on living  with her - or 
dependant on her. She also says she had savings and shares, and if she was too ill to work 
in the long- term,  she couldve  retired early  from work with an ill-health pension.  I understand 
the points she seeks to make. But those were circumstances that she was aware of at the 
time of choosing to take out the policy (albeit with a lower deferred period) and she still saw 
value in the policy as she chose to take it out.
When making that finding, Ive taken into account that Miss G has said that she took out the 
policy because she personally  knew and trusted the advisors who sold the policy to her and 
theyd suggested  it would  help her mortgage application. Its possible that did happen and 
Miss G only opted to take out the policy because she was told it would help her mortgage 
application - and because this was the first time shed applied  for a mortgage  by herself she 
thought that was right. However, the mortgage application was separate  to the policy  which 
was taken out and, along  with the illustration  document  which  Miss G says she received and 
read, I think  its likely  that she wouldve received the policy terms which wouldve confirmed  
that the policy could be cancelled. So, in the circumstances  of this case, Im not persuaded 
that Miss G only took out the policy because  she thought the policy would help her 
application. If that were  the case,  once  the mortgage had been accepted, I think  its likely  
she wouldve just cancelled the policy then.
Further, it looks like she wanted to protect her mortgage over the long term. I say that 
because she also took out life insurance  and critical illness policies to cover  the term of the 
mortgage (on a decreasing basis) which couldve covered the outstanding mortgage  amount 
in the event of her death, or upon  diagnosis of certain illness.
Ref: DRN50329943And although Miss G says they both cover  similar insured  events; a permanent health 
insurance policy is different to a critical illness policy. There might be situations where both 
could pay out  for example if Miss G had been  diagnosed with a critical illness  under that 
policy leading to her being off work for at least 12 months. But there are other situations 
where only one or the other would pay out. Miss G wouldnt  have needed  to be diagnosed 
with a critical illness to benefit from the permanent health insurance  policy.  
So, I dont think the offer L & G has made  to Miss G is unfair or unreasonable, and if shed 
like to accept it (and hasnt already done  so) she should contact L & G to arrange payment. I 
note in its letter dated 24 January 2019 L & G has said it would deduct  income  tax from the 
interest payment  made as part of the offer at basic rate tax. In order  to claim back  from 
HMRC any tax shes entitled to, she should  request a certificate of deduction of income tax 
from L & G.
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask to accept or reject 
my decision  before 10 September 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5032994