K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1998.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Cs credit card account when she applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
 Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Cs application form for the credit card. The copys not very 
clear. But Im satisfied that the form is in the same  format  as more  legible forms weve  
seen in other cases from around  the time that Mrs C applied for the card. It includes a 
section on Credit Care   a type of PPI. It briefly outlines the cover. Beneath  that it 
says, in bold YES I want you to arrange  Credit Care  Insurance to protect my 
repayments. I can see that Mrs C has signed specifically to confirm  that she wished 
to take the cover. I think Bank of Scotland made Mrs C aware  that the PPI was optional 
and that she chose to take it.
 Mrs C told us she applied for the card over the phone. But Im satisfied that the 
application form Mrs C completed was for postal applications. So I think  its unlikely 
that she had any direct contact with Bank  of Scotlands staff,  or that it recommended 
the PPI to her. This means  Bank of Scotland didnt have  to check  if it was suitable  for 
her. But it did have a responsibility  to give Mrs C clear enough information to enable  
her to decide  whether she wanted  to take the cover,  knowing what  alternative means 
shed have had of making her monthly  credit  card repayments if shed been off sick, or 
if shed lost her job.
 Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it should  have  been.  But Mrs C chose  to take out the policy.  So appears to 
have wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably  forgotten that now, so 
many years later. Based on what Mrs Cs told us about her circumstances at the time,  
she wasnt affected  by any of the main things the policy didnt cover (for example 
provisions about unusual employment  arrangements or existing  medical conditions), 
and the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable.
 Ive borne in mind  that Mrs C's told us that she'd  have been  entitled to six months' full 
pay, followed by six months' half pay from her employer  if she'd been  off sick. She says 
she'd also have received a redundancy package. 
Ref: DRN52285712 But the policy would have paid 10% of the outstanding  balance  on Mrs C's credit  card 
for up to 12 months  per successful claim for accident or sickness. That's  longer than 
Mrs C would have been entitled  to full pay from her employer  for. And it would have 
paid the same  benefit  if she'd  made a successful claim  for unemployment. What's 
more, the policy would have paid out in addition to any payments Mrs C received  from 
her employer. So she could have used those to meet other  expenses. 
 I acknowledge that Mrs C's told us her family  would have helped out if need be. But 
circumstances can change, and I can't be sure that Mrs C's family would have been in 
a position to help her if the need  had arisen.  Shes also mentioned accident and 
sickness insurance  that she already had. But from the details shes  provided, Im 
satisfied that this provided  a different type of cover. So I dont think it meant she didnt 
have a need for the PPI.
 Taking everything into account,  I think Mrs C could have found the PPI useful. And 
I think its unlikely shed  have made  a different decision  if better information had been 
provided. On balance I think she'd still have taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account all of Mrs Cs comments, including what  shes said about not having 
been told about any cancellation  or cooling-off period. But Im satisfied that Mrs C knew that 
the PPI was optional. She was paying for it monthly, so she could have cancelled it at any 
time if she changed her mind about  it. And if shed decided she no longer wanted  the policy 
I think its likely shed have got in touch with Bank of Scotland to ask about cancelling  it. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that she did so. So this doesnt change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5228571