K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP was irresponsible  when  it gave him loans. 
Mr W is represented by a claims  management  company.
background
Mr W took out seven loans with Uncle Buck between Mid 2015 and the end of 2016 as 
follows:
Loan No Date of Loan Date repaid* Amount of 
loanNo. and amount of 
Instalments
1 05/06/2015 26/06/2015 £200 3 x £97
2 30/08/2015 30/09/2015 £900 3 x £452
3 30/12/2015 29/01/2016 £800 3 x £406
4 04/04/2016 29/04/2016 £900 3 x £443
5 17/06/2016 30/06/2016 £1,000 3 x £450
6 12/09/2016 30/09/2016 £600 3 x £280
7 01/12/2016 30/12/2016 £900 3 x £453
*Uncle Buck questioned the repayment  dates referred to by our investigator,  but didnt say 
how they were wrong. I note that these dates  are inconsistent with the comments made by 
Uncle Buck  about  the gaps between loans. However, these dates are consistent with the 
information about the loans we received from Uncle Buck. 
Mr W says Uncle Buck didnt make sufficient checks, in particular it didnt check  whether he 
was vulnerable or had mental health problems.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He said it wasnt unfair  
for Uncle Buck to provide  loans 1 to 4 to Mr W as it wasnt aware of any reason to be 
concerned or any need to ask specifically  about  Mr Ws mental  health.  But by loan 5 Mr Ws 
pattern of borrowing suggested  a problem. Hed taken out five loans over more  than 12 
months and the amounts were  increasing. This suggests the borrowing wasnt  sustainable. 
Uncle Buck  didnt agree. It said some loans were  repaid early  which  increases the perceived 
rate of borrowing. It said there was a gap between  loans 4 and 5 and between loans 5 and 6 
(of 24 days and 12 days respectively). Uncle Buck said it did additional checks  for loans 5 to 
7, including  asking  Mr W about the use of the loans and confirming his income  and 
expenditure. It said his credit file didnt suggest  the loans werent affordable. And just 
because Mr W chose to take out further loans didnt mean he couldnt repay the loans 
without further  borrowing.  
Uncle Buck  says it shouldnt be required to remove the loans from Mr Ws credit  file. It says 
he wont benefit from the positive effect  of this when it shows hed repaid loans. And Mr W 
had complained that Uncle Buck should  have seen he was borrowing from other lenders  
this isnt possible if loans  are removed from his credit file. Uncle Buck said removing  the 
loans meant  a false picture would be created of Mr Ws borrowing and repayment history  for 
other lenders and employers. Uncle Buck offered to refund interest on loan 5, which  Mr W 
didnt accept.
Ref: DRN53954892my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive considered all the available  evidence  
and arguments  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Ws income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  suggest  that Uncle Buck should have done  more to establish  that 
any lending  was sustainable for a customer.  Such factors include the customers income  
particularly a lower  income   the amount of the loan repayments and the time over which  the 
loan is to be repaid,  and the number and frequency  of loans and the time over which the 
customer has been given  loans. Repeated borrowing can signal that the borrowing has 
become, or is becoming, unsustainable. There may even come  a point where the lending  
history and pattern  of lending itself demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I would also note here that Uncle  Buck  was required to establish whether Mr W could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.
Loans 1 to 4
When he applied for the loans  Mr W told Uncle Buck his monthly income was about  £2,500.  
Uncle Buck  says as well as the information  provided  by Mr W in his application, it collected 
information about Mr Ws outgoings using information from its credit check  and internal  
modelling. It recorded Mr Ws monthly  outgoings as between £1,500 and £2,000.  This 
suggested the loan repayments  were affordable. 
Given the amount  of loan 1 and the monthly  repayments relative  to Mr Ws income, I think 
the checks made by Uncle Buck were  sufficient. I dont think the information it received from 
its credit  check  would have caused it concern. 
I think some  of the information Uncle Buck  received before  it offered loans 2 to 4 suggested 
a possible problem. The results of its credit check before  loan 2 show  a default within  the 
last 12 months and 21 accounts opened within the last six months.  Given the increase in the 
amount of loan 2 compared to loan 1 and the information from its credit  check, I think  Uncle 
Buck ought  to have considered whether  further  checks were needed. 
I asked Mr Ws representative for information  about  Mr Ws circumstances  such  as his 
bank statements and credit report. Unfortunately, the representative didnt provide this, so I 
cant reach a fair conclusion here about what Uncle Buck would have seen  if it had carried  
out further checks. Also, while Mr Ws representative says Uncle  Buck didnt check if Mr W 
was vulnerable or had mental health issues it hasnt provided more information about  this or 
explained what it thinks should have prompted Uncle Buck  to ask about this.
Ref: DRN53954893Some of the adverse information in Uncle Bucks  credit  check  before loan 2 isnt consistent 
with the information it received from its checks before loans 1, 3 and 4. These didnt,  for 
instance, show a default recorded  within the last 12 months. Ive also taken into account that 
the credit  checks suggested  Mr Ws indebtedness was relatively low compared to his 
income. Overall, I dont think its reasonable to say that based on the information  Uncle  Buck 
had it shouldnt have  offered loans 1 to 4. 
loans 5 to 7
In its response to the view, Uncle Buck offered to refund interest  on loan 5. It didnt accept 
though that it was wrong to offer the loan, or the later loans.
Ive looked here at the overall pattern of Mr Ws borrowing from Uncle  Buck. And Ive 
considered what  Uncle  Buck  says to customers in its pre-contract information, including:
A short term instalment  loan of this type is designed to provide you with a cash advance  
repayable over a period of approximately  3 to 6 months. We offer loans up to £1000. This 
form of borrowing is an expensive form of credit which is unsuitable  for supporting  
sustained borrowing over longer periods, and would be very expensive  as a means  of 
longer term borrowing.  It is not an appropriate form of borrowing  if you are in financial 
difficulty."
I dont think its enough for Uncle Bucks  general  information to tell customers  its loans arent 
suitable for sustained  borrowing over longer  periods. I think  Uncle  Buck needed itself to 
consider whether this lending was sustainable. 
By the time Mr W asked  for loan 5, Uncle Buck had been lending to Mr W for about 12 
months. It seems Mr W repaid loans  early (although its possible the information weve been 
given about repayment dates is wrong), but I must also take into account  that hed then 
borrow from Uncle Buck again. And I think the fact that Mr W typically repaid loans earlier  
than planned should itself have caused  some concern to Uncle Buck.  That might be the sort 
of behaviour that indicates Mr W had problems managing his money and needed  to 
refinance loans  on a regular basis. I also think Uncle Buck should have taken note that the 
amount of the loans was generally  increasing and loan 5 was for the maximum amount 
Uncle Buck  would lend and considered whether this could indicate the lending was 
unsustainable.
In effect, Mr W paid large amounts of interest to service a debt to Uncle Buck  over an 
extended period.  I think that Mr W lost out because Uncle  Buck continued to provide 
borrowing from loan 5 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Mr Ws ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
Uncle Buck  says Mr Ws declared income  compared to his monthly  repayment  suggests 
these loans were affordable. But Uncle  Buck will know  from previous decisions (as well as 
whats set out on our website) that there are cases where this service considers the overall  
lending pattern and not just the affordability  of each  loan.  When a consumer takes a number 
Ref: DRN53954894of loans over a period of time, its most  likely that the loans arent being used for their 
intended purpose of temporary cash flow problems. I think  that was the case here.
So Im upholding  Mr Ws complaint about loans 5 to 7. 
what should happen now?
Uncle Buck  shouldnt have given Mr W loans 5 to 7, so it should:
A) add together  the total of the repayments made  by Mr W towards interest, fees and 
charges on these loans,  including payments made to a third party  where applicable, but not 
including anything its already refunded.
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Mr W which  were  
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr W originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C) pay Mr W the total of A plus B.
D) remove  any record  of loans 5 to 7 from Mr Ws credit file because the overall pattern of 
this borrowing means any information recorded about the loans is adverse. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that Uncle Buck Finance  LLP should  take the steps and pay the 
compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5395489