K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited  didnt tell him that he didnt have therapies 
cover under his private medical insurance  policy.
background
Mr C held private medical insurance with an insurer (that Ill call Insurer Z). He contacted  
AXA as he wanted  to see if he could get comparable cover, but for a cheaper premium.  
AXA provided Mr C with a quote  for a new policy, which he accepted. 
Mr C later contacted AXA to make a claim for physio. However, this was turned down as his 
policy didnt include therapies  cover (which includes physio). Unhappy  with this, Mr C 
brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. She thought Mr C had made  it clear  
to AXA at the time of sale that he wanted  comparable cover to his policy with Insurer Z. 
Although AXA would  have allowed Mr C to add on therapies cover for an additional  cost,  she 
noted Mr C had therapies cover included as standard under his policy with Insurer  Z. She 
recommended AXA deal with the claim for physio  under Insurer  Zs policy  terms. However, 
she thought if Mr C wanted therapies cover going forwards,  he would need to pay for this. 
I issued a provisional decision on 9 December 2019.  My provisional  findings were:
Mr C has provided us with a copy of the cover  he held under his policy with Insurer Z, and 
Im satisfied that therapies cover was included as standard.  
Ive therefore  listened  to the phone calls that Mr C had with AXA when the policy was sold.  
Mr C advised AXA of his existing cover with Insurer Z, and said he wanted a comparable 
quote. The AXA adviser asked him the name of his policy with Insurer  Z. Mr C told the 
adviser the name, and the adviser  confirmed he knew the policy.  He said he was going  to 
have a quick look at it and was going to bring it up now. The adviser then talked about a 
difference in cover between Mr Cs existing policy and the AXA policy.  After  their discussion, 
the AXA adviser sent Mr C a quote. 
Later, Mr C agreed to take out the policy and AXA sent Mr C a copy  of the policy terms. 
AXA hasnt been  able to provide us with a copy of the quote that was sent to Mr C. Ive 
therefore only been able to consider the discussion that took place between Mr C and AXA, 
and the policy terms he was sent. 
I agree  with our investigator that the AXA adviser  led Mr C to understand he knew what  his 
existing policy with Insurer  Z covered. Its apparent  from the call that the AXA adviser  
actually had the details of that policy in front of him whilst he was talking  to Mr C. Given that 
the adviser knew Mr C wanted comparable cover, I think he should have told Mr C that the 
AXA policy didnt include therapies cover as standard, and this would need to be purchased  
for an additional cost.  
Ref: DRN51464842The policy terms do say what cover was chosen  by Mr C, and that therapies cover  could  be 
purchased at an additional  cost within 14 days.  However, this information  was on page nine 
of the document, and therefore  not in a prominent  position. 
On balance, I think AXA was at fault here. The remaining issue is how to put the matter  right.  
Our investigator thought AXA should pay the physio claim in line with the policy terms that 
applied under the policy with Insurer Z. However, I dont agree this would be a fair outcome.  
Thats because our aim (as far as possible) is to place a consumer back in the position they 
would have been, if the business hadnt  been  at fault. 
If AXA had made Mr C aware from the outset that hed need to make  an additional payment 
to have therapies cover, I think he probably  would  have agreed to this. I therefore think it 
would be appropriate  for AXA to deal with the claim in accordance  with its own policy terms. 
However, I dont think itd be reasonable to backdate this cover  to the date the policy started, 
as Mr C would need to pay the backdated  cost of this. 
One option would be for AXA to backdate the therapies cover to the last renewal of 
1 January 2019. If Mr C has already started  physio treatment and paid for this himself, then 
he may wish to choose this option. AXA should then reimburse him, plus interest. However, 
AXA would be entitled to deduct the backdated  cost of the therapies cover from payment of 
his claim.  
If Mr C hasnt started his physio treatment yet, then an alternative option  would  be for AXA to 
add therapies cover  to his policy from the next renewal on 1 January 2020. AXA says Mr C 
would need to answer some medical  questions  before it would agree to this. Since Ive found 
AXA was at fault, I dont think this would  be fair. I would require AXA to allow Mr C to add 
therapies cover to his policy without  asking him any medical questions. Mr C can then make 
a claim for physio under the policy  after renewal. AXA wont  be entitled to turn this down  on 
the basis that the need for the physio was pre-existing.
Also, if Mr C has delayed starting his physio treatment, I would require AXA to pay him £150  
compensation to recognise the inconvenience  caused to him in doing so. 
Mr C should confirm which of the above two options he would prefer in his response  to this 
provisional decision.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make. 
Mr C responded to say he accepted my findings,  and would like AXA to backdate the 
therapies cover to the last renewal of 1 January 2019. 
AXA responded to say it thought my view was fair and reasonable, and that it will review its 
sales script to avoid similar incidents in the future. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  However, as both parties  accepted my 
provisional findings, I see no reason to change these. 
Ref: DRN51464843my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to 
backdate the therapies cover to 1 January 2019. Mr C will then be able to submit a claim for 
any treatment hes received since this date. AXA should pay the claim under the terms of the 
policy, and add interest at the rate of 8% simple  from the date the invoices were paid to the 
date of settlement.* 
AXA will be entitled to deduct  the backdated cost of the therapies cover from the claim 
payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
*If AXA considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN5146484