K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that National  Westminster  Bank Plc advised them to invest too much  
of their money in an unsuitably risky portfolio; also it failed to recommend they pay off their 
mortgage or unsecured debt or put money  into a pension as a priority.
background
Mr and Mrs Rs representative said:
Mr and Mrs R were relatively inexperienced  investors
Nat West failed  to assess their attitude  to risk, there being no mention of this in the 
investment report
The advisor failed  to consider their capacity for loss, wrongly recommending they 
invest 88% of their capital
The figure of £150,000  appeared to be driven  by the minimum amount required  to 
qualify for Nat Wests private banking service rather than their specific  circumstances
The advisor recorded that Mr and Mrs R wanted  a return of £15,000 a year via 
dividends and a return on their capital and said this was possible (though not 
guaranteed); but this sum was never realistic without a big drain  on their capital, itself 
reducing the possibility of providing  their required income
No credible financial advisor would recommend an investment amount they knew  
from the outset would have to be reduced  by return of capital on a regular  basis
They should have  been advised  to set money  aside  to provide the income  required  
for a number of years. This could be topped up by the natural income generated by 
the portfolio and it would have offered it at least the potential  to grow as well as 
saving the unnecessary expense incurred when taking their own money back
Interest rates in 2001 were averaging 4% so the set-aside income  wouldve 
generated interest which  could be used to top-up their income or reduce the need to 
take income from the portfolio
An adjudicator assessed the merits of this complaint, concluding that the advice had been 
unsuitable. He noted that:
Mr and Mrs R had invested  £70,000 in 1996  when  they had a joint income of 
£42,000, more  than a third of which came from regular rental income.  Based on their 
apparent desire to take a reasonable risk with their money they had agreed to invest  
half of this money in cash and half in equities
At the time of this advice Mr R had largely retired, had little pension provision and 
their income had fallen substantially
After selling their rental  property  they had £150,000 available to invest
Ref: DRN51395632They were looking for capital growth  and to take a regular income to supplement their 
reduced earnings
The Fact Find said they needed income security
They had an unsecured debt of £36,000
The advisors suitability letter recorded that they needed to take £15,000 a year from 
the invested £150,000  and that any investment return was unlikely to deliver  10% 
growth, the withdrawals  would be a mix of capital and income (returns)
They wanted income security with the prospect of capital growth
Their investment objectives  hadnt altered since 1996
In his assessment,  he said:
Mr and Mrs Rs situation had changed  radically since  1996 and the advisors  
report/suitability letter failed to acknowledge this
Their capital  needed to last many years given  their ages and overall financial 
situation
They should have been  advised  to pay off their £36,000 debt before investing; theres 
no evidence that the advisor  did this
Mr Rs 1996 investment had been  managed by Nat West and Mrs R had no 
investment experience;  so overall  he didnt  believe they had significant personal 
knowledge of experience  of investments
He felt the recommendation to invest 88% of their money via the stock market  was 
not suitable given their circumstances  and objectives
Advising them to withdraw capital as well as income in order  to achieve £15,000 a 
year from this investment  would pile up problems for them  going  forward  as their 
overall capital diminished and its ability  to deliver income  reduced further
The advisor failed to warn them of this substantial risk; given their ages and limited 
pension provision, this was not sensible advice
The brief reference to their attitude  to risk being unchanged from 1996 was highly 
unsatisfactory; their circumstances had changed radically  and there appears to have 
been no attempt  to thoroughly explore their attitude to risk going  forward
Crucially, they did not have the capacity to replace any losses
He felt they should  have been  advised  to repay their £36,000 debt before considering  
any investment, and that Nat West should  compensate  them accordingly for this
He thought they should have only been advised  to take a small or cautious risk with 
the remaining £113,388 of their £150,000  invested  sum and so Nat West should 
Ref: DRN51395633calculate whether  they had lost out by taking a higher risk with this amount; by using 
this services recommended  formula. If so, it should  pay this loss plus interest
Nat West did not agree,  and said:
Mr R had held a portfolio with NW with the same  risk rating  since 1996 (from which  
he drew income),  and had held other risk-based investments elsewhere prior to this 
date (c £35k in 1996)
As such  he had personal  experience  of the Asian crash in 1997/1998,  the steep 
recovery (more  than double to Dec 1999)  and the subsequent fall in the FTSE from 
then until date of this advice. The stock market  (FTSE) fluctuation  over this period is 
noted as follows:  c4100 at outset,  up to 6930  31/12/99 and back  down to 5950 as at 
3/6/01, the date of advice
In the customers letter dated 7/1/03 they noted their heavy losses in the previous 
year but still indicate they are considering further  investment  later in the year, thus 
evidencing that they accepted the nature of the risk required to achieve the desired 
income, and that the income  would  come from capital
In an ombudsmans assessment of jurisdiction, I had said that the evidence shows  
that Mr R did have  significant investment experience, placing £70,000 in a risk-
based product with Nat West in 1996, half of this money coming  from an existing risk-
based investmentThey were  far from typical inexperienced  investors
The adjudicator was concerned that customers had not been  made  aware that the 
withdrawals they would be making from the capital element  of the investment would 
prejudice the ability of that capital to provide income subsequently but the suitability 
letter notes the potential to achieve  the growth to avoid this was not guaranteed
Mr R proceeded on this basis
It may also be queried how else the level of income desired could have been 
achieved
It is strongly inferred from the financial  history  evidenced in the advice files that Mr R 
had sufficient  business and investment experience (including rental property)  to 
understand the risks of the investment and the potential impact on capital  and 
income, and that he accepted these risks
While  the suitability  of such advice to a customer without personal experience of 
investing would  be questionable, even if the potential pitfalls  had been  fully disclosed, 
this does not describe Mr Rs situation.  While his circumstances  were  not the same  in 
2001 as 1996,  the evidence confirms he had sufficient experience  (and information) 
to make  an informed decision. He had no concerns  regarding  the risks associated, 
having experienced  the volatility of his investments throughout  the period they were 
held
As regards the method  of redress proposed  by the original adjudicator  in the event 
the complaint is upheld, its not practical to make the loss assessment  on this basis
Ref: DRN51395634The adjudicator said that part of the redress should compare the interest paid on the 
loan for £36k+ against the pro-rata  returns from the portfolio,  then the balance 
against 50/50 returns. However it does not have access to the necessary information 
regarding the loan to conduct this assessment
Any calculation would  need to take into account  the percentage of the portfolio 
attributable to investments made in different advice rounds, which are not the subject 
of this (or any other) complaint
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the adjudicator 
and for broadly the same reasons.
I acknowledge that Mr R had some investment experience, at least from 1996 and probably 
earlier, and that this involved agreeing to advice about how much  to invest  and roughly-
speaking how much risk to take with certain  sums. But as I am not assessing  the 1996  
advice, or any previous  advice, I have no idea whether Mr R fully understood the risks posed  
by the recommended  products or the advisors  interpretation of how much risk he was 
looking to take in 1996 given his finances  at the time). Mrs R does not seem to have had any 
investment experience.
However, I think the key considerations  are whether the advice - to invest  88% of their 
available capital  was suitable  given  their very changed financial situation, their increased 
ages, their existing debt, limited pension  provision and income shortfall going forward. In 
essence, I am neither satisfied that it was suitable, let alone good,  advice nor that the 
advisor took sufficient  steps to fully assess their needs before making such a 
recommendation. As such, I dont believe he provided sufficient  warnings about  the very 
substantial risk to their future income  needs  and objectives posed by his recommendation. I 
therefore dont  believe they were in a sufficiently informed position to decide  whether to go 
ahead with this advice.
I can see no excuse for not recommending that Mr and Mrs R pay off their unsecured debt 
before investing   a fairly standard  piece of sensible advice appropriate for most customers 
unless there  are clear  and clearly-stated  reasons to the contrary.   
I therefore agree that compensation should  reflect this. As its not possible to discover  how 
much interest they were paying  on this debt, I instruct Nat West to compare the return they 
received on £36,388 on their investment  at the date of surrender with how much they would 
have earned if this money had achieved returns in line with the Bank of Englands bonds of 
12 to 17 months maturity. It should  take into account a fair proportion of the income 
withdrawals. If this shows a loss, it should  pay this sum and add 8% simple interest per 
annum to this figure to the date of settlement of this complaint.
I also think the advice  to invest 88% of their capital was completely inappropriate and for the 
reasons the adjudicator and Mr and Mrs Rs representative have outlined.  I also can see no 
reason for this recommendation beyond this being  the minimum sum needed  for Nat Wests 
private portfolio  management. Mr and Mrs R were left with a very small amount on deposit, 
just a fraction of their unsecured debt, and would be drawing income  from day one to meet 
their income needs. 
Ref: DRN51395635So they were  paying  commission/fees on money  they were going  to withdraw straight away.  
Where clients  have  a large ongoing  income  shortfall it is very hard to think  of any 
circumstances in which it would be good  advice to invest nearly 90% of their money in risk-
based investments,  let alone the level of risk in this case. 
As Ive said,  Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances and objectives were  now very different from 
1996. With a reduced joint salary  and no rental  income they were  relying  on the capital  from 
the sale of their rental property to make  up their shortfall. They  were  looking for, as the 
advisor twice recorded, income security i.e. they did want  to risk the possibility that this 
income would  not forthcoming. 
I accept that it was impossible to guarantee this given no investment sum could guarantee a 
return of 10% without loss of capital, itself further undermining future income.  But this 
doesnt mean they should have been encouraged  to, in effect, take a big gamble with their 
precious capital to try and achieve  this. In any case,  the advisor did not explain the 
substantial risk posed by his recommendation so Mr and Mrs R were not, in my opinion, in a 
sufficiently informed position to make such  a decision.
If fully informed of the broad options,  I think it is more  likely than not that they would not have 
agreed to put the vast majority of their capital  to such a risk of substantial loss, thereby 
significantly endangering their future income  supply.  From what Ive read, I am satisfied they 
would have chosen a more cautious route.  It is impossible  to say precisely what they would 
have done  how much  of their capital they would have put at risk and to how much risk 
overall  but I am satisfied that the adjudicators approach is broadly fair and reasonable. i.e. 
to assume that having paid off their debt (while keeping £2k in cash), they might  have put 
half the remainder in low risk funds and half in broadly medium  risk funds.  In practice  this 
means that they should only have been advised  to put just under £57,000 in the 
recommended investment. The compensation formula below reflects  this.
Nat West must compare the amount Mr and Mrs R received  on £113,388 of their initially  
invested sum as of the date they surrendered their portfolio with what  such a sum would 
have been had the invested money achieved a return arising based on an equal split 
between the Bank of Englands bonds of 12 to 17 months maturity and the FTSE  UK Private  
Investors Income Total Return  Index. It should take into account a fair proportion of the 
income withdrawals. If this comparison shows a loss, it must pay this and add 8% simple  
interest per annum to this figure from the date of surrender to the date of settlement of this 
complaint.
Finally, I note that Nat West  sets great  store by Mr Rs willingness to take a risk with this 
money, and his apparent desire  to continue to do so even after significant falls in the value of 
their investment. None  of this, in my view, justifies what  I consider to be thoroughly  
unsuitable advice.  Mr R was not a financial expert and was reliant on the advisor  to offer 
suitable and suitably cautious  advice  given their challenging situation  (income-wise).  I am 
satisfied that he and Mrs R did not receive  such advice.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  National Westminster Bank  Plc to pay compensation as 
outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 May 2020.
Ref: DRN51395636Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5139563