K820x#14complaint
Mr Gs complained about three instalment  loans  he took out with Gain  Credit LLC (trading as 
Lending Stream). He says the loans  were unaffordable.
background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr G and Lending Stream had told us. And she 
thought that the checks Lending  Stream carried out before giving Mr G his loans were 
proportionate. So she didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. Mr G disagreed  and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  short  term lending on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me 
decide Mr Gs complaint. 
Mr G was provided with high-interest loans, intended for short-term use. So Lending  Stream  
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what  this means is 
that Lending Stream needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr G before providing it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im not upholding Mr Gs 
complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Mr G took out a first instalment loan for £95 in January 2012. The loan was to be repaid over 
a period of around four months  and the monthly  repayments were around £60. Mr G 
returned for a second loan a month later in February  2012.  This loan was due to be repaid 
over a six month term and the monthly  repayments were around  £163. Finally Mr G took out 
a third loan for £175 in March 2012. This was due to be paid in five instalments.
Lending Stream says it agreed to Mr Gs application  after hed provided details of his 
monthly income and expenditure.  It says the information Mr G provided on his income and 
expenditure showed that hed be able to comfortably make the repayments he was 
committing to. And in these circumstances  it was reasonable to lend. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr G and Lending Stream have said.  The first thing for me 
to say is that these  loans  were Mr Gs first loans with Lending Stream. Mr G did take his 
second and third loans while he still owed on earlier ones. But there wasnt  any established  
pattern in Mr Gs borrowing needs  at this stage. The information provided does suggest that 
Ref: DRN56394192Mr G was asked to provide details  of his income  and expenditure. Bearing in mind  the 
amount of the monthly repayment, the questions Lending Stream  asked Mr G and these 
were Mr Gs first loans,  I dont think it was unreasonable for Lending Stream  to rely on the 
information Mr G was providing.
I accept that Mr Gs actual circumstances may not have been reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information Lending Stream  obtained. For example, Ive 
seen that he had other outstanding short-term  loans elsewhere. And Im also sorry to hear 
that Mr G was struggling financially and repaying these loans has proved difficult. But 
Lending Stream could  only make  its decision based  on the information it had available  at the 
time. And, at this stage of the lending relationship, I dont think  proportionate checks 
wouldve extended into Lending Stream asking Mr G to evidence what  he was declaring.   
Equally its only fair for me to uphold a complaint where I can safely say a lender did 
something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Lending Stream  did anything wrong in 
deciding to lend to Mr G - it carried out proportionate checks  even though its looks  like the 
information it mightve been provided  with was inaccurate. Lending  Stream  reasonably relied  
on the information provided with and given the amount of the repayments involved and the 
overall circumstances  of Mr Gs loan history, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lending 
Stream to lend  especially  as there  wasnt anything  obvious, in the information it had, to 
suggest Mr G wouldnt  be able to sustainably repay  these loans.
So overall I think the checks Lending Stream carried out were proportionate. As this is the 
case, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing  for      
Mr G. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his 
concerns have been listened to.
I understand that Mr G may be having  difficulty paying back  loan two. So Id remind  Lending 
Stream of its obligation to treat Mr G positively and sympathetically should  it be the case that 
he is experiencing financial difficulty.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5639419