K820x#14complaint
Mr J1 complains  that RAC Insurance  Limited damaged his car following a claim  against  a 
garage, parts and labour section of his motor breakdown insurance policy. His father, Mr J2, 
is helping him to bring his complaint. 
background
In February 2018,  Mr J1 was concerned  about  a whining noise from his cars engine.  He 
drove the car to his parents house  and called RAC. RAC said that the suspected  diagnosis  
was problems with the turbocharger. As Mr J1 has garage, parts and labour cover under his 
policy, RAC arranged  for the car to be recovered  to its approved  repairer.
RACs approved repairer said that the turbocharger needed replacing and two injectors 
required repairing. Mr J2 told RACs approved repairer not to repair the two injectors  and to 
check that the turbocharger replacement was covered  under  Mr J1s policy  before 
proceeding. Mr J1s policy excludes repairs to turbochargers so Mr J2 asked RAC to return 
the car to his house, so that he could arrange  repairs. 
Mr J2 arranged for a mechanic to inspect Mr J1s car. Mr J2s mechanic  said that that engine 
had failed. 
RAC compensated Mr J1 for the fact that he didnt ask for car hire and for delays in 
responding to him. It also paid for a previous recovery cost. At Mr J1s request, it cancelled 
the garage, parts and labour cover and refunded the premium.  
Mr J1 says that RACs approved repairer  damaged his car. He says that the car was fully 
functional when RAC collected it from Mr J2s house. Mr J1 wants RAC to repair his car, pay 
for the repairs or replace  his car. 
Our investigator didnt  think that there was sufficient evidence to conclude  that RACs 
approved repairer  caused Mr J1s cars  engine  to fail. She said that RACs decision to refuse 
the claim was fair.
Mr J2 responded on Mr J1s behalf and didnt accept the investigators view.  He;
asked that the investigator pass the complaint  to a colleague with automotive  experience;  
said hed provide a further report that would say that the engine failed as the car was 
over revved and the turbo  passed through the engine;  
said that RAC patrol would have seen  if the turbo was broken as there would have been 
severe loss of power and smoke from the exhaust; 
questioned why RACs authorised repairer provided him with a quote  to replace the 
turbo and two new injectors  if the engine was blown; 
said that the report dated 26 March 2018  says that the engine  blew up due to the turbo  
being snapped and broken inside the engine; 
said RACs authorised repairer destroyed the cars engine whilst they were only meant  
to be carrying  out diagnostic checks. 
Our investigator asked  Mr J1s mechanic for his view of the cause of the failure of the cars 
engine. His reply didnt  alter her view.  As there was no agreement  between the parties, the 
complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman,  to decide. 
Ref: DRN54926972my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Its clear that Mr J1 has very strong  feelings  about this matter.  I can understand his 
frustrations. From his point of view,  he had a minor problem  with his car and the result was 
that it had engine failure. However, I trust that he will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I 
focus on what I consider  to be the central issues.     
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle was caused, as 
thats a matter for the experts. Here, thats the insurer and the engineer/mechanic instructed 
by RAC  and Mr J1. Our role in these  complaints  is to determine whether an insurer has 
considered all the available evidence and whether  it can justify its decision to refuse  the claim. 
Ive looked carefully  at the reports provided by RAC  and Mr J1. The report dated 26 March  
2018 from Mr J1s mechanic says that the turbocharger had damaged  cylinder four and the 
broken turbocharger was inside the engine. The mechanic said that the engine required a 
complete strip down  and rebuild. 
The investigator asked  Mr J1s mechanic  whether the engine failure was due solely  to the 
failure of the turbocharger.  The mechanic said that the turbocharger caused all of the 
internal damage  to the engine and the causes of the turbocharger failure may be a number 
of things, including over revving  the engine, lack of oil supply, blockages, faulty injectors  or 
poor fuel quality. Mr J1s mechanic didnt say that the engine failure was caused  by RACs 
authorised repairer  revving the engine  or otherwise. 
The report  dated  28 March 2018  by an engineer instructed by RAC  concluded  that there was 
no plausible evidence  to show that the turbocharger  and engine  damage were related. It said 
the turbocharger  central bearings  had worn due to accelerated wear  and tear. The report  
said that there was no evidence  to suggest that the turbocharger had suffered from a sudden  
and unforeseen  mechanical failure.
I dont think that RAC was wrong  to rely on its own engineers report.  It is more  detailed than 
Mr J1s mechanics  report  and I find it more  persuasive. In any event, neither report indicates 
that RACs authorised  repairer was responsible for the engine failure. 
Im mindful of the fact that Mr J1s car was a 2008 plate and had done almost 118,000 miles. 
Its entirely plausible that the difficulties were caused by problems that accumulated over 
time. Its unfortunate that the engine failed whilst it was with RACs authorised  repairers. But, 
based on what Ive seen, theres no evidence  that RACs authorised  repairer was 
responsible for the engine failure.  
I dont think that the cars engine had failed  when RAC patrol saw it or when  RACs 
authorised repairer  inspected it and proposed replacement  of the turbocharger  and repair to 
the two injectors.  Its likely that the engine failed  after that but as Ive said,  theres no 
evidence that RACs  authorised repairer  was responsible  for the engine  failure.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr J1 but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think RAC treated 
him unfairly  in deciding  that it wasnt responsible for his cars engine  failure.  
Ref: DRN54926973my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr J1s complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5492697