K820x#14complaint
Mr A and Mr B, in their capacity as executors of their late fathers  estate, complain about 
Kensington Mortgage Company Limiteds poor customer service  and lack of empathy when 
dealing with the repayment of their late fathers,  Mr Cs mortgage.
background
Mr C passed away in February 2016 and Kensington were told in March 2016. Kensington 
wrote to Mr Cs representatives on 24 March 2016 to say that the mortgage balance  must be 
repaid in 12 months time.  
As Mr C passed away without a will, Mr A and Mr B applied for a grant of probate.  Whilst 
they were waiting for this, they sent a copy of the death certificate to Kensington in 
May 2016. Kensington contacted Mr A in September 2016 to discuss the plans  for repaying 
the mortgage by the deadline of 24 March  2017.  Mr A said that he and Mr B were still 
working out what to do, whether to try to pay it off or sell the property.  The grant of probate 
was obtained  later in September  2016.
Mr A contacted Kensington in February  2017  to send in a copy  of the grant of probate  and to 
say that he was still working  out what to do with the property so he asked for a bit more time. 
In early March 2017 Kensington  contacted Mr A to say that it has still not received  the grant 
of probate documents and to let him know that the 12 month  forbearance period would 
expire on 24 March 2017.  Mr A sent Kensington a copy of the grant of probate  later that 
month and Kensington asked for the power of attorney  and identification documents  of Mr A 
and Mr B as they are the executors.
Mr A raised a complaint during a phone call on 8 March 2017.  He said that Kensington had 
been of no help and that it would not discuss accepting a different payment plan and that it 
asked for the account to be repaid in full as the forbearance period was due to expire. 
Kensington made a note of this but did not raise a formal complaint as Mr A did not have the 
relevant authority because the required documents hadnt been provided  at this stage. 
These documents were received in June 2017 and Mr A again asked if he can have more 
time to consider  what to do with the property. 
There were some further discussions and Kensington sent two letters  that had mistakes in 
them. It sent a letter  on 14 July 2017 that incorrectly said that Mr C had passed away on 
5 June 2017 and that there was a 12 month  time period in which to repay the mortgage or 
sell the property. Kensington  then sent a further  letter in August 2017  to say that the 12 
months had ended and that the account  needed  to be repaid by 5 June 2017. Both of these 
letters were incorrect. The letter in August also referenced an incorrect  first name  and one of 
the letters sent in July incorrectly  said that Mr A and Mr B would be liable for the arears.  This 
was soon corrected  by Kensington when queried  by Mr A. 
Later, Mr A contacted Kensington to discuss an extension but Kensington declined this 
request as the forbearance period ended on 24 March 2017 and asked for the full amount 
outstanding or it would seek to repossess the property. Mr A and Mr B then marketed the 
property and it was sold in late 2017. 
Ref: DRN54983812Mr A complained to Kensington to say that it hadnt  shown any empathy and had been 
difficult to deal with. He said Kensington provided no reassurances  in the time after his father 
passed away that the property wouldnt be repossessed and that Kensington wouldnt 
discuss the matter with him in detail over the phone. Mr A also said that the letters sent in 
July and August  2017 caused further  upset and distress and led them to believe they had 
further time to decide what to do with his late fathers property. 
Kensington replied  to apologise for the errors in the letters that it sent and for any upset that 
may have  been  caused and offered £200 compensation.
Mr A bought his complaint to this service. He said that he doesnt want compensation but for 
Kensington to do better in the future. He has also said that Kensingtons offer of £200 is 
inadequate to the distress  that has been caused  by this matter.  
Two of our investigators looked  into the complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld.  
They both concluded  that the £200 offered by Kensington  was fair taking into account  the 
errors that occurred.
Mr A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
my findings
Im sorry  to hear of the passing of Mr A and Mr Bs father and understand this must have 
been a difficult, upsetting and stressful time. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigators,  for largely  the same  reasons. I realise  that this will come  as a 
disappointment to Mr A and Mr B and I will explain why I have reached this outcome. 
Forbearance period
When someone who has an outstanding mortgage  dies, the mortgage becomes immediately 
repayable. But a lender will generally  provide a forbearance period so that the relatives can 
have time to consider their options and the executors of the will can carry out any intentions  
of the deceased. This period of time is also provided  so the relevant parties  can obtain 
probate and any other documents that might be required. Kensington initially offered a 
period of a year, which  is similar  to the time other lenders offer in situations like this.
Mr C passed away without a will so Mr A and Mr B applied for a grant of probate.  Kensington 
were informed of Mr Cs death in March  2016  and sent a letter to say that it would be 
providing a 12 month forbearance period until 24 March 2017. Ive considered  this and think  
that this is a reasonable period of time to provide in this circumstance. I think it strikes a 
reasonable balance between giving  Mr A and Mr B time to deal with their fathers affairs,  
without allowing too long while unpaid payments and interest continued to mount up.
Customer service
Ive noted Mr As comments that Kensington were unfair not to provide more time. I do 
appreciate that these  matters take time and gaining the appropriate  documentation  can be a 
lengthy process. Ive also noted Mr As comments that he and Mr B are busy  themselves 
Ref: DRN54983813with their own lives and families and that this has been very hard.  Im sorry to hear this but 
having looked at everything, I do think Kensington provided enough  time.  
The grant of probate was obtained in September 2016. Ive seen from the file that this is 
around the time of the late Mr Cs birthday and understand  that this must  have  been  an 
upsetting and distressing time for both Mr A and Mr B. But Im also mindful that at this stage, 
there was still five months until the deadline of 24 March 2017.  
Mr A did contact Kensington in February and March 2017 to discuss  what  to do with the 
outstanding mortgage. Two options were  discussed   firstly for Mr B to take out a mortgage 
for the property and secondly for the property to be sold. Mr A asked for further time to 
consider the options. Kensington said that to consider an extension, it would need more 
information about Mr A and Mr Bs intentions. For example, it said it would need paperwork 
to see how Mr Bs mortgage application  was progressing. Kensington explained that as the 
standard 12 month forbearance period had expired, a panel would need to consider if further  
time should be granted. 
Kensington did consider the information  provided by Mr A over the telephone, but as no 
specific details of a plan were provided,  it declined a formal  extension as the deadline had 
passed. I do appreciate  that this must have been frustrating and upsetting  for Mr A and Mr B 
but I do think that a reasonable timeframe  had already been provided.  And I think  that whilst 
Kensington did not formally grant an extension, it did continue to show  forbearance and kept 
in touch with Mr A to see how things  were progressing. The property was sold eight months  
after the official forbearance deadline  so I dont think Kensington has acted unfairly. 
Having listened  to the calls, I can hear Mr As frustrations  that Kensington wouldnt discuss 
the full details of the account  with him. But I do think Kensington were  clear with what  they 
require to be able to discuss this in detail.  There are a number of calls that happen  where 
Kensington do say that it requires an original copy of the grant of probate   and suggests 
that Mr A sends this via special delivery  and certified copies of Mr A and Mr Bs 
identification documents. 
I can see that a copy of the grant  of probate  was received in March 2017  by Kensington but 
that the required identification  documents were  not sent until June 2017. Mr A has said that 
Kensington did not provide any reassurance  to them that the house would not be 
repossessed and that in some calls Kensington would not discuss matters  with them.  
I appreciate Mr As frustration and comments about the time he wasted on the telephone  and 
lack of reassurance.  But Kensington  does have to comply with data protection legislation 
and ensure that its speaking to someone  who has the authority  to be discussing his late 
fathers mortgage. As the relevant documents that prove Mr A and Mr Bs identity were  not 
supplied until June  2017, I dont think that Kensington were  unreasonable in not providing all 
the information requested over the phone and for not discussing the account in detail. 
I appreciate that it is difficult getting these documents  and time consuming  dealing with these  
matters but Im also mindful that they were not provided until after the 12 month forbearance 
deadline had passed. And as probate had been  granted in September 2016, they could have 
been provided sooner than they were.
Ive considered Mr As comments  about  correspondence from Kensington causing 
confusion, particularly the letters sent in July and August 2017.  Mr A has said that they led 
him and his brother  to think they had a further 12 months to sort out what  they were going to 
Ref: DRN54983814do with the property. Mr A has also said that this cant  just be an administrative error as the 
letter confirmed a recorded conversation. But I think this was an overall error in timeframes  
so it may have been discussed on the phone and recorded in writing.  
Im mindful that prior to these letters being  sent, there are letters sent in March 2016,  May 
2016, July 2016 and September 2016  that all asked for details of a plan to pay off the 
mortgage within 12 months of Mr Cs passing  and for contact to be made with Kensington to 
discuss this. 
I understand that Mr A and Mr B would have been grieving during this time and that it would 
have been distressing. But I do think the period of time provided was reasonable and whilst I 
understand Mr As frustration and confusion for the errors in the letters in July and August 
2017, this is after the forbearance  period  deadline  of 24 March  2017. Kensington has said 
that it required the account to be settled in full then.  The house was sold and the account  
paid in November  2017 which is 20 months after Kensington were informed of Mr Cs 
passing and eight months after the forbearance deadline. 
So whilst I appreciate  these errors  were  confusing and perhaps provided false hope to Mr A 
and Mr B that they may have more time,  they were after the deadline and I dont think 
Kensington acted  unreasonably to decline an extension. And, in fact, Kensington didnt take 
action after the deadline had passed and Mr A and Mr B were  able to sell the property. So it 
provided a further  period of forbearance,  while trying to understand what Mr A and Mr B 
were doing  to try to bring  the mortgage to an end.
Trouble and upset  payment
I do think that the errors in the letters would  have caused confusion  and upset to Mr A and 
Mr B so Ive considered  what  Kensington should do to put this right.  It may be helpful to 
explain that while Mr A and Mr B have  brought this complaint, theyve  done  so in their 
capacity as executors  of their late fathers estate. Its the estates complaint, and they are 
representing the estate. So while I understand that this would  have been  a distressing time 
for Mr A and Mr B, our rules dont  allow  me to award compensation to representatives in a 
complaint, even in situations like this. Ive explained  above why I think that Kensington acted 
reasonably  and even  if I didnt think that, I wouldnt be able to award  compensation for any 
upset caused  to Mr A and Mr B. 
I can award compensation to the estate  for any inconvenience caused, such as delays in 
winding up the estate  or unnecessary administration caused.  I can see there  were  errors, 
notably the letters with the wrong  deadline, and I accept this would have caused some  
difficulty in winding up the estates affairs, until Kensington corrected the error. 
Ive considered Kensingtons offer of £200 in recognition of its errors  and find this to be a 
suitable and fair award for the trouble caused  to Mr Cs estate. 
Ref: DRN54983815my final decision
My final decision is that I think the resolution  offered by Kensington Mortgage Company 
Limited is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Mr A and Mr B should  contact 
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited if they wish to accept its offer of £200 on behalf of 
their fathers estate  if it hasnt been  paid already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2019.
Camilla Finnigan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5498381