K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC will not credit his business account  with the 
proceeds of a cheque  he paid in.
background
Mr C received a cheque for £516 from a customer and paid it into his account  along with 
other cheques on 26 October 2018. Barclays accepts it lost this one cheque  during  
processing and said that the issuing bank would not pay the cheque  even  based  on a 
photocopy it had. It said Mr C would  need to ask his customer  for a replacement  payment. 
But it offered  him £100 and said it would consider paying interest  on the amount until it was 
received.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that Barclays do anything further. Mr C did not agree 
and said that Barclays should pay him the amount. Hes been told that the money left his 
customers account. And he has now lost this customer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the frustration and inconvenience caused to Mr C here. And that he expected  
Barclays to pay him this money.  
It wrote to him and explained what happened. I think that its letter  could have been a basis  
for Mr C to demonstrate to his customer,  which I understand to be a business, the error here. 
And then to ask it for a replacement  payment. Ive not see any evidence  to show  that the 
customer has paid this money  even if as Mr C says the cheque  was originally debited 
before being re-credited. And Barclays has not received payment of the cheque  from the 
other bank  involved.  So I wouldnt expect it to pay Mr C the amount of the payment. I 
consider its offer of compensation of £100  to be reasonable here.
my final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already  made an offer to pay Mr C £100 to settle the complaint 
and I think that offer is reasonable  in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Barclays  
Bank UK PLC should pay Mr C £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5592062