K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) mis- sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
The policy was sold by Marks  & Spencer. But Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) has taken  
responsibility for the sale and by extension this complaint. 
To keep  things simple,  Ive only referred to Allianz in my decision.
background
Mrs M took out a personal reserve account  in 1998. At the same time she took out a PPI 
policy. This would  have covered her if she was off work because  of accident, sickness  or if 
she lost her job. The policy would  have cost 65p for every £100  of Mrs Ms outstanding  
monthly balance. On making a successful claim it would have paid out 15% of that balance 
until she returned to work  or the balance  was paid off.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mrs M disagreed with this view 
and asked that the complaint be referred  to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs M says she was led to believe she didn't have a choice about  having the policy  and had 
to take it. But I think  Allianz made Mrs M aware  the PPI was optional  and I think  she chose 
to take it. Allianz  has been able to provide a copy of the application from the time.  I see that 
Mrs M has ticked the box to say she wanted the PPI and she has added  her name and date 
of birth as the person insured. She has also signed the application  form. On balance, I think 
its likely  Mrs M would have been  given a choice and she could have declined it if she didnt 
want the cover.
I dont think Mrs M would have received advice about the PPI. So as Allianz didnt  
recommend PPI to Mrs M it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it still needed to 
give Mrs M enough information to allow her to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to buy the policy. 
Its possible not all the information Allianz  gave to Mrs M was as clear as it should have 
been. But even  if she had been  given  clearer  or better information I still think  she would have 
bought the cover. 
I say this because  Mrs M was eligible for the policy. And it doesnt seem  she would have 
been affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  of the policy  which might have made it 
more difficult to make a successful claim, such as unusual employment  circumstances  or a 
pre-existing medical condition. 
Ref: DRN52049972 
Mrs M says shed  have got very good sick pay from her job. I appreciate that Mrs M has told 
us this but because Allianz  didnt recommend the policy it didnt have to check it was right for 
her circumstances. It would have been  Mrs Ms decision to make to add the policy taking into 
account her other means. 
And when  Ive considered her circumstances, the policy would have paid out in addition to 
her sick pay. And it would have paid out until Mrs Ms outstanding balance  at the time of the 
claim was repaid, or until she went back to work. So I think  the policy could  have been  useful  
to her if things went wrong.   
I also think the cover was affordable. So I cant see that clearer  information about the costs 
and benefit would have put Mrs M off taking the policy.
So overall I dont  think better information  would have changed Mrs Ms mind about the PPI. 
And I dont  think she lost out because of anything Allianz did wrong. So I dont think it needs 
to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019..
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5204997