K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold  her a payment protection  policy  (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mrs T took out PPI in one of Nationwides branches  in 2002 at the same  time as she was 
applying for a mortgage. The policy covered her for accident, sickness  and unemployment.  
She paid a monthly amount  for it.
The adjudicator didnt recommend Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld.  Mrs T disagreed so 
the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs T says she wasnt made aware the PPI was optional. Nationwide disputes this. 
Nationwide says the PPI would have  been presented as optional, as this was its usual sales 
process. It says Mrs T would have had the choice of either selecting or declining  it and what 
appeared on her printed mortgage application form was as a result of the answer she gave.
I cant know what was said in the meeting but Ive looked carefully at the available 
paperwork. On Mrs Ts mortgage  application form she signed to confirm  she wanted to take 
out PPI, and that Nationwide had given her enough information to allow  her to decide the 
level and type of cover she wanted.  There was nothing in that section that I think could 
reasonably have led her to think it was mandatory. 
So overall, I think its most likely that Nationwide made Mrs T aware that she had a choice  
about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. 
Mrs T says Nationwide recommended the PPI and didnt explain why it was suitable  for her. 
Nationwide has said it didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs T, and from what  Ive seen I think  
thats probably right. Theres no evidence that it reviewed  her individual  circumstances as 
part of the sales  process.  So it didnt have  to check if the policy  was right for her. But it did 
have to make sure Mrs T got all the information she needed  to decide if the PPI was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont  think  she 
wouldve been put off taking out the policy if she had received better  information.  I say this 
because:
Mrs T was eligible  for the policy given  her circumstances at the time and the policys 
terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN54500812Mrs T wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main  benefits, 
such as those affecting people with pre-existing medical conditions. As she couldve 
benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely better  information  about 
the policys exclusions and limitations would have changed  her decision to buy it. 
Mrs T was entitled to between six and 12 months sick pay but PPI would  have paid 
out for up to 24 months for each successful accident and sickness  claim. And the PPI 
gave her up to 24 months redundancy cover. Mrs T said she had £10,000 of easily 
accessible savings but the PPI would  have allowed  her to use these to cover other 
living expenses whilst  not working,  or to keep them intact for her future  needs.  
She also told us she had an endowment policy. But this would have been a savings 
scheme intended to help Mrs T pay off the balance  of her mortgage at the end of its 
term. PPI provided a different sort of cover and paid out in different circumstances. 
The PPI guaranteed a monthly  benefit  in the event of a successful claim so that she 
could continue to make her monthly mortgage  repayments during the mortgage  term. 
Given the consequences for Mrs T of defaulting  on a large and long term debt 
secured against  her home, I think the PPI would have been useful for her if she was 
sick or lost her job.
I dont know when  the cost was first made  clear  to Mrs T but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. And she could cancel it without 
further cost if at any stage she no longer wanted it.
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs T paid on her policy  and whether Nationwide 
treated her unfairly. 
Nationwide has told us that the commission for Mrs Ts policy was less than half of what she 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how Nationwide  has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs Ts commission  was less than half the 
cost of the policy. As thats the case,  I dont  think  it needed  to tell her about the commission  
 so I dont think  Nationwide treated her unfairly.  This means it doesnt need to pay Mrs T 
back any of the commission she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5450081