K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Metro Bank PLC acted  unfairly and unreasonably in relying on a 
valuation report when  making decisions about their mortgage application and refusing their 
appeal. They want another valuer  appointed,  the valuation fee refunded  and a different 
mortgage offer.
background
Mr and Mrs K wanted to remortgage their buy-to-let property and applied  to Metro. A valuer 
was appointed to report on the value of the property; Mr and Mrs K werent happy with the 
report. They said that it undervalued the property and incorrectly  stated its size. They  
appealed and gave details of the valuations given by four estate agents and the original 
survey confirming the size of the property. 
Metro said that it still relied  on the expert  independent report by its valuer and refused  to 
change the valuation of the property following a review by the valuer. It pointed  out that its 
valuation bore in mind  the value of a property when repossessed,  not when being marketed 
by estate agents, and the size was only an approximation. Mr and Mrs K said the valuation  
should be for market value.
Mr and Mrs K complained to us. The adjudicators  view was that Metro wasnt at fault and 
this service couldnt look into whether the valuer  was right or carried  out the valuation  
correctly. He said that Metro was entitled to rely on the valuers view and had acted fairly  
and reasonably in considering the appeal.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed. They didnt think that their complaint had been fully considered  and 
wanted to add a new complaint about Metro shouldve  told them to complaint to the valuer 
direct. The investigator  didnt change his view and pointed out that the valuer  was working  
for Metro, not Mr and Mrs K.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have focused on the core of this 
complaint, which  is about the valuation Metro obtained and the failed appeal.
Lenders are able to use their commercial judgement about to whom  to lend and how much. 
Effectively, Mr and Mrs K are unhappy  that they cant borrow  as much  as they want due to 
the valuation Metro obtained.  I note that this is a buy-to-let  mortgage application, which  is 
generally a commercial loan; this means that the expectations on Metro are lower  than if the 
mortgage was residential in nature.
And lenders are able to rely on professional advice from professional  valuers. Valuation  
reports are prepared for the lenders use to decide if enough security is being  offered to 
support the application, and arent prepared for the benefit of the customer. That is why 
Metro doesnt  have to disclose everything to Mr and Mrs K. 
Ref: DRN50821282In this case, Metro  appointed an expert to value the property; this is fair and reasonable.  
When objections to the valuation were raised  by Mr and Mrs K, Metro  put those comments 
and supporting evidence to the valuer  and asked for an expert opinion. The fact that 
Mr and Mrs K disagree with the expert  opinion doesnt mean that Metro  is unfair or 
unreasonable in relying  on the view of the valuer. It was fair and reasonable to allow  
Mr and Mrs K to appeal, but equally fair and reasonable for Metro to rely on the view of the 
valuer after he considered the appeal.
Ultimately, this service doesnt  decide  whether a valuers opinion is right. We look at the 
actions of the financial business.  Metro  has been  given an explanation by the valuer as to 
why his view is correct  (including both the issue of size and value generally), and its entitled 
to rely on that expert view. The valuation report also made it clear that the size of the 
property stated was only approximate and that the value of the property was largely  decided  
by the sales achieved in respect of neighbouring properties and location, not size. And while 
the valuation should consider market value, its not unfair or unreasonable for a lender  to 
also bear in mind the value of a property  if its repossessed as this can often reduce the 
value significantly.  I cant say Metro has acted unfairly or unreasonably in this matter.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to accept or reject my decision 
before 4 March  2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5082128