K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1999. Ms B says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Ms B says that she didnt need PPI and was told she had to have it  she said she was 
given a leaflet  to fill in and HSBC  helped her and told her what  boxes to tick and fill out. 
But I think its likely HSBC made  it clear  that Ms B didnt have to take out the PPI and 
she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this as it 
was so long ago. I say this because HSBC has provided a sample of the kind of credit 
card application  that Ms B wouldve completed at the time  and I can see that PPI was 
presented as an optional product, and she wouldve  had to choice in taking it out. I 
havent seen anything to suggest that HSBC followed a different process  with Ms B  
and even if HSBC  did help her fill in the application, Ms B was entering in to a financial  
agreement  so it was her responsibility to read over the application check what she was 
agreeing to. 
HSBC may have recommended the PPI to Ms B, if so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information HSBC gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
This means HSBC  doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Ms B.
Ive thought about everything Ms B has said, but these points dont change my decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019
Ref: DRN57582372Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5758237