K820x#14complaint
Mr P says National  Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold  him a payment protection
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2007.  The policy was added  to
Mr Ps credit  card account when he applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Mr Ps PPI policy was bought through an internet application.  NatWest has provided  a copy  
of the credit  agreement that was generated at the time Mr P applied for his credit card. On 
this credit agreement there  is a separate section for the PPI. Within this is states:  I wish to 
purchase Payment Protection  and a tick has been  placed next to this. This is followed by a 
short statement  about the PPI and Mr P had to tick again to sign for the cover. 
I can see both boxes  have been ticked.  And this section  is entirely  separate  to the credit 
card application.  There  is no indication within the form that Mr P had to agree to the cover to 
be accepted for the card. As this was an online sale there wouldnt have been  any input from 
a NatWest adviser either. So, on balance I think NatWest made it clear  the PPI was optional, 
and Mr P chose to take it out. 
Natwest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr P got the information  he needed to decide if it was right for 
him.
Its possible the information Natwest gave Mr P about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. Mr P has told us he was entitled  to good sick pay when he took the policy  out so he 
didnt need the policy. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Ps sick pay and for 
longer than he would have received full pay. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ps circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont  think 
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means Natwest doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN51582172Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 December  2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5158217