K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold them a fee-
paying packaged bank account (PBA).
background 
I issued a provisional decision on 11 September 2019 explaining why I thought the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ive attached a copy of my provisional decision  and it forms part of this 
decision.
HSBC didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs M did respond  and said they had nothing further to add. But they did send a 
photo of a letter (which couldnt be clearly read) that suggests that HSBC  made  an offer to 
Mr and Mrs M.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website, and Ive taken that into 
consideration when looking at this complaint.
As neither party has said or provided  anything  that changes my thoughts,  I see no reason to 
change my decision on this complaint. I therefore  think that the packaged bank account was 
mis-sold.
what HSBC needs to do to put matters right
HSBC needs to put Mr and Mrs M back into the position theyd be in now,  if it hadnt sold 
them the PBA. So HSBC  needs to: 
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amounts  they paid each month for the PBA.
Add 8% simple interest to those fees, calculated from the date they paid each fee until 
the date of settlement.
If Mr and Mrs M saved  money  because of a better rate on their overdraft or savings 
account by having  the PBA and HSBC can show exactly  how much Mr and Mrs M 
saved, it may deduct these savings from the amount it pays them. HSBC must explain  
clearly and simply to Mr and Mrs M how it has worked out any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  HSBC  to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give Mr and 
Mrs M a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN50265962my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold  this complaint 
and require HSBC  UK Bank Plc to do what I have set out above to put matters right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 November 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN50265963Copy of my provisional  decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold them a fee-
paying packaged bank account.
background
Mr and Mrs Ms fee-free  account was upgraded to a HSBC  Plus account in July 2009. It was 
later rebranded  as an Advance account  and then in November 2014 HSBC changed the 
Advance account so that there was no longer a monthly fee and instead added  a fee-paying 
Insurance Aspects package to the account - which account holders could opt out of if they 
no longer wanted  the insurance benefits provided  by the account.  For the sake of simplicity, I 
will refer to the packaged bank account as the PBA
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  raised  a complaint to HSBC  saying that the PBA had been  
mis-sold because Mr and Mrs M were led to believe  that they would be unable to get 
preferential rates without  the PBA. 
She says that it wasnt explained to Mr and Mrs M that a fee-free  option  was available if Mr 
and Mrs M wanted to get other products or have preferential rates.  And she says that Mr and 
Mrs M felt pressured and that they didnt understand the terms and conditions of the PBA 
that they agreed to. The representative  also says that when Mr M went into branch to 
question the monthly  fee, he was told hed not been eligible to use the benefits for the last 
two years,  so the account was downgraded.
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and concluded that the PBA had not been  
mis-sold. Mr and Mrs Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators  findings, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website, and Ive taken that into 
consideration when looking at this complaint.
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, I currently think  that 
HSBC mis-sold Mr and Mrs M the PBA.  Let me explain why.
The adjudicator who assessed the complaint  based their assessment on the sale of the 
account being a non-advised sale, which they thought had taken place in branch. 
However, when I reviewed the available evidence, HSBC has said that the method of sale 
i.e. was it sold in branch,  online or over the phone, was unknown. Yet Mr and Mrs Ms 
representative says that the sale was over the phone and has provided  Mr Ms recollections 
of the telephone call. Having considered what he had to say, I have no reason to doubt his 
recollections that it was sold over the phone, even if it may be the case  that he cannot recall 
what exactly was said  which given  the timescales involved is entirely understandable.
Ref: DRN50265964So having  weighed everything up, on balance I think the Advance account was more  likely to 
have been sold over the phone. And establishing that it was sold over the phone rather  than 
in branch is important,  because  based on what we know about HSBCs sales  processes at 
the time,  I think the sale was therefore  more  likely  to have been on an advised  basis, rather  
than a non-advised basis. And this again is an important distinction  to make, because if it 
was sold on an advised basis   which I think it was  this placed a burden on HSBC to make  
sure that the account they were  recommending to Mr and Mrs M was a good fit for their 
circumstances at the time.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  says that it was essentially sold to them because it gave 
them access  to preferential interest  rates on various  products.  The representative says that 
with hindsight, the savings werent great  and they probably couldve got cheaper  products 
elsewhere. 
But not getting round to using benefits (where there  mayve been an initial intention to do so) 
or being able to get cheaper  products  elsewhere, on its own, doesnt mean HSBC was 
wrong to have sold the PBA to Mr and Mrs M. This is because  HSBC can only reasonably be 
expected to provide advice about the products it sells  it was not, after all, acting  as an 
independent financial  adviser when selling the account. And it would be unreasonable  to 
expect HSBC to dissuade customers from taking out its products because  they could get 
them cheaper elsewhere  this is a decision that ultimately rests with the consumers to make 
for themselves.
Having said that, in recommending the PBA to Mr and Mrs M, HSBC still had to ensure that 
Mr and Mrs M would  be able to receive  a reasonable  amount of benefit from the preferential  
interest rates - if it was established that the consumers  had little or no need for the insurance 
benefits it provided. Otherwise it would be very poor advice if a consumer is recommended 
to take out a product  because it provides  better interest rates and costs, say £13 per month,  
when it would be clear  from the outset  (by establishing what their needs were) that theyd 
probably only save a few pence  each  month  by having the account. And essentially I think  
that is what has happened here.
At the time the PBA was sold (then called the Plus account) it cost £12.95 per month and 
provided a preferential interest  rate on overdrafts,  mortgages and savings accounts. And a 
10% repayment reward on personal loans. And it provided worldwide family travel insurance,  
breakdown cover as well as £3,000 life and accidental death cover  (up to the age of 64).
Mr and Mrs M have  said that they didnt  travel so had no need for the travel insurance  or the 
fee-free cash withdrawals  abroad.  They  did drive  so arguably they had a need for the 
breakdown cover, but Mr M says that he already had breakdown cover and kept it even after 
the PBA had been sold to him. So Im not persuaded  Mr M really had a need for the PBA 
breakdown cover or ever intended to rely on it. And it seems,  based on Mr and Mrs Ms 
recollections, that the emphasis of the sale was on the savings they could make on financial 
products, rather than for the insurance  benefits it provided. So Ive considered their 
circumstances in relation  to the products that provided  preferential  rates.
Ref: DRN50265965Based on the information HSBC has provided,  there  is no evidence Mr and Mrs M had ever 
applied for loans, So I dont think they had a particular need  for the repayment  reward  on 
personal loans.  And although it looks like they had a mortgage  with HSBC, I cant  see that 
they ever received any preferential rate on it from having the PBA. Mr and Mrs M did have a 
flexible saver account and a Cash  Isa savings account, but given  the amount of money  they 
had in the two accounts  at the time,  the extra amount they earned in interest  was nominal 
compared to the monthly cost of the PBA. And although Mr and Mrs M received  a 2% lower  
rate on their overdraft and had a £2,000 agreed  limit, again I dont think  the savings they 
received, even when  combined with the better  savings rate they also received, wouldve 
been enough to justify  recommending  the PBA to them.
So taking everything into account, I think that it was unreasonable  for HSBC to have 
recommended the PBA to Mr and Mrs M. And I think that how it was presented mayve led 
Mr and Mrs M to believe that the savings  they could make were perhaps better than what 
they would  really receive  that at least seems to be the case  based on the benefits it 
provided compared with Mr and Mrs Ms recollection of the sale.
Had things gone  as they shouldve, Im not persuaded  that HSBC  shouldve recommended 
Mr and Mrs M take out the PBA or that Mr and Mrs M wouldve agreed to upgrade to it. And I 
think that recommending it for the savings  they could potentially  receive  was poor advice in 
the specific circumstances of this complaint. 
So I currently think that the account  was mis-sold.  
what HSBC needs to do to put matters right
I intend to tell HSBC  to put Mr and Mrs M back into the position theyd be in now, if it hadnt 
sold them  the PBA. So HSBC will need  to: 
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amounts  they paid each month for the PBA
Add 8% simple interest to those fees, calculated from the date they paid each fee until 
the date of settlement
If Mr and Mrs M saved  money  because of a better rate on their overdraft or savings 
account by having  the PBA and HSBC can show exactly  how much Mr and Mrs M 
saved, it may deduct these savings from the amount it pays them. HSBC must explain  
clearly and simply to Mr and Mrs M how it has worked out any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  HSBC  to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give Mr and 
Mrs M a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my provisional decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I currently think that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold the 
PBA to Mr and Mrs M and that it should  do what  I have  set out above, to put matters right.
I now invite Mr and Mrs M (or their representative) and HSBC UK Bank Plc to give me any 
further information they want  me to consider, before I make my final decision. This must be 
provided to us by 25 September  2019.
Thomas white 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5026596