K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that PDL Finance  Limited  (trading as Mr Lender)  gave her loans that were 
unaffordable.
background
During 2014 and 2015  Miss G borrowed three instalment loans from Mr Lender, as follows:
Loan Amount Date borrowed Instalments Date repaid
1 £300 25.9.14 3 24.10.14
2 £250 5.9.15 3 25.11.15
3 £500 25.11.15 6 Sold
The first two loans were fully repaid (loan one was repaid  earlier than scheduled) but a 
balance remains outstanding in relation to loan three.
Miss G feels  that Mr Lender didnt carry out reasonable  and proportionate  checks  before 
lending to her. She believes that, if it had, Mr Lender  wouldve realised  that she was reliant 
upon payday loans and couldnt afford  to repay  its loans in a sustainable manner.
Mr Lender argues that it did undertake  adequate checks before  each loan and was satisfied  
that Miss G could afford  the repayments. However, as a gesture of goodwill, it offered to 
recall its final account for loan three  from the third party  to which  its been  sold, and to write-
off the outstanding balance of £364  (which  represents wholly  outstanding  interest).  If 
accepted, this would mean that Miss G wouldve paid only £11 in interest on the outstanding 
loan.
Our adjudicator felt that the checks Mr Lender carried out before each loan went  far enough 
and that, as a consequence, it wasnt wrong to lend to Miss G.
Miss G doesnt agree;  she feels that, because Mr Lender carried  out credit  checks,  these 
ought to have revealed the existence  of prior loan defaults. And, in the light of this, it 
wouldve realised that she had previously struggled to repay credit.
Because both parties dont agree the complaint  has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to make checks to see whether 
Miss G could  afford to pay back the loans before it lent to her. Those checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Miss G was borrowing and her lending history,  
but there was no set list of checks that Mr Lender had to do
Mr Lender has shown  us that, before it lent to Miss G, it carried out checks  on her 
employment and asked her for details of her regular income and total expenditure, including  
other loans.  It also undertook credit checks.  I havent seen the results of these credit  checks  
but I can see, from Mr Lenders files, that each check comprised a credit score,  and 
Ref: DRN58714912confirmation as to whether there  had been any insolvency events during the preceding three 
years (specifically IVA or bankruptcy). Its records show that there  had been none.  I cant  see 
anything to suggest that Mr Lenders  credit checks sought information on debt defaults.
When she applied for loans one and two, Miss G told Mr Lender that her net monthly  income 
was £1,549 and that she had total monthly  expenditure of £1,167.  This implied  that she had 
monthly disposable income of £382 with which  to repay Mr Lender.
At the time of loan three, Miss Gs declared income remained the same at £1,549, but her 
expenditure was slightly  reduced at £1,117, suggesting monthly disposable  income of £432.
loan one
Loan one was for £300 and was repayable  by three  monthly instalments, the highest  of 
which was £205.  I think that the information  requested, and checks undertaken, by Mr 
Lender were proportionate  in relation to this loan. It did carry out credit checks  and its 
records of the results of these dont show anything that I think  ought to have caused it 
concern. I do accept that Miss G had experienced two earlier loan defaults in 2013  but I cant  
see that Mr Lender was aware of this, and nor do I see any reason why it should be 
expected to have been aware of that.
I dont think it was wrong to provide loan one.
Loan one was repaid earlier than scheduled on 24 October 2014.
loan two
There was a gap of over 10 months after loan one had been  repaid before Miss G applied  
for loan two. I think that this is a long enough period of time for Mr Lender to have 
considered that her financial  circumstances might have changed. And, in light of this, I dont 
think that loan two should be considered as forming part of a chain of loans with the initial 
loan.
I think that the checks carried out by Mr Lender remained proportionate and that its loan 
repayments, including the highest  payment  of £125,  wouldve  appeared affordable to it 
against Miss Gs declared monthly disposable income of £382.
Here again,  the recorded credit check results dont  reveal anything  untoward. Whilst I can 
see that there was an additional loan default in August 2015 I dont think its reasonable to 
expect Mr Lender to have been aware of this.
I dont think Mr Lender was wrong  to provide  this loan.
loan three
Loan three was granted on the same day that loan two was repaid. It was for a higher value, 
and was repayable over a longer term of 6 months. Despite this, I still think  that the checks 
Mr Lender undertook were proportionate in these  circumstances and that the monthly 
repayments wouldve  appeared  to it to be affordable. I dont think it was wrong to provide this 
loan.
Ref: DRN58714913I can see that Miss G had been  experiencing financial  difficulties and Im sorry for that. But I 
dont think its reasonable to expect Mr Lender  to have been aware of this. I know  that itll be 
a disappointment to Miss G but, for the reasons set out above,  I dont intend to uphold  her 
complaint. I think that Mr Lenders offer to write  off the residual balance  outstanding against 
loan three  is a worthwhile  gesture of goodwill and I would encourage Miss G to accept that.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2019.
Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5871491