K822xcomplaint
Ms E has complained that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. failed  to pay all of her claim under her travel policy when her young son 
became ill on holiday  and they needed to come home  to the UK.
background 
Ms E, her partner  and two children were  on a two-centre holiday in Europe. Just as they 
finished the first part, her young son became ill and they missed  their flight  to the second  
part of their holiday. 
Ms E called  Mapfres medical assistance  team who told her buy hotel accommodation whilst  
she waited to see if her claim was covered. After a few days, Mapfre  confirmed Ms Es claim 
was covered and it was decided they should all return to the UK, which Mapfre  arranged.
On her return, Ms E claimed for lost accommodation  she had already paid for, her flights  to 
the second centre of her holiday and the costs Mapfre told her to incur whilst  she waiting to 
hear about the requested  medical assistance.
Ms E said Mapfre didnt pay all of this. Mapfre thought  it had paid everything for which  its 
policy provided cover. Ms E remained dissatisfied  and brought  her complaint to us.
The adjudicator thought  Mapfre  hadnt  paid for the accommodation expenses, which  it had 
told Ms E to incur whilst  she was waiting for Mapfres medical assistance. So she thought 
Mapfre should now pay these with interest. Mapfre disagreed and it believed it had paid 
these costs. So Ms Es complaint was passed  to me to decide.  
I issued a provisional decision on 19 August and said the following:
Its been very difficult to unravel all the different costs claimed  and which of those 
were paid by Mapfre initially.
Ms E and her family went on holiday on 7 August 2018. They  were  due to return to 
the UK on 22 August 2018.  On 14 August, they were due to fly to the second centre 
for the remainder of their holiday.  Unfortunately,  the night before the flight,  Ms Es 
young son became  ill and needed hospital treatment. By the time he was discharged  
on 14 August, they had missed their flights for the second part of their holiday.  The 
airline also told them their return flights to London on 22 were also consequently 
cancelled. So in effect they all were now stranded unable to get to second place for 
the rest of their holiday  and unable to get back to London, as both flights had been  
cancelled without any refund.
Therefore, their losses comprised of the following:
Flight  costs for the second part of their holiday,  which was £1,200.
Flight  costs back to the UK.
Hotel accommodation for 14 August in the second centre. €38.
Hotel accommodation for the rest of the holiday in the second centre from 
15 August. (The total hotel accommodation  for both centres  excluding  
14 August was £1,002.54)
Ref: DRN58435292Additionally they incurred  the following from 14 August waiting to return to the UK on 
17 August.
Hotel expenses for that time,
Taxi expenses 
Medical expenses.
Mapfre paid the following  via two letters, one dated  6 September  and another dated 
27 September.
Taxi expenses,
Medical expenses  
Hotel expenses from 14 August to 17 August - the total in sterling is £158.02.
Pre-booked hotel costs from 17 August to 21 August.
Some confusion arose over theses accommodation  costs, which made  things very 
difficult to follow. Essentially Mapfre said because it paid the accommodation  costs  
from 14 August to 17 August when Ms E was waiting to be flown back  to the UK, it 
then wouldnt pay Ms Es losses of unused  accommodation  for those dates  for what 
would have been the hotel costs in the second  centre. It would only pay those 
accommodation losses from 17 August to 21 August.
Its clear nevertheless, there was an overall shortfall of £318.38 to include the €38 
cost Ms E had booked  for 14 August, which when converted  to sterling,  is £33.94. 
This is because the accommodation costs that Ms E actually occurred from 14 
August to 17 August waiting to return to the UK, was less than the accommodation 
costs for those dates  that she had pre-booked in the second  centre  for her holiday.  
Therefore, Mapfre is now willing to pay Ms E a further £160.36,  which takes account 
of these losses. I think that fair, as Ms E cant have reimbursement of two lots of 
accommodation costs  for the same days. I also consider interest  should  be added  to 
this from the date of Ms Es claim to the date Mapfre refunds her.
Theres no cover under  this policy for any flights that arent either the outward flight  to 
the holiday destination or the return flight.  Therefore,  Ms Es costs of internal flights  in 
the sum of £1,200 to the second  centre arent covered. This is clearly detailed  in the 
policy, both in the key facts  section and the policy  document. Travel insurance 
policies dont have  to cover every  eventuality or consequence of a claim.  And here 
Mapfre clearly  excluded  these internal flights from cover.
Additionally Mapfre  paid hospital  benefit  of £40 per day under the policy. It rightly 
paid just one day of £40 as thats all the time Ms Es son was in hospital  for.
Lastly, Mapfre made much of the fact that its cover actually only provided cover  for 
the person who had become ill and just one relative, whereas it agreed to fly Ms Es 
partner and daughter home too on 17 August as a gesture of goodwill. However, I 
consider that it would have been unconscionable  that Mr E and their young  daughter  
would have thought to abandon Ms E and their young son to take the flight  to second 
centre and stay there until flying home  on 22 August,  whilst  their son was in hospital 
ill, and requiring treatment. Therefore, I consider that it was fair and reasonable in 
these circumstances  that Mapfre flew the entire  family home together on 17 August.
Ref: DRN58435293Ms E didnt respond to my provisional  decision. Mapfre  agreed  with my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mapfre has agreed with my provisional decision and Ms E hasnt responded, I consider 
theres no reason  to depart  from the reasoning in my provisional  decision  above.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part.
I now require Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A. to 
the following:
Pay Ms E a further sum of £160.36, adding interest of 8% simple per year from the 
date of Ms Es claim to the date it pays her.*
*If Mapfre  Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A. considers 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Ms E how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate if 
she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5843529