K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc irresponsibly approved his application 
for a student account with an overdraft facility  without properly assessing his financial 
situation. Mr J also complains that he was able to access his online banking facility  before he 
received his bank  card and PIN.
background
In December 2017 Mr J applied for a student  account with RBS. At the time he applied Mr J 
was a student and already had five student  accounts with other banks that were  overdrawn. 
RBS approved Mr Js loan application  and gave him an interest  free overdraft of £2,000. 
Mr J spent his overdraft  within months of opening his account and he didnt pay any money 
into his account.  So, RBS tried to contact Mr J to discuss how he was managing  his account.  
But it said it didnt receive a response  from Mr J. And, on 1 May 2018, correspondence RBS 
had sent to Mr J was returned to it. So, it sent him text and email  correspondence asking him 
to update his address.
As RBS didnt hear from Mr J it ended his overdraft arrangement and told him he needed to 
repay the money he had withdrawn. Mr J wasnt  happy with this and complained  to RBS that 
it had acted irresponsibly  when it opened  his account and gave him an overdraft  facility.  He 
said he couldnt afford to repay the overdraft  and he didnt think  RBS had sufficiently 
checked whether  it was affordable to him before it approved his application. He thought it 
shouldnt have provided him with an overdraft facility because he was a student and had 
other accounts that were overdrawn.  And he also said RBS had allowed him to access 
online banking and withdraw money before he had received his bank card and PIN. 
RBS didnt uphold  Mr Js complaint. It said it was satisfied it had appropriately assessed 
whether it should  lend to him. And it said it hadnt  made an error  in allowing Mr J to access  
his account and withdraw overdraft money. 
Mr J wasnt satisfied with RBS response and brought  his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into this and, while they empathised with Mr J, didnt think RBS had done anything 
wrong. But Mr J disagreed, so his complaint  has been referred to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr J feels very strongly about the issues  raised in this complaint. But taking  
everything he and RBS have said into account I dont think  RBS did anything  wrong here.  I 
recognise that Mr J will be disappointed  with my conclusions so Ill explain why I dont  uphold  
this complaint.
Mr J thinks RBS decision to approve his overdraft facility was irresponsible  because he
was a student and had other student  accounts that were overdrawn. But based on what Ive 
seen, I dont think it was wrong of RBS to allow Mr J to have another student  account with an 
overdraft facility. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN55501812Before approving Mr Js account  and overdraft  application, RBS had to assess the 
affordability of credit  it was prepared  to offer Mr J so it was satisfied he could afford to repay 
what he would be borrowing. Our investigator has already  explained to Mr J that its up to 
RBS which  checks it carries out. But they need to be reasonable and proportionate to, for 
example, the amount being borrowed,  the cost of repayment and a customers lending 
history. 
Our service cant tell a lender what checks they should undertake.  We arent the regulators 
of banks or building  societies.  So, we cant say a lender shouldve done  any particular check 
and there  isnt a set list of checks it needed  to do in any event. And we also cant tell a 
business how to set out its lending criteria. But, from what  Ive seen RBS has acted as we 
would expect it to.
I say this because  RBS says Mr Js account and overdraft  application  was assessed by a 
specialist team. They checked  Mr Js identification  by obtaining a copy of his passport.  And, 
having confirmed  Mr Js student status with his university, RBS was satisfied that he was 
eligible for a student  account. 
In addition to this, RBS reviewed the information  Mr J had provided as part of the application 
process. It considered the information  he had provided regarding his expenditure and 
personal circumstances. And it also scored Mr J on its internal scoring models. RBS credit 
scored Mr Js application  using information  it had obtained from credit reference  agencies. 
Having undertaken all of these assessments RBS said it was satisfied  that Mr J met its 
lending criteria. So, it decided  to approve  his overdraft  application  as it thought  it was 
affordable to him.
Mr J said RBS didnt ask for any evidence of his income or student finance. But RBS told our 
service student account applications dont require proof of income as its assumed that 
students wont have  an income during their studies.  It said this is industry wide practice. And 
RBS said its expectation  is that students  will secure employment after leaving education and 
repay their overdraft from these funds.  I think this is reasonable. It also explains why RBS 
didnt request proof of income  prior to approving  Mr Js application for a student account. 
I think, overall, at the time Mr J made his application for a student account, RBS fairly 
assessed his ability to repay the overdraft it offered him. From what Ive seen Im satisfied it 
undertook sufficient affordability  checks,  which were proportionate to the overdraft  it was 
prepared to offer Mr J and which he passed. So, I think RBS has shown that its acted fairly 
here and assessed  Mr Js application  as wed expect it to. I dont believe RBS loaned money 
to Mr J irresponsibly and Im satisfied that his application  was processed correctly  in these 
circumstances.
When Mr J applied for his account  with RBS theres no evidence  he had adverse credit  
recorded. Mr J feels the fact that he had overdrawn student accounts elsewhere shouldve  
stopped RBS from approving his account and overdraft application. And he thinks RBS 
shouldve known about his accounts elsewhere  and how he was managing  them when it 
undertook its affordability assessment. But, I cant agree that his accounts and finances  
elsewhere shouldve  triggered concern. 
Ref: DRN55501813I say this because  I think  when RBS reviewed Mr Js credit  report at the time it approved his 
application this would, most likely,  only have shown  one account elsewhere. This account  
was a student account, which was opened in August 2014.  But, having seen a credit report 
in Mr Js name, this account  isnt specified as a student account. This means RBS wouldnt  
have known it was a student account unless Mr J told it. 
In addition to the account  Mr J opened  in 2014, he had four other overdrawn accounts 
elsewhere by the time he applied for his account  and overdraft with RBS.  But those accounts 
were opened  in October and November 2017 and he accumulated  debt with those banks 
quickly after opening  each  account. Updating credit files can take some  time. So, Im 
satisfied its unlikely these  accounts wouldve shown up on Mr Js credit file before 
December 2017   when Mr J applied for his account  and overdraft with RBS.  This means 
RBS wouldnt have  known  about  these other account unless Mr J had told it about them. 
And theres  no evidence  that he did. 
I think that, in the absence of disclosure from Mr J, it wouldve been difficult  for RBS to get a 
true picture of how he was managing his finances  with other  banks. Im persuaded that, in 
view of the information RBS wouldve had available from credit  reference agencies, its 
unlikely it wouldve seen  anything  that shouldve deterred it from approving  Mr Js account 
and overdraft application. So, Im satisfied it didnt  act unfairly or unreasonably when it gave 
Mr J an overdraft facility. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Mr J wanted and used the overdraft  RBS gave him. He made 
withdrawals from his account and kept his balance within  the limit. Mr J has said he cant  
afford to repay the overdraft. But for the reasons above, Im not persuaded this overdraft was 
unaffordable to him. I havent seen any evidence that he told RBS he was experiencing 
financial difficulties. And RBS said it doesnt have  a record  of Mr J doing so. 
Being a student with overdrawn accounts  elsewhere  isnt necessary an indication of financial 
difficulties. And as RBS wouldnt  have been  aware of Mr Js financial situation  and how he 
was managing his accounts elsewhere I think it wouldve  been  very difficult for it to have 
known about Mr Js personal circumstances unless he told it about them. So, with this in 
mind, Im not persuaded that there  were  any reasons RBS couldve been aware that Mr J 
was experiencing financial  difficulties. That means  I dont think  it shouldve done  anything 
differently. And, Im not persuaded  the overdraft was unaffordable  to him or that RBS 
irresponsibly lent to him.
If Mr J had told RBS he was experiencing financial  difficulties it wouldve had had a duty to 
treat him positively  and sympathetically. But this wouldnt  mean  it would need  to write off the 
debt he owes. Instead, wed expect a bank to consider waiving or freezing any interest or 
charges it had applied to a customers account. And, as this was a student account,  no 
interest or charges were  applied here.
RBS has withdrawn this overdraft and asked Mr J to repay  it. Having seen the terms and 
conditions of Mr Js account,  Im satisfied RBS are entitled to do this. And I can see RBS 
sent Mr J a letter when  he opened  his account to explain  that his overdraft  was not for a 
fixed period and was repayable on demand. So, Im satisfied Mr J was made  aware that 
RBS could ask him to repay his overdraft  if it wanted  to. And I dont think  RBS has done 
anything wrong  in asking him to return the money hes withdrawn.
Mr J has also said RBS acted wrongly in allowing him to withdraw money without  making 
payments into his account first. But I havent seen  any evidence  to say that RBS shouldve  
Ref: DRN55501814prevented Mr J from accessing the money he withdrew. The terms of Mr Js account didnt 
require him to make payments into his account before he was able to use his overdraft 
facility. So, I cant reasonably say RBS has done  anything wrong in allowing him to access 
overdraft money.
The final part of Mr Js complaint is that RBS allowed him to access his online banking  and 
withdraw his money  before he received his bank  card and PIN. But these arent  needed for 
Mr J to access his account online.  Im satisfied that when Mr J accessed  his account online 
he used his password,  online PIN and customer number to log in. I say this because  RBS 
has said that isnt possible for a customer to access online banking  without  their online PIN 
due to its online banking  security measures. 
Ive seen evidence  that Mr J successfully logged onto online banking  on numerous 
occasions from the date his account  was opened  until March  2018. And from what Ive seen 
Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr J used his password and online PIN each time he 
accessed his account online. So, I think he accessed his online account  each time having 
successfully completed  security and verified his login details. And, with that in mind,  I dont 
think RBS acted unreasonably in allowing him to access his account online.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5550181