K820x#14Complaint
Miss M complains because Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA)  hasnt paid a claim under her 
travel insurance policy. 
All references to IPA include the agents it has appointed to handle  claims. 
Background
Miss M held a travel insurance policy, provided by IPA. 
Unfortunately, while  on holiday  abroad, Miss M fell ill and was admitted to hospital. Miss M 
says the hospital tried to contact IPA several times but was unable  to get through, so 
concluded it didnt  recognise Miss Ms insurance and asked her to pay her medical bills in 
full. 
When Miss M returned to the UK she contacted  IPA to make a claim. IPA said Miss Ms 
claim wasnt covered because she hadnt told it she was waiting for an MRI scan when she 
bought the policy. IPA said, if it had known this, it wouldnt have sold Miss M the policy.  
Miss M complained to IPA and then brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss M didnt agree, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IPA says this policy doesnt cover  pre-existing  medical conditions and that Miss M 
misrepresented facts about her medical  history  to it when she took out the policy.  
The terms and conditions  of Miss Ms policy say that claims arising directly or indirectly  from 
pre-existing medical conditions are not covered  under  her policy.  But theres no indication 
that this claim arose either directly or indirectly  from the MRI scan  Miss M was waiting for, so 
I dont think IPA is entitled to rely on this policy exclusion to turn down her claim. 
However, I think the principles set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures  and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant and I think its fair and reasonable to 
apply these to the circumstances of Miss Ms claim. 
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate  remedy  if a 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. 
A qualifying  misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to 
misrepresent facts which an insurer has asked about. The standard of care required is that 
of a reasonable consumer. One of the factors to be considered  when deciding  whether a 
consumer has taken  reasonable  care is how clear and specific the questions asked by the 
insurer were.  
IPA has provided evidence to show, when Miss M bought her policy,  she was asked;
Ref: DRN51584862Is anyone you wish to insure on this policy awaiting a diagnosis, surgery,  treatment, 
tests or investigations (or their results) for any medical condition,  or suffering 
symptoms that have not yet been  discussed  with a doctor?
Miss M answered  no and was able to proceed to purchase the policy. 
I think this is a clear question. The first part of the question  asks whether anyone is awaiting  
tests or investigations, or their results. The second part of the question,  separated from the 
first by a comma and the word or, asks whether anyone  is suffering symptoms that have 
not yet been discussed  with a doctor.
I dont think its reasonable to interpret this question as asking only about tests  or 
investigations which have  been specifically discussed with a GP.  
The medical certificate completed by Miss Ms doctor says, at the time she bought the policy, 
she was awaiting an MRI scan. I appreciate Miss M hadnt had either the scan  or the results  
of the scan at that point, but the question IPA asked  was whether anyone  was awaiting tests 
or investigations. The medical evidence Ive seen shows  Miss M was, at that time, awaiting 
tests or investigations. 
I think a reasonable  consumer  would have realised IPA would, in response to the question  
asked, want to know if someone was awaiting an MRI scan. So, I dont think Miss M took 
reasonable care when  answering the above  question in the way she did. 
This means  I think  Miss M made a qualifying  misrepresentation under CIDRA, so IPA is 
entitled to apply the relevant remedy set out under the legislation. These remedies apply 
regardless of whether there is any connection  between the consumers medical  history  and 
the reason for their claim. 
In cases of careless misrepresentation, if the insurer can show  it would not have entered  into 
the contract  on any terms, then the insurer can avoid the contract  and refuse all claims but 
should return the premium paid.  
IPA has provided evidence to show if Miss M had answered yes to the above question, a 
message would have been displayed saying:
Policy Issue  Medical Warranty
We are unable to proceed with a booking on-line if anyone is currently awaiting a 
diagnosis of symptoms,  results from tests or investigations or currently suffering  
symptoms that they have  yet to discuss with their doctor. Please contact us again 
once you have received a full diagnosis and/or when your treatment is complete
So, Im satisfied IPA wouldnt have sold Miss M this  or any other  policy if shed told it she 
was waiting for an MRI scan  at the time she bought her insurance. Regardless  of what the 
outcome of Miss Ms MRI scan  ultimately was, this means IPA is entitled to avoid  Miss Ms 
policy and turn down  her claim, but it should  refund her the premium she paid. 
IPA has now said it is prepared to refund  Miss Ms policy premium to her, in line with the 
remedy for careless misrepresentation under CIDRA.
Ref: DRN51584863Im sorry  to disappoint Miss M. I understand she was medically fit to travel  abroad and I also 
understand the condition  she is claiming  for isnt related to the MRI scan. But I dont think 
IPA has acted unfairly or unreasonably by turning down her claim and I wont be 
recommending that it should do anything further.   
Miss M has raised  a number of other complaint  points. She says the hospital was unable to 
contact IPA and I understand Miss M was then told the hospital didnt recognise  her 
insurance provider.  
I asked IPA about this and it says it works  with any hospital, and the first record it has of any 
communication about the claim was when  Miss M contacted it herself on her return  to the 
UK. Based on the information Ive seen, I dont think I can fairly hold IPA responsible for any 
failure by the hospital to make contact  with it while Miss M was abroad.  
Miss M says IPA should have highlighted the issues with her claim to her from the beginning. 
But, when Miss M first spoke  to IPA about  her claim, it didnt yet have a completed medical 
certificate from her GP. So IPA would have been unable  to let Miss M know her claim wasnt  
covered at that point. 
Miss M is also unhappy with the length  of time her claim took, as well as with IPAs  delays  in 
responding to her complaint. Having  considered  everything  that happened,  I think  IPA 
handled things  within a reasonable timeframe. Any delays  by Miss Ms GP is returning the 
completed medical certificate  are outside of IPAs control and IPA provided referral rights  to 
our service  within eight weeks of Miss Ms initial email of complaint, in line with the 
timescales set out by the Financial Conduct Authority. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Inter Partner Assistance  SA has made  an offer to refund  Miss M the premiums she paid for 
her travel insurance policy. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances, so I direct that 
Inter Partner Assistance  SA should pay this to Miss M. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5158486