K821x#15complaint
Mr Y says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading  as Sunny irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about six instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr Y between December 
2017 and July 2018. A summary of Mr Ys borrowing history  is set out below:
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 20/12/2017 25/05/2018 162 days £200.00 £50.17
2 29/01/2018 25/05/2018 183 days  £100.00 £83.40
3 12/02/2018 25/05/2018 169 days £200.00 £143.87
4 14/02/2018 25/05/2018 167 days £250.00 £218.38
5 18/07/2018 15/09/2018 166 days £250.00 £74.15
6 28/07/2018 31/01/2019 187 days £250.00 £157.48
Mr Y said that he had already taken out loans when he took out the next one. He told us he 
had problems paying the loan and was not given clear advice about debt counselling or 
given the chance to set up a repayment plan with the interest  frozen.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ys complaint. She said the loans from loan 4 onwards shouldnt  
have been given. Sunny disagreed with this view. It said that Mr Y was granted 6 instalment 
loans - the smallest  being £100  and the highest £250. Against  Mr Ys declared  income,  the 
repayments only took a small percentage of his monthly income to make  repayments. And it 
said taking into account his net disposable income he had sufficient means to meet the 
repayments. It said Mr Y did not raise  affordability  issues when he made contact and it didnt 
believe there were signs which would have suggested Mr Y had problems managing money. 
It also said it did not agree the pattern of lending was unsustainable  as there had been a gap 
in lending between  loans 4 and 5. 
As the parties are not in agreement the complaint  was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr Y could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
Ref: DRN50821402the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr Y could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ys complaint. Having  done  so, Ive decided  to uphold  
this complaint from loan 4 onwards.  I will explain why.
I think the checks Sunny did before agreeing to provide  Mr Y with loans 1-3 were 
proportionate. The amounts that Mr Y needed to repay would have seemed to be affordable  
compared with the disposable income hed declared. Taking account of the repayment 
amounts for these  loans, Mr Ys circumstances  and thinking about the fact that this was in 
the early stages of his relationship with Sunny,  I dont  think  Sunny needed to ask for further 
information from him before agreeing to lend.
Following loan 3, Mr Y took out loan 4 only two days after Sunny had agreed to lend him 
loan 3. At that time he still had loans 1, 2 and 3 outstanding. 
Loan 4 was also for a larger amount than his previous 3 loans. By the time it lent Mr Y loan 
4, Sunny should  have been alerted to the possibility that Mr Y might  have been having some  
difficulty in managing his finances. Mr Ys debt had increased significantly since  loan 1. This 
is reflected in the monthly repayments which were now over four times  the size of Mr Ys first 
loan repayment.  And all these loans overlapped. I think this likely posed a significant  risk to 
Mr Y which is backed up by the small gap between the approval date of loans 3 and 4. And I 
think Sunny  ought  to have known that there  was a significant risk Mr Y wouldve been unable  
to sustainably meet his monthly repayments  for this loan. 
Ref: DRN50821403Ive also explained  above that even if a loan may appear affordable on a pounds and pence 
basis it doesnt necessarily mean  that a consumer can afford to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner.
The regulations in place at the time provided guidance about what  sustainable meant - the 
payments could be made without undue difficulties, on time, while meeting other  reasonable 
commitments and without having  to borrow  to meet the repayments, over the life of the 
agreement, and out of income  or savings.
Taking everything into account  and on Sunnys own information that Mr Y still had 
outstanding loans which hadnt been repaid, I dont think  it was reasonable for it to conclude  
that Mr Y was going to be able to sustainably  repay  loan 4 or loan 5.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr Y, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ys case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr Y was not managing  to repay  his loans 
sustainably. Mr Y had taken out 6 loans in just over 7 months and hed also had an 
overall lending  relationship with Sunny for all that time,  save  for a gap of  24 days  
between loans 4 and 5. So Sunny ought to have realised it was more  likely than not 
Mr Y was having  to borrow  further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was 
leaving in his finances and that Mr Ys indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Ys first loan was for £200  and loan 6 was for £250. At this point Sunny ought to 
have known that Mr Y was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall  in their 
income but to meet an ongoing  need. 
There was very little gap between the time Mr Y paid off the previous  loan and the 
time he took out his next loan. And on four occasions when Mr Y took out further 
borrowing, he still had at least one outstanding  loan with Sunny. For example, when 
Mr Y was provided  with loan 6 it was given within 10 days of Sunny giving Mr Y loan 
5 which  was still outstanding. 
Mr Y wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan 6 was 
taken out just over 7 months after Mr Ys first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr Y 
had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr Y lost out because Sunny provided loan 6 because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ys indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr Y borrowed was likely  to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Ys ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him/her in the market  for these high-cost loans.
Ref: DRN50821404So, Im also upholding  the complaint about 4 and 5 and loan 6 and Sunny should put things 
right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr Y paid on loans 4, 5 and 6;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about 4 and 5 from Mr Ys credit  file;
Any information recorded about  Mr Y in relation to loan 6 is adverse. So all entries 
about loan 6 should be removed from Mr Ys credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr Y a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ys complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.  
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5082140