K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (MPPI) policy in November 2002.
The policy cost £37.11 each month and it covered Mr T in the event he lost his job and was 
unemployed or if he wasnt working due to accident  or sickness. And it wouldve provided a 
monthly benefit of £620 for up to 12 months following a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagreed so the 
complaint comes to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think its likely  BOS  made it clear  that Mr and Mrs T didnt have to take out the MPPI 
and they chose  to purchase the policy  although  I can understand if they cant  
remember this given how long ago it was.
I havent been able to look at all the paperwork from the time the policy was sold but I 
dont think this is surprising given how long ago the sale took place  nearly 20 years  
ago. However, I do know that the way MPPI was presented  at the time Mr and Mrs T 
took out the MPPI  showed that it was optional, and that a customer  needed to agree to 
a policy  before it was set up. So Im satisfied  the policy was optional  and I think its more  
likely that Mr and Mrs T were given a choice about  the MPPI. 
BOS confirms that this was an advised sale, so it needed to take appropriate steps  to 
ensure that the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs T. And for the reasons  set out below I 
think it was suitable for them,  taking into account  the policy benefits, cost of cover and 
their broader financial  circumstances  at that time. And I dont think  its likely that they 
wouldve acted differently; and not taken out the policy, if theyd been  better  advised  and 
informed.
I say this because:
The policy covered  Mr T and given his circumstances at the time of the sale, (and 
taking account  of the policy conditions), I am satisfied he was eligible for the cover.
His circumstances do not suggest  that he wouldve been affected by any of the 
significant limitations or exclusions of the cover, such  as those relating to health 
conditions or unusual employment  arrangements. He told us he was employed and in 
good health. So he could expect to benefit from the full extent of the cover provided  
by this policy.
Ref: DRN59685272Whilst Mr and Mrs T received some occupational benefits; six months  sick pay, this 
does not automatically  mean that the policy was unsuitable. This is because if Mr T 
was unable to work,  the MPPI was intended  to remove the additional pressure of 
maintaining mortgage  repayments, at what would likely be a difficult  time.  
Mr and Mrs T told us they had a small amount of savings  but the policy  would also 
have allowed Mr and Mrs T to leave these savings for the purpose that theyd 
intended as well as other essential  expenses at what is likely to be a difficult  time 
financially if Mr T had lost his job.
So Im satisfied that if a recommendation  was made,  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for someone in their circumstances.
I dont know for certain  how the costs of the policy were explained during the 
conversation with the BOS sales adviser.  The policy provided  a monthly benefit at a 
cost of around £37.00 per month.  And it seems  to me that someone in their 
circumstances might have concluded that the policy provided valuable  cover at a 
very reasonable price. And in the event  that they no longer wanted  to have the 
benefit of the cover,  Mr and Mrs T could  have cancelled the policy  at any time without 
penalty.
Summary
So, having  considered all the evidence  carefully,  although I accept there may well have been 
some failings in how the policy was sold, I dont  think  Mr and Mrs T would have  decided  
against taking  it out if they had been better informed. It seems  more likely to me that they 
had some interest in protecting  their mortgage  repayments and chose to go ahead  with the 
policy. 
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint against 
Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 October  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5968527