K820x#14complaint
Mr Y has complained about Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty SEs (Allianz) decision to 
decline a claim he made  on his Housing Warranty Insurance  Policy.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2020 explaining that I wasnt  
intending to uphold it. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background 
There have been  several businesses involved in this complaint who have acted on 
behalf of Allianz.  But Ill only refer to Allianz by name  in this decision, even when 
referring to the actions  or arguments of its representatives.
Mr Y has raised two claim  issues with Allianz about issues at his property which he 
believes have been caused by defects   as defined in the policy.  These relate to 
movement of his front garden boundary wall, which he says has been caused  by 
poorly constructed foundations. And the construction of his waste drainage, which he 
says isnt capable  of self-cleaning due to being  built at an insufficient gradient.
Allianz instructed  a firm of structural engineers  to attend Mr Ys property and assess  
the causes of these  issues.  They felt the movement of the wall was due to ground 
settlement rather than any structural defect. They highlighted that the wall had been  
rebuilt, by the developer, in 2015 following a report of similar issues and said it 
seems the new wall was built before the ground  finished settling, which  is why it had 
continued to move.
Based on the engineers report Allianz has declined Mr Ys claim. It said in order for 
policy cover  to apply there needed  to be either a defect in the structural  works which 
causes damage,  or a defect in respect of Building  Regulations which causes a 
present or imminent danger to the health  and safety of the occupants.
In this case, Allianz argued that:
Movement of the wall was caused by settlement of the ground  beneath  the 
foundations caused  by water  ingress from natural sources, rather than a 
defect to the structural works  as defined in the policy.
Although the structural engineers report highlighted the depth of the 
foundations was 50mm less than that required by the relevant Building 
Regulations, they felt this was offset  by the thickness of the foundations.  The 
engineer felt that the foundations arent  causative  of the movement so the 
policy cannot respond.
In any event, a breach  of Building Regulations  also requires a present or 
imminent danger to the health and safety  of the occupants. It says there  is no 
evidence the wall will collapse or is in danger of collapsing as it has been in 
its present state since 2017.
The policy specifically excludes  damage  caused by subsidence, heave or 
landslip, unless it was caused by a defect.
Ref: DRN53283662The wall was rebuilt in 2015  so wouldnt be considered works completed in 
construction of the property. It said alterations are specifically excluded  
unless reported  to Allianz  which they werent.
The manhole cover and drainage issue wouldnt be covered as there was no 
evidence the issues with the waste pipe were caused by a defect  or that the 
pipe was constructed contrary to Building Regulations.
The pipe issue appears to have been  caused by the same ground  settlement 
that has caused the wall issue and which isnt covered by the policy.
Mr Y remained unhappy,  so he brought his complaint  to our service where it was 
looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator didnt think Mr Ys complaint 
should be upheld.  He said the engineer reports hed seen suggested that the issues 
werent caused by a defect in the structural works  and that he hadnt seen evidence 
that the drainage system  wasnt working.
Mr Y didn't  accept our investigator's  opinion.  He felt our investigator had only 
addressed the points  Allianz felt it had justification  for. He provided comments  from 
his own structural engineer which stated that the wall had been constructed  on 
inadequate foundations. It said Allianzs  engineers  had highlighted that movement 
was caused by settlement of the un-compacted fill material situated  behind the 
basement retaining wall. It said moisture penetration had increased damage but was 
not the primary cause.  It also said the natural ground in the area, on which  the 
building is founded,  is a hard clay. 
Mr Y added to this report by highlighting that:
The relevant  Building Regulations say that strip foundations should be at least  
0.45m deep. He said the regulations are clear and do not make allowances 
for the thickness of the foundations offsetting  shallower foundations.
His engineer highlighted the building  is founded  on clay, in which  case 
Building Regulations state foundations should be at least 0.75m  deep.
Our investigator hadnt  considered  that loosely backfilled land had been used 
underneath the foundations of the wall. He highlighted another section of 
Building Regulations which said there  should not be non-engineered fill, wide 
variation in ground conditions in the loaded area or weaker  or more  
compressible ground below the foundations as could impair  the stability of the 
structure.
Our investigator had confused the matters between the damaged manhole 
cover and the defect  with the drainage. He said Allianzs engineers had 
highlighted that the gradient  of the drainage  was less than that required by 
Building Regulations. He said because of this, the foul waste doesnt drain 
away and causes  a foul smell and flies to gather near their front door.
He also pointed out that polystyrene had been used in construction  of the 
foundations which  he feels  is a defect.
Because no agreement had been  able to be reached, the complaint  was passed to 
me to decide.
Ref: DRN53283663I asked Allianz to respond to Mr Ys additional arguments and evidence.  It provided 
further comments from its structural engineer  confirming his view that the damage to 
both the wall and the drainage had been caused  by water from natural sources 
washing away the soil below the granular fill material. Allianz  also reiterated that for 
the policy to respond  there would need  to be both a failure to comply with Building 
Regulations and that failure would need  to be causing a present imminent danger  to 
the health and safety  of the occupants.  
my provisional findings 
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im currently 
minded not to uphold it. Ill explain my reasoning below.
Policy terms
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ys policy set out the circumstances in which  the 
policy will provide cover. Section 5 of the policy document explains  the Insuring 
Agreement which includes:
Operative Clause
The Insurers  agree  to indemnify the Insured against  Loss to the Premises  
caused by a Defect discovered and notified to Insurers during the Cover 
Period and not excluded herein.
There are specific  definitions  within the policy for Defect, Loss and Premises 
which are:
Defect
Any defect  in:
(a) the Structural Works; or
(b) the Premises in respect of Building Regulations:  health and safety  
compliance discovered and notified  to the Insurers during the Period of 
Insurance which is attributable to a defect  in design or workmanship or 
materials which was undiscovered at the Date of Inception.
Loss 
The cost of Reinstatement of any part or parts of the Premises which due to 
one Defect suffers  Damage.
Ref: DRN53283664Premises
All Works within the curtilage of the Premises stated  in the Schedule  
comprising:
(a) Structural Works
 All internal and external  load-bearing  structures  essential to its stability  or 
strength;
 Drains, walls and windows, plaster,  ceilings, staircases, floor decking  and 
screeds, chimneys and flues;
 The Waterproofing Envelope.
(b) External Works
All external non-Structural Works owned by the Insured including  but not 
limited to pavement, cross-overs, paved  areas,  pedestrian and vehicular 
landscaping and all sewers, pipes,  cables, wires and other service media.
(c) All other Works except  those described  in (9)(a) and (9)(b) above.
There policy also contains a definition for Damage  which is important as the 
Operative Clause requires a Loss and a Loss requires Damage:
Damage/Damaged
Damage/Damaged shall mean:-
(a) Building Regulations: health  and safety compliance
Repair or replacement to the Premises caused by any present or imminent  
danger to the health and safety of the occupants of the Premises and where 
such repair or replacement is required to comply with the Building  
Regulations that applied at the time of construction or conversion in relation 
to:
(i) structure;
(ii) site preparation and resistance to moisture;
(iii) fire safety;
(iv) heat producing  appliances;
(v) hygiene;
(vi) drainage and waste disposal;
(vii) protection from falling collision  and impact;
(viii) safety in relation  to impact opening  and cleaning  of glazing
whether or not accompanied by Actual or Imminent  Damage or Ingress of 
Water.
(b) Actual Damage
Physical loss, physical destruction or physical damage; and/or
(c) Imminent Damage
A condition  requiring (with  the Insurers prior written agreement) remedial 
action to prevent  imminent Actual Damage.
(d) Ingress of Water
Ingress of water  into the Waterproofing Envelope of the Premises whether or 
not accompanied by Actual  or Imminent Damage.
Ref: DRN53283665Ill now address each of the issues Mr Y has complained about separately.
Wall rebuilt and use of polystyrene
Allianz says Mr Ys wall was rebuilt in 2015 by the developer.  It says these works 
werent notified to it, in line with the requirements  of the policy. Based on this it says 
issues with the wall should be excluded.
It seems  to me that Mr Ys complaint relates to damage to his wall caused by what he 
suggests are defects with construction  of the foundations, rather  than any defect with 
the walls  themselves. And I note that Allianz accepts the wall appears to be have 
been rebuilt upon the existing foundations. Based on this, I think the foundations can 
be considered  works  completed in construction of the property. So, I dont think the 
wall being rebuilt  in 2015 means Mr Ys claim should  be declined.
Mr Y has provided excerpts from Building  Regulations to support his view that the 
foundations havent been dug to a suitable  depth and that construction  of the 
foundations included inappropriate materials  non-engineered fill. He also says the 
foundations contain polystyrene  which he feels is a defect.
Both Mr Y and Allianz  have provided expert  evidence from structural engineers.  
Neither engineer  has commented on the presence  of polystyrene being the cause, or 
a contributory  factor, of the issues with the wall. So, Im not currently persuaded that 
the presence of polystyrene in the foundations  amounts to a defect  covered  by the 
policy and I dont intend to uphold this element  of Mr Ys complaint.
Ill address Mr Ys other  concerns separately below.
Depth of wall foundations 
Mr Y and his engineer  have suggested  that the wall foundations havent been  dug to 
a suitable depth. Mr Y says his property is founded on clay, so Building  Regulations  
require the foundations to be at least 0.75m deep.  
Allianz says the type of ground the property sits on hasnt been established. But it 
accepts that based on Building  Regulations,  the foundations should  be 0.45m deep 
but are only 0.4m deep. That said, Allianzs engineer has suggested the width of the 
foundations is sufficient to offset this, taking into account the weight and height of the 
load (walls).
Ive carefully considered  both sides arguments  and evidence  alongside  the policy 
terms and conditions to decide whether I think the policy should respond to the 
reported issues with the wall.
In order for Mr Ys policy  to cover  the issues, they need to be as a result of a defect 
in either  the structural  works, or the remainder of the premises  which  is mainly  
defined as external  works. In my view, Mr Ys short garden walls cannot  be classed 
as load bearing structures, essential  to the propertys stability or strength. And 
similarly, I dont  think the foundations of a garden wall can be classed as a structure. 
This means  the walls and their foundations dont amount to structural  works but 
rather external works.
Ref: DRN53283666Mr Ys policy  only covers  damage,  caused by a defect,  to external works in respect  of 
Building Regulations Health and Safety  compliance. For Mr Ys policy  to cover a 
Defect in the external works  caused by a breach of an insured part of Building 
Regulations it must be established  that:
There was a failure to comply with the Building Regulations at the time of 
construction; 
AND (my emphasis)
The failure to comply is causing a present or imminent  danger  to the health 
and safety of the occupants.
Based on the report from its engineer, Allianz argues that the cause of movement to 
the wall is due to water washing away the soil underneath the infill material   as 
opposed to issues  with the depth of the foundations.  Allianz doesnt accept there has 
been any construction related defect.
Allianz accepts that, technically, there  may have been a breach of Building  
Regulations with respect of the depth of the foundation  - although its engineers 
opinion is that the width of the foundations is sufficient  to offset this. But, in any 
event, Allianz has argued that for the policy to respond,  in addition to a breach of 
Building Regulations, there would also need  to be a present or imminent danger  to 
the health and safety  of the occupants.  It has pointed out that the wall has been in a 
similar condition  since 2017 and there is no evidence  that it will collapse or is in 
danger of collapsing imminently. 
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that the wall is 
likely to collapse imminently, and so present an imminent  danger. So, irrespective of 
whether there has been a breach of Building  Regulations, I dont think  the issue  with 
the depth of foundations of the wall are covered by Mr Ys policy.
Backfill material
Allianzs initial report stated that beneath the foundations of the wall the composition 
of the ground  is likely to be lightly compacted backfill material. Mr Ys engineer stated 
that this material  is inadequate and is the primary cause of the excessive  ground  
settlement beneath  the wall. Mr Y has also provided excerpts  of Building Regulations 
which state that there should not be non-engineered fill, wide variation in ground 
conditions in the loaded area or weaker  or more compressible ground below the 
foundations as could impair the stability of the structure. He feels the use of backfill  
material constitutes a breach  of Building Regulations and as such, wants  his policy  to 
cover the issues.
Allianzs engineer  has offered further  comments on the use of this material. He says 
the material is Ministry of Transport classification Type 1 graded granular material.  
He says use of this material is within good  working practice as it can be easily 
levelled and compacted. He says the use of this material  in this application and 
location is acceptable and, in his opinion, has not caused the defect to the wall or 
drain. 
Ref: DRN53283667It remains Allianzs engineers opinion that the issues reported  by Mr Y have been 
caused by water from natural sources  washing  away the soil beneath the fill material, 
rather than by any issue with the material itself. 
There are conflicting expert  opinions  on this issue. But as I understand  it, Allianzs 
engineer conducted an intrusive  investigation  by digging down to the foundation 
level, whereas Mr Ys engineer merely visited the site and assessed Allianzs 
engineers report.  Mr Ys engineer also hasnt  offered any further  clarification or 
comments on the opinion  of Allianzs  engineer or why he believes the material itself 
is the cause of the damage. So, based on what Ive currently seen, I find the 
evidence provided  by Allianz  more persuasive  to that provided  by Mr Y.
Taking account of the evidence available, I dont think its unreasonable of Allianz to 
rely on the expert opinion of its engineer. The engineers opinion is that movement of 
the wall is not consequent  upon a defect in the foundations or use of backfill material. 
Based on this, I dont  currently  think Mr Ys complaint should be upheld. 
I should also point  out that, similarly to the issue with the depth of the foundations, 
even if I were to accept that the use of the material constituted a breach of Building  
Regulations, I still dont  think there  is a present  or imminent danger of the wall 
collapsing.
Drainage issues 
Allianz states there is no evidence to support Mr Ys claim that the drainage  pipe was 
constructed contrary to Building Regulations.  Allianzs engineer has stated that 
Mr Ys drainage pipe sits within the same soil strata as the foundations of the walls. 
His opinion  is that the same  ground  settlement that has affected the wall is what  has 
caused the pipe to no longer sit at the appropriate  gradient.
Mr Y disagrees. He says there is no evidence that the pipe has been  affected by 
ground movement. He says that if it had, its likely the pipe itself would be damaged 
because one end is fixed to his house.  Hes argued that if ground settlement had 
affected the pipe,  it would theoretically have increased the gradient of the pipe, rather  
than reduced it. Based  on this, he remains of the belief that it was constructed  
contrary to Building Regulations.
I put Mr Ys comments to Allianz and asked for further clarification from its engineer   
because Mr Ys argument seemed to have some  merit. Allianzs engineer  has 
explained that:
We should  clarify the waste outlet pipe from the house connects  to a 
manhole located in the hardstanding to the front of the house  (See  Figure  2 
overleaf). The manhole then connects to the pipe in question  that is located  
beneath the boundary wall foundation.
The drain connection to the house  bears no relevance to the reduction in 
flow.
.
Ref: DRN53283668The pipework is PVCu and there is therefore some  degree of flexibility as well 
as in the drainage pipe connections, which are also PVCu  with rubber slip 
couplings. They can therefore  accommodate ground  settlement without 
damage as the pipe bends rather than breaks  as would a clay pipe for 
example.
.
The settlement  of pipe bedding material beneath the boundary  wall and in the 
general block paved area around the manhole (now re-levelled by the home 
owners) has resulted  in a reduced flow in this section of pipe which has been  
accommodated with the flexible nature of the PVCu pipework and slip fit 
couplings. This has probably  caused  a belly in the pipe in which  the positive 
gradient for that section is lost, which in turn reduces the flow.
The engineers report also included some technical drawings to support  his findings.
As I understand it, Allianzs engineer has a high level of knowledge of Mr Ys 
property, having  been involved in a separate claim and extensive construction  works 
since 2017. So, when  I consider Mr Ys hypothetical explanation, and weigh it up 
against the explanation  given by Allianzs engineer  (taking  into account his expert  
opinion and knowledge of the property), I think its more likely than not that the issue  
with the drainage pipe has been  caused  by the same ground settlement as the 
garden wall  as opposed  to by any construction related defect. So, Im not currently  
intending to uphold this element of Mr Ys complaint  either.
I asked both sides to provide  any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to consider 
before I reached a final decision.
Allianz said it agreed with my provisional findings. It also made  some  further  points in 
support of its position. And it pointed out that its expert was technically a chartered surveyor,  
rather than an engineer.
Mr Y didnt agree with my provisional findings  for several reasons. In summary, he said:
Based  on the policy definitions,  the garden wall and its foundations should  amount to 
structural works.
As the wall has suffered actual damage, and should be considered  structural  works, 
he believes his policy should  cover the damage.
Just because Allianzs surveyor was present for excavation doesnt mean his opinion  
is correct. Mr Y feels his own opinion isnt being  given  enough  weight.
Allianz claims the drain has been affected by subsidence  but his policy  covers  
subsidence if it is as a result of a defect  which he believes it is in this case.
Construction of the sewer/drain  didnt comply  with Building Regulations. Its a 
combined sewer/drain serving his and two other  properties. Raw sewage can lie 
stagnant in the drain which is clearly a serious  health risk.
Ref: DRN53283669The drain trench hasnt been constructed in line with Building Regulations.
His manhole connects to a neighbours, over five meters away. Based on this, he 
calculates the pipe must have fallen by 125mm.  He says this is a huge amount  to be 
put down to settlement and supports his view that construction of the gradient never 
complied with Building Regulations.
my findings
Ive considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive also carefully considered all the new comments and evidence provided  since I issued 
my provisional decision. But I wont comment specifically on every  argument raised. Instead, 
Ill focus my findings below on the issues I consider are key to reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
For ease of reference, Ill address the walls, drainage and backfill issues  separately.
The wall and foundations
Mr Y disagrees with my provisional finding  that the garden walls  and their foundations should 
be classed as external  works. He has pointed to the policy definitions, where walls are only 
included in the definition of structural works. Mr Y argues that because the wall has suffered  
damage, and should be considered structural works,  that it should be covered by his policy.
In order for the issues reported by Mr Y to be covered by his policy, it needs to be 
established that the wall has suffered damage which  has been  caused by a defect.  It isnt 
disputed that there  is damage,  but whether this has been caused  by a defect, or defects, is 
what remains to be decided.
Based on the available evidence, I dont think the damage has most likely been  caused by a 
defect with the wall or its foundations. So, even if I were to consider that the wall and its 
foundations did amount  to structural works,  I wouldnt be upholding this element of Mr Ys 
complaint. Ill explain  why in more detail.  
Mr Y has based his view that there has been  a construction related defect on The Building 
Regulations Approved  Document A  Structure.  This states  that strip foundations  should be 
founded at least  0.45m  deep. It also says that structures built on clay, which his engineer 
has stated his wall most  likely  is, should  have foundations at least  0.75m deep. The 
foundations of Mr Ys wall are 0.4m deep.
Allianz previously accepted that this meant there had technically been a breach of building  
regulations. But in response to my provisional decision, it has made several  further 
arguments on this point.
Firstly, Allianz  disputes that the wall is likely  founded on clay. Based on the proximity  to 
Mr Ys basement excavation, it says its most  likely that entire area is totally backfilled and so 
the wall is likely founded on the fill, rather than clay.
Ref: DRN532836610Secondly, Allianz has pointed out that Approved Document A is a supporting  document  
which gives practical guidance as to how the requirements of the Building Regulations can 
be achieved. But it highlighted the supporting document is not an extension  of the 
Building Regulations. The document explains this on page 3:
Approved Documents  are intended  to provide guidance for some of the more  
common building situations. However, there may well be alternative  ways of 
achieving compliance  with the requirements. Thus there is no obligation to adopt any 
particular solution  contained in an Approved Document  if you prefer  to meet  the 
relevant requirement  in some other way.
Finally, and in my view most importantly, Allianz  has highlighted a section of The 
Building Regulations 2010 which states:
Interpretation
2.-(1) In these Regulations, unless the context  otherwise requires 
 
building means  any permanent or temporary  building but not any other kind of 
structure or erection, and a reference  to a building includes a reference to part of a 
building;
And it has highlighted that the Department for Communities and Local Authorities planning 
portal says:  
Fences, walls and gates  do not require building regulation approval.
Based on the above, Allianzs  position  is that Mr Ys garden wall is not subject to the 
requirements of Building Regulations. And that even if it were, the builder would not have 
been required to stick precisely to the foundation depths set out in Approved  Document A 
as there  may well have  been other  ways  of achieving compliance  with the requirements. 
Allianzs surveyor has stated that in this particular application, although the foundation is 
0.05m, shallower than the suggested depth in Approved Document A, the width of said 
foundations is more than appropriate to offset  this. It is the surveyors opinion that the depth 
of the foundations is not the cause, or a contributory  factor, of the damage.
Ive also considered the excerpts of the Building  Research  Establishment  (BRE) Good 
Building Guides,  provided by Mr Y, which he says further evidence that the design and 
construction of the wall were inadequate. Guide 13 states that a one brick thick wall leaning  
70mm or more may need  to be rebuilt, and guide 14 suggests the minimum depth of 
foundations suitable for most  applications  would be 500mm.  But as with the Building 
Regulations Approved  Documents, these  good  building guides provide examples of good 
practice. They do not set out mandatory requirements and do not mean that a wall built to 
different specifications is automatically  defective. And while  I appreciate Mr Ys wall was 
leaning by more  than 70mm that doesnt  mean that cover under his policy  should 
automatically apply.  First it would need to be established that the damage was being caused 
by a defect, as defined by the policy.
Ref: DRN532836611Ive thought carefully about the above. But having done so, I still find the evidence provided 
by Allianzs surveyor to be the most  persuasive.  This is that the most likely  cause of damage 
is water, from external  sources,  permeating  through the fill material and washing away the 
ground beneath it  rather  than because  of any construction  related  defect  with the wall or 
the foundations themselves.
Mr Y has suggested that I am putting too much reliance on the opinion  of Allianzs expert 
and not enough on his own opinion  or knowledge of his property. Hes highlighted that our 
services website states that it isnt necessary to obtain specialist help in order  to bring a 
complaint to our service.
I have given due consideration  to the evidence and arguments put forward by all parties  
including everything  put forward by Mr Y himself. But where there  are conflicting opinions on 
technical matters,  I think  its reasonable to place significant weight on the opinion of qualified 
experts. Particularly when  they have a good  level of knowledge of the property in question 
and have carried out intrusive investigations.  
There have been  conflicting expert opinions about  the cause of damage  to the wall. But I find 
the evidence put forward by Allianzs  expert more persuasive than that supplied  by Mr Ys 
expert. This is because  Allianzs expert completed a more  thorough  investigation of the wall 
and foundations and has more extensive knowledge of Mr Ys property. He has also 
provided several supplementary  reports  and comments  to clarify his opinions and the 
reasoning behind them. Mr Ys expert seems to have based his findings  solely  on the initial 
report completed by Allianzs expert and has not provided any further comments or 
clarification following Allianzs  surveyors additional reports/comments.
Ultimately, Mr Ys policy requires damage, caused  by a defect, for an issue  to be covered. It 
is clear the wall has suffered damage. But, based on the available evidence, Im not 
persuaded that any alleged defect with the wall, or its foundations, is most likely the cause of 
the damage. 
The sewer/drain
In response to my provisional decision,  Allianz highlighted that the effected  length of pipe 
runs between the manholes  of Mr Ys property and his next-door neighbours. It says this 
means the pipe is a sewer, rather than a drain, and thus is defined  as external works. It has 
also pointed out the affected  part of the sewer  is within the curtilage of Mr Ys neighbours 
property, rather than his own. Allianz says that if I were to find that the damage to the sewer 
had been caused by a defect, any settlement due to Mr Y would be limited to the cost of 
repairing the damage within the curtilage of Mr Ys property only.  
Ive thought carefully about all the available evidence and arguments, including  the above. 
But having  done so, I dont think the issues with the sewer  were most likely caused by a 
defect. So, Im not upholding this element of Mr Ys complaint either.  Ill explain why. 
In his response to my provisional decision,  Mr Y suggested that there was a breach of 
Building Regulations relating to the depth  of the drain trench and whether it had been 
suitably filled with concrete. I passed these comments  to Allianz and it has responded. But 
Mr Y has since accepted that he misinterpreted this guidance. So, I wont go into any more 
detail about this argument.
Ref: DRN532836612Mr Y has suggested that the amount of downward movement of the sewer  pipe is too severe 
to have been caused by normal  ground movement. Based on this he believes construction of 
the gradient never complied with Building Regulations.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ys argument here. Im not sure what  Mr Y has used a 
reference point  to suggest 125mm of downward movement is too severe  to be caused by 
ground settlement.  But in any event, I dont think the fact that the pipe has an insufficient  
gradient now is enough to suggest that it wasnt initially constructed  correctly.  In fact, I think  
the fact that the pipe runs beneath the same  boundary wall which is also showing signs of 
downward movement  is what  is key here. 
Both Allianzs surveyor and Mr Ys engineer agreed  that there has been  ground settlement in 
this location which has caused the ground beneath  the wall foundations to drop. The pipe 
sits within the same soil strata and runs beneath  the boundary wall. Its also made of PVC 
which is flexible. Allianzs surveyor  has explained that the ground  settlement has likely 
caused a belly in the pipe in which the positive  gradient for that section of the pipework is 
lost, reducing the flow. Based on everything  Ive seen, I think this seems to be a more  likely 
explanation for the issues with the gradient of the drainpipe, than Mr Ys assertion that it was 
constructed without  the appropriate gradient from the start.
Mr Y has also highlighted that the BRE good building  guide  13 states that there  should  have  
been a lintel bridge built into the foundation of the wall to protect  the drain that runs beneath 
it from damage caused by downward movement. He says this further shows that the issues 
with his drain/sewer are as a result  of a defect.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ys argument here. But again,  these  guides  give examples of 
ways to achieve good quality building. They are not mandatory requirements  and the failure 
to follow  these guides does not, in isolation,  mean there has been a defect. In this case  it 
doesnt seem that a lintel was built above  the sewer which runs beneath the boundary  wall, 
based on the pictures Ive seen. But the same pictures indicate that the foundation was not 
bearing on the ground above the pipe either,  as there was a clear gap between  the bottom 
of the foundation and the ground below it  in which  the pipe sat. So, it doesnt appear that 
the foundation of the wall was exerting downward pressure on the pipe, but rather that the 
ground the pipe sits within  had moved downwards, away from the foundation.  This is in line 
with Allianzs surveyors  opinion.
So, based  on the expert evidence from both sides, I remain of the view that the most likely 
cause of the issues with the sewer is the ground settlement caused by water washing away  
the ground beneath the fill material, as opposed to any construction related  defect.
Backfill material
Mr Ys policy  could  still provide cover  for the issues if it could be established that the ground 
settlement is as a result  of a defect.  
Mr Y has argued that the fill material is the cause,  or a contributory factor, of the issue.  He 
says it must not have  been adequately compacted and has quoted from 
Building Regulations Supporting Document C, which states:
1.8 Where  the site contains  fill or made ground, consideration should be given to its 
compressibility and its potential for collapse on wetting,  and to appropriate remedial 
measures to prevent  damaging differential settlement.
Ref: DRN532836613As Ive explained, the supporting documents are not extensions  of the Building Regulations. 
But I have considered whether the evidence suggests that use of the backfill material  
amounts to a defect,  and whether it has caused  or contributed to the issues  with the wall and 
the sewer/drain.
Allianzs surveyor has observed the fill material  in question. He states  that it is Ministry of 
Transport classification Type 1 graded granular material. He says use of this material is 
within good working practice as it can be easily levelled and compacted. He says the use of 
this material in this application and location  is acceptable and, in his opinion, has not caused 
the issues with the wall or the sewer/drain.  
I see no reason to doubt the surveyors expert opinion on the use of such a material  in these 
types of construction. But I have also conducted  some  research  of my own. Mr Ys front 
garden is comprised  of a driveway/paved area, and from what Ive seen, it seems  that MOT 
type 1 is recommended  as a sub base for highly trafficked areas  such  as highways, car 
parks, footpaths,  driveways and hard standings. So, it seems the use of the material  in this 
application was suitable in principle.
In terms of its actual application,  Allianz surveyor has completed an intrusive investigation  by 
digging down to foundation level. In his expert  view,  the foundations and the fall of the 
gradient of the pipe have been  caused  by water from natural sources permeating  through  
the ground and washing  away the soil beneath the granular fill material  used as a sub base  
for the paving  and foundations of the wall, rather than because of any issue  with the material  
or its application.
I havent seen  any persuasive evidence to contradict that the use of this material was 
suitable in this case. I also havent  seen any persuasive evidence  to support Mr Ys 
assertion that the material wasnt adequately  compacted.  So, based on everything Ive seen, 
I think Allianzs decision to rely on the opinion of its surveyor  is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
I fully sympathise with Mr Ys position as its clear  that his wall and drainage/sewer system 
have suffered damage. But overall,  I havent seen enough persuasive evidence to convince 
me that these issues have  most  likely been caused by a defect. 
It follows that I dont think Allianzs  decision to decline Mr Ys claim is unfair  or unreasonable  
as the policy  requires damage caused by a defect  for it to be covered.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ys 
complaint against  Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty SE.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2021.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5328366