K821x#15Complaint
Mr T is unhappy  about Experian  Limiteds  decision to add fraud  markers  to his credit  file. 
Hes also unhappy that Experian said theyd removed the markers  when they hadnt.  Mr T 
would like compensation.
Background
Around February 2018, Mr T applied with Experian  to access his credit report. But Experian 
didnt provide it to Mr T because they had concerns with the application and couldnt be sure 
it was Mr T who was asking for it.
Mr T believes that Experian placed a fraud  marker against Mr Ts name  with CIFAS, the 
Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System to his credit  report.  And he couldnt open accounts 
with some banks and credit lenders.
In April 2019, Mr T complained to Experian.  Experian responded to Mr Ts complaint  and 
explained that when they have concerns about  an application, it is their process to block the 
application and add a CIFAS marker  to protect  their customer. Theyd asked Mr T for some 
information to confirm it was him who made  the application to access his credit report. 
Experian confirmed  they were  satisfied with the information  Mr T provided and confirmed 
theyd removed the markers.
Shortly after this, a third-party bank closed one of Mr Ts accounts. Mr T didnt know why so 
he raised a Subject Access Report (SAR) with the third-party bank. On receipt of this, he 
learned the closure of the account was due to a CIFAS marker. 
Mr T got in touch with CIFAS and they explained  that a total of four loadings  had been  added 
under Mr Ts name from January 2019  to March 2019. CIFAS let Mr T know the loadings 
were still active  at that time  which was around  May 2019 and after Experian had confirmed 
theyd removed them.
Mr T remained unhappy and so he brought the complaint to our service.
The investigator upheld  Mr Ts complaint. She didnt think  Experian had met the principles 
for loading  the CIFAS markers  in the first place. And she thought  they could have removed 
them sooner  which would  have reduced the impact  caused  to Mr T. The investigator 
recommended Experian  pay Mr T £250 compensation. 
Mr T initially accepted the investigators view, but then changed  his mind. He thought more 
compensation should be offered as he felt the impact on him was severe. Experian didnt 
agree any compensation should be paid,  however  they didnt respond to the investigators  
view in full to confirm  their position. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators initial recommendation. I appreciate  neither  party agreed with that 
recommendation, so Ive explained my reasons further below.
Ref: DRN52626142Adding the CIFAS  marker
Our Investigator  helpfully  explained the four pillars that are required to be met by Experian  
in adding the CIFAS  marker. Ive repeated  them below as theyre  key to this complaint.
CIFAS is a fraud prevention service.  Members of CIFAS can record and share information 
about their customers to help detect,  deter  and prevent fraud. 
To use the database,  a CIFAS member must operate within  the terms of the National Fraud  
Database Handbook   a guide that sets out what the requirements  are in order to add a 
CIFAS marker.  
Experian says they applied the CIFAS marker because they wasnt sure of Mr Ts identity 
when the application to access  his credit file was made.  So Ive looked  at whether Experian 
were fair to apply the marker,  based on the evidence  they had, and the investigation they 
carried out. Ive also considered what the rules say about applying a CIFAS markers.
CIFAS principles say that members (such as Experian) should  only record  information of the 
type recorded against Mr Ts name  if there are reasonable grounds  to believe that a financial 
crime has been committed. And that the evidence is such that the matter could be reported 
to the Police.  CIFAS guidance also says the business must have carried out checks of 
sufficient depth  to meet the burden of proof set by CIFAS.
Principle 4 says that Cases filed to the National Fraud Database must  be supported by 
evidence and meet the four pillars of the Standard of Proof. The Standard  of Proof  is: - 
1. That there  are reasonable grounds to believe that a Fraud or Financial Crime has 
been committed or attempted; 
2. That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member 
could confidently report the conduct of the Subject to the police; 
3. The conduct  of the Subject must meet the criteria of one of the Case Types; 
4. In order to file the member must have rejected, withdrawn or terminated  a Product 
on the basis of Fraud unless the member  has an obligation to provide the Product or 
the Subject has already received the full benefit of the Product. 
For me to conclude that Experian has acted fairly and reasonably by adding  a CIFAS 
marker, I must be satisfied, from the evidence Ive received, that it has met all four pillars  of 
the standard of proof.
Based on the information both Experian and Mr T have supplied, I cant  confidently say all 
four pillars  have been met. I dont feel the evidence is clear or rigorous enough that Experian 
could report the matter to the Police.  And I havent  seen any evidence to show that Experian 
did raise their concerns  to an official body. I appreciate why Experian  wanted to check  Mr T 
was the one applying to see his credit report,  and I think them asking him for extra  
documentation was reasonable.  Im also pleased to see that when Mr T supplied  it, Experian 
continued with his application  for access to his credit  report. Albeit Im aware there were 
further issues with that which dont form part of this complaint. 
Overall, while  I appreciate the concerns  Experian  had relating  to Mr Ts identity, I dont think  
the doubts or concerns  Experian had to try and protect Mr Ts identity  were  enough to satisfy 
me that a CIFAS marker should have been added  even if it was to protect him. A CIFAS  
Ref: DRN52626143marker has serious consequences, and I cant fairly say the extent of Experians concerns 
meet the consequences of the marker in the circumstances of this complaint. So, in my view,  
there was insufficient  evidence  and I agree with the investigator that it was unfair of Experian 
to apply the marker.
The communication
When Mr T complained in April 2019,  Experian  confirmed  theyd  removed the marker. But 
they hadnt. 
Mr T got in touch with CIFAS directly, and they told him hed had four false identity loadings  
recorded against him. And while they couldnt tell him the exact date the markers were 
removed, I think its likely  to have been sometime in May 2019. 
I say that because when Mr T first spoke to CIFAS around 7 May 2019, they confirmed the 
markers were still active. And on their second correspondence later in May 2019,  they had 
been removed.  Therefore,  the only reasonable assumption here is the markers were  
removed sometime between Mr Ts first correspondence with CIFAS, and the second.
I think Experian telling Mr T theyd removed the markers when they hadnt  would have 
caused more distress to him. And I think he suffered  more  consequences as a result of this.
The impact
Mr T has provided  evidence to show he had two bank accounts closed in April and 
May 2019. And hes shown that he was declined for around 16 applications  to other  credit  
facilities. I think its fair to say these declines were  most likely  due to the CIFAS markers  
especially as Mr T only found out about  the CIFAS marker because he raised  a SAR with 
one of his banks after they closed  the account.  
I consider Experian  could  have removed the markers sooner than they did. I say that 
because I havent  seen that Mr T provided Experian with any additional information, or that 
Experian reviewed  things further from when  they placed the marker  to when they decided to 
remove it. If the markers had been  removed sooner, I think its fair to conclude Mr T would 
have been less impacted.
Overall
Overall, I dont  think Experian had enough  grounds to record  the markers.  And I also think 
they could have removed them sooner than they did. Mr T has experienced a great deal of 
inconvenience due to this and I dont  doubt how frustrating and worrying  this overall situation 
would have been for him.
Therefore, I think Experian should pay Mr T £250  compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused. I appreciate Mr T thinks more compensation is warranted,  but in the 
individual circumstances  of this complaint, I consider £250 to be a reasonable amount.
Ref: DRN52626144My final decision
My final decision is that, Experian  Limited should  pay Mr T £250  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2020.
Hayley West
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5262614