K821x#15Complaint
Mr J has complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading  as Halifax) unfairly changed  its 
overdraft pricing structure and this stopped him from getting  his account back  in order.
Background
I attach my provisional decision of 17 June  2021, which forms part of this final decision.  
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I was intending to partially  uphold  Mr Js complaint  
and invited both parties to make any final comments ahead of my final decision. 
Following this, Halifax confirmed that it accepted my provisional decision and that it would 
put things right for Mr J. Although it would  backdate  the default on Mr Js credit file to 
October 2017 because  an outstanding balance will remain  and it would have  taken 3 months  
before it could take this action on Mr Js overdraft.
Mr J also confirmed receiving my provisional decision. He said that he accepted my 
provisional decision and he didnt provide anything further for me to think about. 
My findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties  for their responses and Im pleased to see that Halifax  has agreed to put 
things right for Mr J. Given my provisional  decision concluded that Halifax  ought fairly and 
reasonably to have  started the process in June/July  2017 and it would have taken  3 months 
for Halifax to have been able to call Mr Js overdraft in, Im satisfied that the proposal to 
backdate the default  to October  2017 is fair and reasonable here.
So having  carefully considered the responses to my provisional decision, Im still partially  
upholding Mr Js complaint and Halifax should  put things right. 
Fair compensation  what  Halifax needs  to do to put things right for Mr J.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Js complaint for Halifax to do the following:
Rework Mr Js overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied to it 
from June 2017 onwards  are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact  Mr J to arrange a suitable  repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Js credit 
file, it should backdate  this to June 2017.
OR
Ref: DRN50843172If the effect  of removing all interest,  fees and charges  results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding  balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments  
and returned to Mr J along  with 8% simple interest  on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance  remains after all adjustments have been made, then Halifax  
should remove any adverse information  from Mr Js credit file.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must 
give Mr J a certificate showing  how much  tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must 
give Mr J a certificate showing  how much  tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision of 17 June 2021, Im 
partially upholding Mr Js complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should  put things right in the way 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN50843173COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION  
Complaint
Mr J has complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) unfairly changed its overdraft 
pricing structure and this stopped him from getting his account back  in order.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Js concerns. She didnt think  that Halifax had treated Mr J 
unfairly and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed and asked for an ombudsman  to 
review his case.   
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.  
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules,  regulations and good industry  practice  we consider  when 
looking at whether a bank  treated a customer fairly  and reasonably when applying  overdraft 
charges. So I dont  consider it necessary to set all of this out in this provisional decision.
Having carefully  considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Halifax didnt  act fairly 
when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees when  it increased     Mr Js 
overdraft limit in June 2017. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr J was in no position 
to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period  of time. 
Mr Js statements leading up to the increase show  hed rarely seen a credit  balance on his 
account. In truth, Mr J would have regularly exceeded  his limit but for him taking a number  of 
payday and other high cost loans from a number  of different lenders. In these circumstances,  it 
ought to have been apparent Mr J was unlikely to be able to repay what he already  owed,  let 
alone almost double, within a reasonable period with overdraft interest,  fees and associated  
charges continuously being added.  
So having carefully thought  about everything, I think that Halifax should have  stopped providing  
the overdraft on the same terms in June 2017, stopped  adding fees and charges and instead 
treated Mr J with forbearance. All of this means that Halifax  should  have  realised  Mr J was 
experiencing financial  difficulty,  wasnt using  his overdraft as intended and shouldnt have 
continued offering  it on the same terms. As Halifax didnt react to Mr Js overdraft usage and 
instead continued charging in the same way, Im intending to find that it failed to act fairly  and 
reasonably towards  him.
 
Mr J ended up paying  additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended  up 
leaving him with a larger and even more unsustainable debt. So I think  that Mr J lost out because 
of what Halifax  did wrong and Im intending to say that it should put things right.
 
Fair compensation  what Im intending  to say that Halifax needs  to do to put things right  
for Mr J.
Having thought about  everything, Im intending to issue a final decision  which says that it would 
be fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of Mr Js complaint for Halifax to do the following:
Rework Mr Js overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges  applied  to it 
from June  2017 onwards  are removed.
Ref: DRN50843174AND
If an outstanding balance  remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have  
been made Halifax should contact Mr J to arrange a suitable  repayment  plan for this. 
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information  on Mr Js credit file, it 
should backdate  this to June 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there  no longer  being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should  be treated  as overpayments and 
returned to Mr J along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments  from the date 
they were  made  (if they were)  until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Halifax  should  remove any 
adverse information from Mr Js credit file.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must give Mr 
J a certificate showing  how much  tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im intending to uphold  Mr Js complaint and tell Bank  of Scotland 
plc to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence  I get by 1 July 2021 changes my mind, thats what  Ill tell 
Halifax to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5084317