K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that DSG Retail Limited  mishandled her application  for credit and failed to 
tell her she was in arrears. 
background
In November 2016 Miss M purchased  goods at a DSG store  using credit. A separate 
business, which I will call C, provided the credit, but it subsequently rejected her application.  
DSG wrote to Miss M a week  or so later to ask her to return to the store to resolve the 
matter. It says she didnt do so and it sent a further  four letters.
Miss M says she contacted C and was told there was no reason  why it wouldnt accept her 
application. She contacted DSG,  but it said it couldnt set up a second agreement  so she 
asked that the purchase be added to her existing one. DSG says it has no record of this and 
having not had a response it took legal proceedings to recover  the debt. 
When Miss M was notified the matter was being  taken to Court she contacted  DSG and 
agreed to pay the sum due, but she was later notified that she had also to pay costs and 
interest. After this she called DSG to change the date of her direct debit and it was 
mistakenly cancelled.  She believes this had a negative impact on her credit status. She said 
the court heard  in her favour.
DSG rejected her complaint and she brought the matter to this service  where  it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt  recommend it be upheld. He noted that 
DSG had written to Miss M on numerous occasions  using the correct address.  He pointed 
out that DSG  had not pursued the Court action and the matter didnt go to a hearing. After 
discussions with Miss M it was agreed  that the debt was due and that resulted in the 
judgement being satisfied.  He added that he had seen  no evidence of any late payment 
markers subsequent  to this.
Miss M didnt agree and said that as far as she was concerned the goods she had bought  in 
November had been added to her account  and she was unaware that this wasnt  the case. It 
was only when she notified of the Court proceedings that she appreciated that she owned  
DSG money.  The investigator  responded to say that he had no evidence of any calls made 
to DSG against whom  the complaint had been made. He couldnt consider  the actions of C 
which wasnt party to this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Miss M, but I dont believe I can uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why.
DSG sold the goods on the basis that it would receive payment from C and when this wasnt  
forthcoming it was left without being paid. Therefore, it contacted Miss M to ask her to come 
back to the shop to sort it out. When it wasnt resolved it wrote to her at the correct address 
a further four times.  I have reviewed its internal records and am satisfied that those letters  
were issued.
Ref: DRN59376792I appreciate Miss M may have thought that whatever conversations she had with C had 
resulted the matter being resolved,  but  this complaint is against DSG and I have to consider 
its actions and what it was told about  the debt. It says it only heard from Miss M on 17 July 
2017. While  Miss M may have thought she had addressed the problem DSG  was unaware of 
this and it might have been  prudent in light of the letters issued by DSG if Miss M had 
ensured it was made aware. 
I note Miss M says she didnt  receive these letters, but I have no reason to doubt they were 
issued to the correct  address and DSG cannot be held responsible for their non delivery. 
Miss M hasnt mentioned any issues she has had with mail going  astray. 
In short,  DSG was owed  money, it sought  to get Miss M to pay this and when payment 
wasnt received it took legal action. This caused  Miss M to make contact and to enter into an 
arrangement to pay. I have noted she raised the point that DSG  had made an error in 
handling the direct debits  for this arrangement, but I have  seen no evidence in support of this 
so I cannot say it did anything wrong.  
I recognise Miss M will be disappointed by my conclusion, but I am unable to uphold her 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject  my decision before 
28 November 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5937679