K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that a repair by Aviva Insurance Services UK Limiteds (Aviva) 
recommended repairer caused her car a problem where the airbag warning light is 
constantly on.
background
In 2013, before Mrs A owned her car, it had been  damaged and was declared  a total 
loss. This means an insurer  had decided that it wasnt economical to repair it. At some 
point after this it was repaired and put back on the road and Mrs A came to own it.
Mrs A was involved  in an accident  in February  2018.  She didnt claim for the damage to 
her car initially, but later changed her mind and in August 2018 decided  she would like to 
claim for the damage to her car and have it repaired.
Aviva arranged for the repairs to be carried out by one of its recommended  repairers  
(RR). Following the repair Mrs A noticed the airbag warning  light was on. She returned 
the car to RR. It ran diagnostic tests and instructed  an independent engineer  to inspect 
the car and identify  the cause of the problem.
The report  from the independent engineer said:
The left hand airbag has been tampered with the wiring  appears to have a non standard  
resister fitted which  has been taped  up with insulation tape and the SRS light flashes, 
the air pipe to the vent is missing and this would  appear not to have been  in a damaged 
area relating to this repair or a part touched  during the repair.
The main  issue causing the alignment  problem appears to be that the left hand  chassis  
leg is damaged, this appears  to relate  to the original  total loss damage, the repairer has 
carried out lots of extra work in order to get around this issue  however this pre existing 
issue has caused the large gap under the left hand headlight, however the repairer  has 
carried out adjustments to improve this "as best as possible" therefore we feel that the 
repairs have been  carried out to an acceptable  standard bearing in mind the poor 
previous repairs around the left hand chassis leg.
Based on this Aviva said the issue with the airbag  was a result of the previous  total loss 
and the repair work  that was carried out at that time. It said this is classed as pre-
existing damage  and so it wasnt covered under this claim.
Mrs A was unhappy with this so brought her complaint to our service. The investigator 
didnt uphold  the complaint, they felt the engineers report supported that the issue was 
caused by the repairs  carried out prior to the incident that led to this claim.
Mrs A didnt agree with the investigator, she felt the airbag had been interfered with and 
that had caused the light to come on. So the matter  has been referred to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
Ref: DRN58085392happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks most likely to have happened in light 
of the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those 
issues I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
The independent engineers report describes the poor quality of the repairs  to the airbag  
wiring prior to this incident but following  the total loss. And while  I accept what  Mrs A has 
told us about the airbag warning light not being  on prior to the repairs carried out by RR, 
there is no evidence  to suggest that RR tampered with the airbag as Mrs A thinks 
happened. Im satisfied  that the fault to the airbag light was as a result  of the previous 
repairs and not linked  to the repairs carried out by RR. 
Because of this I think Aviva acted fairly when classing the issue  as pre-existing  damage 
and declining  to pay for it to be rectified. It follows I wont be asking Aviva  to do anything 
more in relation  to this.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5808539