K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a regular premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
In 1999 Mr and Mrs D took out a PPI policy with their mortgage. The policy covered Mr D 
only for accident, sickness and unemployment and would have provided a monthly benefit of 
£506 plus an extra £3 per £1,000 borrowed.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case.  
Where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
Lloyds says the PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs D during a meeting, when they were applying  
for a mortgage. Mr and Mrs D say they didnt buy it then  instead Lloyds wrote to them  after 
the meeting recommending they buy it. Mr D sent us a letter  from Lloyds that suggests his 
recollections are correct. He says PPI wasnt discussed and it wasnt clear  he and Mrs D 
could get the mortgage  they wanted  without the PPI.
I cant know for certain what was discussed between Mr and Mrs D and Lloyds when they 
were applying for the mortgage. I have seen  their mortgage application and that doesnt 
mention PPI at all. Nor does  the mortgage  offer sent to them  in November 1998.
The letter about  PPI was sent in August  1998   some months before the mortgage 
completed. Mr D says its not clear the PPI was something they could choose to take or not. 
The letter says things  like if you decide you would like to apply for the PPI. So although  it 
suggests PPI is a good idea, I also think its clear Mr and Mrs D could get the mortgage 
without it. The banks  computer records show  the mortgage started in December 1998. Ive 
seen a separate application form for the PPI signed in February 1999. I cant see how Mr 
and Mrs D could have  thought the PPI was compulsory given theyd already got their 
mortgage when  they applied for it.
Im not sure whether Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D or not. But I dont think I 
need to reach a conclusion on this in order to reach a fair decision. I say this because,  
whether recommended  or not, I am satisfied  the policy was suitable  given  Mr and Mrs Ds 
circumstances, because:
 
Ref: DRN57999972-Mr D was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. He was the main  earner at the time,  so it seems reasonable that only he be 
insured. 
-
-Mr D says he would have received some  work-related  benefits if he couldnt  work due to 
illness or accident. But the policy would  have paid out in addition to the occupational 
benefits and for longer. Having the policy in place would mean  Mr and Mrs D could  use 
any work-related benefits and savings to pay for other expenses. That might  have been 
important as Mr and D had children.  So I think Mr and Mrs D would have had some use 
for the policy despite their existing arrangements.
-Mr D wasnt  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main  benefits, such as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As he could have benefited  from the full extent  of the cover  I think  it unlikely Mr and Mrs 
D needed better advice or information about the policys  exclusions and limitations. 
-I dont know when  Mr and Mrs D were told the cost of the policy.  But it was relatively low 
cost, and I think Mr and Mrs D were  aware they had to pay something  for the policy. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable  or that the benefit  was insufficient to meet  
their total monthly mortgage repayments,  nor have I seen  that Mr and Mrs D queried the 
payment over the years.
Its possible that some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it should have  been. But, on balance, I think they chose to take out the policy and so 
appear to have wanted this type of cover.  As Ive already  said Mr D wasnt   affected by any 
of the exclusions  or limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable, I think it 
unlikely Mr and Mrs D would have made a different decision if better information had been 
provided  overall,  I think they would still have taken  out the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
let me know  whether they accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5799997