K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plcs (RSA) decision not to deal with 
a claim under a buildings insurance policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision in July where I set out the background as follows:
Mr S bought a property  in 2014  consisting  of a house and detached garage block. In order  to 
secure a mortgage  a valuation inspection was carried out by a chartered surveyor. The 
report in a section  titled Important Note to Mortgage  Applicants contained a number of 
matters including  that the valuation report is solely for the lender to decide what  advance,  if 
any, may be made  on the security  of the property.  
The report  covers a number of issues but of relevance for this case  are the following:
Mr S had apparently  had a separate building survey conducted
There are trees  in close  proximity to the house which  can cause structural  movement
It is assumed they have been considered in the building survey
There is some evidence  of structural movement to the property
The movement is felt to be longstanding
Externally the garages  have suffered  some  structural  movement  renewal should be 
contemplated
IN 2016 Mr S bought  insurance with RSA and in 2017 made a claim for subsidence related 
damage to the garage block. RSAs loss adjuster inspected the damage and concluded that 
it appeared longstanding. RSA asked Mr S for any pre-purchase survey that hed had done  
but he wasnt able to provide one until quite recently. In the absence  of a pre-purchase 
survey RSA said it wouldnt  deal with the subsidence damage and while it would continue to 
cover the main property  it wouldnt  cover  the garage  block.
During the course of our investigation Mr S provided  a letter from the previous owner as 
evidence that there  wasnt any subsidence  damage to the garages at the time of sale. The 
letter, in brief, says there was no crack in the garage and the previous owner  wouldnt have 
stored expensive vehicles in that space had there been damage.  And in their opinion the 
cracks most  likely occurred after the point of sale. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that RSA should deal with 
the claim as she didnt think Mr S wouldve been aware of any subsidence  based  on the 
valuation report.  She also said RSA should  reinstate cover for the garages.
RSA disagreed and asked  for an ombudsman to make  a final decision.
I set out my findings  saying that I wasnt minded to uphold Mr S complaint as follows:
Under Mr S policy his buildings are not covered for any loss or damage occurring before the 
insurance period  starts. That is common for these types of policies and isnt in my view 
unfair. Insurance is usually for defined risks that may or may not occur, not for those that 
have already occurred before a policy starts.
RSA had an appropriately qualified expert inspect the damage  and they concluded that the 
damage was longstanding and subsidence  related. Mr S didnt think  it was fair for RSA to 
Ref: DRN56456272demand a pre-purchase  survey, but Im satisfied  it was proportionate to ask Mr S for such 
information. Indeed the policy  specifically permits RSA to do this. The photographs of the 
garage block show it had a vast coverage of vegetation that had breached  the external walls 
and was encroaching inside the block. It was in my view reasonable for the expert to 
conclude the damage was likely to be longstanding. That is an issue  I think  the expert is 
entitled to opine, based on their relevant expertise.
The valuation report from 2014  specifies that the garage block  had suffered structural  
movement. I appreciate that the word subsidence isnt used but I dont think that impacts  the 
outcome in this case. Structural  movement can cover a number of things  that impact  the 
building including  subsidence, heave, landslip and contraction.  The relevance in my view is 
that the garage block was showing structural movement in 2014  which  was two years before 
Mr S bought his policy. And that is the nub of the issue, is it more likely  than not the block  
had subsidence  related  damage before cover started with RSA in 2016?
In simple terms the purpose  of the valuation  report is for the surveyor, who was acting for the 
lender, to report back to the lender the general  condition of the property that the mortgage  
applicant (here Mr S) wants to take a loan against.  This enables the lender to decide  
whether and/or how much to loan by way of a mortgage.
I note the valuation report refers to a building survey that Mr S had had carried out, which  I 
havent seen.  Mr S may wish to send me a full copy of that survey. But I am currently  
satisfied that the valuation  report is persuasive  evidence Mr S garage block, on the balance 
of probabilities, was suffering subsidence damage  before the policy started  in 2016. And that 
being the case Im satisfied it was fair for RSA to refuse the subsidence claim and refuse  to 
cover the garage  block moving forward. 
I have considered everything  Mr S has sent very carefully including  the letter  from the 
previous owner.  The valuation  report makes  a number of observations about some of the 
issues in need  of attention  at the property including damp, timber  defects and overhaul  of the 
roof, chimney stacks and rainwater goods.  This for me somewhat lessens the 
persuasiveness of the previous owners comment that he wouldnt have kept expensive  cars 
in defective accommodation. It is apparent that there  were  a number of defects throughout 
the property and garage block.
replies to my provisional  decision
RSA said it didnt have  anything further to add and Mr S has provided a comprehensive 
response, which Ill summarise below;
On the advice of a surveyor a tree between the house and garages  was removed.
Ivy was also removed  from the garages  and guttering fixed.
Extensive work was done to the house  to address issues  identified  in the valuation 
survey.
A surveyors report from PA has been  disregarded.
Although the valuation  report  said the garages  had suffered some structural 
movement, the changes were not obvious  to an untrained eye and the structure was 
stable.
He took out the policy in case the structure  became unstable and suffered 
subsidence.
Changes in the structure  have  occurred during the insured period with RSA.
He wouldnt risk his livelihood by lying.
Ref: DRN56456273my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  Mr S reply,  to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im not persuaded to reach 
a different outcome.
The crux of the complaint concerns RSAs decision not to cover the subsidence  claim for 
damage to Mr S garages.  Theres no dispute about  whether  there is subsidence, the issue  
is whether it was fair for RSA to decline the claim.
I said in my provisional decision that under  Mr S policy his buildings  are not covered for any 
loss or damage occurring  before the insurance  period starts. That is common for these types 
of policies and isnt in my view unfair. Insurance is usually for defined  risks that may or may 
not occur, not for those that have  already  occurred  before a policy starts. So, the crux is 
whether the subsidence started  before RSA accepted cover  from 2016.
The valuation report from 2014,  two years before the policy started, clearly evidences 
structural movement. The extent of that movement isnt described but I note two points; first 
the report was for the lenders benefit  in deciding what amount it was willing to lend against 
the property: and secondly, the purpose  of the report  was for valuation and not a structural  
survey about what needed to be done to remedy the movement. Its apparent that Mr S had 
separately engaged a building surveyor although  that report  isnt available.  Importantly,  the 
valuation report states Externally the garages  have  suffered some  structural movement and 
in the writers  opinion refurbishment is required. Renewal should be contemplated. 
Bringing this back to the main issue in the case I am satisfied it is more likely than not the 
garages were suffering  subsidence related damage  before the policy  started in 2016. And 
because of that Im satisfied RSA was entitled to refuse to cover the claim. 
Finally, its not the case that Ive disregarded the report  from PA. The report  confirms the 
presence of subsidence and what needs to be done to remedy the damage.  It doesnt 
contradict the fact that subsidence  was, in all likelihood, already present before the RSA 
policy started.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5645627