K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that he was mis-sold a property  owners insurance  policy  by Affinity  Select 
Insurance Services Limited  (ASIS).
background
Mr E contacted ASIS, a broker, in January 2017.  His contractor was about to start work 
renovating a mid-terraced property and he needed the appropriate  insurance  cover.  He 
explained that the renovation works would comprise almost completely  gutting the existing 
structure, constructing  a new loft extension and a new ground  floor rear and side extension,  
excavating a significant part of the existing ground  floor as well as underpinning  at least one 
party wall because  the ground floor was being lowered.
ASIS asked  him to answer various questions on a proposal form which  it sent him. 
ASIS recommended  a policy. Mr E said before buying it, he spoke to ASISs  representative. 
Hed noted that the policy  didnt cover  the actual  contract works. So he asked about other 
cover he might be able to take out. He said he was told there was no other  type of cover  
available to him. So he took the policy out.
When he tried to make a claim for some damage that had been  caused to his neighbours 
property by the works, the insurer wouldnt meet the claim. It said the policy  specifically 
excluded any liability arising from any conversion,  extension, construction or modification 
work undertaken at the premises.
Mr E feels he was wrongly  advised  and ASIS should  have explained all the various options 
open to him before recommending  the policy to him. He says he has since found out that 
ASIS do sell more comprehensive  policies. In particular he thinks  ASIS should have 
recommended that he take out what is called non-negligence insurance. He says this is 
often recommended where building works  might  affect a neighbouring  property.
He wants ASIS to compensate him for almost £9,200 hes had to pay out after discovering 
he didnt have cover  for the damage he claimed for. He also wants  compensation for the 
time hes spent making the complaint and the stress  he and his family have suffered.
ASIS says under Mr Es building contract, his contractor  was required to insure for liability  
arising from the works in the joint names of Mr E and itself.  ASIS  said under the building  
contract Mr E only had to arrange  insurance in respect of the existing structure. It said it had 
recommended a policy that met Mr Es requirements  so far as it was aware of them.
Mr E complained to this service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I wasnt  
minded to uphold  his complaint. An extract from my provisional findings  is set out below:
The question for me to consider is whether ASIS made sure that the policy was suitable 
for Mr Es needs. It had a duty to do that because it advised him regarding  the insurance 
policy and recommended the policy to him.
Unfortunately there isnt a recording of the calls between  Mr E and ASIS.  So I cant  be sure 
what was discussed.  In particular I dont know whether ASIS said there was no other  cover  
Ref: DRN57094442available to Mr E. What I do know is that following the first call ASIS  asked Mr E to 
complete a proposal form for unoccupied property insurance.
Having been told that Mr E was renovating his property, I think  it was sensible for ASIS 
to check what the requirements  of his building contract were in relation to insurance. It 
didnt have a copy of the contract  itself when issuing the quote because  it hadnt been 
finalised. But it knew from the schedule  of works that Mr E intended  to use a standard  
building industry  contract. Clause 5.4 of the contract  sets out the insurance 
arrangements for the existing structure  and the renovation works. There were  three  
possible options:
5.4a for the contractor  to insure the works in the joint names  of itself and the employer  (in 
this case the employer would be Mr E);
5.4b for the employer  to insure the existing structure and the works in the joint names of 
himself and the contractor;
5.4c alternative  arrangements agreed by the parties.
The schedule of works  said that 5.4.a and 5.4c applied with the employer to insure the 
existing building  and the contractor to insure  the works.
In the light of this I think it was reasonable for ASIS to recommend him a policy  that only 
covered the existing structure and specifically excluded  the works.  But I also think  it had to 
make it clear  to Mr E exactly what was and wasnt covered under his policy.
Before Mr E took out the policy, ASIS sent him a quote with a summary of the policy. In a 
section headed  Restrictions in cover it said:
Please  note the following:
Cover is summarised in the enclosed Policy Summary
Cover is not provided:
for loss, damage or liability arising out of the activities  of contractor s. 
I think ASIS did enough to draw this exclusion  to Mr Es attention.
Ive also thought about what  Mr E has said about the availability of alternative cover.  
Theres always a risk with any extensive  structural work to a terraced property  that a 
neighbouring property might  be damaged.  If the contractor isnt negligent, the damage 
wouldnt usually be covered by its policy. It also wouldnt  usually be covered by the sort of 
policy Mr E had that covered the existing structure. But there is insurance  (non-negligence  
cover) available to ensure that a policyholder is covered  if damage  is caused to a 
neighbouring property but the contractor hasnt  been negligent. This sort of policy  will 
usually only pay if the damage wasnt foreseeable. Its often  recommended where work 
involves excavations and underpinning  as in the case of Mr Es works.
Mr E says that he wasnt advised to buy this sort of cover. ASIS  said as it was only 
consulted on the risks arising out of ownership  of the property, it didnt carry out a review of 
the risks arising from the building works. So it didnt recommend this sort of policy to him. 
Given the nature of the works and the fact that Mr Es property is a terraced house,  I think  
the need for this sort of cover should have been assessed  by ASIS.  If the cover had been 
recommended to him, I think its most likely  Mr E would have taken out such  a policy.
Ref: DRN57094443The next question  I need to consider is whether cover for the damage caused  to Mr Es 
neighbours property would have  been covered by any such policy. It wouldnt have been  
covered if the damage could be reasonably foreseen to be inevitable.  Mr E believes that it 
would have been covered. ASIS on the other hand thought the damage was unlikely to 
have been covered by a non-negligence policy as it was reasonably foreseeable given the 
nature of the building works.
According to Mr E the damage claimed  for by the neighbour mainly comprised a new kitchen 
floor since  the floor had apparently shifted causing  three existing floor tiles to crack, 
repairing cracks in the party wall throughout the house, re-fixing tiles that had cracked or 
popped out in their loft bathroom and shower  room and repairing separation that had 
occurred between their loft wall and ceiling and a bespoke cabinet. Mr E pointed  out that the 
works hed had done were adjacent to his neighbours kitchen  and along  the party wall that 
was also adjacent to the neighbours loft bathroom and shower room.
A certain amount  of damage  can be expected to an adjoined property when works like 
underpinning and excavation are carried out next door. Thats  why neighbouring  home 
owners have certain rights and protections under party wall legislation. The sort of 
damage caused can range from minor cosmetic damage to subsidence or other serious  
structural damage. The purpose  of non-negligence insurance isnt to pay out for any 
non-negligent  damage thats been  caused to a neighbouring property. Rather it offers  
cover for damage thats not reasonably foreseeable.
In my opinion  minor  cosmetic damage such as raking out cracks  and redecorating and 
refixing loose tiles is reasonably foreseeable. Theres no suggestion  that any lasting damage 
was done to the neighbours kitchen floor. So again this seems relatively minor.  Its just that 
the three damaged tiles couldnt  be replaced  on a like-for-like basis as the tiles were no 
longer available, so the whole floor had to be retiled. All in all, this damage  doesnt seem to 
me exceptional at all. I think its likely that none of it would have been covered by a 
non-negligence  policy. That means that although ASIS should have advised him regarding  
a non-negligence  policy, in my view its unlikely that Mr E lost out as a result  of that failure.
Mr E is also unhappy with the way ASIS dealt with his complaint. There  are certain things 
I cant look into. Of relevance here, I can only look into things that ASIS does that are 
regulated (known  as regulated activities). Complaint handling isnt something thats  
regulated. So, regardless  of how well or badly ASIS might have handled Mr Es 
complaint, thats  not something I can investigate or make a decision on.
Id also like to be clear that our role is not to regulate financial businesses.  Instead, 
our service  looks  at individual complaints from consumers. So were  not here to 
punish businesses  when things go wrong.
ASIS accepted my provisional decision.  Mr E made a very detailed and helpful response 
which I confirm Ive read thoroughly. In summary he made the following points:
ASISs  own marketing  literature  states that any non-negligent  damage that wasnt 
considered likely would be covered  by a non-negligence  policy.
ASIS told him at least three times  that his claim for damage would most likely have been 
covered under  a non-negligence policy.
The test for whether his claim would have  been excluded under a non-negligence policy  
should be whether  the damage  was certain  to occur.
Ref: DRN57094444my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr E has referred me to various  statements made by ASIS in marketing material which  
suggest that non-negligence insurance would cover any damage to someone  elses  property 
which wasnt caused by a contractors negligence. Mr E didnt take out non-negligence 
insurance, so I cant say that he relied  on this description of the cover.  Its only intended  to 
be a high level overview of the cover. So I dont think its fair to use it as the basis for 
deciding whether his claim would actually  have been covered if hed taken out such a policy.
Mr E has also referred me to calls he had with a team leader at ASIS when he described  the 
damage caused to his neighbours property. The team leader allegedly told him he couldnt 
think why he wouldnt personally  have recommended a non-negligence  policy to Mr E. Ive 
already decided that ASIS should have recommended  a non-negligence policy  to Mr E. So 
I dont need to consider this further.
Mr E also says the team leader told him the claim for damage would most likely have been 
covered if hed taken  out a non-negligence policy. ASIS says according  to the team  leader a 
non-negligence policy was the only type of policy that might  have covered the damage  in 
question. Even if I accept  that the team leader  might  have said something along  the lines 
recalled by Mr E, that doesnt necessarily mean he was correct.  It depends on the wording of 
the policy and the type of damage. Ill look again at both of these.
I apologise for any confusion caused by my not quoting the exclusion in full in part of my 
provisional decision. The relevant exclusion is damage which could be reasonably foreseen 
to be inevitable. Thats  based on a non-negligence  policy from a leading insurer.
Non-negligence cover typically  covers  damage caused by (amongst  other things) collapse, 
subsidence, heave, vibration, weakening or removal of support arising from renovation  
works. But it usually  excludes damage which can be reasonably  foreseen  to be inevitable 
having regard  to the nature of the works. Mr E says inevitable means certain to happen. 
I agree.  He doesnt  think damage costing £9,200 would have been expected to be inevitable 
at the point when he would have  taken out the policy. 
Leaving aside the cost of the damage  for the moment, I think  the reason we have party wall 
legislation is because some sort of physical damage to adjoining properties is very common 
when building  work is carried out to a party wall. When  the building work is a complete  
renovation of a terraced  property including excavating and underpinning the existing 
foundations, underpinning  and upgrading a party wall and a loft extension, I would go so far 
as to say that some  damage to an adjoining property could be reasonably foreseen to be 
inevitable. 
Much depends of course on what the damage is. I think  problems such  as cracking would 
fall into the above category whereas more serious structural  issues such  as subsidence 
wouldnt. Mr E believes  I was wrong to class the damage as relatively minor. I appreciate  
that he paid his neighbour a large  amount of money  in respect of repair costs. But I meant  it 
was relatively minor compared with more serious structural damage  such as subsidence.
Ref: DRN57094445Mr E also said I hadnt actually viewed the damage. Thats correct. I characterised  the repair 
works as relatively minor based  on the emails Mr E forwarded to ASIS  from his neighbour 
setting out details of the damage. Much of it involved cracking to paintwork and tiles.
Mr E thinks  the only way there could be a proper assessment  of whether the damage could 
be reasonably  foreseen to be inevitable would be for an insurance companys claims handler 
to assess this. I agree that would be one way of settling the dispute. But Im satisfied I have 
enough information to reach a decision on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this case without  putting the parties to the trouble of arranging  this.
Overall, despite having carefully considered Mr Es points, I see no reason to change  my 
provisional findings and they now form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5709444