K822xcomplaint
Mr S has complained about a number of loans  he took out through a company called  
MYJAR Limited. Mr S says he was lent to irresponsibly and the loans  caused  him financial 
problems.
Im so sorry that Mr S has been  experiencing difficult times recently and Ill try to explain my 
decision as clearly as possible.
background
We now know that Mr S took out 6 loans from MYJAR  between  September 2011  and March  
2017. Ive enclosed a summary  of Mr Ss borrowing with MYJAR, based  on the information it 
provided to us. It can be found in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
MYJAR has already  made an offer to Mr S to settle his complaint. Ill explain a bit more 
about this later, but broadly, the offer relates to reimbursing all the interest and charges 
relating to loans  4 - 6. MYJAR doesnt  think it did anything wrong  in respect of loans 1 - 3.
I can see one of our adjudicators has looked carefully at this complaint  and also at the offer. 
They think  it is a fair offer in the circumstances.  Mr S, however, doesnt agree and has asked 
for an ombudsmans  final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Mr Ss 
complaint.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr S could repay the loan he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks  ought  to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total 
repayment amount  and the consumers income  and expenditure.  
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
MYJAR should have  fairly and reasonably done  more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN54103652refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans,  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr S 
could sustainably make  the repayments.  But it doesnt automatically  follow  that this is the 
case. This is because  the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
MYJAR told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Mr S, including 
assessing his income,  expenditure  and net disposable income.  It says it also carried  out 
credit checks to assess his creditworthiness. It says that all this information showed  that he 
would be able to make the loan repayments he was committing  to.  
Ive looked carefully  at all this and also applied what Ive said above,  particularly about the 
length of the lending relationship, to the circumstances  of loans 1, 2 and 3. Theres a 
somewhat complex  set of circumstances in relation to loan 2 which Im not going to go into 
because it doesnt  affect the outcome. But in summary, I dont think its clear enough for 
loans 1 - 3 that what MYJAR would have  seen, from its checks,  suggested the first three  
loans were unaffordable for him. Neither  do I think the checks  MYJAR would have probably 
carried out at this stage would  have  undermined  the information Mr S provided  about himself 
or the outgoings he declared. 
I accept that Mr S may have already been otherwise indebted at this point and was 
experiencing other challenges. However, theres no indication that the type or depth of 
financial checks that were  carried out at the time would have exposed these things. So Im 
afraid I dont agree that MYJAR  knew its lending was unsustainable for Mr S. I therefore 
dont uphold this part of Mr Ss complaint.
I think from the point of loan 4 onwards  the situation was different. I think MYJAR ought to 
have carried out more comprehensive  checking,  appropriate to the situation.  In fairness to 
MYJAR, I think  it now accepts this and has made an offer accordingly.
Like our adjudicator, I think MYJARs offer is a fair one. It agrees it shouldnt  have  lent at the 
point of loan number 4 onwards, but due to the age of the loan (2011), this account  is now 
closed on MYJARs system  and no action is required. 
MYJAR agrees it shouldnt have agreed to loan number 5 either. So, it has calculated what 
is now rightly due to Mr S by way of compensation (with an additional  8% interest applied). 
However, this will be used  to off-set the amount still unpaid / outstanding  on loan number 6, 
where there  is a fairly large  balance.
Ref: DRN54103653As I say, Im very sorry to hear of the problems Mr S has been having in managing  his 
money and with his general wellbeing and I completely understand that his preference would 
now be to have everything cleared so he can start afresh. 
Our service exists to help put people back into the position they would otherwise have been 
in had they not been mis-sold certain financial products. In the case  of short-term lending  
this typically means refunding the interest  and charges accrued on loans  and paying  8% 
interest on top of that for the time the consumer was deprived of that money. 
Nevertheless, Mr S still benefitted from the principal loan amount in the first place so this 
doesnt get included in the compensation  otherwise hed benefit from having been  given a 
sum of money (the loan) for nothing,  without  having  to ever give it back.  Im afraid I cant tell 
MYJAR to do that although it is obviously open to it to take a sympathetic approach  if it so 
wishes.
putting things right
In order to put things  right for Mr S, MYJAR  should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loan 5
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 6 and treat any payments 
Mr S made towards this loan as payments towards  the capital
If reworking Mr Ss loan 6 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
MYJAR can use the total refund for loan 5 to offset  this. And if there is still an 
outstanding capital balance then I would  remind  MYJAR that it may take a 
sympathetic view when seeking  to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr S for 
the remaining  capital
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ss credit file in relation to loans  4, 5 
and 6 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr S a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I partially uphold  Mr Ss complaint and direct  MYJAR Limited to put things right as set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Michael Campbell
Ref: DRN54103654ombudsman
Appendix
Loan Date taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repaid  Amount
1 27/09/2011 28/09/2011 1 £100.00 £117.00
2 28/09/2011 25/10/2011 1 £100.00 £180.60
3 25/10/2011 02/11/2011 1 £100.00 £117.00
4 02/11/2011 Account Closed 1 £200.00 -
5 26/02/2017 23/03/2017 1 £100.00 £117.09
6 22/03/2017 Outstanding 9 £1,025.00 Partially  
Outstanding
Ref: DRN5410365