K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc wont accept  that it is bound  by his Individual  
Voluntary Arrangement  (IVA) and is pursuing  him for the mortgage shortfall  following  the 
sale of a property.  Mr M wants BOI to accept that it is bound  by the IVA, update his credit file 
and pay him compensation.
background
Mr M was in financial  difficulties and owned  a number  of properties. One of the properties he 
owned with his wife was subject to a BOI mortgage and in negative equity. Mr M entered into 
an IVA in 2016. Mr Ms formal IVA Proposal was based on this property along  with others 
being subject  to receivership action within the next couple of weeks. The receivership would 
crystallise the shortfalls and they would be treated as contingent liabilities to receive a 
dividend as part of the arrangement. 
BOI as secured creditor  didnt participate  in the IVA and didnt submit  a proof of debt form 
when asked to do so by the Supervisor. So, it didnt receive a dividend. The IVA completed 
on the 20 April 2017. BOI sold the mortgaged property in January 2018  leaving a shortfall of 
more than £22,000. The bank says that its not bound by the IVA and should be able to 
collect its debt. Mr M says that as BOI was entitled to vote at the creditors  meeting its bound 
by the terms of the IVA.
Our investigators view was that as a secured creditor BOI couldnt be affected by the IVA 
unless it specifically consents. In this case it decided  to rely on its security rather than take 
part in the IVA. So, our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for a review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint  Mr M says that BOI is bound by the IVA and shouldnt  be able to pursue  
him for the mortgage shortfall after a property was sold.  In 2016 Mr M was in financial 
difficulties and proposed an IVA. BOI at that stage had an unsecured  debt valued  in the 
Statement of Affairs for £7440. I noted that BOI on the basis  of that debt took part in the IVA 
and voted against the arrangement.  The proxy  form it submitted didnt refer to a proxy-holder  
although I presume  it was intended to be the Chairman of the creditors meeting but the 
Chairman ruled  BOIs vote invalid because of that omission. I believe its not unusual  in 
those circumstances  for the Chairman of the meeting to clarify who the proxy-holder was to 
be. If BOIs vote had been accepted the Debtors Proposal wouldnt have been carried.  But it 
was disallowed  and the Proposal  passed.
Besides this unsecured debt, BOI also had security for its debt. Mr M also owned three 
properties with others  that were subject to BOI mortgages that Mr M excluded  from the IVA. 
But Mr M believes that the unsecured part of BOIs loan of another  property was to be 
included.
Ref: DRN59577262BOI makes several submissions to say why this debt isnt covered by the IVA. Firstly it says 
that it didnt participate  in the IVA and that so the mortgage shortfall wasnt included in the 
terms of the arrangement.  It says that It is the creditors decision to agree that a debt can be 
included in the IVA and in this case BOI chose not to do so. Mr M says that that is not the 
case and that BOI had the opportunity  to vote in the IVA and chose not to do so.
BOIs second objection  is that the debtors proposal  affected its rights to enforce its security 
contrary to Article 232 of the Order. The relevant section is:
232 Decisions of creditor's meeting.
{5)The meeting shall not approve any proposal or modification which  affects the right of a 
secured creditor of the debtor to enforce his security, except with the concurrence  of the
creditor concerned  
Its not clear to me that the proposal  affected  BOIs rights to enforce its security  as BOI 
subsequently sold the property and enforced its security. 
But I dont consider that the Proposal was clear as to how it would affect BOI, as secured 
creditor. Firstly  I noted  that in his letter calling the meeting of  26 February 2016 the 
Nominee says that he is writing to  unsecured creditors and that the meeting is being  called 
In order that unsecured creditors might consider the proposal . No mention is made of this 
being an invitation also to secured creditors to consider the Proposal. As mentioned, BOI 
voted for its unsecured  debt against the proposal but didnt vote as a secured creditor. A 
common-sense reading of that letter is that only unsecured creditors were  being asked to 
vote on the debtors proposal.  
That may indeed  be what other secured creditors concluded as none of the secured 
creditors voted on the Proposal. Only three of the unsecured creditors  voted on the Proposal  
- one of whom was BOI who voted against  - and none of the secured creditors.  I note that 
this is despite  the Nominee saying that he had regular dealings  with the main voters. It would  
seem unfair that BOIs secured debt should be bound by a Proposal that was not invited to 
consider as a secured creditor.  
BOI also makes a further  submission. It says that the Proposal as drafted was to deal with a 
situation where as Paragraph 15 says all the Properties within  the portfolio are or are likely 
to be under Receivership control within the next few weeks. As the shortfall  will be 
crystallised by Receiver action I would propose treating them  as contingent liabilities.  BOI 
says that given that legal proceedings for possession had already commenced there was no 
prospect of this property  being put under  receivership control or a shortfall crystallising 
because of that, as a receiver wasnt appointed. That indeed seems  to be the case.
BOI says that there was a High Court hearing on 25 November 2015 prior to the Proposal  
and then several adjournments  to give the borrowers the opportunity to sell the property so 
Mr M would have been aware of these legal proceedings before he made his Proposal. 
I have seen a Court Order  dated 3 October 2016  ordering  delivery of possession of the 
property to BOI. There is no reference  in the Proposal to those legal proceedings. So, it 
would seem that the proposal was intended to cover a circumstance - the crystallisation  of a 
debt after the appointment of a receiver - that wasnt relevant  to the BOI debt. Mr M is asking 
me to agree with him that in those  circumstances that BOI has agreed  to waive its ability  to 
pursue for the mortgage shortfall which resulted from those  legal proceedings and not from 
the appointment of a receiver. But that doesnt  appear to me to be set out in the Proposal.
Ref: DRN59577263My role is to come to a decision based on whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Mr M is inviting me to accept  that BOI cant  require him to repay  the 
mortgage shortfall. BOI clearly didnt approve  of the arrangement but its vote was 
considered invalid. Although Mr M says that BOI had the opportunity to vote in the IVA but 
chose not to do so, thats not correct.  BOI voted  against, but the Chairman considered the 
vote invalid. Its not clear  to me that as a secured  creditor  that an invitation was extended to 
it to vote or even  consider  the IVA given  that the Proposal was addressed to unsecured 
creditors .
Its also not clear that the Proposal  covered the circumstances where BOI had issued 
proceedings to obtain possession of the property, wasnt  intending  to appoint a Receiver and 
in fact didnt do so. In my view the IVA didnt cover  the specific  circumstances that applied to 
the BOI debt and there  is no evidence that BOI agreed to it. So I cant  fairly agree with Mr M 
that this debt fell within  the IVA. For the above reasons I dont uphold this complaint.     
 
my decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5957726