K820x#14complaint
Ms W believes that Schroder Unit Trusts Limited  has mismanaged her share  transfer 
requests, holds incorrect information about her and has failed to sort these issues  out. She 
also believes  it has distorted the facts  about  the situation.
background
An investigator at this service summarised  Ms Ws complaint under four headings:
Schroders UK Growth holding  & Fidelity Transfer
In March/April 1996 Ms W purchased 6,000  2,313  Schroder UK Growth  Fund  accumulation  
shares for £3,000. In 2005 Ms W asked Schroders to transfer these holdings  to Fidelity  to 
invest in AXA Framlington. The funds were sold for £2,875.90, the dealing charge was 
£15.53 (£13.42 exit charge, £1.80 plan charge  and £0.31 vat) meaning the cash  value  was 
£2,860.37.
Schroders mistakenly  said it had sent a cheque  for £3,860.37 to Fidelity.  This was an 
administrative error, it having correctly sent a cheque for £2,860.37. Schroders apologized 
for this mistake and paid Ms W £50. The investigator felt this was reasonable.
GlaxoSmithKline Plc and Schroders UK Mid 250 Fund
In 1999 Ms W chose to invest £3,000 in the Glaxo SmithKline Fund. Her investment was in 
the UK Growth Fund and the Glaxo SmithKline plc Ordinary  25p Shares.
In 2002 Schroders offered  three options  to clients such as Mrs W: switch the holdings to a 
new Schroder Unit fund,  transfer out to another single company PEP manager or sell the 
holding. Ms W instructed Schroders to transfer the holding to the Schroder UK Mid 250 
Fund. She still holds  this fund with a current value  of £8,800.73. 
National Insurance no. issue
Ms W complains that Schroders records do not have her correct National  Insurance  
number. However, the investigator not that Schroders took this number directly from Ms Ws 
original application  form. So it hadnt  done  anything wrong. 
Further, the investigator felt it was entitled  to insist  on certain  data requirements  before 
amending its records. This was the reason for understandable  reasons for the delay  in this 
being resolved.
Historic information 
Ms W requested historic  information about her account but Schroders said it hadnt retained 
this information.  The investigator said it was not obliged to maintain documents  for longer 
than six years; as such, it was not surprising or suspicious that it hadnt done so.
Ms W did not agree, and said:
Schroders took 11 months to respond  to her complaint  letter and, from the outset,  it 
provided contradictory and inaccurate  responses
Ref: DRN52440612She bought  two different products three years apart but both were  given  the same 
account number;  this was the root cause of the problem. This persisted after the 
products changed  in 2003
In 2005 she asked Schroders to transfer her 1995/96 PEP, but it transferred the 
1998/99 one. The documents  regarding this transfer are not accurate
The transfer document  states  the value at £3,860.37 but the amount transferred was 
£1,000 less than this
The reason  is a confusion over which  fund was to be transferred; the names of the 
products were incorrect and Shroders never responded to her queries about  this 
issue
This has caused her very considerable trouble and upset over a prolonged period
Ms W also reiterated various details about the funds, the names of them, and her view that 
Schroders had not carried out the transactions fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons. As such, there  is little I 
can add to her lengthy assessment, only a brief summary of which Ive included  above.
I fully understand  why Ms W has always sceptical about Schroders explanation  as to what  
occurred with her transfers  given  the mistakes it had originally made, which  we then 
compounded by one of the Providers of one of her funds. But the evidence  it has now 
provided does  support  its case  that it correctly transferred the correct PEP fund and the 
correct value of it at the time.
On the balance of probabilities, I think it is unlikely that this evidence was either  deliberately 
faked, mistakenly altered  or simply wrong.
I recognise Ms W has raised numerous, detailed points about  this transfer, and related 
issues, but overall, I dont  believe there is sufficient evidence to uphold  her complaint.
Finally, I would also like apologise  to Ms W for the length of time this service has taken to 
complete its investigation  of her complaint, noting that she has accepted  £200  by way of 
apology for this.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2021.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5244061