K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with how Lloyds Bank PLC handled his request for a replacement  debit
card on his bank account.
background
Mr B contacted Lloyds  in January 2019 and said his Apple Pay wasnt working. Lloyds told
Mr B his existing debit card wasnt compatible with Apple Pay and offered to send him a
new, compatible one to fix the problem. Mr B didnt agree  to Lloyds issuing a new card, so it
wasnt sent.
Mr B called Lloyds again, and now agreed  for Lloyds to issue  a replacement card. Lloyds
told Mr B the new card would have  the right configuration to work with Apple Pay. And it said
the card would arrive within five working  days.  Lloyds marked  its records  to show Mr Bs
existing card was damaged, but still valid for transactions other than Apple Pay. Mr B called
Lloyds many times over the following week to chase the new card.
Mr B then told Lloyds his new card hadnt  been received. Lloyds issued a further two
replacement cards but Mr B said he didnt  receive either of them.
Mr B then complained to our service. Amongst  other  things, he said he was unhappy  with
the service he received  when speaking to staff at Lloyds. He said he was frustrated that his
existing debit card only worked some  of the time whilst waiting for his new card to arrive. He
said he relied on it every day to pay his commute to work.
Mr B also said Lloyds  had misled him about  the timescales for the replacement card, issued
him with a new PIN when he hadnt  asked  for one, and hadnt communicated with him in the
way he wanted.
Our investigator spoke  to Lloyds and suggested it should deliver a new card to Mr Bs local
branch. Lloyds agreed to this and in March 2019, Mr B collected his new card.
Lloyds looked  into Mr Bs concerns. It agreed it had given  him the wrong timescales for the
replacement card, and offered £50 for the inconvenience caused. It also offered a payment
of £36 to cover the cost of Mr Bs phone calls. Mr B rejected this offer and asked our service
to look at the matter.
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and thought that Lloyds offer of compensation was
fair. He looked at the reasons why the existing debit card hadnt always  worked and
concluded it was because of insufficient funds in Mr Bs account.  He agreed that the
replacement card had taken longer to arrive than Lloyds said it would, but he felt its offer of
compensation was sufficient for the inconvenience  caused. He did say that if Mr B could
provide evidence of his costs for the phone calls, he would ask Lloyds to review  this.
Mr B disagreed with our investigators  view.  He thought he should  get more  compensation
for the issues caused by Lloyds. He said it would be difficult to provide evidence  of his phone
bills as he uses a pay-as-you-go mobile, but he felt he should  get more  towards  the cost of
his calls and the inconvenience.
Mr B asked for a further review of his complaint, so its been  passed to me to make a
decision.
Ref: DRN50376542I issued my provisional findings on 11 June 2019.  In summary, I said I was intending to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.  My reasons were as follows:
Mr B says his existing card wasnt working all the time. Hes told us he needed  Apple Pay to 
pay for his commute to work, so it was important that he could use it every  day. But Lloyds 
has said the reason  Mr Bs card wasnt working was due to insufficient funds in his account. 
Its provided a bank statement to support this.
Taking everything into account,  I am persuaded that there  were  some occasions where 
Mr Bs card didnt work due to insufficient  funds. But for me the issue here is that Mr Bs 
original card wasnt working at all with Apple Pay  after all this was the reason he contacted 
Lloyds in the first place.  And in order to determine if Lloyds offer of compensation is fair, 
I need to consider how this impacted Mr B during the time he was waiting to receive  his new 
card. Ill also consider  how Lloyds managed Mr Bs expectations in terms of how long hed 
need to wait to receive the new card.
Mr Bs told us that because his card only worked some of the time, it impacted on his travel, 
work, and family. Lloyds  has said Mr B still used the account whilst the replacement cards  
were being  ordered. Ive looked at the bank statements from the period Mr B had his 
damaged card, and I can see Mr B used  the card for other transactions.  Its difficult to say if 
there was significantly  less activity on his account in February. But I do accept that based on 
what Mr B has said he was reluctant  to use his card, as he wasnt  sure if it would work or 
not. Whilst it wouldnt be fair to hold Lloyds responsible for Mr Bs actions here, I do think  the 
delay in getting a replacement card added to the stress and worry of using  his damaged  
card.
Mr B said he was unhappy at the timescales given  by Lloyds for the replacement card. He 
was told it would take five working  days.  But Lloyds later confirmed it would take longer due 
to the type of card being ordered. I do think this influenced Mr Bs overall journey with Lloyds 
and led to some of the additional phone calls he made. So I think  Lloyds' compensation 
award should reflect this.
Ive considered the number of replacement cards  Lloyds  issued to Mr B to try and resolve  
the problem. And Ive thought about  the overall length of time it took for Mr B to get his 
replacement card. Having done so, I think it took an unreasonably long time for the issue  to 
be resolved. Mr B was clearly frustrated at the delays and I understand Lloyds' concern at 
the number of calls he made. But something was clearly going wrong with the process as 
none of the cards were received. I think there  was a possible security risk to Mr B by having 
so many cards issued in a short space of time that werent accounted for. It was only once 
our service  got involved that the issue was resolved, so I think Lloyds couldve been more 
pro-active here in trying to find a different solution for Mr B.
Ive next looked at Mr Bs comments about  Lloyds  issuing a replacement  PIN when he hadnt  
asked for one. Lloyds  has said in its final response to Mr B that it needed to issue a new PIN 
for his card,  but it has accepted that it shouldve told Mr B it was going to do so. I dont think 
it was unreasonable in this instance for Lloyds to issue a new PIN to Mr B, but I agree it 
wouldve been better if it had let him know first. So I accept this wouldve caused Mr B some 
inconvenience.
Ive considered Mr Bs comments  about  Lloyds not adapting its communication to him. But 
Ref: DRN50376543I can see that once  he made them aware of his needs, Lloyds did alter its method of 
communication to meet them. So Im not going  to tell Lloyds to do anything differently here.
Overall, I think what happened was that a straightforward request for a new card, which was 
Apple Pay enabled, ended up taking  more than two months to resolve. I think Lloyds should 
do more to compensate  Mr B for mismanaging his expectations and not doing all it could to 
help resolve the problem,  the related time he spent  on the phone, and the inconvenience 
caused. I think a total payment of £250  would better reflect his experience and the time 
taken to get a new card.
Mr B hasnt made it clear  whether or not he accepts my provisional decision.
Lloyds rejected my provisional decision.  It provided  a summary of an additional complaint 
raised by Mr B about the delay  in receiving one of his replacement cards. It said it paid Mr B 
£75 for the inconvenience  caused  by this issue. And it provided  evidence to show it had 
already paid Mr B the £50 and £36 offered  on this complaint. So in total it said Mr B had 
received £161  compensation  for the problems caused by the delays  in receiving his new 
card.
Lloyds also provided  some further  contact notes, which it said showed  what it had done to 
try and solve the problem  for Mr B. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to be 
upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why below.
I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by my findings as I initially said I was minded to tell 
Lloyds to pay him a total of £250.  However,  Lloyds has now provided  some additional 
evidence, which Ive considered in the overall context  of his complaint. 
Lloyds included a further payment of £75 to Mr B for the delay in receiving one of his 
replacement cards. So he received a total of £161 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. This amount still falls short of the £250 I originally recommended,  so Ive next 
considered the additional  contact notes provided by Lloyds. And having done  so, I think the 
amount of compensation Lloyds has paid is fair in relation  to the inconvenience  caused.
The contact  notes show that Lloyds accepted that it was possible one of the cards  wasnt 
received, but it did discuss possible solutions with Mr B to try and withdraw funds. This 
included visiting a branch with ID to withdraw cash.  And although Mr B said his card wasnt 
working, his bank statements show he was able to withdraw funds from a branch during this 
time and make other  transactions on his card.
I can also see that Lloyds  managed Mr Bs expectations better in regards to timescales  for 
receiving the card in these contact notes. So, whilst I still think  there was some  level of 
inconvenience and upset caused  to Mr B here, I dont think it requires  Lloyds to pay him 
more compensation  than theyve done  already.
Ref: DRN50376544my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
29 August 2019.
Dan Prevett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5037654