K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained about  their home  insurer Fairmead Insurance  Limited in 
relation to a claim  it initially  accepted for building damage which  occurred during a storm.
background 
Mr and Mrs L bought  their home in January 2018. In December 2018 there was a storm and 
part of the roof of an outbuilding at their property collapsed. They contacted  Fairmead and 
shared with it their concerns that the building was in a dangerous state. Fairmead  sent a loss 
adjuster to the property and, as discussed  in an internal call a few weeks  later, he accepted 
the claim as covered by the storm peril in the policy even in spite of the fact he had noted the 
roof had likely  been poorly constructed. Work began  to make the outbuilding ready  for future 
reinstatement work  and to ensure it was stabilised/made  safe.
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs L had cause to complain very early  on about the contractors that 
were sent to complete the make safe and preparation work to the outbuilding. They reported 
a complete lack of professionalism  by the contractor which  included  drag racing with forklifts  
and throwing large pieces of debris  at each other from the roof of the building (or at least 
pretending too). They noted  the unstable areas of the building were being taken down in an 
unsafe manner,  and that areas of the building which were felt to be unaffected had been 
taken down too. Damage was also caused to materials which  might  have otherwise been  
re-used in reconstruction, and to the previously undamaged garage roof which  the 
contractors repeatedly climbed over.   
Mr and Mrs L reported their concerns to Fairmead  as they arose. The last time major work  
was done at the property  by Fairmeads  contractor was January 2019. In the meantime their 
claim was reviewed by another loss adjuster who felt the initial roof collapse had not been 
caused by a storm. Mr and Mrs L were told their claim  was being declined  but Fairmead 
would investigate the damage  which it didnt  deny its contractors  had caused.  Fairmead  
suggested the contractor should  be allowed to try and rectify matters.  Mr and Mrs L were  
unhappy about this but agreed to allow  it. Unfortunately  there were issues during the very 
next visit from the contractor and Mr and Mrs L said they were no longer prepared to have 
them back. Fairmead said it had no other contractors and the only option left was for it to 
settle for the damage in cash, allowing Mr and Mrs L to find their own contractor. 
Fairmead said it would appoint a surveyor to scope  for necessary repairs and then have the 
surveyor use some contractors on its network  to price the work. Mr and Mrs L agreed but 
remained unsure  about the whole issue  they said they didnt think theyd be able to find 
anyone to fix the damage caused by Fairmeads contractors, and they believed Fairmeads 
decision to discount  the roof repair was also unfair. 
In October  2019, following  the surveyor and contractor visits Fairmead told Mr and Mrs L 
that the price  it would offer to settle  for the damage  done by its contractors was £60,976.93. 
It also offered to pay for some additional  expenses incurred by Mr and Mrs L, as well as an 
amount for their time spent completing some  work  themselves,  totalling  £4,326.16. Fairmead 
also said it would pay a total of £1,250 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
its failures in handling  this claim had caused  Mr and Mrs L.
By this time Mr and Mrs L had appointed  a representative to act for them. Their 
representative said that the offer would  be accepted  as an interim payment only and based 
on the fact this represented the minimum that Fairmead accepted it was liable for. Fairmead 
Ref: DRN53083062then told the representative that the offer had been wrong and it expected  £18,000 of it to be 
returned. Fairmead also sent a breakdown for the work it said it would pay for totalling  
£42,266.11. 
This sum did not include  any reinstatement of the roof which had collapsed. Fairmead later 
explained that it did include a cost equal to one-third  of the cost to re-roof the garage,  which 
it felt would adequately cover the cost of repairing  the damage done by its contractors. It was 
explained that £15,000 had been  allowed for re-turfing areas of the property and a report to 
evidence this cost was provided. Mr and Mrs L noted  nothing had been allowed for 
re-gravelling areas damaged by the forklift.  Further sums allowed by the valuing contractor 
for protecting the first-floor of the outbuilding had been discounted and deducted seemingly 
without reason. They also said that it wasnt possible to just repair  the areas of the garage 
roof damaged by the contractors. Essentially the parties did not reach agreement that the 
scope of works Fairmead had completed  adequately reflected  what was needed to reinstate 
the property following damage having been  caused  by its contractor. 
Our investigator felt that Fairmead hadnt  acted fairly in its handling of the claim, but that it 
had, via its offer made in October 2019, set out a fair resolution  to put things right.  So, she 
didnt uphold  the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs L were  unhappy with the outcome.  At some length  and in some detail they 
explained how upsetting all of this had been for them. They  recounted how Mr L, at one time, 
whilst trying to secure the garage roof to prevent further damage being  caused, had suffered 
a stroke  requiring hospital treatment. They said this had been  their dream  home  but it was 
now a nightmare  they couldnt wait to leave. Their  complaint was passed to me for a 
decision to be made.  My view on the complaint was different  to that reached  by our 
investigator, so I issued  a provisional  decision.
I felt Fairmead had let Mr and Mrs L down  and needed to act to put things right. In short, 
I was of the view it had entered into a contract  for repair which meant  it needed to complete 
a full repair to the building.  But I also had to explain that whilst it is currently unclear what  it 
will cost to reinstate the property, my awards  are limited. In this case I can only award  up to 
£160,000. My conclusion was:
I can only make an award up to £160,000 and the £4,326.16 already paid (which  
Mr and Mrs L can keep) must be allowed for within that sum. I intend to direct Fairmead 
Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr and Mrs L a further £750  compensation (making the total paid £2,000).
Upon return of the £60,976.93 previously paid to them, complete the reinstatement  work 
necessary at Mr and Mrs Ls property to resolve all the damage; that initially  claimed  for 
and that done by its contractor. 
All up to a value  of £155,673.84 (being £160,00 minus  the £4,326.16 already  paid).
[And].
I intend to recommend that, in the event the previous payment, plus my award  for 
compensation and the cost of work Ive directed Fairmead to undertake, exceeds £160,000, 
Fairmead Insurance Limited should complete the necessary reinstatement work.
Fairmead said it accepted  that a lot of distress and inconvenience had been caused   so it 
accepted my increased compensation  award.  But Fairmead disagreed  with my finding  that it 
had entered into a contract for repair. It said all it had ever done  was make-safe works, 
which involved part demolition and taking  down of the dangerous parts of the building. 
Regarding the internal communication Id noted  where the surveyor accepted the claim, it 
Ref: DRN53083063said this message was never conveyed to Mr and Mrs L. Farimead provided a timeline  and 
some activity notes. It emphasised that it had written  to Mr and Mrs L reserving its rights on 
the claim,  which Mr and Mrs L had acknowledged and it said it was concerned that I had 
then concluded  there was no sign of it having  done  this.
Mr and Mrs L said they were generally  pleased by my findings  but had concerns about  
working with Fairmead  again as their previous experience  with its contractor had been 
harrowing. They said theyd like me to award  them a cash settlement at our limit to allow  
them to do the work,  even  though  this would likely  leave them with a shortfall. They said that, 
in the event I wasnt prepared to make  an award like that, Fairmead  should  be instructed to 
appoint an independent expert  to determine whats needed to repair  their property and then 
tender for that work.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
My provisional findings were:
Our limit
I mention this now as it is unclear how much it will take to reinstate Mr and Mrs Ls property. 
But we do know that the cost of repairing the damage done by Fairmeads contractor  alone  
is quite significant  (more  than £60,000).  At this service, given the date of the activity  which  
caused this complaint, and when the complaint  was made to us, we can only make awards 
up to £160,000. Although we can recommend that a business pays  or completes work in 
excess of that figure, it wont be bound  to do so even where the complainant accepts the 
complaint within  the deadline. 
Here it may not come to pass that the work at Mr and Mrs Ls property costs more  than 
£160,000 to rectify  but I need to make  them  aware now that I can only make  an award that 
requires Fairmead to compete work and pay compensation  for upset and any other costs up 
to the value of £160,000. Although Ill recommend that Fairmead does work and pays any 
amounts that exceed that value, it wont have to honour that. If Mr and Mrs L accept my final 
decision and it chooses not to honour  my recommendation, its unlikely Mr and Mrs L will be 
able to take Fairmead to court to pursue the matter.  They may wish to take legal advice.
Contract for repair
Whilst Fairmead has sought to argue that it only started work at Mr and Mrs Ls property with 
its rights  regarding policy liability reserved,  in order to help them  out in dire circumstances, 
that is not what I see from the contemporaneous material on Fairmeads file. As noted in the 
background, the first loss adjuster accepted the claim under cover  for storm whilst knowing 
the recorded windspeeds were on the lower  end of what would be considered storm 
conditions, and that there were likely construction issues with the roof. Theres no sign that 
he ever said action was being taken whilst rights were reserved   and it makes no sense  to 
think he might, because he had accepted the claim. I see that, later, Fairmead  tried to 
retrospectively apply  a reservation of rights. But it cant do that. Fairmead undertook  work  
that was necessary to complete the reinstatement of the property. It entered into a contract 
for repair, it cant walk away from that just because it changed its mind on liability.  
Redress
Ref: DRN53083064Mr and Mrs L havent spent the money Fairmead sent to settle the damage  done by its 
contractor  theyve  been unable to find a contractor to take on the work. And Im not 
surprised given the scale of damage  and poor work  that seem to have occurred. Theres 
also the fact that they dont believe the scope of work the costs are based on sufficient even 
for rectifying  just the damage Fairmead accepts it caused. Fairmead says it has no other 
contractors but it was able to have one of its surveyors use contractors it works with to cost 
the repairs. So I dont  see why any of these couldnt  be used. But Fairmead,  to date hasnt 
factored in repairing the damage that initially triggered the claim and Im mindful that the 
building has now been stood for a good  time in a partially dismantled state. I think Fairmead  
should have a surveyor scope for reinstating  the building   to resolve the initial  damage as 
well as that caused by Fairmeads  contractor  and put that to tender for suitably qualified 
contractors it usually  works with and any local to Mr and Mrs L to bid for. Fairmead can then, 
via the surveyor  if necessary, appoint the contractor  which wins the tender to do the work. 
For the avoidance of doubt that should include the garage roof, and any other damages at 
the property caused by Fairmeads contractors, including reinstating  the gravelled areas.   
Previous settlement  £65,303.09
As noted above,  Mr and Mrs L have kept this money  they havent spent it. So most of it 
can be returned to Fairmead. But I think they can reasonably keep some. Fairmead  set out 
that it felt the damage repairs would cost £60,976.93. It then accepted that Mr and Mrs L had 
other costs  and losses totalling  £4,326.16.  Mr and Mrs L, I think, can fairly keep that sum,  as 
Im not directing  Fairmead  to do more in respect  of what  it has been paid for. But they should 
return the rest to Fairmead because this was paid in lieu of it fixing  the damage it had 
caused, which Im now saying is work it must  take on. And the sum of £4,326.16 does have 
to be factored into the award limit. 
Compensation
Fairmead has paid £1,250  already. But given the scale of its failures here and the clear and 
significant distress they have caused  Mr and Mrs L, Im not persuaded thats  a fair and 
reasonable sum. Whilst the claim was made  in respect of the outbuilding  that building  is 
directly along their route of access into their home. And the disrespectful  and unprofessional 
acts of Fairmeads contractor caused  damage to many  outside  areas  of the property.  Which  
they had to witness and were  powerless to stop.  On top of all that Fairmead unfairly  and 
unreasonably withdrew  its assistance, not just causing Mr and Mrs L a loss of expectation in 
respect of the claim, but also causing  them the stress and worry of trying  to find contractors 
to take on the work of fixing Fairmeads damage. Ive thought carefully  about  whether to 
factor Mr Ls stroke into this award  but Im not persuaded its fair to attach that occurrence to 
Fairmeads failures. It could just as easily be something that would have happened anyway. 
And Im not persuaded that Mr L had no choice  but to go up on the roof that day. 
I understand he was reluctant to engage with Fairmead any further  and didnt trust it  but 
that means he chose  to try and resolve  this himself rather than place the onus back on it. 
And I think some action could have  been  taken from inside the garage to protect  its contents 
from any damage. Having  taken  everything into account I think  Fairmead should pay 
Mr and Mrs L a further £750 making  total compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  it 
has caused them of £2,000. The total amount counts  towards  the award limit.
Ref: DRN53083065I was aware when making my provisional  decision  of Fairmeads belief that its carrying out of 
make safe works did not amount to it entering into a contract for repair.  I didnt accept that 
argument then,  and whilst Ive reviewed matters, I still dont now. The make safe  works 
here were a necessary part of the buildings reinstatement  they were  the first stage of its 
repair. Just as cleaning  away contaminants  after a fire,or stripping out a soaking  wet ceiling 
are often the first repair works to be carried out following a fire or water  leak  they make  the 
property safe but are also a necessary part and the first stage of its repair.  
I also considered Fairmeads activity  notes in detail when making my provisional decision, 
and I looked closely  at the timeline.  I did not say that Fairmead had not, at any stage, sought 
to reserve its rights  on this claim.  Rather I noted it had only done so after the contract  for 
repair had begun, and begun whilst the key issues that might have affectted Fairmeads 
liability were known to it. The note Fairmead  has specifically drawn  to my attention,  made it 
says, following the joint site meeting in December 2018 doesnt change anything . It records 
the fact the adjuster and Mr and Mrs L discussed  that there were possible structural  issues 
with the building which the policy/Fairmead may not respond to  but it also shows the 
adjuster felt the claim was likely otherwise  to be covered, particularly as he accepted  there 
was a storm.  
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs L have  reservations about working with Fairmead again  but 
Im also aware that they themselves highlighted the problems they were having  with finding 
contractors to take on this work. I also cant reasonably just say Fairmead should pay cash 
at our limit to settle this  because, to date,  what is needed  to reinstate the building, and the 
cost for that, has not been established.  My provisional findings did say that the work would 
need to be scoped for by a surveyor and then put to tender. If the surveyor requires the 
involvement of any other experts, such as an engineer,  they could be instructed too. In most 
cases I see, where I instruct an insurer to complete further work, that is the extent of my 
instruction. Here, given  the quite extreme circumstances which occurred when Fairmead  first 
appointed contractors, Im satisfied  the further direction Ive given is warranted. Im satisfied 
that, in the circumstances,  this is a fair and reasonable way of resolving the matter.
Whilst Ive carefully considered the responses  from both parties  to my provisional  findings, 
they havent changed my view about the fair and reasonable outcome for this complaint. My 
provisional findings now form part of the findings of this, my final decision. 
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Fairmead Insurance Limited. In doing  so I make both an 
award and a recommendation. 
My award
I can only make an award up to £160,000 and the £4,326.16 already paid (which  
Mr and Mrs L can keep) must be allowed for within that sum. I require Fairmead Insurance 
Limited to:
Pay Mr and Mrs L a further £750  compensation (making the total paid £2,000).
Upon return of the £60,976.93 previously paid to them, complete the reinstatement  work 
necessary at Mr and Mrs Ls property to resolve all the damage; that initially  claimed  for 
and that done by its contractor. 
All up to a value  of £155,673.84 (being £160,00 minus  the £4,326.16 already  paid).
Ref: DRN53083066My recommendation
I recommend that, in the event the previous payment, plus my award for compensation and 
the cost of work Ive directed Fairmead to undertake, exceeds £160,000, Fairmead 
Insurance Limited should complete the necessary  reinstatement work.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Even if Mr and Mrs L accept 
my final decision within the deadline  set, Fairmead  Insurance Limited doesnt have to do 
what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr and Mrs L can accept my decision and go to court  to 
ask for the balance  if the recommendation is not honoured. Mr and Mrs L may want to get 
independent legal advice before deciding whether or not to accept this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2021.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5308306