K820x#14complaint
Miss J has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited didn't pay her travel insurance  claim.
Reference to Aviva  includes its agents.
background
Miss J was abroad when  she fell ill and needed treatment in hospital. She claimed for her 
medical expenses  but Aviva turned  down  her claim. Miss J didn't  think that was fair and 
brought her complaint  to us.
On 17 December 2018 I issued a provisional  decision. I noted that when she took out her 
policy Aviva  asked Miss J about her health.  She told it about two conditions  she had, the 
second being an inflammatory condition.  She said she hadn't received medication,  treatment 
or medical  advice for any other conditions in the past 12 months. Aviva said it would cover  
the first condition but wouldn't cover anything related to her inflammatory  condition.  Miss J 
bought the policy on that basis.
When Miss J fell ill abroad doctors  treated her for a serious infection  and replaced  a stent 
which had caused  it. Miss J also told doctors that shed been receiving treatment for a 
suspected cancer.  She added that shed been  treated  in hospital several times in the 
previous months  for symptoms similar  to those that had caused her admission  abroad.
Aviva turned down  Miss Js claim because it said she hadn't told it about  all of her medical  
conditions when she took out her policy. It added that if she had told it about the condition  
which required the stent, it wouldn't have covered her for it. And as it was that condition  that 
led to Miss Js illness while abroad Aviva didn't think it needed to pay her claim.
I explained that where a consumer makes a mistake when  answering  an insurers  questions 
that mistake is known in the insurance  industry as a misrepresentation.  And there's 
legislation: the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012  (CIDRA)  
that says its the duty of a consumer to take reasonable  care not to make a 
misrepresentation. CIDRA sets out what an insurer may do where  a consumer  makes  a 
misrepresentation. And, of relevance  to this case,  it says that if an insurer  would have 
offered the policy on different terms then the insurer may treat the policy  (which CIDRA  
refers to as a contract) as if it had set it up on those  different terms.
I said that I'd listened to the call when  Miss J bought her policy. I thought that Aviva had 
asked clear questions  about what medicines, investigations, medical advice and treatment 
Miss J had had in the last 12 months.  But I didn't think shed taken reasonable care to 
answer Avivas questions.
That was because Miss J hadn't mentioned the advice, investigations or treatment shed had 
for her suspected  cancer,  which shed received in the previous  12 months. And there was 
evidence that the suspected cancer was also related to the condition  requiring the stent. And 
Aviva has shown us evidence that if it was aware  of those  conditions then it wouldn't  have 
covered those or anything related to them. Also I noted that Miss J hadn't told Aviva about 
the treatment shed received in hospital in the months running up to her holiday.  
So I said that I didn't  think  Miss J had taken reasonable care to answer  Avivas  questions.  
And, if she had Aviva  wouldn't have agreed to cover  anything related to the suspected 
Ref: DRN58654762cancer and that would include  the condition requiring  the stent. That means it wouldn't  have 
covered the illness  that caused  Miss Js hospital  admission abroad.  And in those 
circumstances I said Avivas  decision  not to pay Miss Js claim was reasonable. 
developments
Miss J didn't agree with my provisional  decision.  She said she believed  she had answered 
Avivas questions properly. She said she'd told it about her cancer and she hadn't  been 
asked about the stent.
She said she hadn't been admitted to hospital because  of the cancer  but because  of an 
infection related  to the stent, which had been put in two years  earlier.  And that she was 
appalled that Aviva hadn't offered to pay a nominal sum.
Aviva had no further comments to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Miss J is certain that she answered Avivas questions fully. So I've listened again  very 
carefully to the relevant call and having done  so I still don't think  she took reasonable care to 
answer Avivas questions.
As I said in my provisional decision,  Aviva  asked clear questions about  what  advice, 
investigations or treatment Miss J had received in the previous 12 months. Miss J had had 
advice, investigations  and treatment for a suspected cancer  in that period.  But she didn't 
mention the suspected cancer at any point in her conversation with Aviva.  So I don't think  
that Miss J took reasonable  care to answer  Avivas questions. And if she had Aviva wouldn't 
have covered anything related to her suspected  cancer.
Miss J did tell Aviva about her inflammatory  condition, which  was in the same body area as 
the suspected cancer. But Aviva was clear  that it wouldn't cover anything  related to that 
condition, which Miss J accepted. 
Miss Js said that she wasn't  treated abroad  for her suspected cancer  but instead for an 
infection connected with her stent.  But as I said in my provisional decision it seems  that the 
requirement for the stent was linked to both Miss Js inflammatory condition and her 
suspected cancer.  Aviva  had already told Miss J that it wouldn't  cover anything  related to her 
inflammatory condition.  And if it had been aware  of her suspected cancer it wouldn't have 
covered anything related to that either.  So as the stent was linked to those two conditions 
and caused Miss Js illness abroad  I think it was reasonable for Aviva to refuse Miss Js 
claim.
I understand that Miss J is again quite  unwell. So I appreciated my decision is likely to add to 
her worries at an already difficult time. Thats an unfortunate knock  on effect of my decision. 
Its certainly not my intention to add to Miss Js troubles. And I hope she understands that I 
must come to my conclusions based  solely on what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint, and mustnt be swayed by the difficult  circumstances  she is 
experiencing.
Ref: DRN58654763my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5865476