K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz),  as the insurer, has taken responsibility  for the sale.  To keep 
things simple, Ill just refer to Allianz in this decision.
background
Mrs P bought the policy in 1997  at the same time as taking out a personal  reserve account.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres limited  information available from the time the PPI was sold to Mrs P in 1997, which 
isnt unusual given  the sale took place over 20 years ago. As a result, Allianz  hasnt been  
able to provide  us with copies of Mrs Ps actual paperwork from the time of sale.  Allianz also 
hasnt been able to confirm how the PPI was sold.
So, Ive based  my findings  on the information I do have and what I think is most likely to 
have happened  at the time of sale.
Allianz has provided us with a sample  application form it says Mrs P would have signed 
when taking out the personal reserve account  and agreeing to the PPI. It says this 
represents what Mrs P would have seen when  signing for the personal reserve account and 
PPI. Having thought about this and using what we know generally about the lenders sales  
processes at the time,  Im satisfied that this is representative of what Mrs P was likely to 
have seen at the time of sale.
Based on what Ive seen,  including the sample application form, I think  Allianz  made Mrs P 
aware that she had a choice about  buying  the PPI, and she chose to take it out. I say this 
because the personal reserve account application form gave the applicant the option of 
selecting whether  or not they wanted  the PPI added to their account.  So taking everything 
into account, I think its likely Allianz made  it clear  to Mrs P that the PPI was optional and I 
think she agreed to it.
Allianz didnt recommend  the PPI to Mrs P so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her.
But it did have to make  sure Mrs P got the information  she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been  particularly about  the things it didnt  cover. But Im satisfied its likely Mrs P 
Ref: DRN59116142chose to take out the PPI, so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive 
seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions.  It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable.
Mrs P says she may have  been working  less than 16 hours  a week. Initially  she told us she 
was working 20 hours per week, but later, after we explained to Mrs P that we werent 
upholding her complaint,  she told us she may have been working  between  12 and 15 hours  
a week. This makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint, as Mrs P wouldnt have 
been eligible for cover under the PPI policy if she was working less than 16 hours a week.  
As a result, we asked  Mrs P whether she had any information to support what  shes  told us 
about her working  hours being  less than what she originally reported.  Unfortunately, she 
hasnt been able to provide us with any information to support this.
So Ive thought about what  Mrs P has said alongside the information I do have. Mrs P has 
been inconsistent  in what she remembers about the hours she worked in 1997, so its 
difficult for me to put much weight  on what shes said. And looking at the sample personal 
reserve account application form, I can see that in the section for the PPI it specifically  states 
that the applicant must  be permanently employed for at least 16 hours  per week.  Having 
thought about this, I think its unlikely Mrs P would have opted  for the PPI if she had been 
working less than 16 hours, specifically because application form sets out how many hours 
she had to be working in order to qualify for the cover - although I accept this is possible. But 
taking everything into account, I think its more likely  Mrs P was working for more than 16 
hours and was therefore eligible for the PPI.  
Mrs P has told us she had some savings and was entitled to statutory sick pay if she was too 
unwell to work. Having  thought about what  Mrs P has said about her savings and sick pay, I 
think she would have  found the policy useful.  In the event of a successful claim, the PPI 
would have paid a benefit in addition to Mrs Ps statutory sick pay and would  have paid out 
for longer. It also would have paid a benefit if Mrs P was ever made  redundant and in the 
event of death. This would have meant Mrs P could have used her savings to cover  any 
other financial commitments she may have  had during what  could be a difficult  time.
So overall, I think Mrs P could have found  the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and 
I dont think that any better  information  would have put her off from taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5911614