K820x#14complaint
Ms A has complained that Lloyds  Bank  PLC (Lloyds) told her that if she downgraded her 
packaged account she would receive a full refund of her account fees  but Ms A says she 
never received a full refund of her account  fees.
Ms A has also complained about the customer service she received from Lloyds. She said 
she has made multiple trips to Lloyds branches to discuss her account  and her complaint. 
She says shes phoned  Lloyds  many  times  and has also been put on hold for long periods of 
time. Overall Ms A has been  dissatisfied  with the level of customer service she has received  
from Lloyds.
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and concluded that Lloyds  had not offered 
to refund all of the packaged bank account  fees to Ms A. She did however think that the 
levels of customer service  Ms A had received werent always  good. But she felt that the 
various gestures  of goodwill  and the refund of charges  that Lloyds has already  paid Ms A 
was reasonable  redress  in light of what has happened and therefore  felt that no further 
redress was warranted.
Ms As representative disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsman to review  the 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators findings  and dont think any further  redress should be awarded to Ms A.
The main  aspect of Ms As complaint was that she was assured by Lloyds that if she 
downgraded her account from a packaged account she would receive  a full refund of the 
account fees shes paid over the years. 
However, Ms A had made an earlier complaint that the packaged account had been mis-
sold, but Lloyds  concluded it hadnt been  - particularly because  Ms A had made extensive 
use (at least in the early  years she held the account) of the account  benefits - that she said 
she didnt need.  So given this context, I find it unlikely that Lloyds would then later decide  to 
give her a full refund  of the account fees.
Nevertheless, I have looked  into this matter and have listened  to the phone call in which  Ms 
A claims  she was told she would receive  a full refund  of packaged account fees. 
In the call Lloyds  agrees  to refund £30 of overdraft charges and to waive a further £45 of 
pending overdraft  charges. Lloyds also completed  a financial review and suggested that 
Ms A downgrade her Gold Service packaged bank account and add a feature called Control 
to her account. By doing  this, Lloyds explained  what benefits Ms A would lose from not 
having the Gold Service account  anymore  and what benefits shed gain as a result  of having 
Control on her account  namely no longer being charged unarranged overdraft charges or 
returned item fees. Lloyds explained that the Control feature was free for the first six months  
and that Ms A should  contact  Lloyds prior to the six-month anniversary if she was unable  to 
afford the £10 monthly Control  fee. 
Ref: DRN56809882However, at no point in the call does Lloyds offer to refund any of Ms As packaged bank 
account fees. As such, I dont think Lloyds  has done anything wrong by not refunding Ms As 
packaged bank  account fees.
Turning to the customer service that Ms A received, I can certainly understand how 
inconvenient and frustrating it can be when making  multiple phone  calls; being put on hold 
for long periods of time; and also having  to make multiple branch visits to sort matters  out. 
I can see that Ms A spoke to Lloyds on 11 July 2017  about her circumstances, which 
included a reassessment of her income  and expenditure  at the time.  And given the nature of 
the call, I think its unavoidable that the call mayve been lengthy, as there  was a large 
amount of information  about her circumstances  that needed to be covered. Nevertheless, 
Lloyds agreed  to waive further overdraft charges that were  due to be applied to the account.
Later on, in December  2017, Ms A called again as shed incurred overdraft charges in 
September, October,  November  and December - despite having the Control feature on her 
account. To address this error, Lloyds refunded £70 of the overdraft  charges that had been 
applied, and paid Ms A a gesture of good  will of £15 on 7 December 2017. And, in addition  
to this, in the final response letter to this complaint, Lloyds conceded its customer service 
couldve been better and offered to pay Ms A a further £150.
Overall, based on everything  that Ms A, and her representative, has said about the trouble 
and upset that has been caused to her by Lloydss error, I think  that the amount Lloyds paid 
to Ms A was reasonable. 
Ive considered Ms As representatives reasons as to why this amount was not sufficient, 
including Ms As financial, medical  and familial  circumstances  - as well the extra  expense  
and inconvenience  she wouldve incurred  as a result of the trips to branch and the multiple 
phone calls that she made. 
But I think that what Lloyds has already  offered to do to put matters right is not 
unreasonable. And I think the total amount of refunds; amounts waived; and compensatory  
awards Lloyds has made in relation  to this complaint is consistent with awards  that this 
service has recommended in similar  circumstances. I therefore  dont require Lloyds  to pay 
Ms A any more in relation  to this matter.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont think Lloyds  Bank UK Plc needs  to do anything  more, 
than what it has already done, to put matters  right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5680988