K821x#15complaint
Ms O has complained about a series of short-term loans  she took out with 
Curo Transatlantic Limited  (trading  as Wage Day Advance). She says Wage Day Advance 
didnt carry out sufficient affordability  checks  before  granting the loans.
background
The Statement of Account  provided  shows that Ms Os first loan was taken  in June 2014. It 
was for £150  and due to be repaid in 19 instalments of roughly around £40. Ms O repaid this 
loan early  in August 2015.  She didnt borrow again  from Wage  Day until July 2016  when 
she was given an instalment loan for £300,  which was due to be paid in 6 instalments of 
£87.30. 
Ms O repaid  this loan in August 2016 and was then given her third loan  again for £300   a 
few days later. This loan was due to be repaid in three payments. But it was structured in a 
way where the first two payments only paid the accrued interest. And the final payment 
repaid the entire amount of the capital Ms O was initially  advanced plus the remaining 
interest due. This loan was structured in a way where Ms O didnt  reduce  the amount she 
owed until she made her final payment in month three. So it had the effect of Ms Os capital 
payment being  deferred for two months.
Ms O didnt repay her third loan until February 2017   which  was some three months  later 
than when it was originally due to be repaid. Ms O was then given a final loan of £150 in 
March 2017. This loan was structured in a similar way to loan three. And I understand  that 
Ms O has an outstanding balance remaining on this loan.      
When it initially investigated Ms Os complaint, Wage Day accepted  that it shouldnt have 
provided Ms O with her fourth loan in March 2017.  It agreed  to remove  all the interest and 
charges applied from the outset so that the remaining outstanding balance  was made up 
solely of the unpaid funds Ms O initially  received. This is typically  what wed tell a lender to 
do in instances  where  we upheld a complaint about  a loan being unfairly provided. 
In terms of the remaining loans, Wage Day didnt  think it had done anything wrong when 
providing them. Ms O was dissatisfied with Wage Days response and referred her complaint  
to us. Since  the complaint  has been referred  to us, Wage Day has agreed to refund  any 
payments Ms O made on loan one once she paid double  the amount she borrowed plus 
interest.   
One of our adjudicators looked  at Ms Os complaint and concluded that proportionate checks  
were carried  out for loans  one and two. So the offers made  in relation to loans one and four 
were fair and he didnt  think  that Wage Day should do anything more  for those loans.  But he 
also thought that Wage  Day shouldnt  have provided  loan three to Ms O as proportionate  
checks wouldve shown that Ms O wouldnt have been able to sustainably  repay this loan.
Wage Day didnt agree with our adjudicator. So the case was passed  to an ombudsman  for 
a final decision.  As Wage Day has already  agreed to put things right in the way that wed 
normally ask it to, for loan four, Im not going  to look into the circumstances behind this 
application. So this decision is only looking at whether it was fair for Wage Day to have 
provided loans  one, two and three to Ms O. 
Ref: DRN58289842my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  industry  practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Wage  Day, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Ms O would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Ms O wouldve been  able to do so?
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall pattern 
of lending increase Ms Os indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable  or otherwise 
harmful?
Did Wage  Day act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine that Wage Day did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms O and 
that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider  what  is fair compensation.
In cases such as these,  where  there are a number of loans and to consider, it can be useful 
to look for blocks or chains of loans. In this case,  the biggest gap in lending is of around  
eleven months between loan 1 and loan 2. Ive thought about the length of this gap and 
about the point in this lending relationship at which it occurred.  And Im satisfied that this gap 
represented a clean break in lending. So I intend  to look at Ms Os loans as two separate  
chains of lending.
Did Wage Day, each time it lent complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Ms O would  be able to repay  in a sustainable way?
Regulations in place throughout the period when Wage Day was lending to Ms O required it 
to carry out a reasonable assessment of whether Ms O could afford  to repay  her loans in a 
sustainable manner.  This is sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment  or 
affordability check.
The affordability checks shouldve been borrower-focused  so Wage Day had to think  
about whether  repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse  
consequences for Ms O. In other  words,  it wasnt enough for Wage  Day to think only about  
the likelihood that it would  get its money back  without  considering  the impact of repayment 
on Ms O herself.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
Ref: DRN58289843or financial difficulty) and the amount  / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate  check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an 
extended period);  and 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
should be for a given  loan application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, or any substantial 
time gaps  between loans. Ive thought  about  all the relevant factors  in this case.
loan 1
Its my understanding that for loan one Ms O was asked to provide details of her monthly 
income and monthly  expenditure.  Wage Day determined  that this left Ms O with a monthly  
disposable income of £580 and that she could  afford  to borrow £435. However as this was 
Ms Os first loan with Wage  Day it was only prepared to lend £150.
As this was Ms Os first loan with Wage Day, there  cannot have been any established 
pattern in Ms Os borrowing needs  at this stage.  And at £150, the amount offered by Wage  
Day was relatively small  certainly  in comparison to Ms Os declared income. Together, 
these factors could  in theory indicate  that even a less detailed affordability  assessment could 
be proportionate for these  loans.
But CONC 5.2.4G(2) provides some guidance  on the proportionality of assessments. And it 
makes it clear that the risk of credit  not being  sustainable directly  relates  to the amount of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit  relative  to the customers  financial situation.  
Ms Os loan required her to make payments of around £40 for 18 months. So the total 
charge for Ms Os credit  was in excess of £600.  Taking the total cost of the credit as well as 
the extended period of time Ms O was be asked  to make repayments  for into account,  I think  
that Wage Day needed  to get a thorough understanding of Ms Os financial position. 
So as well as asking  Ms O about  the details of her income and expenditure, I think  that 
Wage Day needed  to take steps  to verify what it was being told by Ms O. It could have done 
this by asking  for information such as bank statements, copies of bills, or even proof of Ms 
Os income. 
Ref: DRN58289844And as Wage Day hasnt  said that it took any steps to verify  the information  provided for loan 
one  indeed the read out provided suggests  that there wasnt even an income  check  as the 
loan was auto approved,  I dont think that its checks were proportionate, given the 
circumstances of this particular loan application. 
For these reasons, having carefully considered what Wage Day has told me about the 
checks it performed before Ms Os application  for loan one, I dont agree that it conducted 
reasonable and proportionate affordability  checks before providing Ms O with this loan.
loan two
Its my understanding that for loan two Ms O was also asked to provide details of her 
monthly income and monthly expenditure. Wage Day once again determined that this left  
Ms O with a monthly disposable income of £580.  Although this time Ms Os monthly income 
had increased  by £100 and her expenditure had also increased  by a similar amount. 
Ms O didnt return for loan two until almost a year after shed repaid loan one. And Im 
satisfied that the period of time that had elapsed between loan one being repaid  and loan 
two being taken was enough  to ensure that loan two constituted a separate  chain  of lending. 
This loan was for £300. And it was due to be repaid  in six instalments of £87.30.  The term of 
this loan was considerably shorter than for the first one. So the total cost of this loan was 
also substantially less than that for loan one.
With this in mind and as the answers to its questions dont  appear  to raise any obvious 
concerns, I think Wage Day could reasonably have satisfied itself that Ms O could 
sustainably repay  this loan based  on these checks. And this means that I think that the 
checks Wage Day carried out for loan two were reasonable and proportionate. So I dont 
think that Wage Day did anything wrong when  it provided this loan to Ms O.
loan three
Ms O repaid  loan two early. But she approached Wage Day for loan three  a few days  after 
she settled the outstanding balance  on loan two. She was given  a loan for exactly  the same 
amount. But this time the loan was due to be repaid over three months rather than six. That 
said, for the first two months  Ms O would only repay the accrued interest. And she had to 
pay back all of the funds  she was given plus the remaining interest in the final payment.
So while it could be argued  that loan three was an instalment loan, in truth, the structure  of it 
had the effect  of a deferred  payday  loan. In other words  the effect of the repayment 
schedule meant that, if it was adhered  to, Ms O would be in a similar position to what  shed 
have been in if shed taken a single payment payday loan and deferred, or rolled it over,  on 
two occasions   the maximum  permitted by CONC 6.7.23R. 
In these circumstances, Wage  Day ought  to have been alert to the possibility that Ms O 
mightve simply been delaying repayment  because she was experiencing financial difficulty   
in the same way it wouldve had to have been  alert to this possibility if and when Ms O 
applied for deferrals at the time,  or just before, a single payment loan was due. 
Ref: DRN58289845This is especially as Wage Day already ought to have been aware of the possibility that      
Ms O was applying for a loan of the same amount as the one shed  settled days  previously 
because she was borrowing again  to cover the hole left in her finances by her previous loan.     
Bearing in mind all of this, I think that Wage Day ought fairly and reasonably to have done 
more than simply obtain a declaration of Ms Os income and expenditure  which  incidentally 
remained the same as before. Given the circumstances of this application  Ms O opting  to 
pay only interest for two months and taking out a loan for the same amount days  after 
repaying her previous  one  I think that it wouldve been reasonable and proportionate to 
explore Ms Os recent  short-term lending history. 
Wage Day says it did this by carrying out a credit check. And it says that a summary  of this 
was provided in its business  file. But the credit  report summary provided says:
A credit  check  was carried  out on the individual at the point of application  for loan 4. The 
information returned was used to assess credit worthiness and affordability.
So it appears to me that Wage Day didnt carry out a credit check  or anything  else other 
than obtaining  a declaration of income  and expenditure   before granting loan three. Its 
possible that Wage Day is relying  on the statement from this summary which said:
The customer had no active short term loan accounts and the last short term loan was 
taken 6 months prior to the application indicating they were not dependent upon short term 
credit.
But this check was carried out some seven months after Ms Os application for loan three. 
And as this is the case, it wont have covered the period leading  up to the application for this 
loan. So taking  everything into account,  I dont  have enough here to say that Wage Day did 
anything more than ask Ms O for details of her monthly income and expenditure. And as this 
is the case, I dont  think that the checks carried out before loan three was provided were  
reasonable and proportionate.
Would proportionate checks on loans one and three have indicated to Wage Day that Ms O 
would have been unable to repay her loans in a sustainable manner?
As proportionate  checks werent carried out for these loans, I cant say for sure what  they 
wouldve shown. So I need to decide  whether it is more likely than not that a proportionate 
affordability check would have told Wage Day that it was unfair to give these  loans to Ms O, 
given her financial circumstances at the time. Ms O has provided us with evidence of her 
financial circumstances at the time she applied for these loans.
Of course,  I accept different checks might show different things. And just because something  
shows up in the information Ms O has provided, it doesnt mean it wouldve shown up in any 
checks Wage Day mightve carried out. But in the absence of anything else from Wage  Day 
showing what steps it took to verify the information  provided (and how it interpreted it), I think  
its fair and reasonable to place considerable weight  on it as an indication of what Ms Os 
financial circumstances were likely to have  been at the time. 
loan one
Ref: DRN58289846As Ive explained, given  the loan term she was being asked to commit to and the total cost of 
the credit, I think that it wouldve been fair and reasonable for Wage  Day to have got a better 
understanding of Ms Os financial  position before agreeing to give her this loan. 
Having considered the information Ms O has provided, there isnt enough to persuade me 
that its more likely than not, Wage Day wouldve seen Ms O couldnt  have made  the monthly 
payments for the MPay  loan if it had gathered adequate information before granting it. 
The information Ive been provided  with does suggest that Mr Os finances werent in the 
greatest of shape.  Her credit file and bank statements  show that she had quite a few existing 
credit commitments.   But its unclear whether she was struggling  to pay them.  And the 
information doesnt show me that Ms O couldnt have committed  to the monthly  repayment  
of around £40, at least in the initial stages, whilst also meeting her normal  commitments.  
So overall and having carefully thought  about everything provided, I dont have enough here 
to be able to say that proportionate checks wouldve shown Wage Day the payments  for this 
loan were clearly unaffordable and/or unsustainable  for Ms O. 
As I think  thats the case, it follows that I also think Wage Days offer to refund the extra      
Ms O paid over and above twice the amount she borrowed, plus interest,  is fair. So Im not 
going to tell it to do anything  more  in relation to this loan.  
loan three
As Ive explained, given  the type of loan Ms O was given and the circumstances leading to 
the application, I think that it wouldve  been fair and reasonable for Wage  Day to have  got a 
better understanding of Ms Os recent short-term credit history.  
I think that if Wage Day had done  that here it would have seen that Ms O had taken a 
significant number  of short term lending in the months leading  up to this application. And it 
would also have seen  that Ms O had a number of existing loans with other high-cost credit  
providers too. I think  that this is important because Wage Day was required to establish 
whether Ms O could  sustainably make her loan repayments  not whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt automatically  follow  that 
this is the case.  This is because CONC defines  sustainable  as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that if a lender realises, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  I think Ms Os financial position in relation 
to her existing high-cost  (both short term and longer)  meant  that Ms O was unlikely to be 
able to be able to make her repayments to loan three on time,  while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments.   
As I think  that a proportionate check would have  shown Ms Os financial position in relation 
to her existing commitments, it follows that I think a proportionate check  wouldve alerted 
Ref: DRN58289847Wage Day to the fact that Ms O wouldnt have been able to sustainably  make the 
repayments to loan three.  
Did Ms O lose out as a result of Wage Days  shortcomings in relation to loan 3?
As Ms O had to pay interest and charges because Wage Day unfairly  and unreasonably 
provided loan three  to her, I think that she lost out because of Wage  Day did wrong.
Ms O also ran into difficulties paying  loan three,  which  she shouldnt have been  given.  So I 
think she lost out as a result of negative information being  placed on her credit file.
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall pattern of 
lending increase Ms Os indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful?
In addition to assessing the affordability  of each individual loan provided to Ms O by Wage 
Day, I also think its fair and reasonable to look at the overall pattern of lending. Im mindful 
here of the short-term  purpose of this type of credit and of the relevant rules, guidance and 
good industry practice at the time  as summarised  in the earlier  part of this decision.
Bearing in mind the short-term purpose  of this type of credit and the relevant rules,  guidance 
and good industry  practice at the time (as summarised in the earlier  part of this decision), it 
seems to me there may be circumstances  where offering a loan of this type to a customer 
who appears to be becoming reliant  upon short-term  lending  would be unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. This is irrespective of the fact that the loans,  on the face of things, may 
appear to be affordable.  
So Ive carefully  thought  about whether it was fair and reasonable for Wage Day to have 
offered Ms O her loans in the circumstances which it did. 
As Ive explained, Wage Day gave Ms O four loans in two separate blocks  or chains. I think 
a pattern was beginning to emerge after the second  loan in in the second chain  Ms Os 
inability to settle loan three on time is indicative of this. But as Wage Day has already put 
things right for loan four  presumably  because  it accepts  the information  it had meant it 
ought to have recognised that by this stage Ms Os emerging  pattern of loans becoming 
unsustainable and otherwise harmful, as having  become established.  As this is the case,  I 
dont need to consider this point further  here.  
Did Wage Day act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some  other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, other than by providing 
loan three,  Ive not seen anything here that leads me to conclude Wage Day acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards  Ms O in some other way.  
Overall and having carefully thought  about the two overarching  questions,  set out on page 
two of this decision, I think that Wage Day unfairly and unreasonably provided Ms O with 
loan three  as it ought to have realised she was unlikely to have been  able to sustainably 
make the payments to it. So Wage Day shouldnt have provided loan three to Ms O. 
fair compensation  Wage Day needs  to do to put things right for Ms O.
Ref: DRN58289848Having carefully thought  about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Os complaint for Wage Day to put things right in the following way:
refund  all the interest, fees and charges for loan three; and
refund  and pay Ms O all the extra she paid over £300 on loan one (which is twice  the 
amount Ms O was lent for this loan) as Wage Day has already agreed to do; and
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above payments from the date they were  
paid by Ms O to the date of settlement;
remove all the interest  and charges added to loan four from the outset. If there is an 
outstanding balance remains once this is done,  Wage Day can deduct this from what 
it now needs to pay Ms O. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Wage Day to take off tax from this interest. Wage Day 
must give Ms O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Ms Os complaint. Curo Transatlantic Limited 
(trading as Wage Day Advance) and should pay Ms O compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms O to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5828984