K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that MoneyGram International Limited wont refund a payment which  was 
intercepted by a thief.
background
In March 2018 Mr C sent €2,000 to his sister-in-law in another country. The next day, he 
sent her another €1,000.  He says this money was to buy a car. However,  his sister-in-law 
says that when she went to collect the money,  only the second transaction was available. 
Someone else had already collected the first payment, by impersonating her.
Mr C complained, but MoneyGram  said that the person who had collected the first payment 
had presented photo identification (a passport) in the name  of his sister-in-law,  and had also 
provided the unique reference  number of the transaction. That reference number should only 
be known by the sender and the intended recipient, and should not be disclosed  to anyone 
else. It declined to refund the money, so Mr C brought this complaint to our Service.
Mr C provided  evidence  that his sister-in-law  had reported the matter to the police. He 
provided an email from the seller  of the car asking for the sale to be delayed by a couple of 
days, during which  time the first payment had been  collected. He said that MoneyGram had 
failed to investigate  his case properly, and he doubted that the person who released the first 
payment had checked the offered passport properly.
MoneyGram said its terms and conditions say that they are obliged to release  a payment to 
a person who provides the reference number and a valid identity document.  It said that Mr C 
had told it that he had accidentally disclosed the payment reference number to the seller of 
the car. It said it had checked to see if its own agent might  have  stolen the money, but had 
found no evidence  to suggest that had happened.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He was satisfied that MoneyGram had 
followed its procedures correctly, and had done nothing wrong, even if the money  had been 
collected by the wrong  person. Mr C asked  for an ombudsmans decision.H
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Firstly, there  is no evidence to support the assertion that the agent who released the funds 
did not check the passport properly. Indeed, the evidence I have seen tends to suggest  the 
opposite: the agent  has recorded the passport number, expiry date and date of issue. So its 
likely that he had sight of it for longer than just a brief glance.
Secondly, as I have  said above, MoneyGram told us that Mr C shared the payment 
reference number  with the person who was selling the car. Our adjudicator mentioned  this in 
his decision, and Mr C did not dispute  it, and so I accept that this happened. It still doesnt  
seem likely to me that the seller of the car somehow obtained the intended recipients  
passport, used it to collect the money,  and then returned the passport to its owner without 
her noticing.  Nor does  it seem likely that the seller forged a passport. But if somehow the 
seller did intercept the payment  whether by using a stolen passport, or a forged one  this 
Ref: DRN59657032would only have been possible because Mr C disclosed the payment  reference number, 
which he was only supposed  to share  with his sister-in-law and with no one else. That is 
significant, because  of what it says about that scenario in MoneyGrams terms and 
conditions. In paragraph 5.3 it says:
You must not give the reference number   or recipients details to anyone  other 
than your chosen recipient,  and do all you reasonably can to make sure no one else 
can obtain them
Paragraph 4.3 says:
 we will not be liable where you have not met your obligations in condition  5.3 and 
the money is paid to someone who gave the [agent] what it reasonably believed to 
be valid identification for the recipient
So even if that is what happened, MoneyGram would not be liable for it, and would not be 
obliged to give Mr C a refund. (And if his sister-in-law,  the intended recipient of the funds, did 
collect the money, then under paragraph  8.4 MoneyGram would not be liable to Mr C for 
what she did with it.)
my final decision
So for the above reasons,  my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5965703