K820x#14complaint
R, a limited company,  complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined its application for a 
business account. R is represented  by its officers, who Ill refer to as Mr W and Mr A. 
background
Mr A had a sole trader account  with HSBC. During a review  of his account,  HSBC found out 
that his business was being operated by R. Mr W says HSBC recommended  that R apply for 
a new business  account then declined  Rs application  and closed Mr As sole trader account. 
This left R without banking facilities. 
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should  be upheld,  saying:
Mr A opened a sole trader account in 2012. A new account should have been opened in 
2013 when R was incorporated  to operate the business. HSBC  realised  this after it 
started to review Mr As account  in 2017. 
HSBC said R would  need to apply for an account. Rs application was declined.  HSBC 
said the process took longer than it would have liked. It refunded £63 of fees and paid 
£200 compensation for the delay. The investigator said this was reasonable. 
HSBC restricted and then closed Mr As sole trader account.  We cant  require HSBC to 
pay compensation to R for this as it wasnt the account holder. 
R didnt agree. Mr W said the investigator  hadnt taken into account  the inconvenience  and 
time spent  on this over many months.  He said they were given assurances by HSBC that the 
business wouldnt be left without banking facilities. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
HSBC wrote to Mr A in March 2017 asking for updated information about his business. In 
June 2017 HSBC found out that the business  was operated by R. HSBC said R should  apply 
for its own account. 
HSBC declined Rs application for a business  account saying it didnt  meet its criteria. Mr As 
sole trader account was restricted in August 2017 and then closed. This meant  R didnt have 
banking facilities. But I dont think HSBC  made  an error when it declined Rs application. I 
havent seen anything to suggest that HSBC applied  its criteria incorrectly or unfairly.  And I 
dont think its reasonable to say that HSBC  should  have kept Mr As sole trader  account 
open so that R could  use it. 
HSBC agreed to review  its decision to decline  Rs application. It says it took too long to 
make a final decision to decline Rs application.  It apologised for the delay and paid £200 
compensation and refunded fees of £63. I think that was the right thing to do. I dont think, in 
the circumstances, its fair and reasonable to require HSBC to pay further compensation. 
Ref: DRN58013362my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5801336