K821x#15Complaint
Mr W complains that BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited BFS) refused to let him reject  a 
faulty car.
Background
In August  2018  Mr W acquired a new car at a cost of £21,613  funded by a hire purchase 
agreement and a deposit of £319.  
When the car was collected it had a dent in the front passenger  door and the satnav wasnt  
working. The satnav  was repaired on the day of collection and the dealer agreed  to fix the 
dent at a later date.
About six weeks later Mr W became aware of a vibration in the engine when the car was 
started. The dealer took the car in to repair the dent in late October, but was unable to spot 
any vibration. Mr W says the vibration continued to be present and on 20 November he 
asked to be allowed  to reject the car. The car was taken to another main  dealer on 10 
January 2019  the job sheet states: Investigate judder from engine area found slight  play in 
engine mounts, adjusted and re-secured.
The car was taken back on 16 January and the job sheet states:  Found cross members  on 
underside of vehicle by exhaust slightly out of align causing friction  to the exhaust pipe 
sending vibration through nox sensor. Re-adjusted  now all ok.
Mr W remained unhappy with the car and brought  his complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our adjudicators who recommend it be upheld.  She said that under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  if a fault is evident after 30 days but within six months of a 
car being supplied, the consumer was eligible to reject it if there  had been a failed repair  
attempt.
She said she was satisfied in this case  there  was an attempt to repair the car on 10 January 
2019, and a further attempt on 16 January  2019  as the engine vibration was still present. 
She also referenced  a more recent problem with the electronic key. She noted Mr W had 
made it clear  as far back as November 2018  that he wished to reject the car as he had lost 
faith in it. At that point after some eight  months  of ownership he had only driven it for 2,900 
miles.
BFS didnt  agree and said the faults were minor defects given no parts  were  needed  to 
repair the vibration  on either occasion. It also said the issue with the key occurred  after six 
months of ownership. Our adjudicator said that the first repair  in January was recorded as 
follows: when started from cold engine has a vibration-  play where the mount  sits and that 
needed adjusting.  Has been repaired. Also rattle coming from the back-  latch on rear seats- 
adjusted and no longer rattles." She thought that was a repair and given it had to be repaired 
again few days  later then it must be regarded as failed repair.  She added that she didnt  
consider the CRA allowed for minor  defects. BFS didnt accept this and Mr W supplied 
further evidence  of other failings with the car such as the petrol cap jamming  and 
condensation in the lights.
Ref: DRN54970582My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
BFS is also the supplier  of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
While I appreciate the point of view expressed by BFS I consider this complaint should be 
upheld. I will explain  why.
It is reasonable to expect  a new car, and a fairly expensive one at that, should be free from 
defects. Mr Ws arrived  with a faulty satnav and a dent in the door. Both were fixed  and I am 
mindful the satnav  was dealt with on the delivery day. Mr W has told us that in September  
2018 he identified  a vibration when the car was cold and it showed  up also on corners and 
over bumps.
The selling dealer has no record of the work  it did on the vibration issue back in October  
2018, but I am satisfied the car was taken  on for this problem to be addressed. The fact it 
didnt identify problem  doesnt mean one didnt exist. This was confirmed when another  main 
dealer found a problem in January 2019  which it repaired and then again a few days  later. 
A repair doesnt necessarily require  new parts to be fitted. It simply has to be an attempt to 
fix a fault. The two dealers had three opportunities to fix the problem and that this more than 
the law entitles. It was open  to Mr W to be allowed to reject  the car. A vibration is not a minor 
matter. I am aware that Mr W has encountered other  issues, but BFS hasnt had the 
opportunity to address these. However,  I consider they only add to Mr Ws concerns  about 
the car and they have contributed to his loss of faith in it. Therefore on balance  I consider he 
could be allowed to reject  the car.
I appreciate he has incurred costs in running  it while this matter  has been  considered,  but he 
also has had use of it and it is only right that he pays for that use. 
Ref: DRN54970583My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct BMW Financial Services  (GB) 
Limited to:
cancel the finance agreement for the car and collect it, at no cost to Mr W;
refund  the deposit in full, adding  8% simple interest a year from the date it was paid, 
to the date of settlement;
refund  Mr W two monthly payments (I wouldve expected the car to have travelled 
4,000 miles at this point in the agreement based  on the mileage allowance);
pay Mr Ws £150 to recognise  the distress  and inconvenience this caused;
adjust Mr Ws credit file accordingly.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5497058