K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that he was mis-sold a Travel  Pack (TP) by Barclays  Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays).
background
Mr P says that he took out a TP with Barclays in March 2018 because  he wanted the travel 
insurance component.  He says he wasnt interested in any of the other benefits. 
Mr P says that when  he went on holiday and tried to make a claim, his claim was rejected 
due to him having a pre-existing medical condition. So he says he was misinformed  by 
Barclays.
Our adjudicator said that Barclays didnt do anything wrong when it sold the TP to Mr P. Mr 
P disagrees  so the case comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ps complaint.
The core of Mr Ps complaint is that he says he went on holiday thinking  he had full 
insurance cover but then found he didnt when  he tried to make a claim, and this has cost 
him a substantial amount of money.
Before I get to this, there are two principles I need to consider. These are whether he knew 
he had a choice  whether  to take out the TP or not and whether he chose to do so; and 
whether Barclays recommended the TP to Mr P and advised him to buy it. 
I think Mr P was aware he had an option  whether to buy the TP. I say this because hed had 
a fee free account before the TP and he has said that he chose to buy the TP, but his issue  
is that he was misinformed.
So I think Mr P knew  he had a choice whether to buy the TP and he chose to buy it.
Barclays says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt  recommend  
the TP to Mr P personally or advise  him to take the account out. Mr P is unsure whether they 
advised him or not. I dont  know  what was said during the sales, but Ive not seen anything  
such as a record of a discussion about Mr Ps needs and circumstances or a suitability 
check to show me clearly that Barclays did make a personal recommendation to him. I 
accept its possible that in providing  information  to Mr P and explaining  the benefits of the 
TP, Barclays may have said or implied that it was a good idea to take it out. But this isnt the 
same as a personal  recommendation.  And based on this services knowledge of Barclays  
sales practices at the time, I think its more likely than not that Barclays sold the TP to Mr P 
on an information only basis.
This means  Barclays  did not have to ensure that the TP was suitable for Mr P but it did have 
to provide Mr P with good  enough  information about the account so he could make an 
informed decision about whether to have it or not.
Ref: DRN58956912So having  established those principles, Ill now consider the core of Mr Ps complaint.
The TP cover included  worldwide family  travel  insurance, RAC breakdown cover,  Card  
Secure and a fee free overdraft of up to £200. 
Barclays clearly  provided information  to Mr P about the TP as he says he was interested 
specifically in the travel insurance and thats why he bought it. Mr Ps issue is that he had 
existing medical conditions and he says Barclays did not tell him that the conditions were 
excluded from the travel cover.
Ive considered this carefully and in my view I dont  think  Barclays did anything wrong. I say 
this because the policy doesnt  exclude  all pre-existing  medical conditions.  But it does 
require that anyone with medical conditions contacts the insurers  medical  assessment team 
to check theyre covered  before  travelling.  
Ive seen the TP application form declaration which Mr P has signed. And it specifically 
draws Mr Ps attention  to the fact that if he or fellow travellers have pre existing medical 
conditions, then they need  to advise the insurers medical assessment team  before 
travelling. And Barclays has provided evidence that Mr P did just that.
In my view it was then for the insurer to tell Mr P whether he was covered or not when  he 
travelled abroad. I dont know whether the insurer  did that or not, but if it had told him he 
wasnt covered, then Mr P could  have cancelled his account and paid nothing.
So I dont  think Barclays did anything wrong when it sold the TP to Mr P.
It may be the case that Mr P has cause for complaint with the insurer,  but he needs to raise 
that with the insurer first and then this service  could look at that as a separate case  if he is 
unhappy with their response.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about  the sale of the Travel Pack.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5895691