K822xcomplaint
Mr O complains that Experian Limited is showing his address incorrectly on his credit file.
background
Mr O complained to Experian about a number of issues relating to his credit file (including 
his address being incorrect) in December 2017  and February 2018. Experian  said that it was 
using his address  from the electoral roll but it offered him £39.99 (including £25 
compensation for the inconvenience caused  by those issues). Mr O wasnt  satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service that the address that was showing on his credit file 
was incorrect.
The adjudicator issued her assessment in September 2018  but Mr O explained that two 
words were  still missing from his address. Experian  said that the electoral roll information 
had been updated to show Mr Os address correctly (but that hed need to change the 
address on his membership profile). And it offered him a further  £50 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience that hed been  caused.  But the issue  with his address re-
occurred and is currently classed as unresolvable so Experian offered a further  £100  
compensation to Mr O. 
Mr O accepted the offer of a total of £150  compensation. Hes received the further  £100  that 
was credited to his payment card but he says that he hasnt received the £50 that was sent 
to him by cheque. Experian has provided  evidence to show that a £50 cheque was sent to 
him in October  2018. This complaint  has been  issued to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Experian accepts  that theres  an issue with the way that its showing Mr Os address  on his 
credit file. But its been unable to properly  change the way that his address is showing and it 
says that the issue is currently classed as unresolvable because  it keeps  recurring. It says 
that this issue causes no detriment to Mr O or his credit report  and its offered him a total of 
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience that hes been caused. Mr O has 
accepted that offer.
Experian has provided evidence from its internal records to show  that a £50 cheque was 
sent to Mr O in October 2018 and that the cheque has been  cashed. And £100 was credited 
to Mr Os payment card. But Mr O says that he hasnt received the £50 cheque and that he 
doesnt have an account with the bank at which the cheque was cashed.  
I consider that Experian has provided enough  evidence to show that a cheque payable  to 
 Mr O for £50 was sent to him, using  his correct address, in October 2018 and that the 
cheque has been  cashed. So I consider that it has fulfilled its offer to send Mr O a cheque for 
£50. I dont consider  that its responsible for what happened to the cheque  after it was sent 
to Mr O. And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require Experian  to send another cheque to Mr O or to pay him the £50 by another  means 
(or to take any other action in response to his complaint).
my final decision
Ref: DRN57108312For these reasons, my decision is that Experian Limited doesnt need to do anything further 
in response to Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5710831