K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited  didn't honour  a quote it gave 
him for a car insurance policy.
background
Mr S contacted Admiral  for a multi-car insurance  quote. At that time he didnt have the 
details of the second car as he hadnt  yet bought it. Admiral provided a quote based on the 
details of the car he did own and the make  and model of the other car he intended to buy.
When Mr S came  to buy his policy he still hadnt bought a second car. Admiral said that it 
couldnt offer him a multi-car discount  on the car he did own.  Mr S bought the policy  without 
the discount but complained. Admiral  agreed that some of its service  hadnt been as good as 
it would  like so it offered Mr S £60 for the impact of that. It also said that Mr S could cancel 
the single  car policy without a cancellation  charge in the future  if he wanted to. 
Mr S didnt think that went far enough  and brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator 
thought Admiral had dealt  with Mr S reasonably. Mr S didnt agree so his complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr S has made a number of points. And Ive considered  everything 
hes said carefully. But in this decision I will focus  on what  I see as being  the key points.
Mr S said Admiral didnt make it clear  that he needed to be able to provide the precise 
details of the actual second car he intended  to buy in order to benefit from a multi -car 
discount. But I dont  think it needed to. Thats because in order to qualify  for a multi-car 
policy the consumers  involved need  to be in a multi-car situation. That is they already have 
access to more than one car or can provide the details  of the exact  car they will be in 
possession of and when. 
Mr S initially  looked for quotes from a comparison website before contacting Admiral and 
hes copied us into that online journey. The information hes provided shows that the people  
who can benefit from a multi-car  policy are couples or families who already own more  than 
one car. It doesnt indicate that potential  policyholders might  be able to secure a multi-car  
discount if they dont already have a second  car. And I think  most reasonable consumers will 
understand that theyd need to have more than one car to insure in order to be able to be 
eligible for a multi-car discount. 
At the time Mr S asked  for a multi-car quote  he intended to be in a multi-car situation  when 
he took out his policy  or shortly afterwards. But by the time he bought  his policy  that situation 
hadnt materialised  as he hadnt yet bought a second car neither could he specify  the exact 
car he was going  to buy or the exact date he would  add it to his policy.  In other  words,  he 
still only had one car, so he didnt qualify  for a multi-car  discount. It follows that at the time 
he bought his policy his circumstances werent the same as those he gave when asking 
Admiral for a multi-car  quote. So as his circumstances were  different I dont think  Admiral 
Ref: DRN54782872needed to honour its quote. And Admiral  then calculated a premium,  which  Mr S accepted, 
based on his actual situation  at the time, rather than what  his situation may or may not be in 
the future.  And I think that was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr S said that if the details of the second car changed or he didnt add it to the policy  then 
Admiral could have  recalculated  his premium at that point. I agree thats the case. But I dont 
think its reasonable to expect Admiral to offer a multi-car  discount  when  at the time it sold 
the policy Mr S didnt qualify for that discount as he didnt have a second car to put on the 
policy. 
For completeness I think its also worthy of note that Mr S was under no obligation  to accept 
Admirals price. I understand  he was pressed for time but he still could have looked 
elsewhere if he wasnt happy with Admirals premium. And in any event I note that Admiral 
told him he could cancel the policy  without  any cancellation charges  if he wished to do so. 
And I think that was fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5478287