K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that the State Bank of India (UK) Limited (SBI) wont  refund payments made 
using his debit  card that he says he didnt make or authorise.
background
Mr C disputed 16 transactions totalling  over £18,000, which took place over three weeks  
starting at the end of August 2018.  He says that his debit card was in his possession, he 
hadnt kept a written  record of his PIN and nobody else knew  it. He had told the bank that he 
was having problems with his debit  card and wasnt able to use it.
SBI investigated  and refunded almost £5,000 but has declined to refund the rest. It said that 
it had sent transaction alerts to both Mr Cs registered mobile  phone  and email address. It 
didnt think Mr C had carried out the transactions but was holding  him liable for the payments 
because it thought he had been  negligent  by not complying with the account terms and 
conditions and reporting the transactions sooner than he did.
Our investigator didnt  think that this complaint should be upheld. She thought that whilst Mr 
C might  not have carried out the transactions himself it was more likely  than not that he had 
consented to them. 
Mr C didnt agree. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
Mr C says that he tried to use his card to make an online  payment on 26 August  2018, but 
he had problems. He told SBI about this and it told him to register for MasterCard 
SecureCode. He says he had difficulties in trying to register his card so gave up.
He then says that on 20 September 2018 he withdrew £100  from a cash machine  and 
noticed that his account  balance had gone down. He contacted SBI the following day. Mr C 
disputed 16 transactions totalling over £18,000.  He says that he didnt make the payments or 
authorise them.
SBI raised a chargeback with MasterCard for all the disputed  transactions.  It says that most 
were successfully defended by the merchants, but some didnt respond  within  the 
MasterCard chargeback  scheme time limit. Because of this it refunded almost £5,000 to Mr 
Cs account. It carried out an investigation into the other transactions. 
The disputed transactions took place in August and September 2018. The regulations  
relevant to these  are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. In short, the basic  position is 
that SBI can hold Mr C liable for the disputed payments  if the evidence  suggests its more 
likely than not that he made them  or authorised them. So, my primary concern is to come  to 
a view about whether  or I not I think  Mr C authorised these payments. But for me to be 
Ref: DRN59670922satisfied that these payments were authorised, I first need  to determine how they were  
authenticated.
Authentication is the use of any procedure by which  a bank can verify the use of a specific 
payment instrument, including its personalised security features. SBI has provided evidence 
to show that the disputed  transactions were online, telephone or mail order payments, for 
which the correct  card number was entered. And, although Mr C says that he didnt complete 
the registration of MasterCard SecureCode, I find that some of the payments were subjected 
to this extra layer of security and authenticated by the SecureCode. So, I consider it more  
likely than not that Mr Cs genuine card details  were used. 
The regulations relevant  to this case say that it is not, on its own, enough for SBI to hold Mr 
C liable,  just because  his genuine card information  was used. So, I also need to consider 
whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not that he made the payments himself  
or consented to the disputed transactions being made.
Mr C had the card in his possession  during  the time the disputed  transactions were  
happening. As he used it himself for genuine payments, balance  enquiries and cash 
withdrawals I think  it unlikely  that the card was compromised or stolen. 
For an unauthorised  person to carry out these  transactions they would have needed  Mr Cs 
card details. As Mr C had the card, I cant see how someone unknown to him could have got 
hold of these details without Mr C knowing. He says the only people that have copied his 
card are the staff in his SBI branch. 
I find that the 16 payments that Mr C disputed were  made all made either online or by 
phone. Not only was Mr Cs card number used,  but other security information,  such as its 
expiry date and the CV2 details (the digits on the reverse of the card) were  correctly given. 
And some of the payments were also authenticated by the MasterCard  SecureCode.
One of the merchants has provided  information  to show  that when its services  were booked 
Mr Cs correct mobile phone number was used along with the correct card details and the 
SecureCode. And it confirms that there  were  several  other bookings made between  January 
2016 and January 2018 using the same details. Mr C hasnt disputed any of these. And if, as 
Mr C says, he didnt make the booking in September 2018 then I consider it more likely than 
not that Mr C had given his card details to the third party.  I also think that, if the third party 
hadnt been authorised  by Mr C to make the booking, then they wouldnt have provided Mr 
Cs own mobile number  as the main contact.
Mr C has told us that he has evidence  from another merchant  that the purchases made 
werent delivered to his address. We have  asked Mr C to provide a copy  of this information, 
but he hasnt done so. But even  if the items werent delivered to Mr Cs address, I think  it is 
still possible  for Mr C to have authorised or consented to the payments. I say this because 
this merchant has shown  that the correct card details were provided and some  of the 
payments were made  using the MasterCard  SecureCode.
SBI has shown that it sent confirmation  of each  transaction to Mr Cs genuine email address 
and text messages  to his mobile number  and these were successfully delivered. Mr C has 
said he didnt receive any of these. But the email address that SBI sent the alerts to matches 
the one this service  has used for him, so I think it more than likely that he did receive them.  
Mr C didnt raise  anything  with the bank during this time which  is why I think  on balance he 
was aware of and consented to the activity.
Ref: DRN59670923I have also seen evidence  which shows  that Mr C carried out balance  enquiries during the 
time the disputed activity  was taking place. If Mr C hadnt consented  to the payments I think 
hed have seen  that his account balance was lower  than it should have been and raised the 
matter straight away with SBI. Although Mr C says that he did contact SBI after the balance  
enquiries, I dont think he did because SBI hasnt any record of his calls and Mr C hasnt 
been able to show he called the bank. 
I also find that there were  no failed  attempts to use Mr Cs card after he had reported the 
disputed activity. If Mr C hadnt authorised or consented to the payments, then I would have 
expected the third party to continue to try to make payments until payment  was refused.
Having carefully considered all the evidence, if Mr C didnt make the payments himself  then I 
consider the person who carried out these transactions knew  Mr Cs debit card details and 
other personal information. They  could only have this information  if Mr C had shared it with 
them.
So, from all that Ive seen,  whilst  I accept  I cant know  exactly  what happened, I think  it more 
likely than not that Mr C either made the payments himself or consented to them by allowing 
someone else, known  to him, to use his card. I say this because:
Theres no convincing explanation for how the third party could have got hold of Mr Cs 
card and security details.
An unknown third party wouldnt have access to Mr Cs MasterCard SecureCode. 
password to complete the additional security required to make some of the payments.
The card details  were used over a 25-day  period. I think  an unknown third party  would 
have tried to use the card details as much and as quickly as possible, rather  than risk Mr 
C noticing the payments and giving him a chance  to stop the card.
There were  no more  attempts to use the card after Mr C had disputed the payments with 
SBI.
SBI sent text messages and emails to Mr C each time a payment was made  but he didnt  
contact the bank about them.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr C and I do understand that this must be upsetting  for him, but I 
cant ask SBI to refund  him. I hope the reasons for my decision are clear.
my final decision
My final response is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 November  2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5967092