K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that a used car he acquired  under a hire purchase agreement  with Close 
Brothers Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. He also says the car was misrepresented  to 
him by the dealership. 
background 
In October  2016 Mr H acquired a used car via a four year hire purchase agreement with 
Close Brothers. The car was around  two years old and had a mileage of approximately 
37,500. 
In or around June  2018 the car broke down and Mr H had it inspected by a garage who 
advised him it would  require  a new engine. He complained to Close  Brothers and sent it a 
letter from the garage which set out that there was an excessive oil leak from the crank seal 
on the timing belt side of the engine. The garage also found  tiny metal filings in the oil and 
said in its opinion there has been  a major fault inside the engine.  The garage  further said 
that it is not common for a vehicle  of this age and mileage  to have this fault. But it 
concluded that without further diagnostic work  and investigation into the engine there was 
no sure way of diagnosing the fault. 
Close Brothers didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint.  It said Mr H had been  in possession of the 
car for 20 months and been  able to drive it for 17,000 miles. And that the evidence  hed 
provided didnt  show that the faults with the engine had been  present at the point of sale. But 
it said if further evidence  was provided  then it would review its decision.  
Mr H also complained to Close Brothers  that hed become aware the car was an ex-rental  
one after he started to have problems with it. He said he hadnt been informed of this by the 
dealership, whod said the car only had one previous owner. Mr H said Close Brothers  
response to that part of his complaint was that he shouldve been aware of it being ex-rental 
due to the cars high mileage at the point of sale. 
Mr H was unhappy at Close  Brothers  decision and complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that his complaint should be upheld.  She said the car had 
been diagnosed as undriveable in June 2018,  which was 20 months  after Mr H had taken 
possession of it. Prior to this point there  had been  no indication there were any faults with 
crank seal.  Further, it had passed its MOT and been  serviced as required.  
Under the Consumer  Credit Act 2015 if a fault develops  with a car after six months from the 
point of sale then it is for the consumer to prove the fault had been present or developing 
when theyd acquired it. The evidence produced by Mr H from the garage  that inspected  the 
car didnt  provide a diagnosis. There wasnt enough evidence to say the fault with the cars  
engine was an inherent one or something that had arisen after the point of sale through  wear 
and tear. 
Our investigator said that the dealership didnt agree it hadnt told Mr H about  the cars  
previous owner,  and the previous owner was also shown on the document V5. So she 
wasnt persuaded that the fact the car was an ex-rental vehicle hadnt been mentioned or 
had been hidden at the point of sale. 
Ref: DRN56686712Mr H disagreed with our investigators view. He says he feels that the decision by the 
investigator about whether hed been  told about  the car being  ex-rental was unfair as it was 
its word against his.
.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr H has had the car repaired and has now sold it on. However, this doesnt  
prevent him from making his complaint about  the quality of the car or that it believes it was 
misrepresented to him.
Mr H says hes been advised by the garage  that inspected  the car, as well as the mechanic 
that repaired it, that it was too new and the mileage too low to have that type of substantial 
fault with the engine.  
While I appreciate what Mr H says on this point, I need to consider the evidence  that I have  
as to whats wrong with the cars  engine.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (The Act) a car must be of satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale. And satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect, taking into 
account all the relevant  circumstances such as age, condition and mileage of the car. 
Durability is also part of satisfactory quality as, although no one would expect all the 
components of the car to last forever,  they also wouldnt reasonably  expect issues  to arise 
with the car for a reasonable period of time. However whats  a reasonable  period of time 
will again  depend  on certain relevant things such as the cars condition, age and use.
The letter provided  by the garage  that inspected the car describes the situation with the 
engine as uncommon. But it also says that without  further investigation it cant diagnose 
the fault. Ive seen  that Mr H was able to use the car without a fault with the engine  arising  
for 20 months. In that time he was able to drive  it for a further  17,000 miles. And taking that 
into account, I dont  think I can reasonably  say that the car wasnt durable. 
Due to the amount of time thats passed since  the point of sale then, under The Act,  its for 
Mr H to show that the fault with the engine  had been  either present or developing when hed 
acquired it. And I dont  think  hes been able to do this as theres  insufficient  evidence to 
prove that the fault with the engine is an inherent one, in tandem  with the significant time 
hes had the car and the mileage its done. So I cant reasonably say the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory condition when Mr H acquired it.
Mr H says if hed been told the car was ex-rental he wouldnt have bought it. He says he was 
told the car had one previous owner and it was only when things started  to go wrong that he 
looked into its history. He says it was only then that he discovered the previous owner was 
actually a car hire company.
The dealership says it sold a lot of ex-rental cars and that its confident  Mr H was made fully 
aware of the history  of the car. It says it was its practice to tell customers  if a vehicle was ex-
rental. And that a full service history,  MOT history, warranty  information  and Log Book were  
all available to Mr H. 
Ref: DRN56686713The sale of this car was now some  time ago and I cant  be sure what  was said between the 
parties. To uphold Mr Hs complaint about  the car being misrepresented  to him Id need to 
be satisfied that the dealership had made an untrue or misleading statement about the car to 
Mr H which  induced him to buy it. 
Ive seen that the advert for the car didnt include any reference to the number of previous 
owners, so I think its likely this must  have  been  raised instead during a conversation  with 
the salesman  at the dealership. But I dont have any evidence  that points to the dealership 
misleading Mr H. The dealership says it told him the car was ex-hire, but Mr H says it didnt, 
so its one word against another.  Further, due to the passage of time neither party  can 
confirm what exactly was said 
While I appreciate Mr H says he wouldnt  have  purchased an ex-rental car, Ive seen that the 
cars price was fair for its age and mileage. And it also came  with a full service history,  log 
book and MOT. As such, I think the history  of the car was taken into account in the price  Mr 
H was asked to pay.
The dealership said that, despite  Mr H thinking  it had been  less than honest with him,  in 
September 2018 he contacted it with a view to purchasing another car - though it was unable  
to assist him at that time. It says he approached it as a general customer. Mr H says he went  
back as the dealership had said it would take the car back after two years and swap  it for a 
new one. Mr H says he only went back in desperation as any other  dealership hed wanted 
to sell the car to wouldve  left him in negative  equity.
Mr H also says hed understood that under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 hed have a 
cooling-off period  of 14 days  for any new car. So hed intended  to swap  the car then cancel 
the new agreement  in the 14 day period and hand the second car back.
While there  maybe a number of reasons  Mr H decided to return to that dealership, I do find it 
somewhat surprising that if he was concerned about  this dealership  being  open and 
transparent about the quality of its cars that he nonetheless  returned  to it to purchase  
another.
I also dont think its likely  a dealership would make an offer to buy a car back  after two years  
from the point of sale as the cars  future value wouldve  been  an unknown  quantity. I think  it 
more likely the dealership wouldve said it would consider  the car as a part-exchange after 
two years,  but this wouldve involved a new financial agreement as it would at any other  
garage or dealership. Ive seen that Mr H says the dealership doesnt  agree this offer of 
swapping the car after two years  was made to him. 
Mr H appears  to have also misunderstood  the 14 day cooling-off period under  the Consumer 
Credit Act - as while you can cancel the finance agreement  without  penalty  in that time, you 
cant hand the car back. Its only the finance thats  cancelled, not the purchase. Instead, you 
must find another way to cover the cost of the car. So his plan to rid himself of the car via a 
part-exchange deal and then cancel  that second  agreement wasn't ever viable.
In summary,  on looking at all the evidence, I cant  say the dealership mispresented the car to 
Mr H. And I accept  on balance the dealerships evidence that it informed him of it being ex-
rental. 
Ref: DRN56686714Im sorry  to disappoint Mr H, as I know hes found this experience  difficult. But I hope  Ive 
explained why I think my conclusions are the only fair ones I can make on the evidence 
available to me.
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.  
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5668671