K822xcomplaint
Miss D complains about three instalment loans that she took out with Provident Personal 
Credit Limited, trading  as Satsuma Loans,  (SL), which she said were unaffordable.
background 
Miss D was given three instalment loans by SL from April 2017 to September 2017. A 
summary of the loans  taken out by Miss D is shown below:
Loan number 
Date of loan Repayment date
Loan amount 
Repayment amounts  
1. 28/4/17 29/6/17 £1,000 12 monthly repayments of  
£166
2. 6/7/17 31/8/17 £500 12 monthly repayments of 
£83.09
3. 8/9/17 Unpaid £350 12 monthly repayments of 
£58.10
SL said that it had carried out a credit  check before each loan and asked Miss D for details 
of her income and expenditure.  SL also applied extra  safeguards and buffers  to Miss Ds 
declared expenses  to reflect the information  it obtained from its credit  checks.  It said that 
Miss D was left with a comfortable disposable  income after the repayments,  safeguards  and 
buffers were  taken into account.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator recommended that Loan 2 should  be upheld. She said that as this loan was 
expected to last for 12 months,  she didnt think that Miss D wouldve been  able to 
sustainably meet the loan repayments for this loan as she was left with less than £10 
disposable income each month. 
SL disagreed. It appreciated that by deducting the loan repayment and its additional buffer  of 
£65 from Miss Ds disposable income (as reduced  by SLs safeguards), Miss D would be left 
with around £10 disposable  income each month.  But this was after the additional buffer of 
£65 had been applied. Prior to this being  applied, all other expenditure was accounted for 
and additional  information from the credit bureau had been collated  to enable a safeguard  to 
be applied. SL said that the additional  buffer of £65 had been added  for any unexpected  
expenditure. After  taking  into account Miss Ds information and its credit checks, it said that 
Miss D had sufficient disposable  income for the loan to be sustainable. 
The adjudicator asked SL to provide its credit checks but these havent  been received.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss D 
and to SL on 23 September  2019.  I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when  SL lent to Miss D the regulator  was the Financial  Conduct  Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
Ref: DRN58423962I said that SL needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Miss D 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that SL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that SL was required to establish whether Miss D could 
sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Miss Ds complaint.
I said that SL had made a number of checks before it lent to Miss D. It had asked her for 
details of her income and expenditure. Miss D had declared her monthly income as £1,150 
and her expenses  as £500  before all the loans. And SL had increased Miss Ds declared  
expenditure in its assessments  of Loans 1 to 3 to reflect what it had seen in its credit checks  
and internal models. 
I also noted that SL had checked Miss Ds credit file before agreeing  to the loans. But Id not 
seen its credit checks. Id also not seen Miss Ds credit report.  
Ref: DRN58423963I could see that Loan  1 was for £1,000 repayable by 12 monthly repayments of £166. SL 
said that Miss D had a disposable income of £324  before Loan 1 after its safeguards  of £326 
had been applied to Miss Ds declared expenses. 
On balance, I thought that the checks SL had carried  out before agreeing Loan 1 were  
proportionate. The repayments that Miss D needed  to make on Loan  1 were relatively 
modest compared to the income that shed declared  to SL. And I didnt think the repayments  
were so large that it was obvious they wouldve caused Miss D financial difficulty.
So given Miss Ds repayment amounts, what was apparent about her circumstances at the 
time, and that this was her first loan with the lender,  I didnt think  it wouldve been 
proportionate for SL to have asked her for the amount  of information that would have  been  
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable.   
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Miss D had provided  or the information SL 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
she was saying. So I didnt think SL was wrong  to give Loan  1 to Miss D.
Miss D had repaid  Loan 1 early after about  two months. Id thought that behaviour might 
have caused some concerns to SL about  Miss Ds finances. But the amount Miss D had 
asked to borrow on her next loan was much smaller than before so that might have helped  
allay some  of the concerns SL might have had at the time. 
Miss D had applied  for Loan 2 a week after Loan  1 had been repaid. The loan repayments 
had halved but were  to be made  over the same  period as before. 
But I could see that SL had added an additional amount of around £493.20 for its safeguards 
to Miss Ds declared expenses. This was substantially higher than the safeguards  it had 
applied before Loan 1. And SL was aware  that Miss D wasnt  declaring all her commitments.  
Id understood  that the safeguards were  collated from SLs credit  checks.  So as SL was 
aware that Miss D had almost £800  in credit commitments from the amount  shed  declared  
and its own checks,  I thought  SL ought  reasonably to have  suspected that Miss D was likely 
having trouble  managing her money. So I thought it would have been proportionate for SL to 
have supplemented the information it held by asking  Miss D some more  detailed questions, 
such as whether she was borrowing from other short term lenders at the same  time.
Had it done so, SL would  have discovered  that Miss D was borrowing short  term loans from 
a number of other lenders. Id seen  from Miss Ds bank statements in the month  before 
Loan 2 that shed borrowed  more  than her income  in that period. I thought  it would have 
been clear to SL that Miss D was facing significant  problems  managing her money and 
unlikely to have  been able to repay  Loan  2 in a sustainable manner.  So I didnt think  it was 
reasonable for SL to have given Loan 2 to Miss D.
Loan 2 was repaid early,  less than two months after being taken  out. And Loan 3 was taken 
out eight days  after Loan 2 was repaid.  I thought this behaviour  might  have caused some 
concerns to SL. Although the monthly loan repayments for Loan  3 had reduced to £58.10, 
they were still repayable  over twelve months. And SL had again  added an additional  amount 
of around £332.50  for its safeguards to Miss Ds declared expenses.  So SL was again aware 
that Miss D wasnt declaring  all her commitments and that Miss D had around  £630 in credit  
commitments from the amount shed declared  and its own checks.  Again I thought SL ought 
reasonably to have  suspected that Miss D was likely having trouble managing her money. 
So I thought  it would  have again been  proportionate  for SL to have supplemented the 
Ref: DRN58423964information it held by asking Miss D whether  she was borrowing from other short term 
lenders at the same time.
Had it done so, SL would  have discovered  that Miss D was still borrowing short  term loans 
from a number of other lenders. Id  seen  from Miss Ds bank statements in the month  before 
Loan 3 that shed borrowed  three other short  term loans in that period. I thought it would 
have been clear to SL that Miss D was facing  significant problems managing her money and 
unlikely to be able to repay  Loan 3 in a sustainable manner. So I didnt think  it was 
reasonable for SL to have given Loan 3 to Miss D.
Subject to any further representations by Miss D or SL my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  SL to put things right as follows.  
putting things right  what SL needs  to do
with regard to Loans 2 and 3, refund all the interest and charges that Miss D has paid 
on these loans, and pay 8% simple interest*  a year on the refunds from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
write off any unpaid interest and charges from Loan 3;
apply the refunds  referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 3 and 
pay any balance to Miss D; and
remove all adverse  entries about  Loans 2 and 3 from Miss Ds credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Miss D 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. If SL intends to apply 
the refunds to reduce  any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Miss D responded  to my provisional decision  to say that she had nothing  more to add.
SL didnt provide a response to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Given that both Miss D and SL have given  me nothing further  to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold  part 
of the complaint and require SL to pay Miss D some compensation  as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma  Loans,  to:
Ref: DRN584239651.With regard to Loans 2 and 3, refund all the interest and charges that Miss D has 
paid on these loans,  and pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement;
2.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 3;
3.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  3 
and pay any balance  to Miss D; and
4.Remove all adverse entries  about Loans 2 and 3 from Miss Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Miss D 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. If SL intends to apply 
the refunds to reduce  any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December  2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5842396