K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage account  is in arrears with Barclays  Bank UK PLC but say that the 
bank is not treating them fairly when it moved the account to litigation in December 2018. Mr 
and Mrs H want Barclays to accept their offer to make monthly payments in excess of the 
contractual monthly payments,  to cease collection activity and refund a litigation fee. 
background 
Mr and Mrs H went through a period of financial difficulties a few years ago due to 
unemployment which led to arrears on their account.  Mr and Mrs H say that in 2018, 
Barclays began chasing them for the arrears. Mr and Mrs H say that they managed to 
reduce the arrears to about £1,000 but havent  yet been able to clear  them.  Mr and Mrs H 
began paying  an amount  above the contractual  monthly payment. Mr and Mrs H believe that 
this arrangement was agreed with Barclays in a phone  call on 12 November 2018 but 
Barclays in early December sent them a solicitors  letter.
Barclays doesnt accept  that it reached  an arrangement with Mr and Mrs H. Barclays  says 
that the problem is that Mr and Mrs H wont  complete an income and expenditure statement 
to see what affordable payment they are able to make. In the absence of getting cooperation 
from Mr and Mrs H, Barclays says that is reasonable for it to look at litigation.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He felt that it was 
reasonable for Barclays to require Mr and Mrs H to complete an income and expenditure 
statement. Mr and Mrs H disagree saying in summary that they will be willing  to speak  to 
Barclays to make an arrangement and set a reasonable monthly figure  without the need for 
an income/expenditure form.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H contacted  this service in December 2018. In November 2018,  Barclays sent 
out a field agent to make contact about  Mr and Mrs Hs arrears. Mr H rang Barclays  and I 
see from the contact notes that Mr H said that he would pay £400 to his mortgage and £20 
to the MCA. There was then a discussion  when  the adviser asked Mr H to complete  an 
income and expenditure account. Mr H says he didnt want to complete this but would pay 
what he had offered, 
The adviser according to the contact notes told Mr H that if he didnt complete an I/E 
statement that the collection process  would  continue and he would receive calls, letters and 
possible litigation. The notes  record that Mr H set up a standing order  for £400 per month  
starting on 16 November  2018. In December 2018  with the account more than three months  
in arrears and with no agreed  arrangement,  Barclays moved to litigate on the case. I note 
that Mr and Mrs H say that Barclays did this was in advance  of the December payment being 
due but they didnt make the December  payment  in any case. Barclays may have done it in 
advance of when  it should have, but given the missed  December  payment it was going to 
happen in any event.
Ref: DRN54681222Lenders are meant to be positive and sympathetic to borrows in financial difficulties. On the 
other side of the coin, borrowers should co-operate  with lenders to try and come to a 
satisfactory arrangement. In this complaint, Mr and Mrs H appear to be willing to enter into 
an arrangement but they want to do it on their own terms without having to do an income 
and expenditure  account. Whilst its clearly positive that they want to enter  an arrangement, 
Barclays is reasonably  concerned  that such an arrangement is affordable. Barclays says that 
there have  been  ten broken arrangements  previously which would suggest that it is certainly  
in Mr and Mrs Hs interests to explore through submitting an income  and expenditure 
statement what an affordable repayment is. 
I appreciate that, as Mr and Mrs H say, that there is a good deal of equity in the property, 
and they have been trying to reduce the arrears  balance. But Barclays is entitled to look to 
recover the remaining  arrears. This complaint arises because  Barclays  in the absence  of an 
agreed repayment arrangement moved to litigation to recover  its arrears. Barclays  
reasonably takes  the view that it cant come to a workable arrangement unless it can judge  
whether the arrangement is affordable for Mr and Mrs H. For this it requires them  to produce  
an income and expenditure statement. I dont believe that this is unreasonable.  Mr and Mrs 
H say that they are concerned that Barclays will require them  to pay more  than they can 
afford. But as there has not been an assessment I have no evidence of that. 
Given the circumstances that existed at the time, I dont believe that Barclays did anything 
wrong in December of last year in moving the matter  to litigation. For this, it incurred a legal 
cost of £57.50.  Barclays has provided  us with a copy of the invoice which seems to be a 
reasonable fee for the work involved. I consider its fairly due by Mr and Mrs H. I have seen 
nothing to suggest that Barclays  agreed  that Mr and Mrs H should  have been informed of 
this fee before it was incurred. Barclays told Mr H in November that the matter may move  to 
litigation and that is likely  to involve further fees.
I can see that its in both parties  interests  that a repayment arrangement  is arrived  at. But 
this has to be realistic and affordable and the way to assess  that is by Mr and Mrs H 
providing an income and expenditure  statement. This is not an unusual request and forms 
the basis of most repayments arrangements for customers who find themselves in financial 
difficulties. It does not help either party if another arrangement is made  that is broken 
because its unrealistic. For the above  reasons I cant fairly uphold  this complaint.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 July 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5468122