K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc RBS havent  put in place an 
effective communication  plan with her considering her disability, and the difficulties this 
causes her when completing  her day to day banking needs.
background
Miss C told us she suffers from a severe neuro-immune disease.  I understand that this 
affects her speech, has an impact  on her cognitive and sensory  processes and shes unable 
to sustain an activity  without it having  a deteriorating  health  impact.  When calling RBS, Miss 
C can have great difficulty with automated telephone banking, so often  needs  to be 
transferred through to an adviser to help her with her banking  needs.
Following a complaint  to RBS, Miss C was given an increased level of telephone banking 
which allowed Miss C to do more  advanced  transactions and information was updated on 
their systems to detail  Miss Cs disability and what adjustments they needed to help Miss C 
use their service. 
RBS also gave Miss C a single point of contact, a branch  manager  who Ill call Mr D, to 
provide any additional support she may need.  This was later reviewed, and Miss C was then 
assigned a community banker from her local area to assist  her with any of her banking 
needs. Miss C also formed a relationship with a specific  telephony staff member  who she 
says really understood her needs.
A specific service Miss C says she benefited  from was the Balance Alert text service. This 
was withdrawn by RBS and replaced with an On Demand  Balance  text service, but Miss C 
says this didnt  offer the same  service she heavily relied on previously.
Despite what RBS put in place, Miss C didnt think any of the adjustments theyd made were 
working. She didnt  think theyd gone far enough with the adjustments to enable her to 
complete her day to day banking needs  easily, considering her disability. She feels  they 
should have a vulnerable  customer  team that have knowledge of disabilities and are able to 
tailor communication to specific needs. Miss C also feels  RBS need to revise their 
automated telephone banking service to make  sure they are meeting the needs  of all 
customers with possible disabilities that need to use it.
One of our investigators  considered Miss Cs complaint but she didnt think  RBS needed to 
do any more than they had already, but she did ask them to consider a vulnerable customer  
team, like the FCA have  suggested in a recent consultation. Miss C was unhappy with the 
outcome and so the case has been  passed  to me for a final decision.
I sent Miss C and RBS a provisional decision on 1 December 2020  to explain why I didnt 
think Miss Cs complaint should  be upheld. And I said Id consider anything  else anyone  
wanted to give me  as long as I received it by 1 January 2021. Miss C responded with 
further information she wanted me to consider which led me to feel RBS should do 
something to compensate  Miss C for the difficulties shes  experienced  so Ive upheld  Miss 
Cs complaint. RBS agreed  with my further  findings, but Miss C still feels  more needs  to be 
done.
what I provisionally  thought  
Ref: DRN53142822Mr D, a branch manager, was Miss Cs second single point of contact (she had another  
single point of contact quite some  time ago who was a manager of a branch).  This 
relationship broke down  very quickly as Miss C lost faith in Mr D after she couldnt  reach  him 
on the very first occasion. I know this was due to a fault with Mr Ds phone, but for Miss C 
having to get to know a new person can cause a great deal of stress and worry. So this 
happening on her very first contact with him meant  she had no trust at the outset.
Its not evident how clear  RBS were with managing Miss Cs expectations of the role of the 
community banker. While Miss C understood the community banker couldnt process the 
transactions she needed help with, Miss C was told they could facilitate the transaction  for 
her with the relevant team. It also seems Miss C was under the impression the community  
banker would be in more  regular contact with her  whereas Miss C hasnt had any contact, 
even after she says she text them for assistance, which RBS say they cant trace.
Most recently an arrangement was put in place where a specific contact in the telephony 
team contacts Miss C on a monthly basis to arrange the payment of her credit  card.  
However they had to take unexpected leave which in the current pandemic is totally  
understandable. The diarised call wasnt picked up by anyone else and just left  resulting in 
Miss C having to make contact with the bank  herself  which she finds  distressing, especially 
with the new telephony system.
I appreciate all other alternatives  RBS offered Miss C such  as online banking, paying  her 
credit card by direct debit  etc. which I think could really benefit Miss C. But Miss Cs 
preference is to make contact by phone and manually  pay her credit  card bill. So while  RBS 
have looked at what best ways they can support Miss C, these have proven to be unreliable 
and not thought through in regards to longevity.  
RBS could have  put contingency  plans in place if the single  point of contact does  have to 
take leave. This has caused Miss C a lot of inconvenience, stress and worry as each time 
she has a new mechanism in place, its not long before it changes.  And with each 
communication Miss C has with RBS, each new person she speaks to, each interaction has 
a deteriorating  impact on her health  - which I dont think is fair. Because  of the unreliability of 
the processes  RBS have put in place and the impact its had on Miss Cs health  over some 
time now, I think  RBS should pay Miss C £300  compensation  for the trouble and upset 
caused.
RBS should also put in place a new single point of contact if the existing telephony  team 
member isnt best suited  to this now. They need  to put measures in place so theres always  
a backup plan if that person isnt available to call Miss C on the agreed date each month.  It 
would also benefit  Miss C if the community  banker  could make contact with her again to go 
over what  they can assist her with going  forward so its clear  what role they play, as well as 
having more than one community banker for Miss C to contact as a backup plan. Its 
important that any person  communicating  with Miss C understands her needs  Miss C says 
her reasonable adjustments are dependent on professional empathy of an individual rather  
than any procedures. 
RBS response
RBS have agreed to provide Miss C with the details of three telephony agents who will 
arrange to make an outbound call once  a month to accommodate any payment Miss C 
needs to make. This is an exception to their process  and because their telephony service 
isnt set up for making outbound calls,  to avoid any situation where  Miss C isnt contacted  
Ref: DRN53142823theyre offering  three dedicated  agents  which should  alleviate any concerns that a monthly 
call could be missed. 
Theyve also said they can provide details of two additional  community bankers taking the 
total to three. However the community  bankers roles  arent to provide personal  banking for 
customers, so any transactions would need to be placed via the monthly telephone call. RBS 
cant guarantee that the three community bankers will be available at any given time to 
answer an incoming call as they support customers continuously.  Miss C would  need  to 
leave a voicemail or a text and in turn theyd contact her  which Miss C has done in the 
past. RBS have also suggested  that they can arrange a community  banker  to phone on a set 
date each month to check if Miss C has anything she requires  support  with. RBS can also 
arrange for a community banker to make  contact with Miss C via telephone to explain again 
what their role is, what the alternative  banking options are and confirm what support  they 
can provide in assisting her.  
RBS are very sorry that Miss C feels shes been  let down by the services theyve offered to 
her so far. Theyve acknowledged shes raised a number of complaints around telephone 
banking and the lack of support and understanding with her needs, which has caused  her 
upset and distress. RBS agree with the £300 compensation suggested.   
Miss Cs response
Miss C didnt agree with my provisional decision  and the proposals made by RBS in their 
response. She feels the changes made to the RBS telephone banking  service has effectively 
created a barrier  for her, and that the other solutions presented  to her wouldnt work as it 
would be reliant  on someone calling her on a day where she may not be well enough to talk 
on the phone. But RBS say that they will give Miss C contact details of three community  
bankers who she can contact in her own time and leave a message to call back.  And if they 
call at a time that isnt suitable for Miss C she can let them  know when there  is a suitable 
time or day for them to call.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When deciding whats fair and reasonable when considering a complaint, we have to take a
number of things  into account including relevant law, and what we consider to be good
industry practice at the time.
In this case, the relevant  law Ill have to take into account includes the Equality Act 2010
which, amongst other things, requires service providers to make reasonable adjustments  for
people with disabilities.  The duty to make reasonable adjustments  means businesses must
take steps to remove barriers people face as a result of their disability. Whats reasonable
depends on a number of factors and includes things like what  the disability is and how easy  
the changes are. 
Ive considered what RBS have put in place in the past, what they currently have in place 
and the solutions theyve  proposed for Miss C given the difficulties she has because of her 
disability. Miss C uses telephone banking as her way of carrying out her day to day banking  
needs  more specifically to pay her monthly credit  card bill with another  provider. 
Ref: DRN53142824While I think RBS have worked  hard to try and find the best way they can support Miss C 
considering her needs, I do think RBS have had a part to play in why the arrangements  that 
have been put in place  havent worked for any length of time.
When businesses withdraw  services, they need to think about how they can support 
customers who relied on these. And I think RBS has done this when looking at all theyve put 
in place to try and support Miss C. I understand what  theyve put in place hasnt  always 
worked, so I think RBS now have an opportunity to start again with the newly proposed  
arrangements.
Ive carefully considered  everything RBS have  put in place for Miss C and their proposals  
going forward. I think its clear RBS have thought about the best way they can support Miss 
C considering her vulnerabilities.  Its clear Miss C can find it distressing dealing with a lot of 
different people  particularly  people  she doesnt know well over the phone.  As weve  
experienced with the dedicated points of contact weve given  Miss C at our service, 
developing a good relationship and having  a good understanding  of her needs, is extremely 
helpful. Considering the impact of constant  change and the impact this has on Miss Cs 
health RBS should pay her £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
I dont think its reasonable to ask RBS to change  their telephone banking service to what 
they had previously, which  Miss C feels was more beneficial to her. RBS have offered 
various solutions within their current provisions, which would support Miss C in being able to 
carry out her banking needs.  Even  though Miss C isnt happy  with what RBS have been able 
to do or suggested, I think theyve  acted fairly  in regard  to supporting Miss Cs needs.
I know Miss C will be disappointed with this decision, and Ill encourage her to think about 
what relationship  she wants with RBS going forward and whether she wants  to continue 
using their services.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above Im upholding Miss Cs complaint  against The Royal Bank 
of Scotland Plc. The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc should pay Miss C £300  as compensation 
for the trouble and upset  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
Helen Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5314282