K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays  Bank  Plc gave him poor customer service when he wanted to 
make changes to his merchant account.  And hes unhappy Barclays  closed that account. 
background
In August  2017  Mr G opened a merchant account  with Barclays so that he could process 
payments for his business. As part of his account,  Barclays gave him a card reader device 
but Mr G didnt use the card reader  for over a year. 
By November 2018 Mr G had changed  his business  and wanted to now use his card reader.  
So he called Barclays on the evening of 19 November 2018, as he wanted to know  how to 
use the card reader and what the transaction costs would be. The Barclays  agent explained 
that Mr G would need to speak  to two different teams, only one of which  was currently open.  
Mr G was unhappy about this, and the Barclays agent ended the call because they said the 
language Mr G had used was unacceptable.
Over the next few days, Mr G had several calls with Barclays about his account and card 
reader. Mr G was unhappy with how Barclays handled these calls. He was also unhappy 
that, because  of the changes he wanted  to make, Barclays said hed need  to do a new 
account application which included a credit  check.  
A complaints manager from Barclays called Mr G on 23 November  2018  to say it would 
close his merchant account because of his language  and behaviour. On that same day 
Barclays sent Mr G its final response  to his complaint.  In that response,  Barclays confirmed 
Mr Gs account had been closed and why. It also apologised  that it hadnt  met Mr Gs 
expectations regarding  customer  service and opening hours,  and clarified Mr G would have  
needed to make a new application for merchant  facilities.
Mr G was unhappy that Barclays gave him poor customer service,  that it said hed need to 
do a new account  application, and that it had closed his account unfairly. So he got in touch 
with our service. 
The investigator who looked into things thought the decision by Barclays to close  Mr Gs 
account in line with its terms and conditions was a reasonable  one. Mr G disagreed so his 
complaint was passed to me for decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 22 February  2019 and I said as follows.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold Mr Gs complaint. I hope  it is helpful  if explain  why by considering each of Mr Gs 
complaint points in turn.
poor customer service
Mr G says his statements from Barclays falsely advertise its opening  hours as 8am until 
midnight, because when he called on the evening of 19 November 2019  one of the teams he 
needed was closed and there wasnt a manager available to take his call. I know  Mr G found 
this frustrating but Mr G was able to speak to an agent. Unfortunately  he wasnt  able to 
speak to the exact person  he needed but Barclays didnt lead him to believe he would be 
Ref: DRN57699122able to. And had the call continued that agent  would have passed  Mr G through  to at least 
one of the teams he needed.
Mr G says he spent over seven hours  on the phone with Barclays  trying to get his card 
reader working, and this cost him time and money because  he could have been working 
instead. Mr G did have  several calls with Barclays. The evidence Ive seen and heard shows 
that within one day of Mr Gs first call, Barclays had helped  him reset  his security password. 
And within two days it had told Mr G he needed  to make a new merchant account application 
because he wanted  to change his business  name,  trade class and address on his account. 
I dont think this is an unreasonable length of time. And things might have been  resolved 
sooner if Barclays hadnt felt it needed to end some of the calls because of Mr Gs language 
and behaviour, which Ill return to later. 
Mr G also says that the complaints manager  he spoke to on 23 November 2018 was 
unhelpful and didnt consider everything. In the call I can hear Mr G is unhappy with what  the 
agent says, and Mr G explains the reasons he doesnt like to be interrupted.  I understand 
these reasons and I think Barclays did need  to take them into consideration. 
But the call soon becomes unproductive regardless  at times both the agent and Mr G 
speak over each other in trying to get their point across.  And the agent ends the call 
because of Mr Gs language and behaviour. I think Barclays could have handled this call 
better by not interrupting,  but I think this was in part due to Mr Gs behaviour so Im not 
intending to make an award  for this. 
new application
Mr G says at first Barclays  told him it could just change the name  of his business on his 
merchant account  but then told him hed need  to do a new application. Its possible this was 
unclear from the start. However,  from the call notes I can see Mr G wanted to change the 
trading name, trade class  and address  on his merchant  account. 
On 21 November 2018 Barclays told Mr G that a change of trade  class  meant  hed need to 
make a new application. Given the changes  Mr G wanted to make,  I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Barclays to tell Mr G this. I say this because the terms and conditions of 
Mr Gs account mean he wouldnt have been  able to just carry on with his existing account. 
They say:
Mr G must provide financial and other information about himself and his business so 
that Barclays can assess its risk (section 11.1)
Mr G must tell Barclays  immediately if the nature of his business changes  (section 11.2)
Barclays can suspend the agreement if the nature  of Mr Gs business  changes (section 
18)
account unfairly closed
Barclays says it closed  Mr Gs account  because his language and behaviour was 
unacceptable. For his part, Mr G says he was frustrated at spending  over seven hours  on 
the phone  trying to sort out his card reader. 
Ive heard that from Mr Gs very first call about the card reader on 19 November 2018, he 
spoke in a way Barclays considered unacceptable. So I cant  agree this only started  after 
Ref: DRN57699123Mr G had been on the phone for a long time. And based on Barclays call notes, Mr G again 
spoke in what Barclays thought was an unacceptable way on 20 November  2018  and then 
again on 23 November  when he was told his account would be closed.  Based  on the 
evidence, I dont think Barclays  was unreasonable in wanting to end its relationship with 
Mr G.
 
Its up to Barclays to set its own terms and conditions, but it has to apply them fairly and 
reasonably. And I think it did in this case. I say this because section 18.1 of the terms and 
conditions Mr G wouldve agreed  to when he opened his account gives examples of when 
Barclays can end an agreement with immediate effect. Though its not an exhaustive list and 
doesnt specifically  mention abusive  language or behaviour,  I think this section of the terms 
and conditions entitles  Barclays  to end its agreement with Mr G with immediate effect.  And it 
wasnt unreasonable for it to do so following Mr Gs behaviour towards  its staff,  whatever the 
reasons for it.
Ive seen that Barclays clearly explained  to Mr G when  and why his account would be 
closed. Taking all this into consideration, Im satisfied Barclays treated Mr G fairly  and 
reasonably when it closed his account.
Barclays said it had nothing further to add. And Mr G didnt provide any comments.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As Mr G and Barclays havent provided  any further information, I see no reason to change 
my decision.  Therefore  Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and also above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5769912