K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  HSBC UK Bank  Plc will not refund some disputed transactions.
background
Miss G says four point of sale transactions and one ATM  transaction made on 8th June 2018 
were not made by her.  They  were made  in London  and she was elsewhere at the time.  The  
disputed transactions  used  up all the funds in her account  and it was when she attempted  
to withdraw some money  that she realised  the account was empty.
At the time of the transactions,  three  debit  cards were active  on Miss Gs account.  The 
disputed transactions  were made  using card number 3.
When Miss G complained to HSBC,  it did not uphold her complaint. It said the evidence 
suggested Miss G had authorised the transactions.
It also explained that her account had been accessed in order  to transfer funds between 
accounts, order a third debit card on the account and collect with appropriate identification, 
pass through telephone  banking security when the card had been blocked and access  her 
online banking.
All this required knowledge  of security  information  which only Miss G should know.   She 
denied ever sharing  these  details with anyone  so HSBC  concluded  she must have made 
or authorised the transactions.
Miss G then came to this service and our investigator looked into matters  for her.
In HSBCs submissions to us, it told us that a day before the disputed  transactions, it had 
declined a large transaction which had been  attempted using card number 3  and Miss G 
had not disputed this.  In  fact, someone  had passed  through security on telephone banking 
in order to have  the block removed on the card.  HSBC said this corroborated the evidence 
showing Miss G had authorised the transactions.
Our investigator did not think she could ask HSBC to do anymore either and she explained 
this to Miss G in detail.   But Miss G did not agree and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and having done so, I have  arrived at the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for very much the same  reasons.
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Miss G authorised  
these transactions,  HSBC  is entitled to hold her liable.  But this is a two-stage test  and 
HSBC need to show Miss G consented to the payments as well as the payments being 
authenticated.
From the evidence I have  seen, I am satisfied the transactions were authenticated   and by 
this, I mean the genuine CHIP  on the card and the correct PIN were used.  I am also 
satisfied, on balance, that the transactions  were consented too.
Ref: DRN58853262Miss G has been asked on numerous  occasions  whether she has shared her personal 
security information with a third person.   She says she has not  but I am afraid that cannot  
be right.
Miss Gs account had been accessed  in a number of secure ways  and it would be 
impossible for a fraudster  to do that without Miss Gs sharing information.  In addition,  when 
card number three was collected from branch, HSBC said it would  have required 
identification from the person collecting.  It cant tell this service what that was  but on 
balance, I am satisfied identification  was produced in order  to release  the card.
I am willing to accept Miss G was not in London when the transactions  were made.  I am 
also willing  to accept  that she did not carry out these transactions  herself.  But  I cannot say, 
even on the balance of probabilities, that she did not consent to these payments because of 
how they were carried  out and because of the different ways  in which her security was 
compromised.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 October  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5885326