K820x#14Complaint
Mr B complained about the amount of interest  charged by GE Money Home Lending Limited 
on a secured loan he took out with them.  He says the rate changed without  his knowledge 
and hes unhappy  the interest  rate increased  over time instead of decreasing  like general  
market rates, such as the Bank of England (BOE) base rate.
Background
Mr B took out a loan from GE Money  Home  Finance  Limited (later GE Money Home Lending 
Limited) who were trading as First National.  He agreed to the terms in April 2007 and the 
loan was released to him on 17 May 2007.  He borrowed £55,000 over a period  of 300 
monthly repayments (25 years), with a variable annual rate of interest  starting at 8.32%. The 
initial repayments were  £438.21. The loan was repaid in full on 3 April 2014.
Mr B is unhappy with the interest rate and amount of interest paid on his loan. The 
investigator who issued  his opinion said we couldnt  look at most  of the loan because the 
agreement was unregulated, and although regulations  changed over the years, it didnt fall 
under our power  to investigate until 1 April 2014. And because the loan was settled two days 
later, the investigator didnt think GE Money Home  Lending had done anything wrong in that 
period.
In response to the investigators opinion Mr B said he believed  the loan was covered by the 
consumer credit act because he was asked to sign it. The investigator explained why this 
didnt change his outcome  and was different to our services jurisdiction.
Because Mr B hasnt  accepted the investigators  opinion the complaint has been  referred  to 
me for a final decision.
What I can and cant look at
Before our service can look at the merits of a complaint,  we must look at whether we have 
the power to investigate  a complaint. This can be because of timescales  set out in the rules 
that govern us or regulatory rules over time which set out what  agreements are regulated or 
not.
When Mr Bs loan was sold to him, it was sold according to the rules of the Consumer Credit  
Act (CCA) 1974. Before  the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) took over regulation  of 
consumer credit activities from the Office of Fair Trading (OFT),  our service was only able to 
consider consumer credit related activities that came under our own consumer credit 
jurisdiction (CCJ). Our CCJ started  on 6 April 2007  but it was not retrospective.
Mr Bs loan was sold after this date so his agreement  could  have been  covered by our CCJ if 
it met the criteria, one of these being  the loan had to be regulated. But at the time Mr B took 
out his loan credit agreements  of more than £25,000 were not regulated agreements.  These 
types of credit, which were over £25,000,  were unregulated and were not covered by our 
jurisdiction. And because Mr Bs loan was for more than this amount, it does mean we cant  
consider complaints about it from the start.
However, on 1 April 2014 a further regulation change meant that the FCA took over the 
regulation of all consumer credit activities. It became mandatory for firms wishing to continue  
operating what were the former consumer credit  activities to be authorised by the FCA. That 
Ref: DRN59134802also resulted in complaints about  those  activities being included in our compulsory 
jurisdiction. 
The introduction of our compulsory  jurisdiction enabled our service to consider  a wider range 
of complaints about regulated activities. This included being  able to look at lending secured 
by a charge on loan and activities ancillary  to the lending from 1 April 2014.  So even though 
Mr Bs agreement  was unregulated before  this date, on 1 April 2014 his agreement 
effectively became regulated. And whilst  our service is unable to consider anything that 
happened on the agreement before this date, we can consider events on and after that date.
As Mr Bs loan was repaid  on 3 April 2014  that means I am only able to consider those 
events that took place  on Mr Bs loan in the short period on and after 1 April 2014. I do not 
have the power  to consider events  prior to this. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr B. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am again very limited  in what I can 
actually consider here because of the short  period  which  Mr Bs loan was in existence whilst 
also being within our jurisdiction. For broadly the same reasons as the investigator,  I dont 
consider there to be sufficient grounds to uphold Mr Bs complaint.   
Mr Bs complaint is about the amount of interest charged on his loan account but for the 
reasons set out above, Im only able to consider this over the approximate 3 day period 
before Mr B settled his loan. I cant look at how much interest was charged  prior to 1 April 
2014 or any other aspect of the account. I can only consider if Mr B was treated fairly on or 
after 1 April 2014.   
Mr Bs terms and conditions of his loan account refer to how interest is charged and applied 
to his account. They also refer to when  the variable amount  of interest  might  be changed, 
which appears to be linked to any changes in the GE Money base lending rate. 
There were no changes  in the GE Money base  lending rate, or wider market  rates  for that 
matter, between 1 April and 3 April 2014  so I wouldnt have expected  to see any changes 
in Mr Bs interest rate. For that reason, I cant say GE Money acted unfairly towards  Mr B. I 
know this will be disappointing for Mr B and I appreciate it took longer than wed have liked 
to provide him with an answer, and I am sorry for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint against GE Money Home Lending 
Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 October  2020.
Mark Hollands
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5913480