K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV refused to cover 
the full cost of their cancelled holiday when they made a claim under their travel insurance 
policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a travel insurance  policy in January 2017  to cover them for a holiday 
in September  2017. They  declared a number of pre-existing  medical  conditions  in their 
application which CIGNA agreed  to cover. Mrs M fell ill in May 2017 with (what turned out to 
be) a viral infection  not one of the declared  conditions.  In August 2017, still feeling  the 
effects of the viral infection, Mrs M saw her doctor  again, who recommended she didnt go 
on holiday. Mr and Mrs M therefore made a claim for cancellation under the policy.
CIGNA accepted the claim but limited it to the amount of the deposit. It said this was 
because Mrs Ms medical records showed  that she was under investigation at the time they 
paid the balance of the holiday cost  she had been  referred to a consultant surgeon for a 
colonoscopy. CIGNA said that Mrs M should have declared that she was having tests done,  
and if she had done so, it would have  advised Mr and Mrs M not to pay the balance  due. It 
said it wouldve invited them to submit  a cancellation claim to recover the deposit  paid. 
CIGNA also said that it would have  been unable to add this to the policy as a new medical 
condition at the time as it wouldnt have been  prepared to underwrite the risk of an 
undiagnosed, potentially serious condition.
Our investigator felt that CIGNA should pay the full amount of the claim as he didnt  feel that 
it had fairly  interpreted the relevant  term in its policy. He didnt  think that the change  in 
Mrs Ms health was significant  enough to make them think  this was something that they 
needed to inform the insurer about. CIGNA disagreed and asked that an ombudsman look at 
this matter. It said that the symptoms in question can be potentially life threatening in 
someone of Mrs Ms age, and that her doctor had made referrals which suggested the 
possibility of something more serious.  It also felt that the policyholders had been  reminded of 
the requirement to declare any changes in their health.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2019.  Heres what  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not likely to uphold  
this complaint. I explain why below.
CIGNA has accepted  Mr and Mrs Ms claim  but limited its liability  to the amount of the 
deposit they paid. It did this on the basis that Mr and Mrs M should have notified  it of Mrs Ms 
change in health before  they paid the full balance for the holiday. The issue  I have  to 
consider is whether or not CIGNA  highlighted  and applied  the relevant policy terms and 
conditions fairly.
Mrs M fell ill in May 2017, but did not cancel the holiday until 24 August 2017,  when her GP 
advised she was not fit to travel. This was a little over three weeks before their scheduled 
departure date. Her GP has confirmed that the reason she was unfit to travel was due to the 
viral infection (for which she underwent investigations, including  the colonoscopy).
Ref: DRN52143022The policy document was issued to Mr and Mrs M when they took out the policy  in 
January 2017.  It includes a medical  declaration that all policyholders are advised to read 
carefully. It includes  the following statements:
At the time of buying  or renewing your policy, booking a trip or paying the balance  
due for a trip (whichever is later), each insured person must guarantee the following:
1. You have  told us if you have received  advice,  medication or treatment  for any 
illness, injury or disease in the last 12 months.

3. You have  told us if you are under investigation  or awaiting  test results for any 
diagnosed or undiagnosed medical condition.

If, between booking a trip and the departure date, the status of a pre-existing medical 
condition changes, or you are diagnosed with a new medical  condition,  you must tell 
us as soon as possible and you will be covered  for cancellation of your trip.
 
Please note that you must tell us even if you have made a travel  claim in relation to a 
change to a pre-existing  medical condition or the diagnosis  of a new condition.
If we are unable to continue cover  we will:
pay a cancellation  claim  for any pre-booked trip; or
give a pro rata refund of your premium if you do not wish to cancel your trip, 
unless a claim has been made.

Please note, deliberate or reckless failure to disclose any pre-existing medical  
condition or other relevant information  may result  in you losing any cover  under this 
policy and/or  claims being declined. In the event  of a careless failure  to disclose any 
pre-existing condition or other relevant information  we reserve the right to charge you 
an additional  premium  to reflect the premium  we would have charged had we known 
the true facts.
Im satisfied that the policy  document clearly sets out the policyholders responsibilities. But 
more importantly, because this is a significant,  onerous term  insofar as it requires a 
policyholder to do something  positive in order to retain the cover  for which  theyve contracted 
 it was highlighted separately at the point of sale in the introductory letter sent to 
Mr and Mrs M by the insurance  intermediary, SAGA. I am satisfied, therefore, that 
Mr and Mrs M were  aware, or ought  reasonably to have been  aware,  of their ongoing 
obligation to declare changes in health  that were relevant  to the travel risks being 
underwritten by CIGNA. 
Accordingly, I need to consider whether or not Mr and Mrs M shouldve told the insurer  about 
the change in Mrs Ms health at the time it occurred  or at least some time before paying  
the balance of the holiday.
Our investigator said that he wouldnt expect a policyholder to tell CIGNA about every  health 
condition. He said that we would only expect  them  to tell it about serious changes to their 
health. He described  a serious condition as things  such as strokes,  heart conditions, cancer 
so effectively something that would significantly change  the way a policyholder lives their 
life. However, it seems  to me that the relevant  policy term cant  reasonably be interpreted  in 
Ref: DRN52143023this way. Its not for the policyholder to act as their own medical expert  or make value 
judgments about what a prudent underwriter  might or might  not want  to know in relation to 
the risk. The terms in question clearly  indicate  that consulting  a doctor or awaiting 
investigatory tests are the sort of changes that CIGNA  would want  to know about. I accept, 
as a matter of common sense, that there  are minor  or trivial health changes  that no 
reasonable policyholder would think to disclose despite the warning in the declaration, e.g. a 
cold or cough that quickly resolves, a sprained  ankle, everyday  aches and pains, etc. But, as 
Mrs Ms medical notes make clear,  that wasnt the case here. And its important  to consider 
the information available to her at the time,  not what we now know  with the benefit of 
hindsight (because  were considering the effect on CIGNA of the breach of condition  and 
what would  have happened but for that breach). 
Mrs M fell ill in May 2017. The symptoms included diarrhoea with some bleeding. Mrs M had 
seen her GP on four occasions  in the following month, and had to reduce the medication that 
controlled her high blood pressure (one of the conditions declared and accepted by CIGNA 
at proposal). On the last visit, the day before the balance  was due to be paid, they discussed  
Mrs Ms health situation with their GP. They agreed  they should  wait for the consultants 
opinion before agreeing next steps.  Its clear from the medical  notes that they were waiting 
to see whether the bleeding was related to something fairly innocuous, such  as 
haemorrhoids or an anal tear, or something potentially  more serious such  as lesions.  While  
the doctor seemed fairly relaxed about the prognosis (and obviously wouldnt want to alarm 
Mrs M), it appears that one of the reasons  she was referred to a consultant  surgeon for a 
colonoscopy was in order to rule out a critical illness. And the policyholders  seemed  to be 
aware of this as, in their complaint letter, they quote their GP as saying he wanted  to be sure 
they were not missing  anything.
Mr and Mrs M complain  that CIGNA used the benefit  of hindsight when making the decision 
to limit its liability  to the amount of the deposit. They  say this because the colonoscopy  result  
eventually showed  no cause for concern. But the policyholders left CIGNA no alternative  
than to look at the claim retrospectively because of their failure to declare at the appropriate 
time, i.e. when the illness was undiagnosed and being actively  investigated, and before they 
were contractually committed to the balance of the holiday  cost.
It is clear from the terms (copied above) that the onus  was on the policyholders to declare if 
you are under investigation  or awaiting test results  for any diagnosed or undiagnosed  
medical condition. This is so that the insurer can reconsider the risk it is insuring  against.  If 
an insured person is undergoing testing  for something that could potentially be very serious, 
then this is something an insurer would expect to be aware of, so that it can make an 
informed decision about matters such as the level of cover, the premium,  or whether or not it 
wishes to continue to offer cover.  After  all, a policy of this nature covers  different risks at 
different times. The cancellation cover up to the start of the holiday presents a different risk 
as the departure date nears and potential costs increase; and again, once the holiday begins 
the risks are even higher  if, due to an undeclared illness, a policyholder needs to be 
hospitalised or medically repatriated. So I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for an 
insurer to expect to be told about  material changes in health where its clearly highlighted the 
obligation to do this both within and outside  the policy document.  If told, it can mitigate  its 
position and reduce costs  while still indemnifying the policyholder  against  their cancellation 
costs to date. If the policyholder really doesnt  want to cancel as a precaution, they are free 
to take the risk of carrying on with their travel  plans  but at their own cost rather  than the 
insurers.
Ref: DRN52143024I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs M should have informed CIGNA that Mrs M had been referred 
to a colorectal  surgeon and/or had changed her medication (because  insuring  controlled  
high blood pressure presents a different risk). In my judgment, this should probably  have 
been done at or around the time of the referral  and certainly before they paid the balance of 
their holiday,  just two weeks later. CIGNA has provided underwriting  evidence to show that, 
had this happened, it would have agreed to indemnify the cancellation costs at that time  
but wouldnt have  covered  the holiday due to the unknown risks presented  by an 
undiagnosed, potentially serious condition  for which fairly invasive investigations had been 
undertaken. Although the cancellation was due to the virus  rather than the colonoscopy (or a 
more serious condition), it was caused by changes  in health which werent declared to 
CIGNA or accepted for cover  so the breach of condition wasnt a mere technicality but 
material to the circumstances of the claim.  Its therefore fair for CIGNA  to rely on it.
In the circumstances, I am satisfied that CIGNA has fairly applied its terms and conditions 
and, because its already agreed  to cover the lower cancellation costs  that it wouldve paid at 
the time but for the breach of condition, it needs  take no further action to resolve this 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing  for Mr and Mrs M, and I note that she 
received a positive  result  from her tests. But I do find that they had a responsibility to inform  
their insurer  of the tests  she was undergoing.
responses
Mr and Mrs M called  our investigator and told him they disagreed  with my provisional 
decision. In summary  they said:
The colonoscopy was only precautionary.
Mrs Ms medical report  showed that her well-being and appetite were improving 
before they paid the balance of the holiday. There was still three months to go so 
they assumed  shed  be better  by that point.
They had disclosed ME as a condition when they took the insurance and this was 
accepted by the insurer  the holiday was cancelled due to post viral fatigue and her 
doctor said this is the same as ME.
They had not been deliberate or reckless. Mrs M says she gave the information  as 
accurately as possible.
Contrary to what CIGNA has said, it wasnt a life-threating virus. Mrs M has 
previously suffered from a life-threatening  virus and she knows  the difference.
The doctor asked  for the tests to rule things out. They had paid the balance as 
Mrs Ms health was improving.
Both Mr and Mrs M also provided written  submissions. Mr M feels  CIGNA has overstated  its 
case when it said that Mrs Ms illness was life threatening.  He also says that CIGNA  had two 
options  as well as cancelling the policy, it could have continued the policy  by providing  
cover for an additional premium.
Mrs M repeats their point  that the medical professionals involved all agreed that the 
colonoscopy was only precautionary. She also points  to the medical  records that show  that 
Ref: DRN52143025on 12 June 2017  her health was improving. She concludes her letter by stating that the 
holiday was cancelled because  of her ME  a condition that had been accepted by CIGNA.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive listened to the call with our 
investigator and have considered the points  made  by Mr and Mrs M in the call, and in their 
written submissions. Having done  so, Ive decided  my provisional findings stand.
I have copied  the findings in my provisional  decision above. As Mr and Mrs M will see, my 
findings related  to the colonoscopy and the reduction in blood  pressure medication, not 
whether or not the virus was life threatening.
An important element of Mr and Mrs Ms submissions is that the medical professionals told 
them that the colonoscopy was precautionary. Mrs M says she was told by the consultant 
before he examined  her that he was sure he wouldnt  find anything. Acting  on his advice, 
she went ahead with the colonoscopy,  to reassure herself that everything was clear. In her 
own words, and using  her own emphasis, the colonoscopy:
was TO RULE  OUT THE LIMITED  POSSIBILITY OF CANCER.
I said in my provisional decision why I believed the policy documents  clearly  set out the 
policyholders responsibility to inform the insurer of material changes in health. This included 
a requirement to tell CIGNA if one of the insured persons was under investigation or 
awaiting  test results for any diagnosed  or undiagnosed medical condition. I acknowledge 
Mr and Mrs Ms understanding of what they were told by both their GP and the hospital  
consultant, but the fact that there  remained a doubt  is the type of information  an insurer will 
want to be aware of. And when told that information,  it can then make a decision whether or 
not to cancel the policy, as it did, or charge a premium to cover  the new condition. I 
appreciate Mr Ms point that it had the option  of charging a higher  premium. But the point is 
that (i) it was denied  the opportunity of assessing the revised risk and exercising its 
legitimate commercial judgment, and (ii) we dont  know how much the premium might have 
risen by and, accordingly, whether it would have  been acceptable or affordable to Mr and 
Mrs M  or whether they would instead have concluded that cancellation was a more viable 
option. In other words,  the failure to declare the circumstances was material to the claim and 
CIGNAs ultimate liability, so its not unfair for it to rely on the breach to limit its liability  after 
the event.
I appreciate that Mrs M says her health  was improving. She refers to the GPs notes of a visit 
on the day before they paid the balance. The notes do say she was improving and I referred  
to this in my provisional  decision. But the notes also show  that the family and the GP 
agreed they should wait for the consultants opinion before agreeing next steps . As I said in 
my provisional decision, there was sufficient doubt  about Mrs Ms health  that I believe it was 
reasonable for the insurer to have  been made aware  of the ongoing investigation.
I also addressed the reason for the cancellation,  noting that it was due to the virus rather 
than the colonoscopy. Again, the point is not what actually happened  but what, all other 
things being equal, CIGNA would probably  have done but for the failure  to declare. Its 
equitable to regard as done  that which ought to have been  done. And in this case, the 
evidence clearly indicates that a proper declaration in line with the contractual  obligations 
would have led to CIGNA  offering to indemnify cancellation costs  to date but refusing to 
Ref: DRN52143026continue cover for the trip  and thats effectively  what its still offered despite  Mr and 
Mrs Ms breach of condition.
I have carefully considered the points raised  by Mr and Mrs M, but I remain  of the view that 
CIGNA has fairly applied  its terms and conditions and, because  its already agreed to cover 
the lower cancellation costs  that it wouldve paid at the time but for the breach of condition,  it 
needs take no further action to resolve this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and before, my final decision is not to uphold this complaint. 
CIGNA has already  paid the lower cancellation  costs that it would have  incurred but for the 
breach of condition   so it doesnt need to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
Gordon Ramsay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5214302