K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained about a personal  loan AvantCredit of UK, LLC, trading as AvantCredit,  
provided to him. He says AvantCredit acted  irresponsibly in lending  to him because of the 
financial situation he was in at the time.
background
Mr R took out a loan for £8,000 with AvantCredit in September  2015, to be repaid over three 
years. The total amount to be repaid was £11,753.63,  with monthly payments of £326.49.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Rs complaint and thought AvantCredit had acted 
irresponsibly in lending  to him. AvantCredit  disagreed with our adjudicator, and so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and guidance say that businesses must act responsibly when lending to 
consumers. Businesses must  consider the potential for the lending  to adversely impact  the 
consumers financial situation and the consumers ability to make the repayments as they fall 
due over the life of the agreement.
Businesses must assess whether the consumer could  afford  to meet  the repayments in a 
sustainable manner,  without incurring financial difficulties or significant adverse 
consequences. This means the consumer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments.
And that affordability  assessment  must  be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the 
lending. So, for example,  the checks will generally  have to be more  thorough  the higher the 
amount to be repaid, the lower the consumers income or the longer the term of the loan.
As part of its affordability checks, AvantCredit  asked  Mr R for details of his monthly  income 
and outgoings.  It also carried  out a credit  search to check  Mr Rs credit  history and 
outstanding debt and carried out a check to confirm his income was correct.
The credit check confirmed Mr Rs income  was around £2,800 and Mr R gave his monthly  
living expenses as £450. The credit search showed  Mr R had outstanding balances  on other 
accounts of over £11,000 and was making  payments of around £1,100 per month towards 
them. It also showed those balances had increased  by over £1,300 in the past three months,  
that the balances were  114% of his credit limits  and that he had taken out 8 short-term  loans  
in the last six months.
Given the size of this loan and that it was to be repaid over three  years, I dont think it was 
reasonable for AvantCredit to rely solely on Mr Rs statement when calculating his living 
expenses. I think  it should  have carried out further  checks to make sure that the amounts it 
had been given for his living expenses were accurate.
Ref: DRN58347812And while the information it had showed  Mr R had enough disposable  income to comfortably  
make the monthly  payments for the loan,  AvantCredit was required to establish whether he 
could sustainably make  the repayments,  not just whether the repayments were affordable 
based on a strict pounds  and pence  calculation.
Mr R had significant outstanding balances with other  lenders  and was over his credit  limit on 
these accounts.  These  can both be signs  that a consumer is having  difficulty managing their 
finances. Mr R had also taken out a number  of short-term loans in the months before 
applying for this loan.  And these are an expensive  form of borrowing so can also suggest  a 
consumer is struggling  financially.
I also think AvantCredit should have questioned why Mr R had such  significant outstanding 
balances, was over his credit limits  and wanted to borrow  £8,000  if he genuinely had a 
substantial disposable  income available to him each month.  And as AvantCredit says Mr R 
said the reason  for the loan was debt consolidation,  I think  it should also have questioned 
why this was necessary  if Mr R had the disposable income it thought he did.
Given this information,  I dont think it was reasonable for AvantCredit to rely solely  on the 
information it had to decide whether to provide  Mr R with the loan. And I think  it should have 
carried out further checks to satisfy  itself that Mr R would be able to manage his finances 
going forwards and that it would be responsible to lend to him.
So Im not satisfied AvantCredit  carried  out proportionate or sufficient checks when 
assessing whether  Mr R could afford to meet the repayments of this loan in a sustainable 
way.
I cant say for sure what  more proportionate  checks wouldve shown. But Ive seen copies of 
Mr Rs bank statements from around the time and a copy  of his credit  file. And, in the 
absence of evidence  to the contrary, I think its likely these give a good  indication of Mr Rs 
financial circumstances.
The bank statements show that Mr R was going significantly overdrawn every month in the 
months before taking  this loan and was only coming  out of his overdraft following his salary  
payments or short-term  loans. And his credit file shows Mr R had taken more  than ten 
payday loans  in the six months before this loan was taken  and the amounts of them  were  
trending upwards.
I think these statements show Mr R was having difficulty managing  his finances and may 
have been reliant  on other  lending to meet his existing outgoings.  And I think  its likely more 
proportionate checks wouldve  shown similar information to this. So I think more  
proportionate checks would have shown AvantCredit that it was unlikely Mr R could afford to 
meet the repayments in a sustainable manner and that it wouldnt be responsible to lend to 
him.
So I think AvantCredit acted irresponsibly  in providing Mr R with this loan. And as Mr R 
ended up paying  interest and charges on a loan he shouldnt  have  been  given, I think  he has 
lost out as a result of what AvantCredit  did wrong.
Ref: DRN58347813putting things rights
AvantCredit shouldnt  have given Mr R the loan.  I understand  there  may be a balance  
outstanding on it. AvantCredit should therefore:
a)remove all interest,  fees and charges from the outstanding balance on the loan, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr R as though they had been repayments of the 
principal.
If this results  in Mr R having made overpayments then AvantCredit should refund  
these overpayments  with 8% simple interest*  calculated  on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would  have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled.
If there is an outstanding balance  then AvantCredit should agree an affordable  
repayment plan with Mr R.
b)remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Rs credit file in relation to the loan 
once the loan is settled.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires AvantCredit  to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr R a certificate 
showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC should  put 
things right by doing what  Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5834781