K822xcomplaint
Mr H complained that PrePay  Technologies Limited  blocked his prepaid card, so he wasnt  
able to access the money held on it. This caused him stress and he had to ask for an 
extension on paying for his holiday.
background 
Mr H took out a prepaid card from PrePay.  Mr H loaded the card with US dollars as he was 
going on holiday to the United States.  The terms and conditions  of the PrePay  card say at 
4.1:
The Card is intended for use in countries in which the national  Currencies are that of the 
emoney loaded on to your Card.
On 3 July, Mr H tried to take money out in the UK using his PrePay card.  He tried four times 
in ten minutes.  He then managed to take out £400. He then tried to take out £100 more  and 
this failed.
Mr H spoke to the customer service team at PrePay who told him he was hitting his daily 
limit and that is why his cash  machine  withdrawals  were not working.
Mr H withdrew  £400 the next day and another £180 the day after. The account was blocked 
four days  later.  PrePay have said that the reason  for the block  is that the card was used 
repeatedly in the UK and Mr H had breached the agreement.
The account  was blocked, which meant Mr H could  not access any more money. He was 
told by PrePay that he would need ID to unblock  the account.  Mr H was also concerned he 
would lose money  due to the exchange rate when he was asked to move  the funds  to a 
current account. Mr H sent his ID but the business took a whole week  to unblock his 
account.
Mr H was unhappy because he said he was following advice from the customer  service  team  
so he bought the complaint to us.
Our investigators view was that PrePay  had acted within the terms and conditions  by 
blocking the account and providing a refund by cheque. He did agree that Mr H was given 
misleading information by the customer service team. But by refunding Mr H the balance in 
the account at the rate when the dollars were added  to the card PrePay had acted fairly and 
reasonably.
Mr H did not agree with the investigators  view and the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
PrePay have said they blocked the card as use in the UK could be suspicious or fraudulent 
activity. The terms and conditions do not expressly say that the card cant  be used in the UK. 
In fact, PrePay say in their final response letter  whilst it is possible to withdraw GBP, we 
would expect this to be a rare occasion as anyone requiring a large portion or all of the 
balance back have  the option to cash out the card in store.
Ref: DRN55748202When PrePay decided  to block Mr Hs account,  they were aware or should  have been, of the 
conversation that Mr H had already had with their customer service team. Because of this, I 
think that PrePay knew that the activity on Mr Hs account was not fraudulent  or suspicious. I 
also dont think that PrePay can say that this was unexpected account behaviour because 
Mr H told PrePay  that he was going  to take money  out with his card.
On balance PrePay were  not entitled to block the account because there is nothing in the 
terms that allow them to do so for UK usage.  They knew through their customer service 
team that Mr H was using  the card himself because he needed the money so the activity on 
the card could not be described as suspicious, fraudulent or unexpected.
I am aware  that the customer service  representative gave Mr H incorrect information about  
whether he could take money out of the account and he was not told that the card would be 
blocked. PrePay have  recognised that Mr H was misinformed and therefore have refunded 
Mr H the remaining balance at the rate he received when he purchased the US dollars.
Mr H has said that he felt stress during this process,  as he was worried that he wouldnt 
have his money when  he went on holiday.  I see that the holiday was in September so 
although I accept  this was a stressful time I dont think it was likely that Mr Hs refund would 
have been delayed for three months.
I accept that £500  is a lot of money  for Mr H and being without it for two weeks caused him 
stress and inconvenience. I think that PrePay  should  pay Mr H £150 in compensation for the 
upset at having his account blocked  and having  to ask for an extension in paying for his 
holiday.
responses to my provisional  decision
PrePay said they have  nothing  more to provide and accept my provisional decision.
Mr H also accepted my provisional decision. But he noted that he was without the money  for 
a month  - not two weeks as stated  in the decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr H and PrePay accepted my proposed award. But Mr H pointed out he was without 
the money for one month not two weeks and having looked at the evidence  again I accept 
that this is a factual  error. 
Mr Hs comments  do not change my mind because the compensation which I was minded to 
award was for the distress  and inconvenience  of having the account blocked and having  to 
ask for an extension in paying for his holiday. Mr H was without the money  for longer  than he 
expected but he was aware that the refund was being processed and the cheque would be 
with him. The amount  that I proposed was representative of the distress and inconvenience 
he experienced, and I still consider it to be fair. 
For these reasons and the reasons outlined in my provisional findings I find that PrePay 
should pay Mr H £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN55748203my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I direct PrePay  Technologies Limited to pay 
Mr H a total of £150 for his material distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5574820