K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about two instalment loans that he took out with Novaloans  Limited,  trading
as Cash4UNow, (NL), which he said were unaffordable.
background
Mr H was given two instalment loans  by NL between January and May 2017. A summary of
the loans taken out by Mr H is shown below:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
Monthly instalment  
amounts 
1. 13/1/17 28/4/17 £300 4 instalments of 
£114.17
2. 9/5/17 Unpaid £450 5 instalments of 
£156.05
Mr H said that the loans were lent irresponsibly. At the time he was struggling  and he had
other payday loans  and other borrowing. If NL had done credit checks it would have seen
the other payday  loans and his poor credit score.
NL said that it had asked Mr H for details of his income and expenditure and it had carried
out a credit check.  Given the information it had received, it said there was no reason  to
believe that Mr Hs loans wouldnt  be within his declared means.  The information
supplied to us by NL when it submitted its business  file showed that there  was an
outstanding amount  on Loan  2.
our adjudicators  view
The adjudicator didnt think that NL had carried out sufficient  checks  before the loans. If
it had done so, she said that NL would have seen that the loan instalments werent
affordable for Mr H.
With regard to Loan 2, the adjudicator said that even if NL had taken  Mr Hs outstanding
short term debt into account, it would have still lent to him. This was because his disposable
income wouldve  been around  £294  and the loan instalments of around  £156 would have
appeared affordable for Mr H.
She recommended that NL should:
- Refund  all interest and charges that Mr H paid on Loan 1;
- Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment  to the date of
  settlement*;
- Remove any negative information  about Loan 1 from Mr Hs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NL to take off tax from this interest. NL must  give Mr H a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Mr H disagreed and responded to say that Loan 2 was also unaffordable as it was larger
than Loan 1. And the fact that it was taken straight after Loan 1 was repaid should also have
been considered.  If Loan 1 was considered unaffordable, Loan 2 should  be considered
unaffordable as well.
Ref: DRN50699372NL agreed with the adjudicators view and said that it had sent £118.64 to Mr H in full and
final settlement of his complaint on 28 January 2019. It said that this amount comprised of
the interest and charges paid on Loan 1 plus 8% interest, less the amount of £60 owed on
Loan 2.
The adjudicator asked Mr H if hed received £118.64. He said that hed received this amount
but he didnt accept it in full and final settlement of his complaint. NL hadnt  told him that the
amount was paid in full and final settlement. Mr H also queried the amount of £60 deducted
from the total compensation.
The adjudicator asked NL for a copy of its communication  sending  the compensation to Mr H
but it couldnt provide a copy of this. It said that it had simply processed the refund.
The adjudicator asked Mr H to let us know by 8 April 2019 how he wished to proceed. But
she said if no response was received, the assessment of the complaint would be continued.
As no response was received from Mr H the complaint has been  passed to me.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H 
and to NL on 16 April 2019. I summarise my findings:
I said that as NL had agreed to repay the compensation recommended by the adjudicator  for 
Loan 1, I wouldnt  investigate NLs affordability  assessment for this loan. But I would take the 
loan into account  to provide context in terms of the lending history.
I explained that NL was required  to lend responsibly. It needed to make sure Mr H could 
afford the loan repayments. There wasnt a set list of checks  that NL had to carry out. But its 
checks needed to be proportionate to things such as the amount of each repayment, the 
length of the agreement and any borrowing history.
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator at the time Mr H borrowed from
NL. Its regulations require  lenders to take reasonable steps to assess  the customers ability
to meet  repayments  under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the
customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
The regulations define sustainable  as being able to make repayments  without undue 
difficulty, and that this means borrowers should  be able to make  their repayments on time
and out of their income and savings without  having to borrow  to meet these repayments.
NL had told us about the checks  it did before giving Mr H each of the loans. It asked him to
provide details of his income and regular  expenditure, including any credit commitments.  It
also carried out a credit check. Id seen a summary of the credit check.
Loan 2 was taken out 11 days  after Loan  1 was repaid. The loan amount was £450
repayable by five monthly repayments  of £156.05.  Mr H told NL that his monthly income  was
£1,600 and his regular  expenditure was £806.  So he had a disposable income  of £794.
NL had summarised its credit check before Loan 2 which showed that Mr H had
16 active accounts. Before Loan  1 he had 12 active accounts. Id noted that six accounts 
had been opened in the previous six months and six accounts had been delinquent in the
previous 12 months.  Mr Hs outstanding mortgage  balance had increased by £923  which  I
thought might have  suggested to NL that he was in arrears with his payments.  And his loan
Ref: DRN50699373balances had increased from £1,289 before Loan  1 to £1,338 before Loan 2. I thought  that 
the increase in the number of Mr Hs active credit  accounts and balance amounts, the six
delinquent accounts in the previous twelve months and the possible  mortgage arrears might
have suggested  to NL that Mr Hs finances were under  pressure.
Id also noted  that NL had said its check showed  that Mr H had only taken out one short  term 
loan in the previous month, and one in the previous  six months.  It said that the total value of 
short term loans in the last six months  was £80. But NL had also referred elsewhere to 
payments of £430  on short term loans  in the previous month. It said that a second credit  
check showed three outstanding short term loans. It had also referred to the value of current  
short term loans outstanding as being £500.  It appeared that the information NL had 
gathered appeared to be contradictory.
NL also said that Mr H had disclosed payments  of £220 per month  to short  term loans and
credit cards. It also noted that Mr H hadnt  declared  his mortgage payment of £259 in his
disposable income. I thought that NL might have been concerned  that Mr Hs declared
information about his finance commitments  differed from that shown in his credit check. I
also thought NL might have asked Mr H more about his failure to include his mortgage 
payment within  his expenditure. I thought this might have suggested that the amount of 
Mr Hs disposable income in future months might  be somewhat lower if he resumed paying 
his mortgage.
Given these circumstances, I thought NL ought  to have gathered  a more comprehensive 
view of Mr Hs circumstances and sought some independent verification of these. I couldnt  
see that it had done  this.
Although I didnt think the checks NL did before Loan 2 were sufficient, that in itself didnt
mean that Mr Hs complaint about  the loan should  succeed. I also needed to see whether 
what I considered to be proportionate checks would have shown NL that Mr H couldnt 
sustainably afford the loan. I thought  NL should have been independently checking what 
Mr H was earning and spending each month.
I explained that I would normally check a borrowers  bank statements for the month before 
the loan to see what better checks would have shown. I could see that we didnt have bank 
statements for the month before  Loan 2. So Id asked the adjudicator to request these. Mr H 
had said that he had sent us his bank statement previously. The adjudicator  told Mr H that 
he had sent in bank statements on another complaint for a different period. I noted that it 
didnt appear that we had received the relevant bank statements for this complaint.
As I hadnt  been  able to see exactly what information NL shouldve  taken  into account
before agreeing to lend Loan 2 to Mr H, I hadnt been able to get a full picture of what
Mr Hs financial  situation was like when he applied for Loan  2. And so I couldnt say that if 
NL had completed sufficient checks, it wouldve found that Mr H couldnt afford to repay 
Loan 2 sustainably.
So based  on what Id seen, I couldnt  say NL was wrong to lend Loan  2 to Mr H. But I said
I would revisit this assessment if Mr H was able to provide me with copies of his bank
statements for the relevant period of this lending.
So I only intended to uphold this complaint in respect of Loan 1. Id noted  that NL had 
already paid Mr H compensation for the amount of £118.65. It said that this was for interest 
and fees paid on Loan 1 plus 8% interest on that amount from the date of payment  to the 
Ref: DRN50699374date of settlement.  It had deducted £60 from this amount which it said was the balance  due 
on Loan 2. I could see that Mr H had queried the amount of £60 which NL said that it had
deducted from the compensation. So, my award  included a request for NL to provide
Mr H with an account statement for Loan  2 which should show  how the amount of £60 was
calculated.
Id also said that NL should provide this service with a copy of the account statement in its 
response to the provisional decision.
Id also noted  that NL said that it would remove adverse entries about Loan 1 from
Mr Hs credit file. As I couldnt be sure that this had already been done, Id also included  a
direction for NL to do this in my award.
With regard to the payment of 8% interest  on the refunds NL had already paid, if it hadnt
done so already, I said that NL should  give Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax it had 
taken off the refund of interest (in line with the requirement of HM Revenue  & Customs) if he 
asked for one. As I also couldnt be sure that this had already been done, I also included a 
direction for NL to do this in my award.
Subject to any further representations by Mr H or NL my provisional decision  was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  NL to:-
1. Provide Mr H with an account statement for Loan  2 within  14 days of Mr H accepting
    the final decision in this complaint.  The statement should show  how the amount of
    £60  referred  to above was calculated;
2. Remove all adverse  entries about  Loan  1 from Mr Hs credit file; and
3. With regard to the payment of 8% interest on the refunds NL had already paid, if it
    hadnt done so already,  it should  give Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax its
    taken  off the refund of interest  if he asks for one.
NL responded  to my provisional decision by sending a statement of account  to show  how the 
amount of £60 was calculated.
Mr H responded to my provisional decision by sending this service  his bank account 
statements for two accounts. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I reviewed the bank statements sent to us by Mr H. I noted that these referred to payments 
involving a third bank  account. As I didnt have a complete picture of Mr Hs finances without 
seeing statements  for that account,  I asked the adjudicator to ask Mr H to send us the 
statements for that account at the time of Loan 2. Mr H responded to say that we had all the 
relevant bank account statements pertaining to the payday loans and that we needed no 
further information. 
Unfortunately as Ive not been  able to consider the bank statements for the third bank  
account, I dont  have a full picture  of Mr Hs financial circumstances at the time of Loan 2. So 
I dont know what NL wouldve seen  if it had carried out proportionate  checks.  So I cant  
conclude that better  checks  would have suggested that Mr H couldnt  afford  to repay  Loan  2.
Ref: DRN50699375I also asked the adjudicator  to send Mr H NLs statement of account showing the calculation  
of the £60 amount referred to above  and to ask Mr H for his comments on this. Mr H hasnt 
provided any comments on this. But as Mr H has now received the statement of account, I 
dont think I need  to include the request for this within my award  in this decision. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Novaloans Limited,  trading  as Cash4UNow, to:
1. Remove all adverse  entries about  Loan  1 from Mr Hs credit file; and
2. With regard to the payment of 8% interest on the refunds NL had already paid, if it
    hadnt done so already,  it should  give Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax its
    taken  off the refund of interest  if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5069937