K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that British Gas Insurance Limited gave poor service  under a home 
emergency insurance policy.
background
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company by that name  and I include 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold it responsible.
Mr and Mrs P own a property. They let to it to tenants  a couple with children, one with 
special needs.
Mr and Mrs P complained that British Gas was responsible  for a leak that caused damage  to 
their flooring.
British Gas or its insurers made offers of settlement.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought that British 
Gas should put Mr and Mrs P back in the position  they should  be in had the damage not 
have been caused. She recommended that British Gas should revise  its offer so that Mr and 
Mrs P can replace the damaged  floor at no cost to themselves.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs P and to British Gas on 28 January 2019. I summarise my findings:
Mrs P got quotes for labour to fit the replacement flooring. They  worked out at 
between about  £735.00 and about  £1,000.00. The specialist for British  Gas 
gave a figure in the same  range. So I said I would adopt the figure of £800.00 
as fair and reasonable for labour.
For the flooring  material itself, the specialist for British Gas put forward figures  
of 28.4 square  meters  at £25.00 per square metre.
Mr and Mrs P had shown us evidence that the actual cost of such  flooring  is 
£44.00 per square metre.
Mrs P also identified the need  for some  sundry materials such  as underlay,  
caulk and paint which she estimated at about £85.00  and which  I found  
reasonable.
If Mr and Mrs P had paid for the work and been  out of pocket then I wouldve 
awarded interest at our usual rate.
Subject to any further information from Mr and Mrs P or from British  Gas, my provisional 
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint. I was minded to direct British Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs P (jointly) a sum calculated as follows:
Ref: DRN56059232Labour for replacing  floor    £ 800.00
Flooring Material 28.4 x £44.00  £1,249.60
Underlay, caulk, paint etc.      £ 85.00
Total  £2,134.60
Mr and Mrs P agree  with the provisional decision. They say they havent had the damage 
rectified because their financial circumstances havent permitted.
British Gas says it doesnt have any further  comments to make  or information to provide in 
response to the provisional decision. It says it stands by its initial offer of £1,190.00.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the descriptions and photographs, the property  is a terraced house with a front door 
leading directly into the front room. In that room there is a radiator. It was in a radiator 
cabinet.
The floor was of oak panels of a relatively small thickness  about 14mm.  The floor covering 
was about 4 years old.
Ive seen a renewal letter dated  July 2017. It was addressed to Mrs P so I think  she was the 
policyholder. But I accept Mr and Mr Ps statement that they own the property jointly. So I 
think Mr P also had the benefit  of the policy.
There was cover for various things including the central heating boiler and radiators.
The policy provided  cover  up to £1,000.00 including VAT for getting  access and making 
good. Making  good was defined so as to include  filling  in holes and leaving  surfaces  level. 
It didnt include new floor coverings.
British Gas replaced the radiator in April 2017.  It did this under the policy.
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is that this work wasnt done properly. She says the engineer 
didnt use the right new pipe and bent the old pipe so that a joint cracked under  the floor.
That wasnt  noticed  until September  2017  when the new boiler  was losing pressure and 
there was a search for a leaking  pipe.
British Gas had to disturb the floor under the radiator in order to repair  the leak.
So British  Gas mustve seen the source of the leak. And I dont think  British Gas or its 
insurers have disputed  that it was responsible for the leak and therefore the damage to the 
floor. British  Gas or its insurers have made a series of offers  of contribution  towards the cost 
of replacement flooring.
So the main issue  is how much British Gas or its insurers  should  do to make up for the 
damage to the floor.
Ref: DRN56059233British Gas got a report from a floor specialist. Ive seen that report. It said the floor had been 
in a fair condition. It referred  to the floor as engineered . But it also said it was solid oak.
Mrs P investigated the cost of replacement flooring. She also identified the need for some  
sundry materials such as underlay,  caulk and paint which she estimated at about £85.00  
and which  I find reasonable.
Mrs P got quotes for labour to fit the replacement flooring. They  worked out at between 
about £735.00 and about £1,000.00. The specialist for British Gas gave a figure in the same 
range. So I will adopt the figure of £800.00 as fair and reasonable for labour.
For the flooring  material itself, the specialist for British Gas put forward figures  of 28.4 
square meters at £25.00 per square metre   a total of £706.00.
But British  Gas has not been able to point to any solid oak flooring available  at the price  of 
£25.00 per square metre. And when challenged on this, British Gas  in my view - changed 
its stance. It said that the rate of £25.00  per square  metre was to reflect  that Mr and Mrs Ps 
flooring had been in only fair condition.
But Mr and Mrs P have  sent photographs of the undamaged part of the floor.  They say its in 
good condition  and I think the photographs  show thats right.
And theyve  shown us evidence  that the actual cost of such flooring is £44.00 per square 
metre.
In the context of a terraced house let to tenants, I accept that before the leak Mr and Mrs P 
had no intention of replacing the flooring. So I dont  think its fair to adopt British Gass  
reduced figure of £25.00 per square  metre.
Under the rules  by which were bound, I dont think I have power to assess compensation for 
the tenants.
Rather Ive thought about the effect  that the unrepaired damage had on Mr and Mrs Ps 
relationship with their tenants. But I think there  mustve been steps that they couldve taken 
to mitigate that effect. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct compensation for that.
If Mr and Mrs P had paid for the work and been  out of pocket then I wouldve awarded 
interest at our usual  rate. But that doesnt  apply here.
Overall I find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to pay Mr and Mrs P (jointly)  a sum 
calculated as follows:
Labour for replacing  floor   £ 800.00
Flooring Material 28.4 x £44.00 £1,249.60
Underlay, caulk, paint etc.     £ 85.00
Total £2,134.60
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs P (jointly) a sum calculated as follows:
Ref: DRN56059234Labour for replacing  floor    £ 800.00
Flooring Material 28.4 x £44.00  £1,249.60
Underlay, caulk, paint etc.      £ 85.00
Total  £2,134.60
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 March  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5605923