K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001 
alongside a store card. The PPI was added to the account sometime after Mrs G took out 
the store card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs G says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt  uphold  the complaint. Mrs G 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed  to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs G says she was led to believe  she had to take the PPI in order  to get the store card.  But 
FICL has provided evidence of its internal  records to show  that the PPI was taken out over 
the phone  in 2001  more than 6 months  after the store  card account had been set up. But 
unfortunately due to the length of time thats  passed there  is no call recording for me to listen  
to  so I cant say what exactly was discussed  at the time. But as Mrs G already  had the 
credit in place I think she wouldve known the PPI was an optional extra and not a condition  
of having the store  card.
FICL has also provided call scripts  which it says wouldve been used for these types of sales 
around that time  and Ive seen  no reason to doubt this. These show  that the sales  person  
wouldve been instructed to present the PPI as optional to Mrs G. And without any evidence 
to persuade me otherwise,  I think its unlikely FICL  wouldve added the PPI to her account 
without her permission.
Mrs G also says she felt pressured into taking out the policy  as she felt she couldnt say no. 
But pressure is subjective  what one person feels is pressure another  may not. And without 
any evidence to support  what Mrs G has said I cant fairly and reasonably uphold the 
complaint on this point.  
So based  on all the evidence Ive seen and without  any stronger evidence to the contrary,  I 
think FICL made it clear  that Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs G so it didnt have to check if the policy  was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs G got the information she needed to decide if the PPI 
was right for her.
Mrs G feels strongly  that the terms and conditions of the policy  werent explained to her. And
Ref: DRN53694572I think its possible the information FICL gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover.
Upon a successful  claim the PPI wouldve  paid 15% of Mrs Gs outstanding monthly balance 
until the policy ended, Mrs G stopped being unemployed or disabled,  or the outstanding  
balance had been cleared. And Mrs G has told us that she wasnt entitled to any sick pay 
from her employer at the time. So I still think the policy wouldve been useful for her and I 
dont think better information  wouldve put her off taking it out.
Ive thought about everything Mrs G has said, including  what  shes  said about not being told 
she couldve  taken out cover with another provider.  However, it was Mrs Gs responsibility to 
shop around for the products she wanted - and not FICLs  responsibility  to make her aware  
that she could  obtain cover  from other  providers. So this point doesnt change  my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5369457