K821x#15complaint
Mr L and Mrs P complain that HSBC  UK Bank Plc refused to add Mrs P to Mr Ls bank 
account. Mr L has brought this complaint, on behalf  of them  both.
background
Mr L said that he asked  HSBC to add his wife to his bank account, turning the account from 
a single into a joint account. But HSBC said that it wouldnt do that. It said that it has set 
policy and identification  requirements for all customers, whether they are being added to an 
existing account  or opening a new one. And because Mrs Ps visa had expired, she hadnt 
met those  identification requirements. So it wouldnt add her to the account. 
Mr L said that hed told HSBC that his wife was entitled to stay in the UK after her visa had 
expired, because she is both the wife and the mother of EEA (European Economic Area) 
nationals. But HSBC  wouldnt  reconsider.  Mr L said that he thought that this was racism,  and 
he wanted the bank to pay £5,000 in compensation.
HSBC said that EU law might allow Mrs P to remain here, but it didnt mean that HSBC  had 
to open a bank account for her. It said that it had applied its own internal policy, and it didnt 
think it had done  anything wrong.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that HSBC had applied  its own 
identification requirements. That was HSBCs own policy, and our service  doesnt have the 
power to tell banks  to change their internal policies.
Mr L didnt accept that. He was firmly  of the view that HSBCs decision should be governed  
by the relevant law. He said that what HSBC had done was racism. Because  Mr L didnt 
agree with our investigator, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-I approached this case on the basis  of my understanding  that, under current  law, Mrs P 
was entitled to remain in the UK without  being required to hold a valid UK visa. So I 
asked HSBC about its policy, and whether it had thought about how that impacts on non-
EEA nationals who are lawfully resident in the UK.
-In response,  HSBC  changed its position. It said that it had established in April that it 
didnt need to see a visa to add Mrs P to Mr Ls account. It said that it had never  refused 
to add her to the account, and it had added her to the account in July. 
-This didnt seem  to fit well with HSBCs letter to Mr L, which stated that Mrs P wouldnt 
be added  to the new account without  a valid visa. That was dated 1 May,  which  was 
apparently after HSBCs  lawyers had told the branch that it could  add Mrs P to the 
account without  needing to see a valid visa. 
-HSBC said it recognised that it had made  some  mistakes, so it would be interested in 
settling the complaint.  We passed its offer on to Mr L, and he didnt want  to accept  it. 
And it still wasnt clear what had gone wrong, so we asked HSBC some more  questions.  
Ref: DRN59450702-HSBC replied with a timeline  from the branch. That set out that Mrs P had come in with 
Mr L on 14 April. The branch thought then that a valid visa or a residency card would be 
required to open an account. The branch said that it asked HSBCs lawyers,  and got a 
reply on 4 May. 
-Its clear from HSBCs previous response that HSBCs branch understood, by early May 
at the latest, that a valid visa wasnt required for Mrs P. I note that HSBC has previously 
told us that this exchange between  its lawyers and the branch took place in April.
-The relevant  staff member was away from work  until 8 May. She said that she 
remembered trying  to contact Mr L, but couldnt  remember speaking  to him. She also 
listed a number of other dates  that she was away from work over the next few months, 
for three  weeks in total. 
-The branch  said that Mrs P was added to the account on 14 July, when Mrs P came in 
with a new residency  card and a tenancy agreement. Mr L had emailed the branch to say 
that Mrs P had received a residency card on 9 July, and an appointment was made then 
for them both to come back  to the branch on 14 July. 
-It was clear that HSBC had realised some considerable time before this that it didnt 
need to see a visa for Mrs P. It hadnt communicated  this to her. It didnt seem to have 
told her either before or after she opened  an account that it made a mistake  about this. 
And it hadnt explained why it didnt tell her that. 
-I knew Mr L thought  that HSBCs actions were  motivated by racism. I didnt think that 
HSBC as a whole had a policy  which discriminates  either directly or indirectly against 
non-EEA nationals  such as Mrs P. But, having considered this case carefully,  I could 
understand why Mr L would have these concerns about why his wife wasnt added to the 
account. 
-Its usual, in a case  involving  allegations of racism, for a business to want  to refute that 
allegation, and offer another  explanation  of why things went wrong. Unusually, I didnt 
seem to have received  any other  explanation in this case that covered all of the things 
that went wrong. 
-I hadnt seen  HSBCs  internal policy, so I couldnt  tell why the original misunderstanding 
about adding Mrs P to the account happened. It was entirely  possible that this was just a 
misunderstanding. I noted that there are relatively few people  in the position that Mrs P is 
in, and the right she was relying on to stay in the UK isnt a well understood area of law. 
So HSBCs  branch  might just have misunderstood. 
-It was more difficult to understand, once the branch knew that there  had been a mistake 
about requiring  Mrs P to provide a visa, why the branch  didnt just contact Mr L to say 
there had been a mistake. Or why it didnt even  tell Mr L and Mrs P this when they came 
back, with the paperwork that HSBC had said it wanted, to add Mrs P to the account. 
-It seemed most likely that HSBCs  staff knew that Mr L thought  that its treatment of 
Mrs P amounted to racism. It was particularly difficult for me to understand why HSBC 
wouldnt want to take any of the opportunities  it had to explain  to Mr L and Mrs P that it 
had just made a mistake. 
Ref: DRN59450703-Because this was such  an unusual response from HSBC, I hadnt, at this stage, been 
able to rule out that the race or national  origin  of Mr L or Mrs P was a factor  in this case. I 
would have expected HSBC to have argued  strongly against such a conclusion,  and 
provided evidence  to support that argument, long before the case reached  this stage. I 
said I would of course bear that in mind  when I was considering  the appropriate amount 
of compensation  in this case.
-We also asked Mrs P for more information. I wanted to know  how this decision had 
impacted her. She said that she had been suspended from work,  because shed been 
given three months from starting work to show that she had a bank  account  in her name. 
And she hadnt been able to do that. She said that she couldnt use her husbands 
money in this time, because she had no access to his bank account. She said she didnt 
apply for other jobs, because all employers want  her to have a bank account. And she 
told us that she didnt apply for an account elsewhere, because  she said shed  found  the 
experience humiliating, and she didnt want to go through it again.
-Mrs P hadnt provided us with written evidence from her employer about why she was 
suspended. But she did send  us a list of her salary payments,  and a payslip. The list of 
payments showed that Mrs P didnt receive  any pay after the end of March, which was 
when she says she was suspended from work because she didnt have a bank account. 
-The timing of Mrs Ps payments ending seemed to me to fit with what  she has told us, 
and with the appointments she made at HSBC. And I could  see from her payslips who 
she worked for. That employer has a policy, which it publishes online, of requiring its 
staff to be paid into a bank account in their own name. So I thought  it was more likely 
than not that Mrs P was suspended for this reason.
-Mrs Ps salary  payments  then restarted in early  May, which  was some time before the 
issue with HSBC  was resolved.  So it seemed likely that Mrs P was either able to access  
a bank account elsewhere, or had found another way to be paid which  was acceptable  to 
her employer,  by sometime in early May. 
-But it looked as if Mrs P still lost around  £1,200 in wages  during  the time after HSBC 
refused her a bank  account, and before she appears  to have succeeded in restarting 
work. I thought it was reasonable to ask HSBC,  in these particular circumstances, to pay 
that amount  to Mr L and Mrs P. I also thought that it would be appropriate to ask HSBC 
to pay Mr L and Mrs P the sum of £500 in compensation, which reflected the seriousness 
of the mistake that HSBC made in this case,  and the impact  it has had on both Mr L and 
Mrs P.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both HSBC  and Mr L and Mrs P replied. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mr L and Mrs P said that some detail  was missing from the decision. They  told us about  
additional information that they had given HSBC  at the time of their first appointment, which 
they thought ought to have made clear that Mrs P could be added to the account.  They  said 
Ref: DRN59450704that HSBC hadnt properly  applied  the relevant law, which  they had explained to HSBC.  So 
they said that was why they thought that this was an act of racism by HSBC.
HSBC said it had accepted there had been  a number  of mistakes in how it had dealt with 
Mr L and Mrs P. It was sorry about  that. But it said these mistakes werent due to racism. 
HSBC said it had checked with the relevant staff, and they were  very upset that Mr L and 
Mrs P thought that they might  have been  acting from racist motives.  The person who dealt 
with them  at the branch said that she found this accusation distressing. And she said that 
she couldnt understand why Mr L and Mrs P would  continue to deal with her in the branch, 
as they had done, if they thought shed been racist. 
HSBC took some time to set out its understanding of events. This wasnt  quite  as HSBC had 
previously described. I think thats  likely to be because HSBC has previously made  some  
small mistakes, when it set out for us whats happened, and would now like to correct these.
First, HSBC said its staff member had talked to Mr L and Mrs P in the branch on 14 April,  
which was a Saturday. Shed then contacted the relevant helpdesk during the next week, to 
check whether Mrs P could be added  to the account. HSBC showed us those  emails.
HSBC said that Mr L and Mrs P came  back to the branch on 28 April,  and talked to it about a 
savings account  and home  insurance. HSBC said its staff member  told Mr L and Mrs P then 
that she hadnt yet received a response  to her query  about whether Mrs P could be added  to 
the account. HSBC  said that the staff member escalated the query to a legal team  on 30 
April, and was told she could go ahead with adding Mrs P to the account on 4 May. HSBC  
said that it was sorry, it had previously got these dates wrong. It showed us the emails, 
which confirmed these  dates.
HSBC said that Mrs P came back into a branch in July, with her passport, newly  obtained 
residency card and tenancy agreement. She was then added  to Mr Ls account. 
HSBC said that I was right to say that the regulation that Mrs P relied  on to stay in the UK 
isnt a commonly known  aspect of the law, and the branch was right to check that. It also 
said that there was no evidence  that Mr L and Mrs P were ever told that HSBC had rejected 
their request  outright. HSBC said that its branch was just seeking clarification of the position.
HSBC noted that its letter  in response  to Mr Ls complaint had said that Mrs Ps visa had 
expired and this was why she couldnt be added to the account. HSBC  said that shouldve 
been worded better, and the complaints team didnt speak to the legal team to find out what  
was being considered there. I thought when I set out my provisional  decision that this letter  
was a mistake by HSBC,  and I still think that.
HSBC said that unfortunately the branch couldnt  show it had tried to contact Mr L once it 
had been told that Mrs P could be added to the account, although HSBC  said it had no 
reason to disbelieve that the branch did make some  attempt  to contact him. Again, I thought 
when I set out my provisional decision that HSBC  made a mistake  here,  and I still think that.
HSBC has set out in detail  its understanding  of what has gone wrong. Its accepted it made  
mistakes, but it says thats all these were  just mistakes. 
I note HSBCs revised and more detailed explanation of what  happened. But I also have to 
note that HSBC hasnt suggested that Mr L and Mrs P were ever told, before  they brought  
Ref: DRN59450705their complaint to us, that they could open a joint account after all. And, from their point of 
view, this appeared to be as a result  of racist motives. 
I dont think that theres enough evidence in this case  for me to decide either way whether 
racism has been a factor in whats gone wrong  here.  But I can entirely understand why Mr L 
and Mrs P thought  that it was. And I still think its particularly  unfortunate  that its taken such  
a very long time for the bank to firmly refute that suggestion, and try to deal with their 
concerns. For that reason, I still think that HSBC should pay the compensation I suggested 
in my provisional decision.  I know that Mr L and Mrs P would like a lot more  compensation, 
but I think that £500 provides a fair and reasonable  resolution to this complaint. 
I also still think that HSBC  should  make  a contribution to Mrs Ps lost wages. 
HSBC said that it would pay £500  in compensation. And it understood why I was also asking  
it to pay Mrs Ps missed wages. But it said it wasnt sure about what I was asking it to pay. It 
said that Mr L and Mrs P didnt come  into the bank straight away, after Mrs P was 
suspended from work.  They didnt come  in until 14 April. So it asked me to think  about  
whether it should  pay Mrs Ps lost wages for the time after she was suspended  from work, 
but before  she or Mr L had asked HSBC  to add Mrs P to Mr Ls bank account.
I think its reasonable for HSBC to question whether it should be responsible  for any wages 
that Mrs P lost out on, before she or Mr L had asked HSBC if she could be added  to Mr Ls 
account. Because this was a new issue, we asked both sides  some further questions.  
HSBC said Mr L and Mrs P made  the appointment to add Mrs P to the account on 9 April.
We also asked Mr L and Mrs P if they would  like to comment on why they didnt make  this 
appointment straight away. They said they couldnt  just go into a branch and open an 
account. They needed to make an appointment. And they said the bank didnt have available  
appointments before that. But they didnt think this was really  relevant to their complaint.  
Ive thought carefully about what both sides have said about  this issue.  I dont think that it 
would be reasonable for me to ask HSBC to contribute to Mrs Ps lost wages for the time 
before Mr L and Mrs P had tried to add Mrs P to the account. But thats not what  my original 
proposal did. Ill explain how I reached  the figure I proposed.
Mrs Ps last payment from her employer was on 30 March. So she presumably knew  then 
that she needed to open a bank account. She managed  to persuade  her employer to allow 
her to return during  the week ending 11 May. She presumably returned  to work at the end of 
that week, as she received only a very small payment then. So I think  its reasonable to 
assume she was out of work between 31 March  and 10 May. 
But Mrs P didnt ask for an appointment at the bank until 9 April.  She didnt go into the 
branch until 14 April. HSBC couldnt have given her a bank account before this. Any wages 
she lost before then arent HSBCs fault.  
The wages records Mrs P showed us give us her weekly wage to the end of November 
2018. I think that weekly wage averages out at a little over £400.  Mrs P asked HSBC  to open 
an account for her on 14 April. I think its reasonable to assume,  given the particular position 
of Mrs P, that HSBC  would want to double check the legal position that Mr L had explained 
to it. So I dont think, even if everything  had gone well, that Mrs Ps account  wouldve been 
opened straight away. But I do think it shouldve been opened a week later.  So I think that 
Ref: DRN59450706Mrs P shouldve been given a bank  account, and able to go back to work,  just under three 
weeks earlier than she was. And just under three weeks of average pay for Mrs P would be 
£1,200. I still think  HSBC should pay that.
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  plc must  pay Mr L and Mrs P a total amount of 
£1,700. That is made up of £1,200  to cover Mrs Ps lost wages, and £500 in compensation 
for the distress that this complaint has caused them  both.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5945070