K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Allianz Insurance Plc declined a claim made  under his pet insurance  
policy.
background
Mr S has pet insurance with Allianz  to cover his dog, B.
In August  2018,  Mr S made a claim for around £3,000 because B needed surgery after 
rupturing his cruciate  ligament.
Allianz declined  the claim.  They said B had suffered  from problems with his cruciate ligament 
for more than 12 months and the policy covers  treatment for the first 12 months only of any 
injury or illness.
Theyve also said that when the policy was renewed in March 2018, Mr S didnt provide 
updated information on Bs health, as he was required  to do.
The veterinary medical notes show that Mr S had taken B to his vet in April 2017 because of 
lameness in the same leg which later suffered the cruciate ligament  rupture.
At renewal, Allianz ask their customers to update them on (amongst other things) any visit to 
a vet since the last renewal or inception of the policy.
Allianz say if Mr S had provided the relevant  information, they would have included an 
exclusion relating  to the kind of injury B eventually suffered.
Mr S complained to Allianz. When they didnt uphold his complaint,  he brought  it to us. Our 
investigator looked into it and thought the complaint  should be upheld  and Allianz should pay 
the claim.
Allianz disagreed  and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
Because I disagreed with our investigators view, I decided to issue  a provisional decision 
before I make  my final decision. This gave both parties an opportunity to comment  on my 
thinking before I make  my final decision  which is the Financial Ombudsman Services  last 
word on the case.  
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said: 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Id like to say I hope B made a good  recovery and is now in the best of 
health.
There are two crucial questions for me in making  a decision on this case.
Ref: DRN59149092First, was the injury in August 2018 related to Bs lameness  in April 2017? If so  if, in 
essence both incidents were related to the same underlying pathology  then Allianz 
are entitled  to decline the claim.
The clause in the policy which says Allianz  will cover only the first 12 months of 
treatment for each injury  / illness is not unusual in pet insurance policies. And it is 
very clear in Mr Ss policy. Its also very clear that the starting  point for the 12 month  
period is the date your pet first received treatment and not the date of the first claim 
for treatment.
Im sure Mr S could  have  bought a policy  which  didnt include this clause, but Im also 
sure his premiums would have been considerably higher.
Second, were  Allianz clear at renewal that Mr S needed to update  them if anything 
about Bs health had changed  in the previous year?  If so, did Mr S fail to tell them 
something he should have disclosed? And if so, would that have made a material 
difference to the terms of the policy?
If they were  clear,  and Mr S didnt provide all the relevant information, and it would 
have made  a difference, then Allianz are entitled  to decline the claim.
Was the rupture in 2018 related to the issues in 2017?
In a nutshell, Allianz say that throughout the relevant period B was suffering with 
cruciate ligament  disease. This caused  the lameness in 2017 and the rupture  in 2018.
There are three veterinary experts whove offered an opinion. Mr Ss own vet, who 
saw B in April 2017, Allianzs internal veterinary adviser and an external veterinary 
consultant, to whom  Allianz referred the case when the dispute arose.
I dont need to go into the detail about  the symptoms which  expressed themselves in 
April 2017. Its enough to say that all three experts agree that what Mr Ss vet found 
in his assessment  (including X-rays) is compatible  with a diagnosis of cruciate 
ligament disease   resulting at that point in a partial  rupture.
Mr Ss vet says he didnt make a definitive diagnosis at the time,  but he did have it in 
mind that B may have  suffered a partial  rupture of the cruciate ligament.
The vets differ in that Mr Ss vet says that B cant have suffered a partial rupture  in 
April 2017, because he appeared  to recover after a short period of rest and 
medication. And he didnt  suffer the full rupture until over a year later. His best guess 
now is that B suffered a soft tissue injury in April 2017 which  is unrelated to the 
rupture in August  2018.
The other vets think  the problem  in 2017  was related to underlying cruciate ligament 
disease, which culminated in the rupture in 2018.  They say this breed of dog is 
susceptible to this kind of problem. They say the 2017 assessment showed problems 
which are associated with cruciate  disease   for example, osteoarthritis  and muscle  
wastage. And they say the disease can manifest  itself slowly over months and even 
years, with periods in between where  the dog shows no signs of lameness.
Ref: DRN59149093As I say, the key difference in the experts views is around whether B could  have 
gone for more  than a year with no visible symptoms  between  a partial rupture of the 
cruciate ligament  in April 2017 and a full rupture in August 2018.
Mr Ss vet has said he had a diagnosis of partial  rupture in mind, given the evidence 
available to him in April 2017. His only reason for moving away from this diagnosis  
was Bs recovery and the fact there  was no recurrence of any issues before 
August 2018.
Allianz have provided  a number of references  to experts views and research on this 
kind of problem in dogs. All seem to agree that cruciate disease  can persist  for long 
periods of time. There  is evidence that lameness can come and go  with a series of 
sprains occurring before  a final rupture.
The evidence also suggests there  are cases where dogs are asymptomatic for long 
periods before suffering  a complete rupture. And it seems  the majority of experts  
including the American College of Veterinary Surgeons (ACVS)  believe that in the 
vast majority of cases  where a dog suffers a full rupture  the ligament has been 
gradually deteriorating over a period  of months or years.
Bearing that evidence in mind  and the opinions of the three  experts involved in Bs 
case  Im satisfied on balance its more likely than not that B was suffering from 
cruciate ligament  problems in April 2017.  As I set out above, the symptoms noted in 
the assessment  by Mr Ss vet in April 2017  including muscle wastage  and 
osteoarthritis  are expected in dogs suffering with cruciate ligament disease.
So Allianz are entitled to decline  the claim. The first treatment for this illness was in 
April 2017, more than 12 months before B suffered the full rupture of his cruciate 
ligament in August 2018.
Disclosure of new information at renewal in March 2018
Ive seen the renewal  documents  sent to Mr S in March 2018. They are very clear  
that Mr S is required to tell Allianz if anything had changed in terms of Bs health. 
They very specifically  say:
You must tell us if your pet has:
Shown signs of illness or injury
Been seen  by a vet for any reason other than routine vaccinations and 
neutering.
Mr S hasnt disputed that he didnt  tell Allianz  that B had suffered an injury and had 
been seen by a vet. If he does dispute that  and he has evidence to suggest he did 
tell Allianz about  Bs problems  he should  provide that evidence  in his response to 
this provisional decision.
No-one is suggesting that Mr S deliberately withheld information from Allianz or 
intentionally misled  them about Bs health.  However, I think  Allianz  did all that could 
reasonably be expected  to let Mr S know at renewal that he had to update  them 
about Bs health. And I think they were clear about  the possible consequences   
claims being declined  or the policy being  cancelled - if he didnt do so.
Ref: DRN59149094Allianz say if Mr S had told them about the injury  and the vet visit, this would  have 
made a difference to the terms they offered in Mr Ss policy.
They say if theyd been given information about  the treatment provided by Mr Ss vet 
in April 2017, theyd  have written into the policy an exclusion relating to both Bs 
stifles (knees).
If theyd been  informed that B had X-rays after suffering lameness, theyd have  
written in a broad exclusion for any condition causing clinical signs of lameness.
Theres no reason for me to doubt what Allianz  tell me about this. It wouldnt  be an 
odd or unusual way for an insurer to react to this kind of new information. And they 
dont ask for any new information  about a pets health at renewal out of general  
interest. Clearly, if there is significant new information, its reasonably  obvious  they 
would take some form of action in response to it.
So, on balance, I think Allianz  are entitled  to decline the claim on the basis that Mr S 
didnt provide them with the information required on renewal of his policy.
This is an option explicitly open to them in these circumstances under the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
According to this legislation, where an insurer is clear  about what information  it 
requires and the consumer is careless (rather than reckless or deliberate) in not 
providing it  and where the policy would have been  offered on different terms if the 
relevant information  had been provided   the insurer can act as if the policy had been 
provided on those  different terms.
Im satisfied that if Mr S had provided  the required information about  Bs health at 
renewal, Allianz  would have offered the policy on different terms.  They would have 
included an exclusion which applied to the treatment B received in August 2018. And 
they are entitled  to treat Mr Ss claim as if that exclusion were included  in his policy.
Summary
Allianz have not treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably in declining his claim for Bs 
treatment.
The condition which led to the rupture in August 2018 was most likely first treated in 
April 2017  more  than 12 months  earlier.  So the policy term which  says Allianz will 
cover only the first 12 months  of treatment for an injury or illness applies.
In addition, Mr S didnt provide updated  information  about Bs health as required at 
renewal in March 2018.  So its not unfair  or unreasonable  for Allianz  to decline the 
claim on the basis that, if Mr S had updated them, a term would have been introduced  
to the policy  which would  have excluded from cover  the treatment B received  in 
August 2018.
On that basis, I said I was minded not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Ref: DRN59149095the responses to my provisional  decision
Allianz didnt provide  any response to my provisional decision. Im assuming thats because 
they agreed with it and had nothing further  to add.
Mr S provided further comments. Its fair to say he strongly disagreed  with my provisional  
decision. Ill try to accurately summarise his arguments.
Mr S says his vet said B suffered a soft tissue injury  in April 2017. He says his vet is upset  
by Allianz vet misrepresenting what was said in a telephone conversation between them 
about Mr Ss claim.
Mr S believes Ive accepted the evidence provided by Allianz  vets,  and preferred this to his 
own vets opinion. He says this is wrong because Allianz vet has lied about the telephone 
discussion. He wants us to obtain a recording of that telephone conversation  because  he 
thinks this will prove his point.
Mr S says Allianz have  provided expert evidence that the symptoms of cruciate disease can 
come and go, but there is no evidence to suggest the symptoms did in fact come  and go in 
Bs case.  He says Bs parents had no similar  problems, which  however prone some breeds 
are to cruciate disease - makes it unlikely  B had an underlying issue.
He says he didnt  think a pulled muscle warranted  updating Allianz about Bs condition. He 
thought he was being a good corporate  citizen not to bother them with this information.  He 
also says he cant recall  seeing the renewal  material in which Allianz  advised  that he should 
keep them updated about any developments.
Finally, Mr S says the number of complaints against Allianz is increasing and he asks what 
action weve  taken to look into this.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive carefully considered  the 
comments on my provisional decision provided  by Mr S.
Im aware Mr S will be disappointed, but I havent changed my view on this case.  Ill explain 
why.
First of all, I should make  it clear that the number of complaints against Allianz is irrelevant in 
terms of my decision  on this case. We look at individual cases  on their own merits.
We did ask Allianz whether they had a recording of the telephone conversation between the 
two vets to which  Mr S refers in his response to my provisional decision. 
They pointed out that the vet they commissioned to provide a view after Mr Ss vet and 
Allianz own vet disagreed  is independent.  He works from his own surgery.  Allianz dont  
control his phone systems  and dont record his phone calls.
In any case, the conversation between the vets isnt a key factor  in my decision.  I didnt  
assume that the independent vets version of his conversation with Mr Ss vet was entirely 
and absolutely accurate. 
Ref: DRN59149096I assumed there had been a difference  of interpretation about what was said. I was 
reasonably clear in my provisional decision that I took it as read that Mr Ss vet thought  B 
had suffered a soft tissue injury in 2017, because after the difference in views came to light, 
he made his position  very clear.
I dont think the independent vet saying Mr Ss vet considered cruciate disease a possibility 
demonstrates a fundamental flaw in his character which renders  his expert  view worthless.  
I have to take the various expert views  at face value, weigh them in the balance and decide 
what is most likely  to have happened. In this case, we have two vets  one who works 
directly for Allianz and one an independent consultant  who believe cruciate  disease  was 
present in 2017, and one vet who thinks its more likely there was a soft tissue  injury in 2017.
I have to weigh that expert evidence in the balance. I did so bearing  in mind that the 
research data overwhelmingly appears  to suggest that Mr Ss vets reason for dismissing the 
possibility of cruciate disease  in 2017  Bs apparent recovery  for a full year or so  isnt 
definitive. Dogs can and do experience  this kind of problem as something that comes and 
goes, often over prolonged periods.
Im not convinced by Mr Ss point that no-one has definitively  proved the disease  came and 
went in Bs case.  Allianz have taken a view that the most  likely  cause of Bs problem was 
underlying cruciate  disease. In light of all the expert  evidence  based on the medical  
evidence available  from the 2017 consultation  - and the wider research, Im satisfied it 
wasnt unfair or unreasonable to come  to the view they did.
I dont doubt Mr S when  he says Bs parents didnt suffer  similar problems. But I dont think  
that necessarily shows B wouldnt  have  underlying  cruciate issues. If we take the parents 
health as a definitive indicator, then B wouldnt have suffered the rupture in 2018.  B clearly 
has problems with his cruciate ligaments, whether his parents had similar problems or not.
Mr S says he doesnt recall seeing  the policy documents  and communications  sent to him on 
renewal of his policy.  
Allianz have provided  copies of a letter sent to Mr Ss correct address and dated  8 February 
2018. 
This advised that the policy would soon  renew automatically and asked Mr S to read and 
check the enclosed  policy documents carefully.  The enclosed certificate of insurance  
included the warning  to which I referred in my provisional decision - that Mr S should 
update Allianz  if there had been any changes in circumstance.
Whilst it is possible that this letter was lost in the post, I have to assume  its most likely  to 
have arrived with Mr S. If he hadnt  received it, Id expect he might  have made some 
enquiries with Allianz when the direct debits  continued to be taken from his bank account to 
pay for the insurance.
Im afraid I dont agree with Mr Ss comment that he was acting as good citizen by not 
bothering Allianz  with updated information on renewal of the policy. They  specifically asked 
him to tell them about any visits  to the vet. If he did then come to the view that it was in 
Allianz best interests not to provide that information,  he was mistaken.
Ref: DRN59149097So, as I said in my provisional decision, I think Allianz are entitled to decline Mr Ss claim on 
two grounds. And Id ask Mr S to bear in mind that if either applies,  his claim can righty  be 
declined.
One, on balance  the underlying condition was most likely first treated more than twelve  
months before the rupture.
Two, Mr S didnt provide updated  information on renewal as requested.  If he had, Allianz  
wouldnt have provided cover on the same terms. And so they are entitled (under CIDRA) to 
treat his claim as if the terms they would have offered applied.
I can understand Mr Ss frustration and disappointment about the situation he finds himself  
in. However, Im satisfied  Allianz have not acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining his 
claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5914909