K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains Sytner Limited (trading as Sytner Newport) gave him misleading  information 
about a hire purchase agreement.
background
In May 2016  Mr M wanted to get a new car and went to a Sytner dealership.  He says he 
intended to part exchange his existing car and acquire a new one on finance. He says he 
budgeted for about £250 to £300  a month but found  a car he really liked which was more  
expensive at about £365 a month,  with a balloon payment of about £12,000 after four years. 
He says he and his partner were concerned  about  whether hed want to spend  that much  a 
month on a car in the long term but were assured he could return the car for a cheaper  one if 
he wanted to. He says on this basis he entered  into a hire purchase  agreement for the more 
expensive car.
Mr M says about 18 months  later he wanted  to return the car for a cheaper one but was told 
he couldnt without  paying £4,000 to end the hire purchase agreement. Mr M didnt think this 
was in line with what hed been  told so he complained to Sytner.  Sytner didnt uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. It said, in summary, that Mr M had signed  the hire purchase agreement which set 
out his termination rights and that it didnt  think Mr M has been told he could return  the car 
for a cheaper one without any costs involved.
Mr M maintained that he had been  told he could return the car for a cheaper  one. He brought  
the complaint  to this service. The investigator  wasnt persuaded it was most likely Mr M had 
been misled so he didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr M didnt agree 
as he felt hed provided enough to show he had been misled by Sytner. As an agreement 
couldnt be reached the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans final decision.
I issued a provisional decision saying I intended to uphold this complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Since Mr M asked for an ombudsmans final decision hes raised (through a third 
party) a number  of additional complaint points. As these are new points I think  they 
should be considered separately. With this in mind, and with Mr Ms consent, I will 
only consider the original  complaint  whether  Mr M was given  misleading  
information about his ability to change  cars part way through  the term of the hire 
purchase agreement.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance  and standards, codes of practice and 
(where appropriate)  what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the 
relevant time. 
The hire purchase agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement, 
with Sytner credit brokering  a regulated  activity.  So I can consider a complaint 
relating to Sytners actions in its capacity as the credit  broker.  As the credit broker  
Sytner was responsible for giving Mr M the information he needed to make an 
informed decision.  This is set out in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  Consumer 
Ref: DRN57482012Credit Sourcebook  (CONC).  Of particular relevance to this complaint is CONC 4.2.5 
which says (but isnt limited to):
(1) Before making a regulated credit  agreement the firm must:
(a)provide the customer with an adequate  explanation of the matters referred 
to in (2) in order  to place the customer in a position to assess whether the 
agreement is adapted to the customer's needs  and financial situation;
and;
(2) The matters referred to in (1)(a) are:
(a) the features  of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided  
under the agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;
Mr M says he was originally looking for a specific car which  was within  his car budget  
but that while at the dealership he saw a convertible car in the next model up which 
he really liked. Mr M has said it was more than hed budgeted for but that he was led 
to believe he could  return the car for a cheaper one if wanted to. I find his testimony 
to be credible as what hes said has been  consistent  and plausible throughout this 
complaint. Its also supported by a contemporaneous message exchange  between  
Mr M and his sister, which  includes,  amongst  other  relevant messages, the following:
Yeah. The pcp deal with them is awesome because you can change  at anytime. He 
said you can change after 6months if you want!!X 
Sytner has provided a statement from the sales executive Mr M saw. He says he cant  
remember discussing how changing cars could work and says the retail manager  (who 
no longer works there) dealt with the finance  options. I dont think  this directly refutes 
what Mr M has said, and in any case,  I find Mr Ms testimony more compelling.  I say this 
because the sales  executive has said Mr M was looking for the car he ended  up getting  
 the model up from the one Mr M says he was originally  interested in. I dont think  this 
is right as the message exchange  refers  to the model  Mr M says he was originally 
interested in, which makes me think his recollection of events is more  likely accurate 
than that of the sales executive. 
About 18 months  into the agreement Mr M decided he wanted  a cheaper car. 
Following being  told he couldnt make the change without paying a lot of money to 
pay off his existing  agreement, he complained. I think  his actions here support his 
contention that he thought  he could make the change  without  cost.  
Overall, I think its most likely Mr M and his partner asked  questions about changing 
cars part way through the hire purchase agreement and that Sytner didnt make it 
clear that doing  so could result in significant  cost. 
Ive looked at the hire purchase  agreement. It sets out Mr Ms termination  and early 
repayment rights. The rights give Mr M two main options to end the agreement early. 
One is to voluntarily terminate. This would require Mr M to have paid (or be willing  to 
pay) half the total amount payable under the agreement  about  £15,000.  The other 
option would  be for Mr M to repay  the agreement early. This would require Mr M to 
settle the agreement with his own money or sell the car (with the finance providers 
agreement) and use the proceeds to settle  the agreement, with him covering the 
difference. Neither of these options  would allow Mr M (as he later found out) to return 
the car for a cheaper one at any time at no cost. As I think Sytner  led Mr M to believe 
Ref: DRN57482013he could, I dont think it properly explained  how the hire purchase agreement  worked  
to him.
Ive gone on to think about  whether Mr M ought reasonably to have known the 
information hed been given wasnt right. Ive reviewed the paperwork Mr M would 
have seen. Firstly, theres  the agreement  itself, which Mr M signed to say hed read. 
As Ive said,  it sets out Mr Ms termination and early repayment rights, but I dont 
think theyre enough to override  the assurances Im persuaded Mr M was given about 
his ability  to change  cars.  
Other documents Ive seen  include  a factsheet about this type of agreement which 
includes statements like [The agreement]  is ideal for customers  who like the idea of 
changing their vehicle regularly, reducing the potential period of repayments, or 
simply wish to leave their options open for a period of time. Theres another 
document which says something similar and theres a demands  and needs  document  
which says this type of agreement  was most  suitable for Mr M. Overall  Im not 
persuaded the documents mean  Mr M ought  to have known the assurances  he was 
given werent right.  
Having established  that I think its most likely  Sytner misled Mr M about his ability to 
change the car for a cheaper one, and that he ought  not reasonably have known  this 
was wrong, Ive gone on to think about  whether this wrong information induced him 
into entering into the hire purchase agreement. Mr M says if hed known he couldnt  
change to a cheaper  car he would have acquired a cheaper one from the start. 
Mr Ms testimony and the message exchange  hes provided suggest  his intention at 
the point of sale was to get a cheaper  car and he (and his partner) were concerned 
about spending so much on a car in the long term. Mr M later asked  to change to a 
cheaper car, and once  it became economical  to do so returned the more expensive  
car and acquired  a used one costing him about £230 a month. Mr Ms testimony  and 
actions make me think if hed been properly informed about how changing  cars would 
work he wouldnt have  entered into this agreement. Instead, I think  he would most 
likely have taken a hire purchase agreement for the cheaper car.
putting things  right
If Mr M had taken  a hire purchase agreement for the cheaper  car, he would have 
been paying something like £100 less per month from May 2016 onwards. But he 
has had the benefit of the more expensive car. For the first 18 months Mr M was 
happy with the car (and the agreement) despite  it costing him more than he would 
have liked to spend on a car. Nor did he know during this period that he couldnt 
make the change. I dont think during the first 18 months this matter  caused Mr M 
any financial  or non-financial  loss. 
From when Mr M asked to change cars (late 2017) until he returned  it and settled  the 
agreement, Mr M has had the benefit  of the more expensive car and he could afford 
it, albeit he would have  preferred to have had the money to spend on other things. I 
dont think it would be fair for Mr M to have the more expensive car at the cost of a 
cheaper one, so I dont  intend to require Sytner  to pay Mr M the difference  in the cost 
of the car repayments. 
Had Mr M taken  a cheaper car, I think its most  likely,  given his later actions, that he 
would have kept it. By having to voluntarily  terminate this finance  agreement Mr M 
Ref: DRN57482014has therefore lost his deposit (£1,300). I intend  to ask Sytner to refund the deposit, 
with simple interest at 8% a year from the date he paid it until the date its returned to 
him.
I think Mr M deciding he wanted to reduce his outgoings, deciding on a cheaper car, 
and then finding out he couldnt make the change without major cost, would have 
come as a significant  disappointment to Mr M, and been very frustrating.  Hes then 
had to make  higher payments  on a car than he would have liked for over two years. 
Im satisfied this matter has had a considerable impact  on his life over a two year 
period, such as the ability to do/buy things  he would have otherwise been able to 
enjoy/benefit from. Taking  all of this into account,  I think £500 compensation fairly 
reflects the impact this matter has had on Mr M.
Mr M accepted my provisional decision.  Sytner didnt accepted it. It said,  in summary, that:
-it didnt think I should rely so much on Mr Ms testimony (it provided some  evidence it 
thought showed discrepancies); 
-it didnt think a refund of the deposit was justified; and
-it would, as a gesture  of goodwill, agree to pay Mr M £500  compensation.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sytner has queried the dates of two screenshots Mr M has provided. One shows  the 
message exchange  between  Mr M and his sister. The other  shows a live chat Mr M had on 
Sytners website. It says these took place weeks before the point  of sale and so dont add 
any weight.  
I think Sytner may have  misinterpreted the dates.  Ill explain why. 
The screenshot showing the message exchange  between Mr M and his sister is dated 
21 April 2018 (about two years after the point of sale)  but the message exchange itself has a 
time stamp of 28 May 2016 (three days before the hire purchase agreement  was signed). It 
also refers to the car Mr M ended up getting. I think its most likely  the message exchange 
took place on 28 May 2016, but was saved as a screenshot on 21 April 2018,  which  was 
shortly after Sytner had sent Mr M its final response  letter, and shortly before the complaint 
was referred to this service.
The screenshot showing a live chat is dated  15 April 2018. This is about two years  after the 
point of sale, shortly after Sytner had sent Mr M its final response letter, and shortly before 
the complaint  was referred to this service. I dont consider this screenshot to be material to 
what most likely  happened at the point of sale. 
Sytner has provided a call recording from June 2017. It says Mr M didnt mention he could 
swap cars in this call and has queried why Mr M didnt mentioned the call in his submissions 
to Sytner or this service. Ive listened  to the call and I agree swapping cars wasnt 
mentioned. But Mr M was calling as he was interested in selling the car back to Sytner.  
When asked if he wanted to part-exchange  he said he didnt. I dont think  Mr M was asking 
Ref: DRN57482015to swap cars at this point.  That request  seems  to have happened several months later.  I 
dont think this call contradicts Mr Ms testimony.
Overall, Im still persuaded, on balance, that its most likely Sytner misled Mr M about his 
ability to change the car for a cheaper one.
Sytner has queried why Mr M should  get his deposit back, saying there  would be no 
guarantee that he would  have retained his deposit whatever vehicle he chose to purchase. I 
accept this is the case. But as I said in my provisional decision, I think  its most  likely, given 
his later actions, that he would have kept a less expensive  car. He therefore lost the deposit  
when he voluntarily terminated the agreement.
The goodwill  gesture  Sytner has agreed to is helpful as I think that fairly  reflects  the distress 
and inconvenience  this matter has caused  Mr M. But I dont think  it reflects the financial loss 
hes incurred; namely, the loss of his deposit. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and ask Sytner Limited  (trading as Sytner Newport) to:
-refund Mr Ms deposit (£1,300) plus simple interest* at 8% a year from the date he paid 
it until the date its returned to him; and 
-pay Mr M £500 compensation**  in recognition of impact this matter has had on him. 
*If Sytner Limited (trading as Sytner  Newport) considers that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
**Sytner Limited (trading as Sytner  Newport) must  pay the compensation within  28 days  of 
the date on which we tell it Mr M accepts  my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must  
also pay interest* on the £500 compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5748201