K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont tell him why they closed his account with 
them in 2015.  He wants to be paid damages and compensation. 
background
On 2 June 2015 Barclays wrote  to Mr E and told him that they were reviewing his account. 
Following this review they say they made a commercial decision to close  the account. This 
was communicated  to Mr E in a letter  dated  12 August 2015 and took place the following 
day. 
In 2019 Mr E complained to Barclays. Their response confirmed  that the account had been 
correctly closed, in line with its terms and conditions. But they declined  to provide any further 
reasoning. Being unhappy with this, Mr E brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  didnt think it should  be upheld. He concluded  Barclays werent 
obliged to give Mr E reasons for a decision  they are entitled to make. Mr E doesnt accept 
this and has asked  for an ombudsman  to review his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for essentially the same  reasons. I know  this will be 
disappointing for Mr E, so let me explain  why. 
Im satisfied that Barclays were acting  in line with their legal and regulatory obligations when 
they decided to review  Mr Es account. And following that review  Barclays  took the decision 
to close Mr Es accounts with them.
Barclays can make commercial decisions  about who they offer banking services  to. They  
cannot unfairly discriminate against a customer.  But they can say they no longer wish to do 
business with individuals.  This is because  they have the commercial freedom to decide who 
they want to contract  with. And having  looked at the evidence, Im satisfied that Barclays  
have exercised their commercial decision legitimately  when  they decided  to close Mr Es 
account. Im also satisfied the terms and conditions of Mr Es accounts allow  Barclays to 
take this decision. So I cant fairly and reasonably say that theyve done anything  wrong.  
Mr E has told our investigator why he thinks Barclays closed his accounts. He says he wants  
our service  to get to the truth.  Our service  is only able to consider  the circumstances of 
individual complaints. And within  that context Im only able to consider the actions of 
Barclays in their dealings  with Mr E. So whilst I understand why Mr E wants  full and specific 
reasons for the decisions Barclays took  they are under no obligation to provide  this. And 
as Ive established above, I dont  think theyve acted outside of the terms and conditions  of 
his accounts with them, nor treated him unfairly. So Im not asking them  to take any further 
action.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN55924172Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5592417