K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Indigo Michael Limited lent to him irresponsibly. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on 21 July 2020.  It is attached  to this Final Decision and 
sets out in detail the background to the complaint  and my reasoning.
My provisional decision was that I did not uphold Mr Gs complaint.  Each  party had a month 
to come back to me with additional points. Indigo Michael has written  to agree with my 
provisional decision. Mr G has not replied. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Ive no reason to depart  from my original set of findings on this complaint and so those 
remain the same and are repeated here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision  attached   and repeated  here, my final 
decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN57411682My provisional decision dated 21 July 2020
background
The credit  Indigo Michael offered was a running  account credit facility  where a consumer could either  
request funds up to their credit limit, or funds could be deposited  into their nominated  bank account  
once their account balance fell below the safety net amount of the customers choosing.  A unique 
element is that Indigo Michael obtains  from the applicant a read only facility to that persons 
nominated bank account.  
There was the option for the customer  to make manual  withdrawals. The expectation for customers  
was that they had to repay at least a minimum amount  each month. A feature of the credit facility  was 
that if the consumers bank account balance  dropped  below a pre-set  amount then Indigo  Michael 
would effectively transfer  money into that account to keep it above a certain balance. This was a 
feature often used to avoid straying  into an unauthorised overdraft. Or if the pre-set limit was set to 
avoid going beyond the limit for an authorised overdraft then the net effect was the same  avoidance  
of unauthorised overdraft fees and charges. Indigo Michael did not provide  Mr G with a payday loan.
Mr G was approved for a credit facility in May 2015. The initial  credit limit was £300.  That was 
increased several times and reached £460 in August 2015. I can see that his limit was reduced on 
20 October 2015 to £370. Mr G ceased using  the account at the end of September  2015 and so it ran 
for about four months, but an outstanding balance  remains.
Date Credit Limit
19/05/2015 £300
26/06/2015 £320
31/07/2015 £360
28/08/2015 £460
20/10/2015 £370
Mr G says that Indigo Michaels final response letter (FRL) reveals that it had calculated  his monthly 
income incorrectly (at £1,907) and he has sent us bank statements to demonstrate  what he means. 
And the money given to him as a gift ought not to be included in his income calculations. And Mr G 
says that Indigo Michael did not carry out proper affordability  checks. 
Indigo Michael says it reviewed Mr Gs bank transaction data for the three months prior to the facility 
being approved. And having done so it was satisfied Mr G wasnt experiencing any difficulty  meeting  
his existing commitments. And so, it decided that Mr G would be able to maintain the facility  he was 
offered. Indigo  Michael said it carried out credit checks. It sent us its explanations  as to how it 
assessed Mr Gs disposable income.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at the complaint  and thought that the facility should  not have been 
approved for Mr G at all. 
Indigo Michael disagreed and came back with several  points. These are summarised here:
It says it calculated  Mr Gs monthly income using  £1,080 and his disposable  income as £360. 
It said: In his whole time of being our customer we never calculated  his income at £1637.77.  
the facility was affordable to Mr G on its calculations of repayment over a reasonable period;
none  of Mr Gs defaults which it knew about were within the 12 month period prior to his 
application;
the facility works like an overdraft, automatically lending to Mr G when his bank balance 
dropped; and 
automatic repayments  happened when the bank account balance  increased, and this 
minimised the interest charged to Mr G;
Ref: DRN57411683interest was charged  for a maximum  of 40 days; 
a swift further draw down following a payment is a customer  choice;
manual repayments can be made  by choice.
Our adjudicator responded  to Indigo Michael  and pointed  out that Indigo Michaels  email to this 
service of 5 March 2019 said that Mr G had an average monthly income of £1,637.77 and it had 
explained how it had come to this figure. And considering  Mr Gs credit history, our adjudicator 
remained of the view that the facility  was inappropriate for him.
Indigo Michael came back to concede that This figure had been incorrectly  devised by the individual 
writing the email at the time and it has sent correct  calculations. Added to which Indigo Michael said:
Mr Gs overall  indebtedness from its credit searches showed a relatively low overall total 
balance on active accounts of £1,391; and
some historic negative information  on the credit file is not necessarily  a reason  not to lend.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules  and good 
industry practice at the time the loans were offered. And having done so, Im intending to not uphold  
Mr Gs complaint and Ive explained why below.  
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) regulated the provision of credit of this kind at the time Mr G 
applied. And the relevant  regulatory rules in place  at the time were  set out in the Consumer Credit  
Sourcebook (CONC)  section  of the FCA Handbook  of rules and guidance.
CONC 5.2 also includes  some guidance on the sorts of things a lender needed  to bear in mind when  
considering its obligations under CONC 5.2.1. Section 5.2.4(2)  says a firm should consider what  is 
appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for example,  the type and amount of credit 
being sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative  to the customers 
financial situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains  further guidance on what a lender should  bear in mind  when thinking  about  
affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1)  says In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment 
required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers 
ability to repay  the credit..
CONC 5.3.1(2)  then says: The creditworthiness  assessment and the assessment  required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1) should include  the firm taking reasonable  steps to assess the customers ability  to meet 
repayments under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable manner  without the customer  
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
In practice all of this meant that a lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an 
informed decision on the credit limit being offered. Although the guidance and rules  themselves did 
not set out compulsory  checks, they did list a number  of things a lender  could take into account before  
agreeing to lend. The key element was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take 
into account  a number of different things, including how much was being  advanced. The checks  
Indigo Michael carried  out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand whether  Mr G would 
be able to both service and then repay this facility within a reasonable period  of time.
Indigo Michael in its FRL does indicate that the average monthly  income for Mr G had been calculated 
at around £1,900.  So, Mr G was right to raise this point. And in the submissions Indigo Michael sent to 
us this figure changed:  it explained that it had calculated  Mr Gs average salary  over the 90 day 
Ref: DRN57411684period leading up to the application date was around  £1,600 and that did include a regular  extra  
incoming payment of around £236 each month. It worked out that Mr Gs disposable  monthly income 
was around £360. Since then, Indigo Michael has conceded that the writer had made a mistake and 
its actual  calculations  using  Mr Gs bank transactions were  different and decidedly lower. This is 
unfortunate but I mention it so that both parties know I was aware  of these  different figures when  
making my decision.
Indigo Michael has acknowledged that it knew Mr G had payday  loan and regular credit commitments 
and it has said that at 15% of his salary it was manageable. But there were  no payday loans apparent 
in the lists of transactions Indigo Michael reviewed before approving the credit facility for Mr G. 
I have looked at the transactions on Mr Gs account, his personal credit file to review his credit history, 
the credit searches supplied by Indigo Michael, and Mr Gs bank statements that he has sent to us.   
I do not think  that Indigo  Michael  was irresponsible in its lending decision to approve the credit facility  
in the first place. The checks proportionate to a new customer for a relatively modest credit limit were  
made. Having  reviewed  Mr Gs bank transactions for the 90 day period leading  up to May 2015 which 
Indigo Michael have sent us (as well as reviewing Mr Gs bank statements)  then the picture presented 
was one where  Mr G was likely able to afford the facility.  There is a regular income, very few utility  
bills or regular credit payments,  no council tax or rental payments although I note that he has said he 
paid rent of £200 on his application form. So, its likely  he did that as cash. 
There is no evidence  of any payday lending  in the months leading up to applying  for the facility and I 
have looked at Mr Gs personal  credit file. I can see that he was repaying a loan at £53 a month and 
two old debts  through  agencies. But Indigo Michael had seen that he had historic defaults through its 
own searches  and so these relatively modest repayments to agencies would most  likely have  related 
to those. And I agree with Indigo Michael  that Mr G had a relatively small  amount of overall 
outstanding debt at the time that this facility was approved.  
Mr G is right to have pointed out the anomaly with Indigo Michaels alleged monthly  income 
calculations in the FRL  and it has been conceded  by Indigo Michael that it got that wrong in the FRL 
and in its submissions to us. But still I do not think that a credit limit of £300 was an irresponsible 
lending decision.
Indigo Michael was required  to monitor the account during  its lifetime.  I note that the Credit  
Agreement does provide these terms: 
Clause 7.2 We will not increase your Credit  Limit unless we have undertaken an affordability 
assessment and are satisfied that it is responsible for us to do so.
Clause 7.4 As part of our responsible lending  policy, we may choose to reduce your credit limit, 
suspend your account or not transfer a Credit Instalment if, as the result of an affordability 
assessment, we determine that your personal  circumstances have changed.
I can see from his bank  statements and his personal credit  file that Mr G started to take payday loans  
on 6 June 2015, so very soon after this Indigo Michael  facility was approved. 
And he went on to arrange a new loan with a lender  he had used before to be repaid at £59 a month 
from July 2015 (which was with the same company to which he had been paying £53 a month until 
March 2015). And he took further payday loans on 5 August, 2 September and 28 September  2015 
for increasing amounts  each time.  
Mr G had been running  the account for a few months, he made a final payment and took a final draw 
down in late September 2015. After that Mr G did not use the credit facility and he paid nothing  to the 
Indigo Michael account until 2017. Here are some  details from the Indigo Michael records.
Ref: DRN5741168529/09/2015 05:45:28
Repayment - 
Automatic£168.05 £310.35 o/s balance
29/09/2015 18:38:47
Deposit - 
Customer-£161.00 £471.35 o/s balance
This last draw  down  at the end of September 2015 came just before what appears to have been a 
drop of income  Mr Gs last salary into the bank account that was being monitored by Indigo Michael 
was at the end of November 2015. The Indigo  Michael account fell into arrears  and in February 2016 
Mr G told Indigo Michael that he had financial problems. 
I think  that overall, Indigo Michael  did monitor the account satisfactorily.  The additional lending taken 
in June 2015  I have  pointed out above shows in the account  Indigo Michael  had read  only access  to 
as a loan for £100 and repaid on 31 July 2015.  This was a modest loan sum. And the other loan with 
a repayment of £59 a month was a small  amount more than a loan at £53 a month which  had ended  
in March 2015  and was not likely to have made a big difference to Mr Gs outgoings. And he had few 
regular outgoings  or bills to pay.
There was a credit limit increase on 28 August 2015 which was a short time after Mr G had been 
running the account and from Indigo Michaels  perspective,  I do not think  it was unjustified. Mr G had 
only been running the account for a very short  time and so Indigo Michaels monitoring was not likely 
to have been  for a long enough period for it to have realised  there may be an issue.  The fact that Mr 
G had taken a couple payday loans was not a reason, on its own, to suspend  the account. 
By September 2015, Mr G had taken additional payday loans with one other lender, but still his 
regular outgoings  for things like utilities  and food were low. So, this ought to have been seen by 
Indigo Michael and I think that it was. After the August  2015 credit limit increase it was reduced in 
October 2015 to the level it had been in July 2015. No further credit limit increases were  approved. 
And as I said earlier, I can see that Mr G did not use the account after the end of September  2015. 
The last salary credited  into the account being monitored by Indigo Michael  was at the end of 
November 2015. And so that is when Indigo Michael  tried to contact Mr G. Soon after that the balance 
on the Indigo Michael account reached £606 due to added interest, Mr G had informed it that he 
needed help in February 2016 and the balance has not altered since that date. 
So, my provisional  decision is that after an initial appropriate approval, and a short  period of time 
using the account, Mr G stopped all drawdowns, informed  Indigo Michael he had difficulties, and so 
the account ceased being used. So, unlike the adjudicator I dont think Indigo Michael needs to take 
any further action in relation  to Mr Gs account.  
I appreciate Mr G will be disappointment  by my intended  decision,  but I hope he understands that Ive 
considered all the evidence that has been provided  to me. 
Im aware that there is an outstanding balance that will need to repay, I would remind  Indigo Michael 
to treat Mr G fairly when dealing with Mr Gs debt.   
end
Ref: DRN5741168