K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2008. Mr J says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has told us that he applied for a credit card online but that he wasnt  aware that hed 
taken PPI. Based on everything Ive seen, I think that Mr J may have applied  for the credit 
card online,  but that PPI was added  during  a telephone call when the credit card was being 
activated.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear  that Mr J didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he might  not remember  this.
I say this because,  although a call recording isnt available,  Ive considered  what we 
know more widely about how Capital One sold PPI around the time this policy was 
taken out. 
I think its more likely than not that Capital One followed their normal  sales process 
and made  Mr J aware that PPI was optional before he agreed  to take it out.
Ive also considered a copy  of Mr Js credit  card agreement form. Mr J signed this 
agreement before the telephone call took place.  It stated; I wish to purchase  
Optional Capital  One Payment Protection Insurance . This option  has been left blank, 
so it seems reasonable to assume  that Mr J was aware that PPI was optional before 
the telephone call took place.
Mr J stated in his original complaint; It was just a case of this is what you getsign 
here. But as Ive already stated, Mr J signed his credit  agreement without taking PPI. 
Ive also noted  that Mr J has said that he thought charges  on his statements were  
charges for having the credit card, but hes also acknowledged that he had other 
credit cards without PPI. So I think that Mr J would  reasonably have been aware that 
PPI was optional  and I havent  seen  evidence that he questioned why he was paying  
for it (prior  to his complaint in 2017) when he had other credit  cards without PPI.  
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr J so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for him. But it did have  to make  sure Mr J got the information he needed to decide  if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover.  
Ref: DRN53986572Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put him off taking out the 
cover. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr J because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr J about that. Because Capital One didnt tell 
Mr J, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr J has said - including what  hes said about his existing  
means of making  his repayments. But this PPI policy would have paid out for longer than 
Mr Js existing means would have lasted so I still think that Mr J could have found it useful. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr J any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5398657