K820x#14Complaint
Mr E says Bank of Scotland  Plc (BoS)  mis-sold  him a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
In 1994, BoS sold Mr E a monthly premium PPI policy to help protect his mortgage  
repayments if he was unable to work because of disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Mr E disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr Es signed mortgage application form indicates  he opted to take out PPI. And the 
separate PPI application form he signed  detailed the cover that was to be set up, which  
included a monthly benefit of £100  (which  Ill come back  to later). Of course I dont know  for 
sure what  was said during  the sale but I cant fairly say that BoS added  this cover without 
getting Mr Es agreement to take it. So I dont uphold the complaint on this basis.
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mr E. That meant BoS, among other things, should 
have taken steps to ensure its advice was right for him. Regardless of what steps it took,  I 
think the PPI it recommended was right for him. 
For example, the policy terms  that would have applied indicate  Mr E was eligible for the 
cover and wasnt affected by any of the main things  the PPI excluded  or limited cover  for. 
Mr Es questioned the significance of these findings,  but Ive considered  them since  theyre 
issues which weve often found  have meant  PPIs  been mis-sold. Although Mr E became  
self-employed, that was years after the sale took place. And, in any event, the policy terms 
show it wouldnt have become more difficult for him to claim as a result.  I cant see that Mr E 
would have found the monthly premium unaffordable either.
Mr E was entitled to enhanced sick pay and redundancy  pay but I believe he still had a need  
for the PPI. The PPI benefits potentially paid out for up to 12 months for each successful 
claim. He says he could  have used his savings but the policy  meant he could have retained  
part of them or used them towards covering his other living  costs  while  he wasnt  working. 
Ive also thought about the death in service benefit  Mr E says he had but that didnt provide 
like-for-like cover when compared with the PPI. 
I accept, as Mr E says, that the policy only covered around half of his monthly mortgage 
repayment. Although  the other  means he says were  available  to him meant the PPI could 
have helped provided some additional  security. While Mr E saw his financial situation as 
being relatively stable and secure,  there was no guarantee that would continue to be the 
case going forward or that he might not need the policy  benefits  at some stage in the future. 
Ref: DRN52579262So, considering Mr E was entering into a long-term financial commitment  that was secured 
against his home, I still think he could have found  the PPI useful.
 
BoS also needed to give Mr E enough  information about the PPI so he could make up his 
own mind if it was right for him. I think its possible that some  of the information it gave him 
could have been better than it was. But, for the same reasons that I dont  think the PPI was 
unsuitable for him, I dont think better information  would have changed his decision  to take it. 
I think he would still have  thought it offered him a useful benefit at an affordable cost.
I note Mr Es point about the widespread mis-selling of PPI. But that doesnt automatically 
mean his complaint should be upheld. Rather, Im required to consider the circumstances of 
this particular case. Having done that, I dont believe Mr E was mis-sold the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5257926