K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that certain underwriters at the Society of Lloyds have declined a second 
claim  for allegedly negligent  repairs  (in breach of contract)  to a listed building  made  
under a legal  expenses  insurance policy. 
The claim was handled by the underwriters  insurance intermediary and appointed solicitors 
 but for ease  Ill refer to Lloyds throughout.
background
Mrs E has legal expenses  cover with her home  insurance policy.  The insurance is provided 
through the Society of Lloyds. In 2014, work needed to be carried  out on the west-facing 
gable of her property.  Mrs E employed a contractor to carry out the works which included 
works to the gable, reinstating a chimney and some work to windows and some  internal 
areas.
The contractor, which Ill call D, subcontracted out roofing works to a business which Ill call 
L. This was to carry out works on the lead flashings.  Within a few months,  water  started  to 
ingress into the interior. D and L carried  out remedial work which Mrs E paid for. However, in 
December 2015,  a further ingress of water  occurred. L refused to attend  the property unless 
there was a guarantee of further payment.
Mrs E arranged for several inspections and reports to be carried  out on the work. She also 
started the claims process  under her legal expenses policy.  The claim was accepted by 
Lloyds. A further  in-depth report was carried out and later paid for under  the terms of the 
policy which  concluded there had been  poor workmanship,  the result  of which  had caused  
further ingresses  of water. An assessment of prospects was carried  out with the view being 
Mrs E had reasonable prospects of success. That claim  is progressing,  although during the 
course of it Mrs E has experienced  delays,  as a result of which  Lloyds agreed Mrs E could 
use her own solicitors rather than the panel firm that had been  running the claim to date. I 
understand it has recently gone  to a hearing.
A different contractor  was employed  to carry out remedial work, which  Ill call M. The in-
depth report shows the chimney  stack needed to be taken down to its base so the 
appropriate works  including the installation of correct flashings to the correct standard   
could be carried out. The chimney stack was then to be rebuilt. The total costs  for the works 
were in excess of £17,000.  I understand M subcontracted out some (if not all) of the 
flashings work to another contractor. Mrs E paid the subcontractor directly  £2,500  for the 
works. The works took place in the latter part of 2016. Mrs E sent the parties  copies of the 
invoices for the work, which she had paid, in January 2017.
In February 2018,  the property experienced a further ingress of water. And after managing to 
contact the company that had carried out the in-depth report previously, they felt the ingress 
was due to the contractors (M) not carrying out the works as specified. So Mrs E wanted to 
submit a second legal  action.  It was during this time that she complained about the progress  
of the first claim  and wanted to appoint her own solicitors (as mentioned above). Mrs E 
completed a claim form for the second  action and it was assessed after information about 
her contract with M was provided. On 14 March 2018 Mrs E was notified  her second claim 
had been declined as there was an exclusion in the policy for contracts concerning 
construction where the contract  value including VAT exceeds £6,000. 
Ref: DRN53740182Mrs E didnt accept this as she believed the claim had already been agreed. It was explained 
it hadnt been, and so Mrs E made  a complaint. Lloyds  issued its final response to the 
complaint not upholding it. It was satisfied the claim had been declined in accordance  with 
the terms and conditions of the policy. Not happy  with that, Mrs E referred her complaint to 
us. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. Although she was satisfied the claim had been 
correctly declined, she found there  had been  delays in the handling of both claims.  Taking  
into account that, strictly speaking, the first claim could also have been declined on the same  
basis as the second, the investigator thought compensation of £400 for distress  and 
inconvenience should be awarded.
Mrs E didnt agree. In summary, she didnt  believe  the contract  she had with M amounted  to 
construction and she referred to definitions of building something;  she thought M wasnt  
building, it was repairing . She also provided  an invoice for the subcontractor,  D, to show  she 
paid it £2,500 for the flashing  work  separately and this is what  is defective. She also referred 
to the first claim  being  covered  and this being identical  to the second claim. So she believes 
the second claim should be covered also. 
Lloyds also disagreed. Although it had accepted there were delays in the first claim, it 
considers it has more than compensated for that by agreeing cover should remain  in place 
even though it wasnt strictly covered. It also doesnt  think it should have declined  the 
second claim immediately  as it wasnt au fait with the first claim and it had no idea of the 
value of the contract with M just from the claim call.
I issued my provisional decision on 15 October  2019 explaining why I was minded to find 
that Lloyds had declined the claim fairly   I was satisfied the exclusion in relation to 
construction applied.  I also found  that it hadnt  delayed matters and so I wasnt  minded to 
award any compensation. 
Lloyds hasnt replied  to my provisional findings,  so I assume  it has nothing further to add. 
Mrs E doesnt agree  with my findings.  In addition to sending information she had previously 
sent, Mrs E also provided an opinion  from a solicitor that considers repair  and construction  
have distinct definitions.  She also provided  a letter from her chartered  quantity surveyor  to 
explain a repair was needed to prevent water ingress resulting from faulty  leadwork. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the responses to my 
provisional decision, to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, Ive not been persuaded to alter my original findings.  
I do understand that Mrs E is in a very difficult financial  position.  And I cant  imagine how 
difficult this must have been for her. But I can only ask Lloyds to fund her legal action if the 
terms of her legal expenses policy are met. 
As I explained in my provisional findings,  I have read and considered everything provided in 
its entirety. That included  Mrs Es submissions to our investigator about the definitions  of 
construction. Mrs E has provided further  information for me to consider which  I have 
responded to within my findings below. 
Ref: DRN53740183I will deal firstly with whether or not Mrs Es second claim is covered by the contract of 
insurance. The policy says Following  an Insured Event the Insurer will pay the insureds 
legal costs and expenses and communication costs  up to £150,000 for all claims related by 
time or cause, including the cost of appeals  
The Cover  section explains what cover  is provided, including:
C. Contract
A dispute arising out of an agreement  or alleged agreement which has been  entered 
into by the insured for:
i buying or hiring consumer goods  or services
ii privately selling goods
iii buying or selling your main home
iv renting your main  home as a tenant
v the occupation of your main home under  a lease. 
Mrs Es dispute arises from a contract  she entered into with M to carry out works to rectify 
previous poor workmanship on lead flashings  and a chimney that had led to water ingress. 
So Mrs Es dispute  is in relation to the buying  or hiring of consumer goods or services. 
Like most insurance policies, this policy also contains  exclusions to the cover provided. 
Continued under  C. Contract it says:
The insurer does not cover any claim relating to:
iv construction work, or designing, converting or extending any building  where  the 
contract value exceeds £6,000 including VAT. 
Mrs Es contract was with M, not the subcontractor who carried out the work to the flashings. 
So although  she paid the subcontractor directly, and that fell under  the £6,000 threshold, Im 
satisfied its her contract with M thats relevant. And it isnt in dispute  that the overall cost of 
the contract  with M (including the subcontractor) was in excess  of £17,000.  It follows  Im 
satisfied Mrs Es contract with M is over the threshold allowed under the policy. 
Mrs E doesnt believe she was having  construction  carried out on her property and so this 
exclusion shouldnt apply;  she considers the contract to be a repair  contract. I dont agree 
and, in any event,  Im not persuaded construction  and repair  are mutually exclusive; on the 
contrary, I think its likely that most  property  repair work will amount to construction.  
Construction isnt defined within the policy. And so it gets its ordinary  everyday  meaning 
within the context  of this legal  expenses  policy. Im satisfied that in the context of this policy  
and the remaining elements of the specific exclusion, it relates  to building something.  And 
building ordinarily  means the act or process of making structures by putting materials 
together, e.g. bricks  and mortar. 
The in-depth report carried out under the policy explains at point 5.08 that the chimney  will 
need to be dismantled to its base and rebuilt. As M was required to rebuild the chimney,  Im 
satisfied the work Mrs E needed  to have  carried out amounts to construction. Im also 
mindful that the same report refers to the work carried out by the first contractors as 
construction (see 4.08). The work carried out by the two contractors was of a very similar 
Ref: DRN53740184nature and, although it included work  to the flashings, I understand that couldnt  have taken  
place without work also being carried out to the chimney. 
Mrs E has since provided further information from her chartered  quantity surveyor.  But I 
dont consider this to be material new evidence.  It isnt in question  that Mrs E has suffered 
water ingresses or that there has been poor workmanship on the lead flashings. What is in 
question is whether the work amounted to construction. 
I have also considered the opinion that Mrs E obtained from a solicitor. But again I dont find 
this very persuasive. I have never  made a finding  that repair and construction  have the same 
meaning and I accept the two are different. But it doesnt follow that repair  work cant  also 
amount to construction and I remain of the view they arent mutually exclusive. Both Mrs Es 
definitions (which arent legal, they are dictionary) and my dictionary definition  refer to 
building. Mrs Es own in-depth report refers to the chimney being dismantled and rebuilt and 
of construction.  And the very nature of what needed to be repaired meant that building  work 
was also required;  indeed I understand the repair couldnt have been undertaken without it. I 
therefore remain of the view the work amounted to construction and is therefore  caught by 
the exclusion within the policy. 
I accept that Lloyds has accepted the first claim and so it is meeting the costs  of pursuing 
legal action against the first contractors. But it seems to me that on a strict interpretation of 
the policy, the first claim could also fall foul of the policy exclusion (as that contract  also 
exceeded £6,000 including VAT). That Lloyds has volunteered to accept the first claim 
doesnt mean it is bound to accept Mrs Es second  claim. She didnt  act on this waiver of 
strict legal rights to her detriment, so Lloyds isnt stopped from later asserting them. I 
therefore find that Lloyds wasnt being unfair  or unreasonable  in declining the second claim.  
I turn now to the award  of £400 the investigator  made for the delays in both claims. Although 
Lloyds provides the cover and is liable for insurance  claims, it isnt responsible  for the day-
to-day running of the legal action; nor is it responsible for any professional or commercial  
decisions by the lawyers, who are appointed to give independent advice and assistance in 
the best interests of the policyholderclient consistent with their duty to the court.  
Once Lloyds agreed  to fund the claim (irrespective  of whether it fell under the cover 
provided by the policy),  the matter was handed over to the solicitors,  with Lloyds having very 
little to do with the claim following that. I can see from the file that Mrs E complained  the 
panel solicitors had hindered the claim and caused more issues and because of that she 
wanted to use her own solicitors. Any concerns that Mrs E has about how the solicitors 
managed the claim would need to be raised with them and/or their professional regulatory 
body. I can see, however,  that Lloyds agreed to Mrs E using her own solicitors, which in the 
circumstances I consider to be fair. 
But I havent seen  any evidence Lloyds has delayed matters  materially  or at all such that 
compensation would be justified. I say this bearing in mind that Lloyds is proceeding with 
the first claim despite it not strictly having  to do so. 
I accept it is possible that Lloyds was already aware  of the value of the claim when Mrs E 
submitted her second claim  in February  2018. But that is far from certain as it appears  the 
information was originally sent to the legal team handling the claim.  But even if it did, it was 
only a matter of weeks  before  Mrs E was notified  it had declined the second claim. Although 
Mrs E was put to a small  inconvenience of providing  the contract information again, this isnt 
Ref: DRN53740185something I would  make  an award  for. And I dont think Lloyds delayed telling Mrs E it had 
declined the claim. Im therefore make no award in relation  to this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5374018