K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that HSBC  UK Bank Plc failed to pay a direct debit to a third party 
which led to a £30 charge.  
background
Mr M has a HSBC  current account  with a £250  overdraft facility.  A direct debit was due to 
leave Mr Ms account on 10 September 2018.  Mr M says that earlier  in the day he checked 
his account online and paid in money  to ensure there was enough to cover  his direct debit 
payment. 
A debit  card transaction  for £5 was also requested for payment on 10 September 2018. After 
HSBC paid the debit card transaction  there  wasnt enough money  left in Mr Ms account to 
cover the direct debit  payment which was returned.  
Mr M was charged £30 for missing the direct debit payment  and complained to HSBC  as he 
thought hed done enough to make sure he had funds in his account to cover  it. HSBC didnt 
agree itd made a mistake  by not making  the direct  debit  payment so didnt uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. However,  HSBC thought  the service Mr M received when discussing whatd 
happened shouldve  been better and paid him £50. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service  and an investigator looked  at it. The investigator  
didnt uphold  Mr Ms complaint as they felt HSBC  had acted  in line with the account  terms by 
deciding not to make the direct debit payment. As Mr M remains  unhappy his complaints 
been passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at Mr Ms account statements, its clear he did try to ensure there was enough 
money in his account to cover the direct debit payment  taken on 10 September  2018. And I 
appreciate what Mr Ms said about  checking  his balance online before  the 3:30pm cut off 
time to ensure  there was enough money available. I understand that it appeared there was 
enough money to make  the direct  debit payment when Mr M checked. But I have to be fair to 
both sides and I think the account terms and conditions are key to this complaint.  
The account  terms set out what HSBC will do when a customer asks for information  about 
their balance. Point 25.6 of the terms says HSBC may provide you with details of the 
balance of your account. This may include  transactions that are still being  processed and so 
may be subject to change. 
Im satisfied that HSBCs terms explain that the balance  shown is subject to change due to 
transactions that may still be being processed. 
Point 10.1 of HSBCs terms sets out when the bank  will or wont  make  a payment. It says 
HSBC will  make a payment from your account  if you authorise it if there is a formal  
overdraft facility on your account  which covers  it; or if we agree to give you an informal  
overdraft to cover it. In this case, because a debit  card payment was also being processed 
and HSBC didnt  approve an informal overdraft the direct debit payment wasnt made. 
Ref: DRN51935562Point 10.6 of HSBCs terms go on to say When we assess whether to make paymentswe 
may consider any other payments we have made or agreed to make  from your account that 
day, even if those other payments have  not already been deducted from your account.  You 
must take this into consideration when  requesting  payments.  
From what  Ive seen, this is the key term in regards to Mr Ms complaint. It specifically 
explains that HSBC  will assess whether to authorise a payment  and that it will factor other  
pending payments  into the decision before proceeding. Im satisfied the terms of Mr Ms 
overdraft with HSBC  allow it to decide whether to make  a payment and take pending  
transactions into account. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr M because I can see that he did try to ensure there were sufficient 
funds available  in his account  to make the direct debit payment. But the nature of how 
different types  of payments  are debited from an account means  the balance  may change.  In 
this case there wasnt enough money  to cover both the debit card transaction  and the direct  
debit payment. As a result, HSBC was allowed to decline the direct debit payment. Ive not 
found any evidence  to show HSBC has made an error in this case  so Im not telling  it to take 
any further action  to resolve Mr Ms complaint. 
HSBC paid Mr M £50 in relation to the service he received. From what  Ive seen, I think  
thats fair in all the circumstances so Im not telling HSBC to increase the settlement.   
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  beyond the £50 HSBC  UK Bank Plc has 
already paid. Under the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 January  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5193556