complaint
Mr H complains a boiler he acquired  on a conditional sale agreement from A Shade  Greener 
(Boilers) LLP (ASGB)  was incorrectly installed. He wants ASGB to refund him the money he 
had to pay to put things  right.
background
I set out the background  to Mr Hs complaint in my provisional decision.  In it, I also explained 
why I was intending to uphold his complaint.  Ill summarise what I said about these points in my 
provisional decision, so that the relevant information  is in this one document.
Mr H entered into a conditional sale agreement  with ASGB on 20 January 2016 for a new 
boiler. The boiler was fitted on 30 January 2016.  It came with ten-year  parts & labour 
warranty, and a one-year installation guarantee.
On 2 February 2016, Mr H contacted ASGB to inform them  the installation hadnt been  
carried out properly. He said there were parts missing and a power flush  hadnt  been  
carried out.
Mr H went on to make  a number of further complaints about a lack of hot water  and heating,  
which he started to notice  around  two years after the installation. Mr H says the system was 
never flushed. He also said the gas flue was fitted  incorrectly and the gas cowl was letting  in 
water.
An engineer  from the boiler  manufacturer visited the property in April 2018. He concluded
the system needed a full clean and the debris was coming from Mr Hs own heating  system 
and not the boiler. ASGB declined to carry out the repair as it said the warranty  only covered 
the boiler and not Mr H is heating system.  It said Mr H would need to pay an independent 
engineer to look into the problem.
As Mr H continued to experience heating and hot water issues  he asked an independent 
engineer from a company Ill call Business A to carry  out an inspection. In August 2018, an 
engineer visited  the property  and carried out the repair at a cost of £215. He said, in his 
opinion, the system hadnt been  flushed properly at installation.
ASGB say they did carry out a flush at installation and pointed out Mr H signed  a completed 
installation satisfaction  form and confirmation the system had been  flushed. It said it didnt 
accept any liability for the faults Mr H experienced with the boiler  as the problem lay with his 
heating system and not the boiler  itself.
Ref: DRN5856413Our investigator looked into matters  for Mr H. He found sufficient  evidence  to suggest ASGB 
were partly at fault. He thought, on balance, there was evidence to suggest the system hadnt  
been flushed properly at installation and that led to the problems Mr H later experienced.  He 
recommended ASGB  refund Mr H the cost of the repair  with interest  and pay £150 for the 
trouble and upset  this matter has caused. But, he didnt find enough evidence to uphold  
Mr Hs complain regarding the installation itself. He noted more than two years had passed 
before Mr H raised the issue  of the gas cowl and flue - so he couldnt  be certain these 
problems occurred at installation, as had they done  so hed have expected  them to have been 
raised much earlier.
Mr H agreed with the investigators view.
ASGB didnt.  It said its unreasonable for Mr H to raise concerns more than 2 years  after 
installation. It says a manual flush of the system was carried  out at installation and Mr H 
signed to say he was satisfied with the installation. Due to the passage of time, this is now 
outside of the warranty and so ASGB shouldnt be held responsible.
my provisional findings
I said Id considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I looked at all the information from both 
parties. I said having done  so; Im minded to uphold this complaint.
I pointed out where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of 
it is here, I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say, what  I 
think is more likely  to have happened.
Firstly, I looked to see when Mr H started to raise  concerns about the installation of the boiler. 
ASGB have  said he didnt  raise  any concerns until they received a telephone  call from Mr H in 
April 2018 so I looked closely at ASGBs  contact notes.
On 2 February 2016, a few days after the boiler  was installed Mr H contacted  ASGB to 
inform them  the boiler hadnt  been installed properly and he hadnt  had a power flush yet. 
On 18 February,  Mrs H calls to sort out the direct debit and although she says the 
installations been  sorted out, she mentions  a loud banging noise coming from a radiator in 
her sons  bedroom  when the heating  is on.
It is then two years  later in February  2018,  when Mr H starts to notice frequent  problems with 
the hot water and the heating system. When the boiler manufacturers engineer visited  him
in April, after he complained to ASGB, he confirmed the issues  Mr H was experiencing were  
due to debris in the heating  system. Mr H maintains the system wasnt flushed at installation. 
When ASGB said the issues werent covered by the boiler warranty Mr H then had no choice 
but to get an independent  engineer in to fix the problem.  He also concluded the problems 
were due to debris in the system and in his opinion,  he didnt think  the system was flushed  at 
installation.
I said given that Mr H contacted ASGB within days of the installation to report the power  flush  
hadnt been carried out. And two years later, when  experiencing problems with hot water  and 
heating, two separate engineers confirmed debris  in the system was the root cause of the 
issue, Im persuaded  its more likely  than not there was a failure at installation to adequately  
flush the system. I appreciate Mr H signed  a flush certificate, but I dont think  its reasonable
Ref: DRN5856413to suggest Mr H would have understood what a system flush was or whether it had been 
carried out correctly  at that point.
I also noted that ASGB originally confirmed  a power  flush had taken place;  sending  
photographic evidence of the equipment used but subsequently suggested it was a manual 
flush. So I said, on balance, I found it more likely that the failure  to flush  the system at 
installation led to the problems  Mr H experienced later on. As Mr H has had to pay for the 
problem to be rectified, Im persuaded ASGB should  refund Mr H and pay interest.
I considered carefully  the points Mr H raised  with regard  to the installation  of the boiler  and 
in particular the fitting of the gas flue through the roof space. I looked  at the photographs  
and diagrams both Mr H and ASGB have provided.
ASGB told this service,  it is usual practice  for engineers to remove it from site, except where a 
customer expressly requests it be leftitt  would be reasonable to assume that the boiler
was removed given  that the pipework was extended  in order  to install the new boiler in the 
loft space.
This is further confirmed  in the FAQs, which say:
Over the course of one day we will: remove your old boiler,  perform  a free hot and cold flush  
of your existing heating  system, install your new Grade A boiler, clean  up after your 
installation and take your old boiler away.
I said from the photographs Id seen, and following  confirmation from Mr H, ASGB  didnt  take 
away the old boiler and so didnt  manage to complete the whole process  in one day. Mr H 
maintains the new gas flue hasnt been  pointed up, and if so, I would agree that means it 
hasnt been installed  properly. Quite apart from that, presumably this means Mr H has two gas 
flues protruding from his roof. One attached  to a working boiler and the other attached to a 
disconnected boiler.
I noted ASGBs concerns that two years  have passed since  the installation  of the boiler. But I 
dont agree that the passage of time indicates its Mr Hs heating system and not the 
installation issues that have led to the hot water  and heating failures hes experienced. This 
is further supported  in the evidence from the manufacturers engineer  and the independent 
engineer, and the fact Mr H did make  ASGB aware  of a number of installation issues  at the 
outset.
The photographs and Mr Hs explanation indicate that the engineer who installed the boiler 
didnt finish it all in the one day and told him someone would return  the following day to finish  
it off. Mr H says no one came the following day. As the old boiler remains  in situ, and Mr H 
says the gas flue hasnt been  pointed  up, I find it more likely than not that the installation 
wasnt carried out in accordance with ASGBs policy and procedure.
But, as Mr H has confirmed other than disconnecting  the boiler, ASGB  havent removed 
either it or the old gas flue, I dont  think its reasonable to say they are responsible  for any 
water coming into the property. But I am persuaded that ASGB  havent acted fairly and in 
line with their own procedure for installation to remove  and take away  the old boiler. So Im 
going to ask them to remove the old boiler and gas flue and ensure the roof is made good 
and check the new gas flue is correctly and securely  installed.
Ref: DRN5856413K821x#15I said I could see that the issues Mr H has experienced, having ongoing problems with 
heating and hot water, have caused  him trouble and upset and I agreed he should be 
compensated for that.
To resolve matters, I said I intend to direct A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP to:
1. Make arrangement  at a time convenient to Mr H to return  to the property and 
remove the old boiler and gas flue, making  good  the roof if needed after 
removal
2. Refund Mr H his repair  cost of £215  together with 8% simple interest from the date of 
the payment to the date of the settlement
3. Pay Mr H £250 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
I invited both parties to make any further  submissions for my consideration before  I issue 
my final decision.
responses to my provisional  findings
Mr H responded and agreed  with my provisional findings. He informed me that the boiler 
had been removed from the loft but left outside  his property. He said the engineer, who 
was supposed  to return he following day, was going to take it away.  As there  was no follow 
up visit, Mr H disposed of the boiler  himself.
ASGB didnt  agree with my findings. They said:
They dont agree Mr H didnt understand what a power flush  was and believe in 
signing the certificate to confirm  a flush had taken place and a satisfaction 
certificate he had no issues at the time.
They were never  informed the boiler had been left at the property
They find it unreasonable that this service claims the installation wasnt carried out in 
accordance with our policies and procedures simply because the engineer  may 
have left the old boiler on site. They have previously  advised  they have received no 
evidence of and may very well have been  done  at the request of the customers.
No flushing  method  will clean 100% of debris  from a central heating system.
A combination boiler contains two heat exchangers. The main  one heats up the 
central heating water.  This water  is then diverted through  one side of a plate heat 
exchanger when there is a demand for hot water. Cold water flows through the other  
side and heat is transferred.
If no flush had been carried  out at the time of installation debris would have resided 
in the system and made its way into the boiler and then the plate heat exchanger 
when there was a requirement for hot water, resulting in hot water  issues  
significantly prior to when first experienced.
The report  completed during the manufacturers  attendance  on 05/04/2018 states  
that the plate was blocked and a full clean was required. This is not evidence  that 
the issue relates to the installation. 
Ref: DRN58564135Given that there apparently appears to be no report, we would question  the 
legitimacy of any comments attributed to any engineer that may or may not have 
attended the property.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information from both 
parties afresh and taken  into account the additional  submissions. Having  done  so I havent 
been persuaded to change my provisional findings  and so Im going  to uphold this complaint.
I appreciate ASGB feel there isnt enough  evidence to determine  if the problems Mr H 
experienced with his heating and hot water  system  were inextricably  linked to the installation  
of the new boiler.  Im not a technical  expert in these matters so Im required to look at the 
available information  and reach  a decision based upon a balance of probabilities. That is to 
say what I think is more  likely to have  happened.
Mr H made  a complaint  from the outset that the engineer  hadnt  returned to complete the 
installation or carry out the power flush.  When he noticed a complete failure of his heating 
and hot water system,  he contacted ASGB. It sent the boiler manufacturers  engineer out to 
inspect the boiler.  He said there  was debris in the system and it needed a full clean.  When  
ASGB refused to pay for the repairs and advised Mr H, he would need to get an independent 
engineer to assist  him. Mr H remained unhappy but as he needed  his hot water  and heating,  
he contacted an independent engineer. He has commented in his opinion, the system wasnt  
properly flushed  at installation.
Im afraid I dont find it fair and reasonable on ASGBs part to direct a customer to seek an 
independent engineer and then question the legitimacy of the engineers comments.  
My understanding is that combination boiler  manufacturers make it very clear  that an 
existing heating system must be cleaned before a new boiler  is fitted if it isnt then debris can 
build up and the plate heat exchanger can block up.
Mr H contacted ASGB to say the power flush hadnt  been carried out, the day after the boiler 
had been installed. But after the independent engineer carried  out a full system  clean,  Mr H 
doesnt seem to have  experienced any further issues.  Im persuaded, as I have said 
previously, that on balance  it is more likely  than not, the failure  to power  flush the system 
before the boiler was installed, was the root cause  of the debris in the system. 
It remains my view that that ASGB havent  acted fairly in line with their own procedure 
for installation to remove and take away the old boiler. Mr H has disposed of the old 
boiler but Im still going to ask ASGB to check the new gas flue is correctly and securely 
installed by way of a home visit, remove the old gas flue, and make good  the roof. This 
seems to be an entirely reasonable expectation when having a new boiler installed and 
an old system  removed.
Importantly, this is ASGBs promise to customers:
Over the course of one day we will: remove your old boiler,  perform  a free hot and cold 
flush of your existing heating system, install your new Grade A boiler, clean up after your 
installation and take your old boiler away.
Ref: DRN58564136ASGB havent acted  fairly and reasonably in respect  of this customer  expectation  and this 
caused Mr H  trouble and upset for which I agree he should be compensated.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I uphold this complaint and I direct  A Shade  Greener (Boilers) 
LLP to :
1. Make arrangements, at a time convenient to Mr H, to return  to the property, check 
the installation  of the new gas flue, remove the old gas flue, making good the roof if 
needed after removal
2. Refund Mr H his repair  cost of £215  together with 8% simple interest from the date of the 
payment to the date of the settlement.  If A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP considers that its 
required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to deduct income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr 
H how much  its taken  off. It should  also give Mr H a certificate showing this if she asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
3. Pay Mr H £250 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.  A Shade  Greener 
(Boilers) LLP must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr H 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5856413