K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined Mrs Gs travel 
insurance claim.
Mrs G is covered by a policy which is principally in Mr Gs name. But as Mrs G wasn't  
travelling with anyone  else named  on the policy at the time of the incident  giving rise to the 
claim, from hereon I will only refer to Mrs Gs claim.
background
Mrs G was on a cruise  when she fell and injured  herself. She was initially  treated on board 
and later went to a hospital  for out-patient treatment. She continued on the cruise but, once 
that had finished, she decided to cancel a couple  of extra nights in a hotel abroad and 
instead found an earlier flight home.
Mrs G claimed  for her medical and other expenses and also for her unused  travel and 
accommodation costs.  Great  Lakes refused her claim. Mrs G didn't think that was fair and 
brought her complaint  to us.
The adjudicator thought  it was reasonable for Great Lakes to turn down Mrs Gs claim. But 
she didn't think it handled  it well. So she said it should pay Mrs G £100 for her distress and 
inconvenience. 
As neither Great Lakes  nor Mrs G agreed with the adjudicators view the complaint's  been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to partly 
uphold it and my redress  award  will be the same  as the adjudicator  recommended.  
the decision to refuse  the claim
Mrs Gs policy is clear that given the level of cover she has, it doesn't insure  her, under any 
section of it, for a cruise. So as Mrs G was on a cruise when she was injured, the policy  
simply doesn't provide any cover. And on that basis I think it was reasonable for Great Lakes  
to refuse  her claim.
Also, before renewing  the policy, Mrs G had spoken with the broker who sold the policy.  It 
told her that she would need  to either  upgrade the policy or buy a separate policy  to cover 
her for the cruise. Mrs G didn't do so. She said she was under the impression that medical  
cover was included  as part of the policys basic cover. That might  be the case  but I don't 
think she formed that impression because of anything Great Lakes did. As I've said above 
the policy is clear that the level of cover Mrs G had didn't provide any cover  for a cruise.  So I 
don't think  Great Lakes needs  to pay the claim because Mrs G misunderstood the policys 
benefits.
service
Ref: DRN57331712Mrs G was unhappy that it took Great  Lakes  some months to confirm that the policy  didn't  
cover her. In response to the adjudicators view Great Lakes accepted  that it could have 
handled the matter better  but felt that compensation should be limited  to £40. In contrast 
Mrs G said that because  Great Lakes  continued  to request information from her she had to 
make appointments with doctors, phone hospitals and requests medical records  etc at her 
own expense and inconvenience.
As Ive said above  the policy is clear that it didn't cover Mrs Gs claim. And I think  
Great Lakes could have  come to that conclusion, and maintained it, without  putting  Mrs G to 
the considerable trouble  shes  described  of providing additional evidence. Further  I can 
understand that Great Lakes request for that information would no doubt have led Mrs G to 
believe that it was likely  to pay her claim. So I think  that Great Lakes delays and 
unwarranted requests  for information  not only inconvenienced Mrs G unnecessarily but also 
raised her expectations that it was likely to pay her claim  when that wasn't the case. To 
address her distress and inconvenience because of that I think  Great  Lakes should  pay her 
£100 compensation, as that figure is in line with awards we make  in cases  of similar 
seriousness.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I partly uphold  this complaint. I require Great Lakes  Insurance  
SE to pay Mrs G £100 for her distress and inconvenience. It should pay the compensation 
within 28 days of us telling it that Mrs G has accepted my final decision. If it pays later than 
this it must also pay interest  on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment  at a rate of 8% a year simple1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Great Lakes pays interest and considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs G how much its taken off. It should  also give Mrs G a 
certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5733171