K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that the loans he had from Loans 2 Go Limited  were  unaffordable.
background
Mr L took out a loan with Loans  2 Go on 17 May 2018. He borrowed £250 and was due to 
repay £56.64 monthly for 18 months.  After making  his first five payments, Mr L applied  for a 
£464.90 top-up on 10 November  2018. The new contractual  instalments became £105.33  
over 18 months, and the loan was due to be repaid  on 10 May 2020.
Mr L says that Loans 2 Go should  never have lent to him given his credit  history.  He says he 
had a number  of other loans and bills at the time and was having to borrow  more each 
month as the repayments took most of his wages. He says the worries about  money have 
affected his mental  health.
Loans 2 Go says it conducted thorough affordability checks and verified Mr Ls declared 
income as well as reviewing his credit  file. It said its checks  caused it to increase Mr Ls 
declared expenditure significantly, but, despite  that, its calculations  showed the loans were 
affordable.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Loans 2 Go carried out proportionate checks and that there  was nothing to indicate  the loan 
repayments were unsustainable.
Mr L responded to say, in summary,  that his credit  file would have shown a pattern of short-
term lending and he was heavily reliant on the loans as he was a persistent gambler. He 
says Loans 2 Go was the only loan company who approved his loan application and the 
rates it charged were outrageous.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when  Loans  2 Go lent to Mr L. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook  (CONC),  this meant  that Loans 2 Go needed  to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford  to meet  its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner  over the lifetime of the agreement.
At the time of the initial lending CONC 5.3.1G stated that:
1.In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more  than assessing  a customer's ability to repay the credit.
2.The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability  to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Ref: DRN58727092Repaying debt in a sustainable manner  was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while  meeting  other  reasonable commitments;  without having  to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without  having to realise security or assets  (CONC 5.3.1G 
- 6) or without incurring or increasing  problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3).
(The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced a document  entitled 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance which the FCA referenced in its consumer handbook. 
CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.)
In November 2018, before Mr L applied for the top-up loan, the wording  of the regulations  
changed, although the main requirements stayed the same.
CONC 5.2A.4R states that:
A firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer 
before:
1.entering into a regulated credit agreement; or
2.significantly increasing  the amount of credit provided under a regulated credit 
agreement.
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed  checks
the lower a persons income  (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact the total cost of the credit  is likely to 
be greater and the borrower is required  to make payments for an extended period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.3.1G  4b: it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for 
its assessment of the customer's income  and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ls case, I have considered  the 
following questions:
Did Loans 2 Go complete  reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Ls loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay  the loans in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks  have shown? 
Did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Initial Loan  Loan 1
When Mr L applied for his first loan from Loans  2 Go, it asked him for information  about his 
income and expenditure and carried out a credit check. Ive also seen evidence that Loans 2 
Go asked Mr L to verify his income by providing  a payslip.
Ref: DRN58727093The checks  showed:
The monthly repayments were less than 5% of Mr Ls income;
Mr Ls credit record did not indicate  he was in financial difficulties:
oThere were  no defaults in the previous  six months, although  one account had 
defaulted in 2017;
oThere were  six active accounts, including two short-term loans, all of which 
were up-to-date with their repayments;
oHe owed £646 on the short-term loans and a further £1,027 on his other  
accounts;
oMr L was well within his £800  overdraft limit;
oThere had been two credit searches in the previous six months   presumably 
for the two short-term  loans taken out in March 2018.
Loans 2 Go adjusted Mr Ls declared  expenditure based on the information it had, and 
calculated his disposable income  to be around  £380  per month. I cant  see there  was 
anything in the information Loans 2 Go collected that indicated it should have carried out 
further checks or that the £56.64 repayments were  unaffordable to Mr L.
So I cant conclude Loans 2 Go was wrong  to have approved  Mr Ls initial loan.
Top-Up Loan  Loan 2
Mr L re-financed his loan in November 2018 by borrowing a further £464.90, of which  
£214.90 was used to repay loan 1. Loans  2 Go carried out the same  checks  again, including  
asking Mr L for another recent payslip.
Mr Ls income was about  the same, so the new repayments were around 8% of it;
Mr Ls credit score  had improved slightly;
Hed repaid both the original short-term loans, but had taken out a much smaller one, 
for which he needed to repay  £119  in November;
There had only been one credit search in the previous six months;
Mr Ls total debt was roughly the same  (excluding loan 1);
His overdraft had increased slightly, but he was still within his £800 limit.
Loans 2 Go estimated Mr Ls disposable income  as around £310 per month.  He had a good 
repayment record on loan 1 (one late payment)  so again, I dont consider there was anything  
that should have indicated  that Mr L was struggling  to manage his money,  or that further 
checks were required.  So I find Loans  2 Go made  a fair lending  decision for loan 2.
I acknowledge that Mr L says his bank statements wouldve  shown his gambling spend, but I 
dont think it was proportionate for Loans  2 Go to have asked for this level of detail given  the 
information it already  had. I accept Mr L says he was declined  by other lenders, but his credit 
file searches dont  reflect  that so its not something Loans 2 Go could have considered.  I can 
see Mr L had previous short-term loans,  but theyd all been repaid (bar those detailed  above) 
and so I dont  think Loans 2 Go should reasonably have found  he was reliant  on them.
Ref: DRN58727094In summary,  I cant conclude Loans  2 Go made an unfair lending  decision when it approved  
either of loans 1 or 2 and I cant see it acted  unfairly  or unreasonably in any other  way.
If there is still an outstanding balance on Loan  2 then Loans 2 Go should try to agree an 
affordable repayment  plan with Mr L.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 March  2021.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5872709