K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender)  irresponsibly gave him 
loans he couldnt  afford to pay back.
background
Mr Lender gave Mr B 6 loans between  January  2015 and May 2017. There was a break in 
the lending of about a year between loans 4 and 5. Loans 1 to 4 were provided between  
January 2015  and January 2016.  Loans 5 and 6 were provided between January  and May 
2017.
A summary  of Mr Bs lending is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 29/01/2015 30/04/2015 3 £250.00 £139.33
2 05/06/2015 21/08/2015 3 £200.00 £100.26
3 17/09/2015 16/01/2016 6 £400.00 £159.46
4 16/01/2016 08/07/2016 6 £600.00 £254.44
5 19/01/2017 31/03/2017 3 £200.00 £96.54
6 24/05/2017 15/09/2017 3 £200.00 113.06
 
Mr B says that proportionate checks werent  carried out before the loans were  provided. He 
says if these had taken place Mr Lender would  have realised  he was reliant on short  term 
loans and that the loans  werent affordable.
Mr Lender says that before the loans  were provided it carried out through  affordability and 
credit checks. It verified Mr Bs employment and says based on the information it gathered  
the lending was affordable. Mr Lender says it asked  what  the loans were  for and Mr B gave  
reasons that didnt  include repaying other debts.
Our adjudicator thought that there  wasnt enough to say that loan 1 shouldnt have been 
provided. However, Mr Bs repayment of loan 1 should have alerted the business that Mr B 
was having problems managing his money and it shouldnt  have  given him any further loans. 
He thought that by the time of loan five, given the gap in borrowing it was reasonable to 
conclude any difficulty may have passed and so it wasnt wrong  to have given  Mr B loans 5 
and 6. 
Mr Lender didnt accept  our adjudicators view and said it lacked detail and reasoning.  It said 
that following  the difficulty repaying  loan 1 Mr Lender declined  a further application made  
shortly afterwards. The second loan was for less than Mr B had applied  for and on the 
figures Mr B gave the loan was affordable. Mr B repaid this loan in full and on time.
Ref: DRN57089392my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans  - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think he had enough  evidence to say that loans one, five and six 
should not have been provided. I have looked  at the information gathered,  including income 
and expenditure  information from the time, and I agree that there  isnt enough to say 
Mr Lender should  not have  provided these loans to Mr B.
Ref: DRN57089393Looking at Mr Bs repayment history  of the first loan I agree with the adjudicator that this 
should have alerted Mr Lender to the possibility that Mr B was having problems managing 
his money. Mr B missed  repayments and had to set up a repayment plan. Although the loan 
looked easily affordable on the figures  Mr B gave, it was clear  that this was not the case.  I 
think that Mr Lender should  not have continued to lend to Mr B without a more  thorough  
check of his circumstances. There was a short gap between loan 3 and 4 and Mr Bs lending  
steadily increased  with loan 4 being taken out on the same day that loan 3 was repaid. This 
suggests that Mr B was reliant on short term loans and couldnt afford to repay what he was 
borrowing without borrowing again.  If Mr Lender had carried  out more  robust  checking  of 
Mr Bs circumstances it would have seen that Mr B wasnt responsibly  managing  his money  
and further lending was unsustainable.
I do not agree with Mr Lenders analysis that because  Mr B said he was not in financial 
difficulty and repaid his loans  on time that it was reasonable  to lend. Mr Bs borrowing and 
repayment pattern  was at odds with the information  he was giving to Mr Lender and as a 
responsible lender I consider that Mr Lender  should  have  done more before granting loans 
2, 3 and 4 to verify what Mr B was saying.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender)
should:
A. Add together  the total of the repayments made  by Mr B towards interest,  fees and 
charges on loans 2,3 and 4, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Mr B which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr B originally made  the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay the total of A and B to Mr B.
D. Remove any adverse  information about loans  2, 3 and 4 from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5708939