K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes),  through its agents, didnt 
cover a claim he made on his home insurance  policy.
background
Mr V has a home  insurance  policy provided  by Great Lakes. His boiler wasnt  working and 
following a call out on a home emergency policy, he said he was told by an engineer that the 
reason for this was due to a leaking pipe under the floor.
Mr Vs partner  contacted  Great Lakes agent. It said the claim to trace  and access  the source 
of the leak wasnt  covered  because no damage  had been  caused by the leak.
Mr V complained to Great Lakes  agent  and then to our service. He said the terms and 
conditions were unfair and it would  make sense to cover claims where the escape of water  
was discovered before  visible  damage  was caused. He said that because of the work which 
needed to be done, he had to move out of his home for several days. This had caused 
stress and inconvenience to him and his young  family.
Great Lakes agent rejected his complaint. It said the policy terms and conditions were  clear 
that cover  was only provided where damage had been caused  by the escape of water.
Mr V brought his complaint to our service  and said his floorboards had been damaged by the 
leak so Great Lakes  should cover his claim. He provided an invoice that shows  his partner 
paid around £800 to a joiner for the replacement of their skirting boards. Great Lakes 
considered this and said that this invoice alone  didnt  demonstrate  there was ever any water 
damage to the floorboards themselves.  It said the invoice only demonstrated that skirting 
boards may have  been removed to get to the leak, as opposed to actually  being  water 
damaged.
Our investigator didnt  think Great Lakes  and its agents had done  anything wrong and said 
the policy didnt  cover tracing the source  of a leak when it didnt cause any damage. She 
said Great  Lakes had agreed to look at a claim for damage caused by the leak,  but Mr V 
hadnt been able to provide sufficient evidence  of this. 
Mr V disagreed with our investigator. He maintained the terms and conditions  of the policy  
were unfair. He said he didnt have  any more proof  of the damage caused as hed been told 
the claim wasnt covered  and his priority at the time had been to fix the leak and look after 
his family.  Hes asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Vs policy  says it will cover damage to his property caused by an escape of water, subject 
to other  policy terms and exclusions.  The policy also provides trace  and access which 
covers the costs of locating the source  of any damage resulting  from the escape of water 
from fixed domestic water services or heating installations including  the cost of subsequent 
repairs to walls, floors  or ceilings.
Ref: DRN54740742This aspect  of the policy provides cover  where there has been damage  resulting from the 
escape of water. Great Lakes have said theres  no evidence  to show that Mr Vs property 
was ever damaged  by the escape  of water. So it declined  the claim.
When considering  this complaint and how Great Lakes has handled this claim, I firstly need 
to establish whether there has been loss or damage to Mr Vs property that was caused by 
an escape of water. And only if there was damage or loss, whether the trace  and access 
aspect of the policy should cover  Mr Vs costs related  to his flooring.
Under the section  making a claim  Mr Vs policy says that Great  Lakes may require further 
information or documentation in support  of a claim. This is common  across these types of 
policies. In this case Great  Lakes has requested this. 
So Ive thought about the evidence provided on both sides  to decide  whether this is 
reasonable. Mr V has said his floorboards were damaged by the leak. And hes said he 
didnt take any photos at the time as his priority was to fix the problem and have his home 
put right as soon as possible  for the benefit of his family. 
This means  he was unable to provide evidence initially  for Great  Lakes to consider. Its also 
not disputed that Mr Vs partner told Great Lakes that there hadnt been damage  to the 
floorboards when she spoke to it on the phone. I think its reasonable for Great  Lakes to 
question this as its contrary  to what Mr V has said.
Mr V has said that this isnt accurate, and shouldnt  be relied upon due to the pressure she 
was under at the time. Great Lakes  said it would reconsider this point if Mr V could provide 
any evidence to demonstrate there was damage to his floor. I think  this was a reasonable 
step on its part and Im satisfied this demonstrates  it hasnt declined  this claim unfairly. Ive 
considered the invoice  Mr V sent but I cant say this supports his claim that the floor boards 
had been damaged, just that skirting  boards  had been replaced.
Great Lakes didnt change its mind and continued  to decline the claim. In the circumstances 
I think Great Lakes acted  reasonably by asking  for this evidence,  particularly as itd received 
conflicting information from Mr Vs partner.  And having carefully considered what Mr V has 
provided, Im not persuaded that theres sufficient evidence to support his claim for damage  
related to an escape of water.
Overall and for the reasons  Ive given, Im satisfied  Great Lakes has acted fairly and 
reasonably when handling this claim and reaching its decision to decline it. 
my final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Ref: DRN54740743Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5474074