K822xcomplaint
Mr L is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  didnt  cover the claim he made on his 
travel insurance policy in full, and the service he received.
All reference to UKI includes its claims handlers. 
background 
Mr L has the benefit of a travel insurance policy  underwritten by UKI  through his building 
society account (the policy). 
Mr L booked  and paid for - a cruise  for himself and Miss S, who he describes as his 
partner. The Cruise was due to take place in early January 2019.
On 14 December 2018, Mr L was diagnosed with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and advised 
by his cardiologist not to travel. The day after Mr L cancelled  the trip and was reimbursed 
almost £1,400 by the travel agency.  That left £4,108.50 outstanding and Mr L made  a claim 
on the policy to cover this amount. 
UKI paid half of the claim  which represented  Mr Ls share of the costs for the cruise.   
However, it didnt cover  the amount Mr L paid for Miss S as it concluded she wasnt Mr Ls 
partner as defined  by the policy  thats  because they werent  co-habiting at the time the 
cruise was cancelled.
Unhappy, Mr L complained to us. Hes also unhappy that he didnt receive promised call 
backs from UKIs representatives, that he was continually  asked  for evidence to substantiate 
his relationship with Miss S and received  generic requests for further  information  even after 
the decision was taken to not cover Miss Ss share of the cruise  costs. 
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  In this particular case, he concluded that UKI hadnt 
fairly applied  the policy  terms when making  the decision to decline Miss Ss share  of the 
costs. He recommended UKI pay the remainder  of the claim subject to the other  terms of the 
policy and £100  in total for the trouble  and upset caused by the way in which  his claim was 
handled. 
UKI disagreed so Mr Ls complaint  has been passed  to me consider everything afresh and 
make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  it. 
declining the claim
The policy can provide  cover for accommodation and travel costs  if Mr L had to cancel the 
holiday due to illness. And UKI can cover you up to £5,000 per insured person. 
However, UKI hasnt  covered the share  of Miss Ss holiday costs Mr L paid for because  she 
didnt meet the definition of partner under the policy. It says she and Mr L werent co-habiting  
Ref: DRN55692432at the home address hed provided, at the time the cruise was booked  or when Mr L 
cancelled the holiday.
Under the policy your  / you / insured person  includes  the account  holder and their partner. 
Mr L is the account holder and partner is defined as:
The person the account holder lives with at your home address  in a relationship, 
whether married or cohabiting,  as if husband  and wife or civil partners, regardless of 
gender.
Mr L has provided us with a statement showing that he paid a deposit  for the holiday in early 
2018 so I accept thats around the time he booked the holiday. He says that he and Miss S 
didnt live together until July 2018.  However,  theyd  been  in a romantic and committed 
relationship since  April 2011, and he paid for the cruise to mark Miss Ss retirement. They 
were both in their 60s and had their own independent means  before  meeting.
Mr L says prior to moving in together, he divided his time between the UK and Spain. When 
in the UK he says he would stay with Miss S, or alternatively with his daughter when she 
needed help with childcare; thats why he provided his daughters address as his 
correspondence address. He also says Miss S would  visit him in Spain and they would stay 
together at this property there.  
So whilst they werent living  together at the time,  I dont think its fair and reasonable for UKI 
to rely on the policy definition  of partner  which is narrowly defined  - in the particular 
circumstances of this case.   
UKI doesnt dispute that Mr L or Miss S have been in a romantic  relationship since 2011. It 
also accepts what they say about  staying  together when  they were  in the same country. So 
although they might not have been  co-habiting  on a permanent  basis I dont think  UKI has 
acted fairly  and reasonably by using this as a reason to only cover half of the amount being 
claimed. 
Further, Mr L and Miss S have provided  a utility bill in both their names from January 2019 at 
the address at which Miss S was already residing.  Mr L also asked the building society to 
change the address it held for him to this address  in March 2019. So although Ive seen no 
documentary evidence  to support what Mr L says about he and Miss S living  together at the 
date the cruise was booked (or when Mr L had to cancel the holiday), this does again 
support that they were in an established,  committed relationship before they moved in 
together.
UKI has also said Miss S wasnt named  on the insurance schedule and the policy  says:
If you are travelling with someone who is not insured  under  this policy, we will only 
pay your proportion of costs not theirs,  regardless of who has paid for the booking.
Considering how this exclusion appears in the terms of the policy,  it looks  like it relates to a 
claim for unused expenses of a person  who is not insured under this policy.  However, even if 
it applies to the cost of the holiday, I dont  think  it can be fairly applied  in the circumstances 
of this complaint.  Given my finding  that Miss S should fairly  be considered to be Mr Ls 
partner and under  the policy, your includes his partner, then it wouldnt be fair to rely on 
this exclusion to decline paying Miss Ss share  of the cost of the holiday - which Mr L paid.
Ref: DRN55692433the service received
UKI has already  offered  Mr L £50 for not calling back him when promised. 
Ive also considered the way in which UKI handled  Mr Ls claim.  UKI accept that it shouldve  
clarified its position regarding the reason why it wasnt covering Miss Ss share of the cost of 
the cruise sooner. Im also satisfied that it made  generic requests for Mr L to provide  further  
information to support  his claim,  after hed been told that that part of the claim wouldnt be 
covered. 
Im persuaded that this all wouldve caused  Mr L a moderate amount of unnecessary stress, 
frustration and inconvenience. And Im satisfied that compensation in the sum of £100 is a 
fairer reflection of the trouble and upset he experienced for the overall service he received, 
including not receiving promised call backs.
putting things right:
UKI should:
Pay £100 to Mr L as compensation for trouble  and upset. It can deduct from this 
amount the £50 it offered to pay Mr L, if this has been paid already.
reconsider the entire amount claimed  by Mr L in line with the remaining terms of the 
policy. And having done so, if the claim is accepted  in full, UKI should:
- pay the amount  Mr L paid for Miss Ss share of the holiday; and
- calculate and pay 8% simple interest*  on this amount from the date on which it paid 
 Mr Ls share of the costs  to the date payment is made.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct  U K Insurance Limited to put things right by doing what  
Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 13 February 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5569243