K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Mr and Mrs B say Yorkshire  Building Society  mis-sold them  the MPPI.
The policy originally provided cover for unemployment. It was amended  in 1999 to include 
accident and sickness, and again in 2002  to provide a higher level of cover  when  
Mr and Mrs B took out a further advance.
The mortgage and further advance were  in joint names, but the policy only covered Mr B.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs B case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs B say that they were not given a choice in taking out the MPPI policy, and that 
they were forced to take it out. But I think YBS made  it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to 
take out the MPPI and that they chose to take it out  although I can understand why they 
cant remember this as it was so long ago.
I say this because  YBS has provided  paperwork from when Mr and Mrs B were sold their 
mortgage and MPPI  policy  including a copy of their mortgage application, and separate 
MPPI application. I can see that Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage completed  in October 97  
whereas the MPPI application wasnt made until June 1998.  So I think  they knew  that they 
didnt need to take the MPPI in order for the mortgage to be approved, but that they chose to 
do so at a later date.
YBS didnt recommend the MPPI to Mr and Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs B got the information  they needed to decide  if 
it was right for them.  
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs B about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the MPPI - so it looks  like they wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like Mr B 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the MPPI cover - so it would  have been  
useful for them  if something went wrong. It also looks like the MPPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better information  about  the MPPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
This means YBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs B because:  
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because YBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN55598632To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B has said - but these points dont change my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the MPPI  premium. YBS should also pay back to Mr and Mrs B any extra  
interest they paid because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs B the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of MPPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs B 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs B can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5559863