K820x#14complaint
Mr S doesnt  think Capital One (Europe) Plc (Capital One) has paid him fair compensation in 
response to a complaint about  the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr S PPI policy started in July 2004,  just over a year after he successfully applied for a 
Capital One credit card. The policy was cancelled in June 2009.
For the purpose of this decision, it isnt necessary to set out, or comment on, the history of 
this complaint in lots of detail. The key points are that Mr S complained that the PPI policy  
was mis-sold and, in June  2019, Capital One offered to refund everything he paid for PPI 
and compensate him for any periods when he was out of pocket. Mr S doesnt think  it has 
paid him enough.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One has sent us and Mr S a month-by-month breakdown  showing how it has 
calculated Mr S compensation. It shows that between July 2004 and June 2009,  Mr S was 
charged £364.97 in PPI premiums. Mr S doesnt dispute this. His main concern is with the 
amount of historic interest Capital One has refunded. This is the extra interest  (at card rate) 
that Mr S had to pay because of the PPI premiums. Capital One has worked  out that Mr S 
paid an extra £95.15 in interest  because of PPI. Mr S has explained that a different business 
refunded almost £3,500 in interest  as a result  of just over £800 in PPI premiums. So he 
thinks Capital One should refund more.
Ive reviewed the breakdown Capital One has provided. It has reconstructed Mr S account 
on a month-by-month  basis. After  removing the PPI premium, it has recalculated the interest 
based on the revised balance. (The amount of interest it has refunded  each month is shown 
in a column called  Int_Assoc.) Its also refunded  any extra  Mr S paid because  of PPI and 
added simple interest at a rate of 8% per year from the date of each payment until Mr S 
received his compensation. (The cumulative value of Mr S overpayments are shown in a 
column called  Surplus_Liab_Acc and the simple  interest payable for that month on the 
value of the overpayments is shown in a column called Cap_1_8pc.) This is what Id expect 
it to do.
Mr S may have received more from a different  business. But the amount of compensation 
payable can vary significantly depending on several  factors.
In this case, Mr S cleared  his balance in January 2006 and again in July 2009, and I think  
this has probably made a big difference. Ill explain why.
Just before Mr S cleared  his balance in January 2006, the extra  he owed because of PPI 
was £105.89 (shown  in a column  called  Redress_Gap).  So when he cleared his balance, 
Mr S paid £105.89 more  than he would have done  if he hadnt had PPI. From this date, he 
isnt charged any extra  interest (at card rate) on this amount. Instead, Capital One needs to 
pay simple interest at 8% per year on this sum to compensate him for being  out of pocket. 
Mr S had already  paid an extra  £42.34  by December 2005. So in total, hed paid £148.23 by 
Ref: DRN53429442January 2006.  Simple interest on this amount is £0.97 per month (if the month has 30 days) 
and £1.01 (if the month has 31 days). And thats  how much Capital One has paid. Mr S will 
see that when  he pays more because of PPI, the amount  of simple interest he gets each 
month goes up.
Ive explained  parts of the breakdown in some  detail because Id like to assure Mr S that Ive 
carefully considered  what hes said.
I think Capital One has paid him fair compensation and I hope my explanation of the 
breakdown will help him see why.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think Capital One (Europe) Plc has paid Mr S fair 
compensation in response to his PPI complaint,  so theres nothing more  it needs to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5342944