K822xcomplaint
Barclays Bank UK PLC added a default marker to Mr Bs current  account in error. Mr B says 
that this affected  his creditworthiness and that it affected his ability to apply, and be 
approved, for credit over nearly three  years  because of the banks mistake. He has asked for 
£500-£1,000 in compensation.
background 
Barclays applied a default marker to Mr Bs current account in December 2015 because  an 
incorrect code had been used. This was an administrative error on the part of the bank and 
Barclays has accepted  responsibility so there is no dispute here.
Mr B says he only became aware of the default  marker in July 2018.  He is unhappy as the 
default had been on his credit file for some time and he says that it affected his ability  to 
apply, and be approved, for credit. He asked Barclays to remove  the default from his file and 
to compensate him. Barclays  investigated  the issue and, by the end of August 2018, had 
removed the default marker and told Mr B that it would disappear from his credit file within  
four to six weeks. The bank apologised to Mr B and offered him £100 in compensation. Mr B 
felt this was insufficient and declined.
Mr B has told us that he applied for finance  over the period  that the incorrect  default  marker 
was on his file and had been  declined, or had had to pay higher rates of interest, because of 
it. Barclays reviewed Mr Bs credit file and has said that as their error was one of several 
defaults recorded on the file between 2012 and 2017, it wouldnt be a significant factor in 
decisions taken by other organisations on any credit applications Mr B made. Mr B accepts 
that he had a number of other defaults  on his credit file.
After our involvement, Barclays subsequently  raised  its offer of compensation to £500, which  
our investigator thought  was fair in all the circumstances. Mr B asked for between £500 and 
£1,000 in compensation so didnt agree  with the investigators recommendation. Because  of 
this, the case has come  to me for a decision.
While this complaint is about the incorrect default  marker placed on his account in December 
2015, Im aware  that Mr B has another complaint against Barclays relating to the arrears  and 
arrangement to pay markers  applied over 2012  to 2013. This is being  dealt with separately,  
so I wont be commenting on it here.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs credit  report showed a number  of defaults from various companies between 2012 and 
2017. Mr B accepts that he had been  in arrears and had defaulted on other accounts with 
other organisations. So, while Barclays incorrect default marker may have been  considered  
by other  potential lenders, I believe this would have been only one piece of information being 
taken into account   the other defaults  and arrears markers also being relevant factors.
To accept  Mr Bs argument that Barclays error had a greater material impact, Id need to 
see further evidence  from lenders or potential lenders  that they would not have  declined  his 
application or increased his rates of interest but for the default marker applied  by Barclays.  
Ref: DRN52120072Without evidence  of this, I dont consider  the consequences of the error to have  been  
particularly significant  as I dont think it made a substantial difference  to Mr Bs situation. 
Mr B was asked to send  evidence to provide details of any loans which  he thought might 
have been declined, or been subject to a higher interest rate, because of Barclays  error. 
Unfortunately, he wasnt able to provide information of this sort.
my final decision
Under all the circumstances, I think the offer of Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr B £500 
compensation to cover  any inconvenience  is fair. As a result, I will not be asking them  to pay 
any more than they have already offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Simon Stanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5212007