K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that funds transferred to his Metro  Bank PLC current  account for 'wages' 
were blocked. He said that despite  providing  invoices  as proof of payment he's now been  
told his account  is closed and he cannot  have access to the funds as they are fraudulent.
background
Metro Bank  said it reviewed Mr Ls current account when he withdrew  £3,000 and £4,000  
over the counter as it had concerns about  his account. Metro  Bank  said it acted in 
accordance with term 1.3 of Mr Ls account  when  it put a restriction on the account.
If you have an account for your personal finances, you must not use if for business  
purposes. We will be entitled to end this agreement if you use a personal  account for 
business purposes.
Metro Bank  said Mr L provided a statement of the account the payments came  from, but this 
also belonged  to Mr L. Metro Bank requested more information, including  about £14,000 Mr 
L moved from his other account, but said this wasnt forthcoming. It said that following its 
investigation and information from the bank sending the payments it gave Mr L seven days 
notice of closing  his account. It said this is in accordance with term 13.2 of Mr Ls account:  
If we decide to suspend or stop providing  our services: 
We may take this actions  for the following reasons:
 If you have significantly or persistently broken the terms set out in this agreement.
 If we think that:
o There has been  fraud  or other suspicious  activity  involving your account (or we suspect 
this is the case);
o You have used,  are using or getting,  or may use or get a service or money illegally, 
fraudulently or improperly.
Mr L said the payments  were for three months wages and he was told to collect the money 
when he provided  invoices, but was then told he couldnt have the money as its fraudulent.  
Metro Bank  said its branch incorrectly advised  Mr L that it would look to release his balance,  
but as the funds were obtained fraudulently they would be returned to the sending bank.  
The investigator said Metro Bank  followed its legal and regulatory obligations correctly,  but 
could've given better service and should  pay Mr L £100 compensation.
Metro Bank  disagreed, saying Mr L was attempting to have funds released  to him which he 
had obtained fraudulently.  It said it had continued  to ask him for evidence when it shouldn't  
have and after the sending bank had confirmed the money was received fraudulently, but it 
wasnt reasonable that Mr L should  profit from his claim. Metro Bank said the compensation 
recommended is excessive and it requested the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Mr L didnt agree either, and said Metro Bank gave him a poor explanation about  his funds. 
He said the funds came from his brothers account  and arent fraudulent. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN55928962I have looked  carefully  at Metro Banks  handling of Mr Ls bank account  to see if it has acted 
in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account and treated him fairly.
I can see that Metro Bank asked  Mr L for more  information  about payments hed received on 
three occasions, but were dissatisfied  with his response.  Metro Bank also said that it 
received information  from the sending bank which told Metro  Bank the funds were 
fraudulently obtained. 
In common with all banks,  Metro  Bank  has legal and regulatory obligations which  can require 
it to withhold transactions  or services, or block accounts. From what  Ive seen Metro Bank 
has acted correctly in accordance with the terms of the account and the regulations  in 
blocking and then closing  Mr Ls account and I do not require it to release any of the account 
funds to Mr L. Banks are not generally required  to provide detailed reasons for closing 
accounts and withholding funds. I realise  this is frustrating to Mr L but we cant compel  Metro  
Bank to provide  him with further information.    
I can see the problems  Mr L faced when his account was blocked,  but because  I havent 
found that Metro  Bank made  an error about  its decision it wouldnt be fair to require it to pay 
Mr L compensation for closing his account.
Mr L made a number of calls to Metro  Bank  and was told to provide proof of entitlement 
when Metro Bank already had information about  his funds from the sending  bank. He visited 
the branch twice and was told he could obtain  his funds, but later that he couldnt have the 
money. I agree with the investigator that he was caused unnecessary inconvenience and 
expense and Metro  Bank  should pay him £100  compensation for this. I do not consider that 
this means Mr L has profited from his claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld  in part and I 
require Metro Bank PLC to pay Mr L £100  compensation  for its poor service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5592896