K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains Aviva Insurance Limited has said his shower  isnt covered by his plumbing  
and drainage policy.
background
Mr K has a plumbing and drainage insurance  policy underwritten  by Aviva. The policy covers 
Mr K in the event of, for example, leaks and blockages within his plumbing and drainage 
system.
In May 2018  Mr K made a claim on his policy after noticing water leaking from his wet room. 
The following  day an engineer  was sent and said that the incident  wasnt  covered under the 
policy. Both sides agree that water had leaked and caused damage to Mr Ks property  
because of damaged shower seals.  Mr K says that the engineer  wasnt  sure whether or not 
the incident was covered under his policy. He complained.
Aviva investigated Mr Ks complaint but didnt uphold it. Aviva said that the seals  were 
excluded from the policy as it excludes  normal  day to day maintenance of items  covered by 
your policy,  for which you are responsible. Aviva  also said that the seals didnt come within 
the definition of plumbing and / or drainage. Mr K was unhappy with Avivas  response and 
so complained to us.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ks complaint but didnt think Aviva  had acted 
unfairly. So Mr K asked for an ombudsman to look into his complaint. Thats  what Ive done.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen two photos  that the engineer who visited Mr Ks property took,  as well as the 
engineers report.  One of those photos  shows Mr Ks wet room,  and another  shows  the 
damage that had been done  in the next door bedroom. The engineers  report says that he 
advised Mr K to re-do the seals to the shower surround, and the photo is said to show the 
sealant that has perished around the edge of a walk in shower.
I asked Aviva if it had a better quality photo  but it didnt. I also asked Mr K and he didnt have 
one either.  He said he thought the seal was a waterproof  membrane under the tiles of his 
shower floor which stops any water  that comes  through  the tiles and channels it into the 
drainage pipe. The engineers report suggests  that the damaged seal was visible,  which  a 
waterproof membrane  under the tiles wouldnt be. So I think its more  likely than not that the 
damaged seal went  around the shower  surround.  But either way, Im satisfied that the 
purpose of the seal is to prevent water  from getting beyond the shower and causing damage 
elsewhere.
Aviva said that Mr Ks claim was excluded from the policy  because  the policy  excludes 
normal day to day maintenance  of items  covered  by your policy. Mr K makes a good point, 
namely that the seal in a wet room  doesnt  require day to day maintenance.  I dont, 
however, think that it was unfair of Aviva  to decline Mr Ks claim on the grounds that a 
shower seal does  not fall within the definition of plumbing  and / or drainage  for the reasons 
Ref: DRN51178672Ive given above. I know that this will be disappointing for Mr K, but it means I cant uphold 
his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5117867