K821x#15complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs L says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs L took out a store  card in 2003.  At the same time PPI was added  to her account. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FICL didnt  advise Mrs L to take out the policy. But, it did have to give her enough clear 
information so that she could decide for herself if the policy  was right for her and she wanted 
to buy it. Mrs L had a pre-existing medical condition at the time she took out the store card 
and PPI. Shed  had  this condition since childhood.  She was taking medication for it, and had 
had spells  in hospital, although she couldnt  remember exactly  when. I think  it unlikely that 
her PEMC wouldve been covered under the policy.  I think  had Mrs L understood she 
wouldnt have been fully covered under the policy, given the nature of her condition  and the 
impact it had on her day to day life, along with the cost of the policy,  she wouldnt have 
thought it worth it to her. I think  it unlikely that she wouldve taken  out PPI, so, I think that 
shes lost out as a result  of what FICL did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs L in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs L would have owed when she closed her credit  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs L owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs L made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs L would  have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
Ref: DRN56687732interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs L would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs L 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs L paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs L 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her credit card. The interest  rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs L what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Ls complaint and order Financial Insurance  Company Limited to put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5668773