K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Be Wiser Insurance  Services Ltd advised  him to go through a claims 
management company  (CMC)  following an accident rather  then claim on his motor  
insurance policy. He said his insurer now wont deal with the claim. 
background
Mr S was involved  in an accident  with another  driver.  He called Be Wiser that day and gave 
details. He said he wasnt at fault. He was then passed to a CMC  to make a claim against  
the other driver. Mr S later found that the other  driver wasnt insured and he couldnt recover  
his policy  excess from the Motor Insurance Board (MIB)  because  he hadnt  made  a claim. 
Be Wiser said it was made clear to Mr S that he could  make a claim though his insurer  or go 
with the CMC and he chose the latter. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought Be Wiser 
had given Mr S the two options. But he thought it was aware that the other driver may not be 
insured and it hadnt made Mr S aware  of what would happen if he was uninsured.  He 
thought this hadnt allowed Mr S to make an informed choice and he thought  it likely that he 
wouldnt have made the same  choice if hed been better  informed. He thought  Be Wiser 
should pay Mr S £250 compensation for the trouble  and upset this caused.
Be Wiser replied that it had referred  Mr S to its claims  handlers and any concerns about  the 
CMC referral  should be directed there. It asked for an ombudsmans review, so the 
complaint has come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer has been directed to a CMC  rather  then their insurer  to deal with their 
claim, we look at the referral process. We look at the information the consumer was given 
and we also look at whether they would have acted  differently if theyd been given the full 
facts. 
Mr S emailed Be Wiser to say that he couldnt  get through on the phone to report  an 
accident. The next day, Be Wiser  replied that it didnt deal with claims and it referred him to 
its claim handlers who would be in touch. 
Mr S then made  a call where  his accident  details  were taken. Ive listened to this call. Mr Ss 
call was taken by the claims handler  who said it worked on behalf of Be Wiser. Mr S 
described the accident circumstances. He described  the other drivers car as old and rusty. 
He had the drivers  details and he said that the driver had said he was insured. 
The agent  checked the details and said she couldnt find that the other driver was insured. 
She sought advice  and then told Mr S that he might be insured through a company and this 
wasnt immediately apparent. The agent then explained  that Mr S had two options.  She said 
he could go through the CMC which would claim for the damage from the other insurer. Or 
he could claim on his policy through  his insurer but he would have to pay his £3,000 policy 
excess. Mr S chose the latter  to avoid paying his policy excess. 
Ref: DRN50053032I think that from the phone  call the agent  was reasonably  aware that the other  driver  was 
unlikely to be insured.  I think  she should then have explained to Mr S how this might affect 
his claim.  When Mr S later complained  to Be Wiser, it said that he should  have  been  told to 
claim through his policy and then seek recovery of his policy  excess through MIB. But this 
wasnt explained to Mr S at the time he spoke  with the agent.  
And so I think Mr S wasnt  provided with sufficient information for him to make  an informed 
choice about how to proceed. I think its arguably likely that Mr S would have decided 
differently if hed had better information. I think this caused him considerable trouble and 
upset as he found that MIB wouldnt  refund his losses  unless he made a claim through his 
insurance. And so I think Be Wiser  should  reasonably compensate him for this. The 
investigator recommended £250, and I think thats fair and reasonable as its what  Id require  
in similar  circumstances.
Be Wiser said it wasnt responsible for the advice the agent gave Mr S. But I dont agree. I 
think the claims handler was acting  on behalf  of Be Wiser and so it should  be responsible for 
its actions. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Be Wiser Insurance Services  Ltd to 
pay Mr S £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of 
service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5005303