K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained about  a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) 
policy that Santander UK Plc (Santander  trading at the time of sale as Alliance & Leicester) 
sold them  in July 2002.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 9th July 2019,  where I concluded that I was minded to not 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
In summary,  I found:
Mr and Mrs W applied  for a mortgage in July 2002. At the same time a MPPI policy  was 
added. The policy  covered Mrs W against  accidents,  sickness and unemployment.
I concluded the PPI policy was more  likely  than not presented as optional to                  
Mr and Mrs W. I could  see from the sales documentation provided including the 
application form that it was more likely put across as an optional  requirement and           
Mr and Mrs W signed for it.
There may have been shortcomings in the way Santander sold the policy.  But after 
careful consideration I could  not conclude  that these possible shortcomings  would have  
affected Mr and Mrs Ws decision to take the policy. 
I was unable to conclude that Mr and Mrs W would have necessarily declined the policy  
if the information they had received would have been any clearer.
Mrs W had a medical condition but I didnt think  this would have put her off from having  
the cover  as she said she hadnt taken time off work for it at that time.
I concluded that I was minded to not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and invited 
comments on this from both parties. 
my findings
I have again considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have not provided  any new or additional information  for me to consider. 
Santander did not respond. Mr and Mrs W responded through their representatives on 15th 
July 2019 and said that they had nothing further  they could add.
Without any further information,  I can find no reason to depart from my conclusion  given  
within the provisional decision. So I conclude  that the policy was not mis-sold and I do not 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Ref: DRN52478632my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and I do not make any 
award against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 October  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5247863