K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide  Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) to him alongside a loan in 2004.  
background
I issued a provisional decision in which I said I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. I 
asked the parties  for their comments  and to send me any additional information they wanted 
me to consider.  Neither party provided me with any further evidence. 
My provisional decision is attached and it forms part of my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
As neither party has provided me with any further  information or evidence, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings.  So for the reasons set out in my provisional decision,  I 
havent upheld  this complaint. I dont require Nationwide  to take any further action. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.  
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman 
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr W complains  that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) to him 
alongside a loan in 2004.  
background
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said that when Mr W took PPI out, he 
had a musculoskeletal problem. Our adjudicator  didnt think Mr W would have been able to make  a 
Ref: DRN59405532claim in respect  of that condition. He didnt  think Mr W would have bought PPI if Nationwide had 
made that clear  to him. 
Nationwide disagreed with that view.  As the parties dont agree with our adjudicator,  the matter  has 
been passed  to me to make a final decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
As things stand, I dont think this complaint should  be upheld. Ill explain why below. 
Mr W told us that he thought hed bought this policy  during a meeting with Nationwide.  But looking at 
the credit agreement, I think its more likely  that it was sold to him on the telephone. I say this 
because the document appears to have been prepared and signed on behalf of Nationwide on 4 June 
2004. But Mr W hasnt signed it until 7 June 2004. I think that suggests  the documents were prepared 
during a call and then sent to Mr W by post for his agreement.   
I cant  know  what was said to Mr W during that call. I havent  been given a call recording,  which isnt 
unusual given  the policy was sold almost 15 years ago. I wouldnt expect  either party to keep such 
records for that long. And if Mr W thought that the policy was sold during a meeting, it seems he 
doesnt remember what happened during the sale. I cant  know  what  was said during that call. So to 
help me decide whats likely to have  happened, Ive looked at the paperwork thats available from that 
time. And Ive also considered the instructions Nationwide  says it gave its call operators who were 
selling PPI at that time.  
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Mr W would have known  the PPI was optional  and he 
didnt have to take it out if he didnt  want  it. I can see from the credit agreement that PPI is set out 
separately to the main loan. And its described  fairly  prominently as optional credit insurance.  I think 
the PPI would  have been portrayed in this manner  on the telephone. If it wasnt,  Mr W would have  
probably queried it at the time when he got the credit  agreement. But the evidence  Ive seen doesnt 
suggest he did. 
The parties  agree that Nationwide didnt  advise Mr W to buy PPI. But it still had to make sure he was 
given enough information  about the cover so he could decide for himself  whether  it was a good fit for 
his needs. That information had to be fair, clear and not misleading. 
Nationwide told us that it would have told Mr W everything  it should have done.  And it referred us 
back to the instructions it gave its staff at that time. But I cant say those  instructions were followed to 
the letter.  I accept it is possible Nationwide didnt provide Mr W with enough  information  about  the 
cover. 
So the question for me now is whether Mr W would have acted differently if Nationwide had told him 
everything it should have done. To help me decide what hes likely to have done, Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions  of the PPI. And Ive also thought  about what Mr W told us about his personal 
circumstances at that time. 
I can see that if hed had to make a claim  on the PPI, Mr W would  have been covered  for up to 12 
months if he was made redundant.  And hed have  been  covered for the full term of the loan if he 
became unwell. That term was 3 years.  
Mr W told us that hed have got more than three months, but less than six months sick pay if he 
couldnt work. He also told us that he had some savings  of less than 3 months. So I think the PPI 
policy would have offered  cover for longer than his existing means would  have lasted.  
Ref: DRN59405533I havent seen anything unusual  about Mr Ws employment circumstances that would have stopped 
him from making a successful  claim  if he needed to.  The  next thing Ive considered is whether Mr W 
would have been affected by any of the policys  exclusions about medical conditions. I can see that in 
his PPI questionnaire, Mr W said that he was in good health and that he didnt have a medical 
condition. But he also made reference to having a musculoskeletal problem. 
I can see that Nationwide asked Mr W to provide some  more information about  this medical  condition. 
I also asked our adjudicator  to ask for some details about the impact that condition  had on Mr Ws 
daily life. But no reply  was received. It would  greatly assist my consideration of this complaint if Mr W 
and those advising him would provide a response to our adjudicators emails of 15 March 2019 and 
29 March  2019. 
In the absence  of any further information about this medical condition  and because  Mr W described 
himself as being in good health at the time he took the PPI out, I dont think he would have  thought  
hed have to take time off work because of that medical condition. I dont think  it would have affected 
his decision to take a PPI policy.  However,  if Mr W and those representing  him would like to now 
provide us with the information we requested, I will consider it before I issue my final decision. 
I can see that the PPI cover  that Mr W bought  was a single  premium policy. That means he had to 
borrow extra  on top of his loan to pay for it. In some circumstances, single premium  policies can be 
problematic because  if a loan is repaid early, a full refund might not be offered.  But I can see that if Mr 
W paid his loan back early,  hed have got a pro rata refund. So that means if he paid his loan back 
half way through  the expected  term, half of his PPI premium would have been refunded to him.   
With all of this in mind,  I think  this PPI policy  could  have been helpful to Mr W if hed found  himself  out 
of work.  And although he doesnt now remember, I think he probably chose to buy PPI at the relevant  
time  so it looks as though he wanted this kind of policy. It follows  that I dont think  more  or better 
information about the cover  would have put Mr W off buying it. 
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further information provided by Mr W, Im not intending to uphold his complaint.  
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 18 
May 2019 after which  I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5940553