K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Miss R took out a credit card during a meeting in a branch of Halifax in September  1993.  At 
the same  time she was sold a PPI policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Rs complaint. Miss R disagreed  with our adjudicators 
view. 
Miss Rs main complaint  is that she was informed that she had to have the PPI to get the 
credit card and she wasnt given any choice - even though she didn't need it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Rs complaint.
It isnt reasonable  to expect Miss R to remember exactly what  was discussed when she took 
out PPI so long ago. This means that what she says about  the way she was sold PPI isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  her complaint. I have to look at all the 
available information  and decide what I think is most likely.
Based on all the information Ive seen and what this service knows about the way Halifax  
sold PPI in its branches around  this time, I think its likely that Halifax  wouldve made Miss R 
aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss R, and it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for her 
based on the information Ive got about her circumstances  at the time.  
The policy wouldve paid Miss R a monthly  benefit of 10% of the balance  outstanding on her 
card at the start of the claim  if she couldnt  work through accident or sickness or if she lost 
her job unexpectedly and was out of work. It wouldve paid out for as long as Miss R was 
unable to work  and it couldve  cleared her card balance if she wasnt  able to return to work. 
 
So the policy  provided Miss R with significantly  better cover than she couldve depended on 
getting through her employer. 
I think that PPI was suitable for Miss R. 
Its possible some information Halifax gave Miss R about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  There were some things the policy didnt cover.  But it doesnt look as if 
those wouldve applied  to Miss R. So, I dont think having more information about  what  
wasnt covered under  the policy wouldve put her off taking it out.
Ref: DRN58104792As far as I can see, Miss R chose  to take out the policy and so appears to have  wanted  this 
type of cover. Overall, I think its unlikely Miss R wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided.  On balance, given the affordable benefits it gave her, I think  
its likely  she still wouldve  taken out the policy.
This means  it doesnt look as if Miss R has lost out as a result  of anything Halifax mightve 
done wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
Ive taken into account Miss Rs comments,  including what  shes said about the way the 
bank dealt with other  policies  it sold her. But I am concerned here just with her complaint 
about the PPI sold with this credit card. We look at all cases on their own merits, taking into 
account the particular circumstances which apply  in each individual  case. So what she says 
about this doesnt change  my conclusion. 
I understand that what Ive said will come  as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out 
the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.  
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5810479