K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Marks & Spencer  Financial Services Plc (M&S Bank) didnt process 
his chargeback request as he expected and gave poor customer  service
background
Mr D bought a phone online using his M&S Bank credit  card and when it arrived it wasnt  as 
described. He contacted  the retailer but they wouldnt give him a refund. The payment 
service provider offered  to refund him but said hed need to pay to send  the phone  back to 
China. Mr D made the payment from his M&S Bank  account, so he contacted it on 3 April 
2018 to discuss  the situation and was advised  that he could raise a chargeback  request 
instead. 
M&S Bank sent Mr D a claim form to fill in and return. It got the form back on 12 April and, 
during a call on 17 April, explained to Mr D that the chargeback request can take up to 60 
days to process. Mr D was unhappy  with the call and disappointed that he couldnt speak to 
a UK call centre. He put the phone down and called back later that day to complain. 
M&S Bank contacted Mr D on 19 April and said he needed to provide an expert report of the 
phone and contact  the retailer again.  It says these steps are required by the chargeback 
scheme provider, and had been  mentioned in the claim  form hed filled in. 
Mr D emailed the expert report on 20 April but M&S Bank didnt receive the email. Mr D sent 
several more emails to M&S Bank over the next fortnight but M&S Bank says that most of 
them also werent  received. Its unclear what caused  this problem. Mr D then posted  the 
information but it took time to scan and process  the documents  so the M&S Bank team  
looking into the matter  only received  the information  on 15 May. His claim was processed 
the same  day. 
Mr D complained to M&S Bank twice during the process. M&S  Bank  apologised and paid 
him £50 compensation plus his postage costs of £12.22. Mr D thought  this wasnt  enough 
and brought his complaint  to our service for an independent view.  He thinks M&S  Bank  
should pay more  compensation because of the time and trouble this caused him. He has 
also asked for M&S Bank to acknowledge its server  issues  and hire and train staff better. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ds complaint  and he asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to say that the chargeback scheme here is run by the third party card 
scheme rather than M&S Bank, and the scheme  guidelines say what evidence should  be 
provided. Im satisfied that when M&S Bank  told Mr D it couldnt process the claim without 
the expert report,  this advice was based on the scheme guidance. So although Mr D was 
understandably annoyed when M&S  Bank kept asking him to resend the report, I think   
M&S Bank was trying to make sure his claim stood the best chance  of succeeding. I also 
understand that the claim form sent to Mr D said that this would be needed, so I dont find 
that M&S  Bank unnecessarily extended the process  when it said it needed the report to 
process the claim. 
Ref: DRN50874412Its unclear from the evidence why Mr Ds emails kept going  missing. I have no doubt  that he 
sent the emails  and didnt receive  error messages, but M&S Bank has confirmed that there 
were no wider email problems reported  and other  emails were received to that email address  
over the same time period. M&S  Bank says the team has checked its email folders but cant 
locate the emails. I can see why Mr D thinks that M&S Bank has a problem with its servers  
because this happened several times, but without any more evidence  to support that view, 
on the balance  of probability  its more  likely  that it couldnt receive Mr Ds emails with 
attachments for some  other reason. In any case,  I dont think  this affected the outcome for 
Mr D here because his chargeback claim was processed in time and he received a full 
refund for the phone. 
Although I dont think the email problems and the time taken to process the items  Mr D 
posted to M&S Bank influenced  the outcome, I can see how frustrating  it would have been  
for him. Particularly because hed missed  the opportunity to be refunded by the payment 
provider but wasnt  sure his chargeback claim through M&S Bank would be successful. I can 
also see that he was unhappy with several  of the customer service agents  he spoke to.
But M&S Bank sent out the claim form promptly when Mr D contacted  it, and processed his 
chargeback claim the day his expert  report was received. It also made efforts to give him a 
UK point  of contact after he complained about the overseas call centre that handles initial 
chargeback requests. So I think M&S  Bank made  reasonable  efforts to help Mr D even 
though it couldnt solve the problem of the missing emails. Because of this, and because I 
dont think Mr D suffered a financial loss, I think M&S Banks  offer to award Mr D £50 
compensation and to cover his postage costs is reasonable here. I know Mr D will be 
disappointed by my decision, but I wont be asking M&S Bank  to do anything  more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5087441