K821x#15complaint
Ms M is unhappy that BUPA  Insurance Limited declined her claim. 
background
Ms M has private  medical insurance with BUPA which also provides cover for her family. 
Ms M said her daughter was in need of medical treatment following complications and 
abdominal pain associated the onset of her first menstrual cycle.  She said the problem was 
first identified when she had to take her daughter to her GP as a tampon had become stuck.  
After it was removed, the GP referred Ms Ms daughter  to a gynaecologist, as this had 
happened once  before and her GP had concerns about abnormal hymnal band. 
Ms Ms daughter needed an operation to divide her hymnal band  to alleviate her symptoms  
and this forms the basis of Ms Ms claim as she wants BUPA  to cover the associated costs.  
BUPA declined Ms Ms claim stating that the procedure was not covered  under its policy.  It 
said there were a number  of exclusions that applied, namely, its cosmetic and preventative 
exclusions meant it would not offer cover because the procedure  involved the removal of 
healthy tissue. It also said it does not provide cover for preventative treatments or routine 
tests, like smear tests.  But it would  cover costs associated with ensuring a cervical smear 
test could take place.
Our investigator thought BUPA had declined Ms Ms claim  unfairly. She disagreed  with the 
reasons BUPA gave and said it had applied  its terms unfairly. She recommended  that BUPA 
pay the claim.
BUPA disagreed  for mainly the same reasons.  In addition,  it said there was no evidence to 
suggest the abdominal pain was the direct result of the hymen band or normal  menstrual 
pain. It also said the GPs  referral letter did not mention anything about  pain, rather,  it 
mentioned there may be issues with intercourse in the future as well as with using sanitary 
products.
And so its for me to make a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded by 
BUPAs arguments and so I am upholding this complaint.  Ill explain why.
BUPA has relied  on different exclusions within its terms to decline this claim and so Ill list 
each term.
Under what is not covered the policy terms say:
Screening, monitoring and preventative  treatment    
preventative treatment, procedures or medical services
BUPAs highlighted  that the gynaecologists post-operative report said that had the operation  
not gone ahead,  then Ms Ms daughter would be at risk of infection, endometriosis and 
unable to participate in the cervical screening  programme.  BUPA  has gone on to say that 
Ref: DRN55756952because Ms Ms daughter  was not found to be suffering with the first two problems, and that 
shes someway from participating in the cervical screening programme,  that this should be 
considered as preventative action and therefore  not covered  under  the policy. 
But Im not persuaded by this because  although its mentioned in the report,  I consider  this to 
be a consequence  of not having the operation, rather than the reason for it. I think  its 
important here to remember why Ms Ms daughter was having  the operation in the first place 
 to alleviate the complications she was experiencing  with her periods. The other problems 
mentioned above  were  identified after the examination and upon  completion of the 
procedure and therefore not the cause for the operation.  
BUPAs highlighted  that the GPs  referral letter  does  not mention  anything about menstrual 
pain and its right. The referral  talks about concerns over the hymnal band making it difficult 
for Ms Ms daughter to use tampons and the pain she went through to have them  removed. 
This in isolation is not enough to persuade me BUPA should have accepted the claim  to 
simply allow the use of tampons. But the wider circumstances of this case  are pivotal in my 
decision making here and should  have also be fairly considered by BUPA.  
Ms Ms daughter was prescribed medication in December 2017 to suppress her period 
altogether until shed been  treated. This leads me to believe that, on balance,  there  was a 
discussion with her GP about menstrual pain and that she was not solely referred  to a 
gynaecologist on the basis that she wanted  to use tampons.  I say this mainly because  there 
are other sanitary products that she would have been able to use, had this been  the only 
issue here.
Further, Ive seen the post-operative  notes  from the treating gynaecologist who explained  
that after shed  completed the procedure, 
quite significant discharge was found in the form of mucus, demonstrating that there was 
incomplete drainage  of the vagina and I am pleased to hear that your pain and discomfort  
associated with your menstrual cycle is completely resolved and the vaginal pain has also 
resolved and her cyclical, vaginal and abdominal pain have resolved     
And so although  this is mentioned later, Im persuaded, on balance, that pain was also a 
symptom that had been present throughout the life of this problem. I think it perhaps became 
more prominent  when Ms Ms daughter  was finally able to benchmark, or compare the pain 
she initially  felt, against a typical menstrual cycle albeit post-operative. This is also further 
supported by Ms Ms daughter no longer  needing  to take pain medication during her 
menstrual cycle. I know BUPAs made   the point that this could  have all been  usual 
menstrual pain to begin with and that the gynaecologists report does not specifically 
mention that the pain was linked  to the hymen  band. But I think this is a weak argument and 
that its entirely reasonable to make  this connection,  particularly as Ms Ms daughter 
confirmed the pain is now completely gone  following this procedure  which  is also detailed 
in the medical  notes.  
BUPA also referenced the following  exclusion;
what is not covered..
we do not pay for any treatment, including surgery:
Ref: DRN55756953which is for or involves the removal of healthy  tissue (ie tissue which  is not diseased), 
or the removal of surplus or fat tissue 
whether or not the treatment it is needed  for medical  or psychological reasons
In this case the tissue was not diseased, but the condition made things  difficult  for Ms Ms 
daughter particularly whilst she was menstruating. The exclusion BUPA  is relying on relates  
to  cosmetic, reconstructive or weight loss treatment which I think  is most likely to be 
designed to change someones appearance.  BUPA has already accepted this was not a 
cosmetic procedure and so I dont think its fair to apply this exclusion in the specific  
circumstances of this complaint. And for the reasons Ive outlined above Im satisfied Ms Ms 
daughter was experiencing pain. So I dont think its reasonable for BUPA to reject the claim 
on the basis it was a cosmetic procedure in the circumstances  of this case.
BUPA did not have  access to all of the gynaecologists notes until November 2018, however, 
from this point, I think BUPA had enough information to realise  this was a claim it should  
have accepted. Especially as this information,  in my view, connected the dots and was able 
to demonstrate other symptoms experienced by Ms Ms daughter, like menstrual pain and 
her response to the treatment. 
In BUPAs response to our investigator, it stated it would not provide cover for regular 
testing, like the cervical smear programme. I understand what  may have prompted this 
statement given the gynaecologists  report said;
she would have  been  unable to participate  in the cervical screening programme as it was 
not possible to pass a speculum of any size
BUPAs terms  are clear about this and so if Ms M was attempting  to claim for a cervical  
smear test then it would not be covered under the policy. But I should make clear  this 
procedure was not a cervical  smear test, nor was it to ensure Ms Ms daughter  could have 
one at a later date.  I note that her gynaecologist has suggested this is now possible but 
again, this is simply  a consequence  of having this procedure and not the reason for it.  
Given the division  of the hymnal band has now not only corrected  Ms Ms daughters 
problems with her period,  but will now also allow her to take part in the cervical screening 
programme, I would  have  expected BUPA to have perhaps taken a more reasonable and 
proactive approach in the circumstances  of this particular case by accepting  her claim. I also 
say this because  BUPA confirmed it would have provided cover for this procedure  if the 
reason were  to allow Ms Ms daughter to take part in the cervical  screening programme. 
Although I note its caveat  that she would have needed to be a bit older.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Ms Ms complaint and BUPA Insurance  Limited 
must;
Pay Ms Ms claim subject to the policys remaining terms and conditions plus 8% 
simple interest from November 2018 until its settled.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Ref: DRN55756954Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5575695