K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Acenden Limited  are taking  legal  action against him when hes been  
making payments  towards his secured loan. He wants Acenden  to agree to maintain his 
existing payment arrangement with them until hes repaid the balance,  which  will take a little 
over three years.
background
Mr C took out a loan in 2008. He borrowed £18,000 (plus  fees)  on a repayment basis  for 12 
years. The loan was secured by a legal charge on his property, ranking behind the first 
charge to his mortgage lender. Acenden  are administering the loan on the lenders behalf.
Prior to 2015, Mr C was maintaining his contractual monthly payment of £467.77. In 2015, 
his elderly mother was diagnosed with a terminal illness, and he became her carer. Since 
then, Mr C has had difficulty making the contractual monthly payment. Mr C hasnt worked  
since then, and has explained hes not been able to find a suitable  job that allows  him to 
maintain his caring responsibilities. Since Mr C took the loan out, hes paid around £45,000 
in total towards  the loan.
When he explained his situation, Acenden asked Mr C for evidence of his mothers illness.  
They agreed to freeze  interest on Mr Cs loan, and they havent applied  any interest since  
June 2015. They also agreed to a payment holiday  from December 2015 until February 
2016. After this, Acenden agreed to Mr Cs proposals to make  reduced payments of £200  
and then £300 per month. Mr C has maintained  these arrangements, apart from missing two 
payments in the last two years.
Earlier this year, Acenden  assessed things again,  because the arrears  balance on the loan 
continued to increase. They said the arrangement of £300 wasnt  affordable  for Mr C based 
on his income and expenditure, so they began legal proceedings. At this point Mr C still 
owed just over £12,000  on the loan, which was arrears.
Mr C complained. He said he wasnt happy  that Acenden were pursuing repossession  when 
hes making monthly payments of £300  towards  the loan. He said he was happy to continue  
to pay this for as long as Acenden would let him to clear the outstanding balance. He also 
complained that Acenden asked for evidence of his mothers medical  condition,  as he didnt 
know why this was needed.
Acenden didnt uphold the complaint. They  said that continuing with the current  arrangement 
would not be in Mr Cs best interests,  as it would put him in a worse financial position. They 
did however apologise for any distress they caused  when asking for evidence  of his mothers  
condition.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 21 December 2018. This is what I said.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
The regulators rules require businesses to act fairly to those  in financial difficulty. They  must 
also consider the individual circumstances  of the consumer, and make reasonable efforts  to 
Ref: DRN52249412reach an agreement  over the method  of repaying  any arrears. A lender should  only consider 
repossessing a property  as a last resort.
Im satisfied that Acenden have taken steps  to help Mr C when hes been in financial  
difficulty, by agreeing to payment arrangements, and by not applying any interest  to the loan 
since Mr C made them  aware of his situation. But Im unclear  about the reasons why 
Acenden have now decided to review  their position,  and begin legal action.
Mr C has been paying £300 a month towards  the loan, which he says he can maintain. As 
no interest is being applied to the loan, the balance is reducing each month. Acenden  
havent suggested they intend to start charging interest again  on this loan, so whilst theyve 
said the arrears are increasing, the overall  outstanding balance that Mr C owes  is still 
reducing. I appreciate  the earlier income and expenditure assessments suggested that the 
existing arrangement wasnt affordable for Mr C, but hes been working with a charity,  and 
has found a way to make  the payments. Im satisfied  this has been evidenced by the fact 
that Mr C has maintained the arrangement,  with the exception of a couple of months.
Mr C has been pro-active  in keeping Acenden informed  of his situation,  and has come up 
with proposals to repay the balance outstanding on the loan. Its clear that the unavoidable 
situation with his mother is the reason that Mr C cant meet the full contractual  monthly 
payment, because before his mother fell ill he was maintaining this with little problems.
Acenden have said that maintaining the existing arrangement wouldnt be in Mr Cs best 
interests, but I dont  see why this would be the case.  Mr C lives alone in his home, and has 
said he has nowhere else he could  live. He has a first charge mortgage with an existing 
lender, who has agreed to give him more time to repay the mortgage, given his situation.  Im 
satisfied hes shown  a willingness to pay as much as hes able to towards this loan,  and has 
kept Acenden  actively informed  of his situation.  The outstanding  balance  on the loan is 
reducing each  month, and whilst  I appreciate the loan wont  be fully repaid  by the end of the 
original term based  on the current arrangement, it should only take a little over three years to 
repay it in full.
Considering everything, and particularly Mr Cs individual circumstances that hes 
unfortunately found himself in, Im not persuaded that by saying  they propose to repossess 
his home,  Acenden are treating him fairly in line with their obligations. Im not satisfied 
Acenden have explored all options, and dont consider theyve reached a stage of last resort, 
which taking steps  towards repossession should  only be. Therefore, I consider it would be 
fair for Acenden to allow Mr C the opportunity  to maintain the current arrangement, before 
taking any other steps to recover  the balance.
Mr C has been through  a difficult  time over the last few years,  having  to give up work to care 
for his elderly mother whos very unwell, whilst also trying to meet  his financial commitments.  
Because of this, Im satisfied that Acendens actions have caused Mr C unnecessary  worry 
and upset, as hes been worried that on top of his existing troubles, he may also face losing 
his home.  Having considered the general  levels of award this service makes, Im persuaded 
£300 would  be fair compensation here for Mr C. 
I appreciate why Mr C may also be upset  that Acenden asked for evidence of his mothers 
illness, but theyve  apologised for this and Im satisfied an apology is sufficient.
responses to my provisional  decision
Ref: DRN52249413Mr C explained that whilst  he accepts  what Ive said, Acenden have also added  legal fees 
onto his mortgage balance as a result of them starting possession proceedings. He didnt 
think this was fair and wanted these refunded too.
Acenden didnt challenge what Id said. They also agreed to remove  the legal fees from the 
mortgage account. They did explain however that because the current arrangement is less 
than the contractual monthly payment, they may not be able to stop letters going out to Mr C 
about arrears on the account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party have  provided any comments that change  my decision.  However,  as Acenden  
had added legal fees to the mortgage  account   as Im satisfied they started  legal action 
unfairly, I consider  these  fees should  also be removed  from the outstanding balance  on the 
account.
If Acenden are unable  to stop automated letters going to Mr C about arrears on his account,  
Id expect them to engage with him about the position of the mortgage to reassure him about 
the correct position, and to avoid any more distress  and inconvenience going forward.
So for the reasons I previously explained, I still uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
Considering everything, I uphold this complaint and instruct  Acenden Limited to:
put a stop to the legal  proceedings theyve  started.  
allow Mr C to maintain the current arrangement of paying £300 per month  towards 
the loan without interest being  charged.
remove any legal fees that have been  added to the mortgage account.
pay Mr C £300 for the distress and inconvenience theyve caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5224941