K820x#14complaint
Mrs G says Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold  her payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policies.  
background
Mrs G bought single premium policies alongside loans taken in January 1999,  May 2002, 
October 2002 and June  2004. The loans were in joint names,  but the PPI covered just 
Mrs G.
The complaint was made to us by Mrs G only, without the involvement of Mr G. As the 
policies only provided  cover for Mrs G I have  only considered her circumstances when 
looking at this complaint.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mrs G disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs G says that PPI wasnt mentioned but said that insurance cover  was positioned as 
hand in hand with the loans. So I think shes saying she was told that she had to take out 
PPI in order to be accepted  for the loans. So Ive looked first at whether Nationwide  made it 
clear to Mrs G that she had a choice,  and obtained  her consent, in taking out the policies. 
Nationwide has provided a copy of the loan agreements that Mrs G signed to get the loans 
in January 1999, May 2002, October 2002 and June 2004. The credit agreements describe  
the PPI as, Optional Credit Insurance. The agreements explain the cost of the PPI and 
show how that adds  to the total monthly payment.  So, in order  for me to find it more likely 
that Nationwide failed to make it clear to Mrs G that she had a choice  about  taking the 
policies; Id have  to think it more likely that Mrs G was told something that was different to 
what was written on the loan agreements. 
Where there is limited evidence  for me to consider, I need to make  my decision based  on a 
balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider  what I do have, look at what both sides 
have said, and make a decision based  on what I think most likely happened.
Without any evidence  to support Mrs Gs testimony,  I think its more likely that PPI was 
presented as optional for all the policies and Mrs G chose to take it on each occasion  and 
thats how it came to be applied to her loan accounts, even if she does not remember that 
now.
From what  Ive seen, and from experience of how Nationwide  sold these policies generally, 
I dont think it recommended PPI to Mrs G. And Ive been shown no documentary evidence  
Ref: DRN52770452that suggests that the policies were  sold on an advised  basis. That still meant  Nationwide 
needed to provide Mrs G with enough information  to allow  her to make an informed choice  
about the suitability of the PPI. Ive looked at each  of the sales  with that in mind.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I dont think better  information  would have stopped Mrs G from buying 
the policies. I explain  why I say that below. 
Mrs G was eligible for the policies. And there  are things that sometimes arent  covered  by 
policies like these, or for which the benefit might  be more difficult to get than may have 
been expected, but it seems that Mrs G wouldnt have been affected  by those things. 
The loan agreements  Mrs G signed  made  it clear the PPI was an extra  cost and set out 
what the costs were  both with and without interest. 
Ive considered what Mrs G has said about  the sick pay shed receive  from her employer.  
She told us she would have received full pay for six months and half pay for six months and 
depending on the illness it was possible she could have been medically retired. But as 
Nationwide didnt make  a recommendation, it was for Mrs G to decide whether or not the 
policy met her needs. She would have known  her sick pay when  she chose to buy the policy.  
So I dont  think it would  have made  a difference  if shed been given clearer information.
Id add that Mrs G could have got quite a lot more back from the PPI in claims than it cost, 
as the benefits  were  considerable.  The PPI policies sold to Mrs G could have paid out for 
the full term of the loans in the event Mrs G was too ill to work, and for up to 12 months in 
the event she lost her job. So I think Mrs G would have seen it as worth having,  despite the 
generous sick pay she says she was entitled to, the family help she said she could have 
relied on and the savings  she says she held.
And although Mrs G told us she had some  savings, she was taking out loans rather  than 
use her savings. So I think she wanted  to keep any savings intact. And the PPI wouldve 
allowed her to do so if she couldnt  work.
All of the policies  appear to have  been flexible in that Mrs G may have got back  a pro rata 
refund of the PPI premium if she cancelled the single premium  policies early. So I dont  
think this meant the policies werent right for her. 
I havent seen  anything to make  me think any of the policies were  unaffordable to Mrs G or 
that she had a need to keep costs down. And whilst I could understand it if Mrs G thought  
now that the single premium  policies sold were expensive, I think  the costs were set out 
clearly on the agreements. And given how long the policies could have paid out for, most  
likely, if Mrs G made a successful claim,  she could have got back  quite a bit more than she 
paid for them.  So I dont think that in this case the cost made  the policies unsuitable for 
Mrs G.
So, for the reasons given above,  I dont think better  information about the PPI would have 
put Mrs G off taking out any of the PPI policies  she was sold. 
I understand Mrs Gs says she been  compensated for other PPI policies shes  been  sold by 
other businesses and that she should  also be compensated for these sales.  But 
Nationwides defended these sales, as its entitled  to do. So its my role to consider what  
Ref: DRN52770453the fair and reasonable outcome should be given the circumstances of this case. Having 
done so, I dont think Mrs Gs lost out because of how Nationwide  sold her the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5277045