K822xcomplaint
Miss B has complained  about  her home  insurer Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) 
because it has declined  liability for repairing some areas of her property which  she feels  are 
water damaged, and other areas which she thinks  are suffering from subsidence.
background
Miss B has a house  which,  at the front, appears  to be two storeys  with a side door to the rear 
garden of the house and a single storey  garage  to the right.  But the ground  behind the house 
slopes away. Viewing  the property from the rear shows  the house  is three  storeys and the 
garage is two storeys.  There  is (or was)  a structure at the back  of the lower storey of the 
garage. On top of that structure was a deck. There was also a deck at the rear of the house, 
in line with the floor of the lower ground floor of the property. This deck sat on soil, the soil 
was contained  by a wall (made of gravel  boards) which bridged the ground below and to the 
front edge  of the deck. Steps ran down across the front of the wall to the garden below. The 
garden continues  to slope away from the house.
In 2016 Miss B, whilst insured by a different provider,  started  noticing  standing water in the 
garden. Around that time the local council visited to make enquiries as some of their houses 
were being  affected  by standing water. Miss Bs then insurer  sent a drain  specialist and it 
checked the drains which it believed were Miss Bs responsibility and found no leaks.
In January 2017 Miss B changed her insurer to RSA. In April Miss B again became 
concerned about  the standing water at the property. She contacted RSA and it sent a drain 
specialist. A minor leak was found  on a drain and repaired. But Miss B wasnt convinced  that 
had resolved the matter. She put some dye in her neighbours toilet and the coloured water  
surfaced in Miss Bs garden. It transpired that there was a shared drain (owned by the local 
water authority) that ran across Miss Bs property below the structure behind the garage and 
beneath the decked area at the rear of the house.  This drain was leaking and was 
subsequently repaired by the water  authority.
In August  2017  RSA sent a loss adjuster to Miss Bs home. He noted that both areas of 
decking were suffering  from rot, the retaining wall was leaning,  some paths and a patio were 
subsiding. RSA accepted liability for reinstating  the paths and patio. But it said it wouldnt 
reinstate the decking or that wall. It said the policy didnt cover rot, the rot had likely been  
going on a long time and it had likely been  allowed to occur because  a damp proof  
membrane hadnt  been installed under  the decking to protect the timbers from damp soil. 
Regarding the wall it said it wasnt constructed sufficiently to be a retaining wall and it had 
failed due to its poor construction,  if it had been  built better it wouldnt have been affected by 
the leak. It said it would pay £300  compensation for delays.
Miss B complained to us and also drew RSAs attention to cracks  shed noticed in the 
property. A horizontal crack in the brick-work, on either side, had developed half way up the 
rear window on the garage. There were also a couple of hairline cracks in the lower room of 
the house. RSA decided  to undertake investigations  to establish if the property was 
subsiding, and if so what the cause of that was.
Meanwhile our investigator considered Miss Bs complaint about  the water  damage. He 
thought RSAs decision regarding the decking  was reasonable but noted the retaining wall 
had been fine until the water leak.  On balance he felt RSA should repair the wall and pay
£300 compensation. He also felt RSA should continue  to investigate the subsidence.
Ref: DRN58069502RSA said if it felt the wall had been  damaged by the incident then it would have included it in 
repairs. But it didnt accept that was likely the case.  It said subsidence wasnt part of this 
complaint. Miss B wasnt happy, and even less so when RSA wrote to her declining  liability 
for subsidence. RSA said the garage had subsided slightly but this was because  of poor 
design of the foundations, which means the damage  is excluded from cover. It said the 
foundations of the house were fine and the cracks were  thermal movement  the house 
wasnt subsiding.
The complaint was passed  to me and I noted the extensive water leak and subsidence  
damage. Often the one leads to the other, so I felt it was necessary for me to consider both 
elements within  this one complaint. RSA and Miss B agreed to my doing that and I issued a 
provisional decision. I explained  that I didnt intend to make RSA do anything more  regarding 
the damage at Miss Bs home, but I did think it should pay some compensation. 
The parties have  now responded.  RSA accepted my findings.  Miss B was unhappy with my 
findings and made some  comments  for me to consider. Ive done so, my provisional  findings, 
Miss Bs comments in reply  and my responses are set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B said referring to the leak as minor  (in my background) was wrong   it was significant, 
and the reference to it being minor had likely skewed  the other findings.
I can assure Miss B that I accept a major  leak occurred. But there was also a minor leak 
which RSA found  and fixed and which it believed had resolved the problem. That is until 
further water  was found pooling in Miss Bs garden  and she did a dye test. Then it came to 
light that there was a more significant  issue with the shared drain. I can see and accept that 
there was an awful lot of water, at times,  in Miss Bs garden.
Looking in detail  at my provisional findings,  I said:
decking
I think RSAs decision  regarding this was reasonable, if not necessarily for the correct reason 
(you wouldnt  usually  install a damp  proof membrane under decking as this would cause rot, 
rather than prevent it). Ive seen photos of both decking areas. They were both suffering from 
advanced rot. Whilst one was sat on the soil, which was likely more  damp  than normal for an 
extended period,  the other  wasnt. And Im also mindful that there was a significant amount of 
soil between  the damaged drain  and the deck  behind the house, with the main  garden 
sloping away. And its clear water was draining  down the garden.  So I think  its unlikely the 
top of the soil, on which the deck was sat, was constantly sodden.  Im not persuaded that the 
decking became  rotten because of the water leak. Im not going to make RSA liable for its 
reinstatement.
Miss B didnt comment on this. 
I continued provisionally to consider the retaining  wall:
Ref: DRN58069503wall
The wall is very thin and not reinforced  at all. It isnt fit for the purpose  it was being asked to 
fulfil. It may have been alright for a time but that doesnt mean it was designed and built 
sufficiently to do that job. And as Ive said above, Im not convinced the soil behind the wall 
was constantly  soaked, which might make me think extra  pressure had been placed  on the 
wall such  as to force it to lean outwards  with the weight of the soil bearing on it. Id also
expect  if the water leak had caused damage to the wall, that this would  have shown at the 
base of the wall, where  the soil, both behind and below it, would have been wettest. All in all, 
Im not persuaded the wall failed due to the water  leak. Im not going to make  RSA liable for 
its reinstatement.
Miss B said the wall had been constructed of breeze blocks as well as gravel boards. The 
wall, Miss B said,  had been fine until the water leak, at which  point water  had built up behind  
it and had leaked slowly out running downhill.
I havent seen  that the wall was constructed of breeze blocks  as well. RSAs report noted the 
wall was thin, at the top at least. And that is supported by photos.
I appreciate that this is what Miss B believes happened,  at least  in part as she says she was 
told this by RSAs  loss adjuster. But I havent seen any comment  from the adjuster in this 
respect. And Im mindful that whether the leak was slow or not, a lot of water did disburse 
down the garden. The water sat in pools which suggests the ground beneath it was holding  a 
lot of water  too (or it would have drained away rather than forming  pools). In the absence of 
any expert evidence  to support this, I have difficulty then in accepting that as well as:
draining into the soil of the garden until it is so sodden it cant absorb any more  water;
disbursing downhill;  and
pooling on top of the ground in places;
The water was also soaked upwards into the soil behind the wall and exerted more pressure 
on the wall than it would normally  be expected  to withstand from usual climatic conditions.  
And that the greatest pressure was exerted towards  the top of the wall causing it to lean 
outwards. I understand Miss B feels strongly about  this, but Im not persuaded by her 
comments to change  my view on RSAs  liability for the damage to the wall.
I continued within my provisional  findings  to consider the issue of subsidence:
 
subsidence
With regret for any disappointment this causes Miss B I think RSAs response  on this 
occasion is fair and reasonable.  Ill explain why.
I had wondered, as I mentioned above,  whether  the crack damage at Miss Bs property might 
all be linked to the prolonged  water leak. Having seen the results of RSAs investigations, Im 
satisfied it isnt.
RSAs investigations  show  the house  is built on deep foundations which are supported in 
solid ground. Its experts view is that the cracks arent indicative of the house  moving  
downwards. Having  seen the photos and taken into account the detail about the foundations, 
I think RSAs conclusion  is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN58069504The garage, RSA says,  is a different matter. That is moving. But RSA thinks that is because 
its foundations  are very shallow  150mm. Most conservatories, which are fairly lightweight  
single storey constructions, have 300mm of foundations. The garages  foundations also sit 
on made ground  soil and debris  brought to the site to level it. Made ground is often prone 
to movement. The foundations were checked  at a corner with a wall that forms the side of the 
steps that provide access to the rear garden from the door to the side of the house. The 
foundation for the steps was seen to be much deeper  and sitting  on solid,  stable ground.  The 
steps werent damaged or suffering  subsidence. The subsidence  damage  was restricted to 
the garage only. The drain  that was leaking did run across the back of the garage,  and the 
steps, but not directly at their base. The drain  was downslope  a little. Taking all this into 
account I think its reasonable  for RSA to conclude that the garage has most likely  suffered 
because of its shallow,  and therefore insufficient, foundations. As damage  caused by poor 
design is excluded  from cover,  I think RSAs decision to decline liability for repairing the 
garage is fair and reasonable.
In response Miss B said joints in the pipe had come apart and lots of water leaked  under the 
garage. Miss B doesnt accept that the garage  has only shallow foundations as, she says,  
RSAs contractor dug around the conservatory  and those foundations would be shallower. 
The garage was built at the same  time as the house  so would have the same depth 
foundations.
Miss B went on to say that the garage  floor now has holes in it due to the subsidence. She 
asked if I could explain whether my findings meant the garage  had never  been covered  
because of its foundations. 
Clearly a lot of water did escape from the pipe  but I remain mindful that the pipe was 
situated downhill  slightly from the footings under the garage. And Ive seen no expert  
evidence which makes  me think the subsidence  of the garage was caused by wet soil 
beneath the garage being unable to bear its weight.
I dont know if the garage was built at the same  time as the house, but even if it was that 
wouldnt necessarily mean it had been built with foundations of the same depth. It is quite 
common for conservatories to have relatively shallow foundations as conservatories are 
usually light-weight  structures. Miss Bs garage in comparison  isnt a lightweight  structure  
and I am satisfied that RSA did investigate the foundations of the garage (in the corner by 
the base of the steps) and that they were found to be shallow. 
The current  findings  dont  mean the garage has never had cover. The issue  with the 
foundations is relevant  to the cover  available regarding  subsidence,  heave  and landslip.  And 
in the circumstances of this claim RSA felt that it wasnt liable for the subsidence which had 
occurred because it had likely resulted from the shallow foundations, rather than the leaking 
water. I remain of the view that is a fair and reasonable  conclusion  in this case.  
In my provisional findings, I went on to consider how RSA had handled the claim:
claim handling
RSA did accept it had caused some  delays during its investigations into the water  leak.  It 
only began  dealing with matters in April 2017 and it isnt unusual  for leaks from underground  
pipes to be difficult to diagnose. RSA notes  that some delays were caused by the water  
authority, although  it accepts its experts  didnt always provide reports  as quickly as they 
might have done and that given the prolonged nature of the leak, its further delay was 
Ref: DRN58069505frustrating for Miss B. As a result it offered £300 compensation.
RSA began looking into the subsidence in September 2018. But its report from August 2017 
shows there were significant cracks in the garage  even at that time.  I think RSA should  
reasonably have investigated  this issue much earlier. I think  its delay  in doing so has only 
added to Miss Bs frustration suffered when it declined liability  for this damage. Its also 
meant the whole thing  has rumbled on for longer than it should  have  done.  If RSA had 
investigated the two issues alongside one another there would have been less disruption for 
Miss B and its answer on the subsidence  could have been  given in March 2018,  when  
liability was declined for the decking  and the wall. I think RSA should pay Miss B further 
compensation.
Overall, whilst I appreciate that this has been a complicated claim which  has, at times, 
involved third-parties,  I think RSA did cause some  delays  and could  have handled some 
issues better. I think it should pay Miss B a total of £600 compensation. If the £300 
previously offered has been  paid, then it will now only need  to pay the remaining £300.
Miss B didnt object  to what  Id said in this respect. 
conclusion
I appreciate that this will be disappointing  for Miss B but, having reviewed her comments  in 
reply, I havent been persuaded to change my view on the outcome of her complaint from 
that provisionally stated.  My provisional findings now form part of the findings  of this, my final 
decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. Whilst I dont  require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc do 
anything more regarding  the damage, I do require it to pay a total of £600 compensation to 
Miss B (itll only need to pay £300,  if £300 has already been paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5806950