K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs O says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 2001.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mrs O owed  on her store card.  The policy  would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Mrs O couldnt  work  because 
she had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided  life cover as well as 
price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Os case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Os complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing  for Mrs O 
and Ill explain my reasons for reaching this outcome.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs O that the policy was optional and get her consent before 
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Mrs O says she wasnt  aware that she had PPI on this 
card account.
Ive been given a copy of the application form completed at the time of the sale and I can 
see that there is a section  to apply for Account  Cover  the name  used by FICL for PPI. In 
this section it says you should only sign if you want to take out Account Cover. 
Mrs O has signed the section to confirm she wanted  the cover. If Mrs O didnt want to take 
out the PPI she could  have left this section  blank. And Mrs O has signed  the overall 
application form which suggests it reflected what she wanted. 
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL  made it clear the policy was optional and Mrs O 
chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt want  it.
From looking  at the paperwork supplied,  I dont think FICL recommended the policy  to 
Mrs O. So it didnt  have  to check if the policy was right for her. But FICL did need to make 
sure it gave Mrs O clear enough  information  about the policy  to enable  her to decide for 
herself if she should take the policy. 
Ref: DRN57426772Its possible  the information FICL gave Mrs O about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mrs O 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or suffering from a medical  condition  of which 
she was already aware.
Mrs O has said she would  have received some sick pay from her employer but she doesnt  
recall how much. And she has told us that she had savings she could  have used. But this 
policy would have paid out until she was able to return to work  or until the outstanding 
balance has been  paid  whichever came  first. This would  have  been  in addition to any sick 
pay she would have  received. And by having this policy it would have enabled her to protect 
any savings she did have  for another purpose or use them  to help pay any other  living 
expenses. So I still think this policy could have provided a useful benefit to her.
When taking everything into consideration, I dont think Mrs O has lost out as a result  of 
anything FICL may have  done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5742677