K821x#15complaint
M W has complained that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, acted irresponsibly when it 
repeatedly increased  the limit on his credit  card.
background
Mr W took out an Aqua credit card in April 2013.  The credit  limit, at the time, was £250. Over  
the course of the next two years, Aqua  increased  the credit  limit as follows:
July 2013 increased to £1,050
November 2013 increased to £1,550
April 2014 increased to £2,550
August 2015 increased to £3, 350
Thus, over 28 months,  Mr Ws credit  limit increased  from £250 to £3, 350.
Mr W said he struggled with debts and with the repayments. As a result,  he incurred interest  
and charges, which pushed him further into debt.  He complained  that Aqua didnt carry out 
any affordability checks before increasing  the credit  limit and that the lending was 
irresponsible.
He asked Aqua to refund the interest and charges and to restore the credit limit to £250.
Aqua refused to refund him. It said it had carried out affordability  checks when he opened  
the account and it was satisfied that the credit limit was affordable. Also,  it reviewed his 
account regularly  and was satisfied with the way he was managing  it. It concluded that the 
increases to the credit limit were  affordable  for him.
Mr W wasnt happy with this outcome and so he brought his complaint  to this service.
An investigator looked into his complaint and decided to uphold it. He concluded that the late 
payments and his credit  history showed  that M W couldnt afford  the increases to his credit 
limit. He recommended that Aqua refund all the interest and charges accrued since  July 
2013 and that it remove  any adverse information  on his credit file to reflect that the lending  
was irresponsible.
Aqua disagreed with the investigators view. It has asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. This 
includes the FCAs Consumer Credit Handbook (CONC)  and the UK Finance guidelines.
Having done so, I consider that the increases in the credit limit were  unaffordable for Mr W.
Ref: DRN54620812The FCAs rules require  Aqua to undertake  a reasonable assessment of Mr Ws 
creditworthiness before significantly increasing the credit limit on his account. (CONC 5.2.A).  
This includes an assessment of whether  the increases were sustainable  in other words, 
that Mr W could  repay the debt without undue difficulty.
Im satisfied that the increases in the credit  limit were significant. The limit jumped  from £250 
in April 2013 to £1,050  in July 2013. Thats an increase of £800  in just three months. Within 
28 months, his credit  limit had jumped by £3,100. So, I consider that Aqua had an obligation  
to check that the increases were affordable for Mr W.
Affordability checks should be proportionate  so a lender might not do the same level of 
checks as it does at the opening of an account. But, typically, a lender will consider the 
information, which it already has about  the customer, including how theyve managed their 
account and the customers ability to make  repayments as they fall due. It may refresh 
checks with the credit  reference agencies.
Aqua said it considered the information it already  had on Mr W. It said Mr W always  made 
payments and he always brought his account back under the limit before his next statement 
so it was satisfied  with the way he was managing his account.
It also explained that, according  to its lending criteria, late payments and being over the 
credit limit were no bars to an increase  in credit limits. And it said it wouldnt increase the 
limit where the balance  was over the limit at the time an increase is applied, or where, for 
three consecutive months, the customer was over the limit and had incurred an over limit 
charge. 
However, I think there were  signs  that Mr W was in financial difficulties.  
Aqua has relied  heavily  on Mr Ws ability to make  payments every  month  and to bring  his 
account under the limit, so Ive looked at his statements.  The July 2013 statement showed 
that he was just over the £250  limit in June 2013.  I would  agree that on its own,  this wouldnt 
give cause for concern.  
However, as the investigator pointed out, he exceeded the credit  limit on the next three 
statements and he incurred over the limit charges  in August and September 2013 and a late 
payment fee in the same month. Yet, Aqua increased his credit limit by £500 in November 
2013.
Mr W continued to maximise the credit  limits and to exceed them.  His annual  statement for 
2013/14 shows that he paid interest of £321.87  and charges of £36 for missed payments 
and £60 for exceeding the limit. The annual statement  for 2014/15 shows  he paid interest of 
£815, missed payment  charges of £60 and over the limit charges of £108.
I can see that Mr W did make regular  payments  and managed to bring  his balance back  to 
under the credit limit but only just  and that wasnt always the situation.  So, for example, the 
closing balances on his statements for August to September 2013  were above the limit of 
£1,050. It was the same for June, August and September 2014.
I also accept that, occasionally, a customer might  miss a payment or make  a late payment 
but I dont consider this was occasional with Mr W and, as mentioned,  each time the limit 
increased, he made full use of it.
Ref: DRN54620813Ive also looked  at Mr Ws credit  file. During the relevant period, Mr W was also taking out 
payday loans,  sometimes two or more in the same month. I think  the missed and late 
payments shouldve prompted Aqua to check his credit file. Had it done  so, it wouldve seen 
these loans and I dont think it wouldve increased  his credit limit.
In these circumstances, I consider that the increases in Mr Ws credit  limit were unaffordable 
and unsustainable.  In reaching this conclusion, Ive also taken into account guidance by UK 
Finance on credit card increases, which cites regular late and/or missed payments or paying  
the minimum payment  over an extended  period as indicators of financial difficulties.
I think its fair and reasonable, therefore, for Aqua to restore his account  to the position it 
was in before the increase in July 2013.
my final decision
My final decision is that I am upholding  this complaint and Im asking NewDay Ltd, trading as 
Aqua, to:
refund  the charges and interest  added to the account since July 2013 and 
restore the account the position  it was in before the increase in July 2013
remove any adverse information  on Mr Ws credit file relating to this account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020
Razia Karim
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN5462081