K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that Santander UK Plc took money from his account  that had incorrectly  
been put into it, without giving him sufficient notice.  This left him overdrawn as he had spent 
the money not realising that it wasnt his. 
Mr E wants  to be compensated for Santanders delay in telling him about  the money not 
being his as it has left him in debt. 
background
Mr E holds a current account with Santander. There is no overdraft facility on this account. 
On 11 January 2019, Mr E received an alert from Santander telling him that his account was 
overdrawn. He says he checked his recent  transactions and found that a dispute adjustment 
had been made on his account where  £3,897.63  was taken from it. He didnt know what this 
transaction was for. He says that he was abroad  at the time so, when he came back  to the 
UK, he called  Santander  on 14 January 2019.  
Santander told him that, when he had paid 50 Euros into his account  at the post office on 19 
December 2018,  the post office had made a mistake  and credited his account with 3,937.00. 
The post office filed a dispute against  this on 19 December 2018. 
Mr E says that he wasnt told about  this dispute  until he called Santander on 14 January 
2019. 
He says that he did notice a rise in his account balance but didnt check  his statement to see 
where it was from as he was expecting  some money from his family for his birthday. 
Because of this, Mr E says that he spent more money than he could afford and he is now left 
with a debt. 
Mr E complained to Santander. He thinks they shouldve  phoned  or sent a text, letter or 
email to tell him about the dispute  with the post office instead of leaving him in the dark until 
11 January 2019.  
Santander didnt  uphold Mr Es complaint. They didnt accept that they had made  an error as 
they had followed  the right process  in debiting  Mr Es account. 
Mr E didnt agree with this so he came  to us. 
Our investigator considered the complaint.  He found  that Santander had sent a letter to Mr E 
on 27 December 2018 telling him about  the dispute  with the post office. 
He also had evidence  from Santander showing that Mr E had logged  into his online banking 
multiple times on 19 December 2018 both before and after he deposited 50 Euros into the 
post office account. 
He thought that it was reasonable for Santander to expect Mr E to have checked  the entries 
on his account  after seeing a higher than expected balance. 
But he did think that Santander should take some responsibility for not sorting out the 
dispute sooner  than they did. He thought that Santander should refund any unauthorised 
Ref: DRN57454132overdraft charges (including any interest  on those charges) which  theyd added  since  the 
post office dispute transaction happened.
Mr E didnt agree with this outcome so the complaint  has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that Mr E wont be happy  with my decision. I dont think  that Santander should 
compensate Mr E for the money that he has spent  but I do think  that they should refund him 
any unauthorised  overdraft charges and interest caused by the transaction with the post 
office. I will explain why. 
I completely take on board that Mr E was being  careful with his money by not having an 
overdraft on his account and because he was in financial  difficulties even  before his account 
was overdrawn.  
But, even  if Mr E didnt get the letter sent by Santander on 27 December 2018, I still think 
that it was his responsibility  to check his transactions. Especially as he had logged into his 
online account a number of times on 19 December 2018. I dont think  that it is unreasonable  
for Santander, or anyone else, to expect this. 
I do note that Mr E was expecting money  from his family for his birthday but, again,  he 
shouldve checked  his account  properly  to see what had caused  the rise in his balance.  
I find that I cant hold Santander  responsible for Mr E spending money  that he didnt have. 
But, I do think that Santander shouldve sorted out the dispute quicker than they did. For this, 
I think that they should refund Mr E any charges they have applied  to his account  and 
interest for the disputed transaction with the post office. 
I also think that they need to work  out a plan for Mr E to repay  the money that he now owes 
to them.
Ref: DRN57454133my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I require Santander  UK Plc:
to refund Mr E any unauthorised overdraft charges and interest  since 19 December 
2018; and
to work out a repayment plan with Mr E for the money that he now owes  to them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5745413