K820x#14complaint
Mr K complained that Santander UK Plc treated him unfairly during his mortgage application. 
He said this meant he spent money he wouldnt otherwise have spent,  and suffered a great  
deal of distress and inconvenience.
Mr K wants  a total of £3,050 compensation.
background
Mr K applied through a broker for a mortgage  with Santander.  A valuation for mortgage  
purposes was completed on 17 May 2017.  
In section 10, the valuer reported:
This property is in a basic  condition with works  of repair and maintenance required. The 
valuer went on to comment on a flat roof, and trees within  15 metres of the property, and 
then said: Evidence  of movement was observed  in the form of cracking to interior.  
Section 11 of the valuation was headed:
Repairs / reports recommended as a condition of the mortgage. This information is for 
guidance in assessing the mortgage  advance. It will be used in making  a lending decision. It 
is not a detailed statement of the extent and cost of any work involved and is not an 
exhausting list of defects that there  may be in a property. Mortgage applicants are advised to 
obtain comprehensive estimates for the repair of the property before committing  themselves 
to purchase. Any reports  recommended  as a condition  of the mortgage or an engineers  
report required?
In response to this section, the valuer  ticked the Yes box and completed the section  with:
Obtain a report from a qualified Structural  Engineer  or Chartered Building Surveyor advising 
on the structural stability of the property as a whole. Any recommendations must  be carried  
out under  professional supervision.
On 18 May, Santander issued Mr K with a mortgage  offer for £471,750 on a repayment  basis  
over 35 years. Part B of the offer set out details of conditions that needed to be met before 
completion. Clause  8 of these conditions said:
You  must obtain  a report on the structural stability of the property from a Structural  
Engineer or Chartered Building Surveyor in respect of the Subsidence / Movement 
mentioned in the valuation report, along with reports / estimates for any other works 
mentioned in section  11 of the valuation report,  and send copies to us for approval. We wont  
be able to give you the loan money until weve seen and approved the report(s)  / 
estimate(s).
Mr K chose a structural engineer, who completed a report on 5 June. This report indicated  a 
number of problems  with cracking. It recommended  a drains test to determine whether the 
drainage system was adequate, and trial pit to check on the foundations to the 
conservatory. Mr Ks structural engineer said the foundations of the conservatory appeared 
to be inadequate  and might need  underpinning, at an estimated cost of around £15,000 plus 
VAT.
Ref: DRN50410522Santander received  this on 10 June  and referred  it to its valuer. After the valuer had 
commented, Santander faxed Mr Ks solicitor on 15 June to say that as the structural  
engineer had recommended a drains test and trial pit, the property couldnt be 
recommended as a suitable security.
Theres a dispute  about a fax problem between Santander and Mr Ks solicitor. But a drains 
survey and trial pits were carried out, and Mr Ks structural engineer  provided a further 
document, this time specifically about the drainage and conservatory.  The document  isnt 
dated but Santander said it received it on 29 August. 
On 31 August, Santander wrote to Mr Ks solicitor. It said the updated structural engineers 
report was limited to the drains and conservatory, and didnt cover the whole property. 
Santander said its valuer had noted the problems and had said that as the repairs still had to 
be carried out, and a period of monitoring would normally be expected, the property couldnt 
be recommended  as a suitable security for lending.
Mr K complained. He said that his understanding of the mortgage offer was that once hed 
obtained the report on the structural stability of the property, with reports  and cost estimates, 
Santander would give him the money. Mr K believed Santander had breached  the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)s  code  for fair treatment of customers. He said the bank hadnt 
been clear,  fair and not misleading.  He said that if hed been told at the outset that the 
property would need 12 months  monitoring and another independent  survey,  he wouldnt 
have spent money on surveyors fees, legal fees, or his own time. He asked  for costs of 
£2,910 to be reimbursed, plus £140  compensation for delays  and distress.
Santander upheld  Mr Ks complaint in part. It paid him £150 for the delays hed experienced 
during the application. But it pointed out that it had told Mr Ks solicitor  in writing on 15 June 
that until the drains test and trial pit survey recommended  by Mr Ks structural engineer had 
been carried out and the results known, it didnt regard the property as a suitable security.  
Santander pointed  out there was no way of knowing  in advance what  the outcome of the 
reports and tests would be. It said the reports and tests were  necessary and there  was 
nothing to show Mr K had been treated  unfairly.
Mr K wasnt  satisfied and complained to this service. He said that Santander UK had treated 
him unfairly  during his mortgage application.  He said this meant  he spent money  he wouldnt 
otherwise have spent,  and suffered  a great  deal of distress and inconvenience.  He said he 
wanted a total of £3,050  compensation.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. She noted the special condition in section 8 
of the mortgage  offer,  which had said he had to get a report  on the structural  stability of the 
property. She considered  that the bank had made it clear that the offer was subject to the 
conditions of the structural report being met.
Mr K had told the adjudicator that hed phoned Santander on 24 August. He said that in this 
call, the bank had told him that the mortgage  would  go ahead after the drains survey and 
trial pits, regardless of the outcome.  The adjudicator asked Santander for this call, but the 
bank said it couldnt  locate the call. And Mr K couldnt provide  a call log showing hed made  
a call. But the adjudicator  said that even if a Santander call handler had indeed  given  Mr K 
this incorrect information, a lender would always need to be satisfied with a survey. So she 
wouldnt say that Santander had to go ahead with the mortgage, even if it had given Mr K the 
wrong information.
Ref: DRN50410523The adjudicator also pointed out that Mr K had been  premature in incurring conveyancing 
and other  costs, before the outcome  of the tests was known.
Mr K wasnt  satisfied. He said he hadnt expected the bank to be aware of the propertys 
condition without conducting a survey. But a fundamental point of his complaint was that if 
hed been told that there  was a chance that 12 months of monitoring would be required, he 
wouldnt have gone ahead from the start. He said that Santander had never  made him feel 
this was a possible  outcome.  The valuation  report had said the property was recommended 
for mortgage, and was valued at £555,000. So it was reasonable to believe he was having 
all the investigations  just to find out what remedial works were  needed  to make the property 
good.
Mr K also clarified that after the first survey, hed asked Santander, the broker  and his 
solicitor about the likelihood of a mortgage being approved and theyd  all said yes. Hed 
been told that the worst possible outcome would be a retention. Mr K said he was willing to 
reduce the amount he was claiming  from Santander,  to a total of £1,320.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr K is upset because he believes that the first valuation report, and the 
mortgage offer, misled  him into thinking that the property was an acceptable security.  
Ive first considered whether, having issued the mortgage offer in the terms that it did, 
Santander was able subsequently to withdraw  the offer it had made. 
Lenders can set conditions on mortgage  offers, and if those conditions arent met, they can 
withdraw the offer. Clause 8 of the special conditions on Mr Ks offer says that Santander  
needed to approve the report. I find that the statement that Santander  needed to approve 
the report and estimates  should have indicated to Mr K that the money wasnt  guaranteed.  
Santanders independent valuer wasnt reassured by the structural  engineers  reports, and I 
find that this was sufficient for the bank  to withdraw the offer.
Ive also considered the timescales, because Mr K complains that he didnt know  that the 
rejection of the property as a security  was a possibility. Hes said that after the first valuation,  
Santander, his broker and his solicitor all gave positive views,  when  he asked them  whether  
the property would be approved. Its not for me to comment  about the broker  or solicitor,  but 
the documents dont indicate  that Santander gave  any such  promise. The banks letter  of 15 
June specifically says that the independent  valuer had said the property couldnt be 
recommended as an acceptable  security, until the outcome of the drains test and trial pit 
survey were  known. This was a clear sign that nothing could be guaranteed  especially as it 
came on top of the offer which had made  it clear  that reports  and works would need to be 
approved. So I dont agree that Mr K could reasonably have been unaware  that the property 
might not be a suitable security, until the end of August.  
Mr K has also said that if hed been made  aware  that a 12 month monitoring might be 
required, he wouldnt have gone ahead from the start. But I dont consider it would be 
reasonable to expect  Santander to list all possible outcomes, before full structural  engineer  
Ref: DRN50410524and specialist tests  had been  received. I find that there was sufficient warning  for Mr K to 
have realised the property might  not ultimately be acceptable as a security. 
 
Mr K has also said that in a phone  call to Santander  on 24 August, the bank told him that his 
mortgage could  go ahead  regardless of the outcome  of the drains survey and trial pits etc. 
Santander doesnt have a record of this call. I recognise that Mr K has commented that this 
is very convenient for Santander not to be able to locate that call, and I understand his 
frustration. But I think its reasonable to expect  that if Santander had given  such a significant  
promise, which had overturned previous warnings, Mr K would have been wise to ask for 
such a significant  change of heart to be put in writing. And by 24 August, Mr K had already 
commissioned a number  of reports and tests for which hed have to pay.
I recognise that Mr K incurred costs, by going  ahead with tests  and legal fees.  But I think  its 
fair to say that he was choosing to take a substantial risk by doing this. The original 
valuation, and Mr Ks own chosen structural engineer, had highlighted a number of 
problems. Any lender has a duty to make quite  sure that a property is structurally sound 
enough to be a suitable security. If it isnt, a lender mustnt lend.
So I find that Santander was entitled to withdraw  its offer to Mr K because the conditions  for 
a suitable security werent met. I find that the bank  notified Mr Ks solicitors as the reports  
and valuations progressed, and the documents including the mortgage offer, and June letter  
to Mr Ks solicitor provided enough  information to warn  that the outcome might be that the 
bank couldnt  lend on that particular  property. Santander wasnt in a position to take a final 
decision until the final structural  engineers report was available  at the end of August. It was 
entitled to decide not to lend at that point.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5041052