K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has unfairly charged him an administrative 
fee when he made changes  to his car insurance  policy.
background
Mr H holds car insurance with UKI. And in October 2018,  he contacted UKI to make  some  
amendments to his policy. This included changing his estimated  mileage  from 6,000  miles to 
15,000 miles per year, and his occupation.
UKI charged  Mr H £36.96  to do this  made up of £26.88  for an administration  fee and 
£10.08 to reflect the change of mileage and occupation.
Mr H felt this was unfair, and said the administration fee appeared to be a penalty or as a 
punitive charge  as opposed to a genuine fee to cover costs.  UKI has said it tried to resolve  
this issue, but gave Mr H referral rights to our service.
Mr H brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked  into the 
complaint. To consider  whether an admin  fee was charged correctly he looked at the policy 
terms and the information  available online when Mr H took out the policy.
The investigator explained these said any changes to the annual policy during the year could 
result in an administration fee  as well as an additional premium. And he said the online 
information Mr H wouldve seen said an administration fee of up to £26.88 could be applied.  
The investigator said the changes Mr H had made would  have  impacted  the premium  costs. 
And the administration  fee charged was in line with the terms and conditions.
So the investigator said Churchill had fairly  applied the policy terms by charging a fee of 
£26.88 to cover administration costs, following Mr H making  changes  to his policy.
Mr H disagreed and said he believed the charge was an unlawful penalty.  So the complaint 
has been passed to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mr H has disputed the administration  fee UKI has applied  when  he made amendments to his 
policy. So I have to consider if UKI applied this in line with its terms and conditions. And if it 
did, whether this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr H applied for his policy  online.  And under the section Important  Information , it said:
Mid term adjustments to your car policy or requests for duplicate  documents  may result  in 
an administrative fee of up to £26.88 (including  Insurance Premium Tax where applicable) 
as well as any additional premium incurred as a result  of the amendment. 
Ref: DRN57144802Ive also looked  at Mr Hs policy  book that UKI says wouldve been sent to him. This says 
UKI may charge an administration fee if any temporary or permanent changes are made  to 
the policy during  the life of the insurance. So Im satisfied UKI has acted within  the terms and 
conditions by applying  this fee of £26.88.
Mr H has said he considers this fee to be an unlawful  penalty, but I disagree. Insurers  are 
able to charge  for costs they incur as a result of administration. And I think its made this 
clear to Mr H.
In this case UKI had to take time to re-assess the insured risk based on the new information 
it was given, and then action this accordingly.  So I think its clear UKI would have incurred 
administrative costs as a result of the changes Mr H made.
Overall Im satisfied the fee charged  is a reasonable cost for administration in the 
circumstances. So Im not going  to ask UKI to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5714480