K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) held her at fault following a claim on her 
motor insurance policy.  Mrs W is represented in this matter by Mr W, a named driver on her 
policy. He wants it to reconsider the factors involved.  
background
Mr W was in an accident on a roundabout with another car that was towing a caravan. UKI said 
Mr W was at fault and it paid the claim on that basis. But Mr W thought  this was unfair because 
he said the other car was in the wrong lane at the time and wasnt  indicating  its intentions.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  UKI 
had reasonably considered the evidence available  before making  its decision  about liability.  
She thought  it was entitled to do this by the policy terms and conditions. So she didnt think  it 
had done anything wrong.
Mr W replied that the other  car and caravan were straddling lanes at the time which led him 
to assume it was planning to exit the roundabout when he attempted to overtake it. He 
reiterated that he didnt think he was at fault for the collision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ws frustration. He says that he was undertaking a legal manoeuvre  to 
overtake the car towing the caravan. He said he cant  understand how the other car, which  
he says was in the wrong lane at the time,  can be held to be in the right. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide  who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints  of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
UKI is entitled under the terms  and conditions of its policy  with Mrs W to take over, defend,  
or settle  a claim as it sees  fit. Mrs W has to follow  its advice in connection with the 
settlement of her claim, whether  she agrees  with the outcome or not. This is a common term 
in motor insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. 
That said,  we expect  an insurer  to reasonably  investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision.
I can see that UKI considered the evidence  available. This was the drivers  versions  of 
events and dash  cam footage provided  by Mr W. It considered the relevant aspects of the 
Highway Code. And it concluded  that it wouldnt be able to defend  the claim in court  as it 
thought Mr W had the greater duty of care at the time. This was because he was attempting  
to overtake a towing  vehicle already established  on a roundabout.  
Ref: DRN57337852Mr W quoted the opinions of two police  officers who agreed that he wasnt at fault. But I think 
UKI reasonably considered all the evidence  Mr W provided. Mr W also said that his blind  
spot collision  warning  tool didnt activate at the time. He thought this meant that he didnt 
take any action  to cause the collision. But I dont think this provides further evidence  for UKI 
to consider. As Mr W says, he cant prove  that the system didnt  activate at the time.  And, in 
any case, the position of the vehicles isnt in dispute.
So I think UKI reasonably  investigated the claim and considered the evidence available  
before making  its decision that it would be unable to defend the matter in court.  And so it 
settled the claim as a fault. I think its entitled to do this by the policy terms and conditions. 
So I cant say its done anything wrong or require it to change  its decision. 
As far as I can see, UKI dealt with the other  drivers claim on a Without Prejudice basis.  This 
leaves it open  for Mrs W to take the matter to court at her own expense if she so wishes.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5733785