K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (previously Standard Life) mis-sold him an
interest only mortgage, without an endowment policy. His representative  who Ill refer to as
Mr C  says a repayment mortgage  would  have been much  more suitable at the time
considering his income and overall  circumstances.
Mr C also complains about  the way Barclays have treated Mr V in pursuing the debt on the
mortgage and feels that Mr V has been harassed and bullied. Hes said that Mr V is very
vulnerable and any attempt to remove him from the property  would severely  affect his health.  
Mr C also complains about  administrative issues hes had with Barclays over this time.
background
Mr V took out an interest only mortgage  - introduced by a broker - with Barclays  in 2003 for
£430,000. The term of this mortgage  came to an end in July 2014.
Mr Vs initial  plan to sell his boat to repay the debt unfortunately  wasnt realised as, once 
debts and costs  associated with keeping the boat were paid, there was nothing  left over.
Since 2014, Barclays and Mr V - but more recently Mr C - have been in touch to discuss 
repaying the capital  of the mortgage. Mr C has put forward offers  to pay off some  of the debt 
and settle the matter,  releasing Mr V from any liabilities and allowing him to remain  in his 
home. Barclays hasnt accepted these offers.
Mr C complained about how Mr V has been  treated by Barclays and says that they have 
been harassing a vulnerable, at risk individual. He said that the mortgage  was mis-sold, 
and that Barclays  has handled this matter  poorly - losing  copies  of a Power of Attorney 
(POA) that he provided to confirm he has authority  to deal with Mr Cs financial matters. 
Hes said that this caused a delay and hassle for him in obtaining another  copy.
Barclays sent Mr C its most recent  final response  letter on 12 June 2019. In it they explained 
that they wouldnt be upholding the complaint.  They said that the mortgage  was introduced 
by a broker so a complaint about  the sale would need to be addressed  to that business
directly.
Barclays also explained that they couldnt  accept Mr Cs initial offer of £30,000  from his own
funds, or the increased sum of £128,000 in April 2019  to redeem Barclays  charge on Mr Vs
property. Barclays said they didnt consider this to be a credible proposal given the value of
the property and explained  that the account had been referred to their litigation team,  who
may pursue legal action to recover the balance due.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think  that it should be upheld. He didnt
think that Barclays had acted unfairly in the way they treated  Mr V or declined Mr Cs offers
to settle the account  the most  recent being  for £200,000.
Mr C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
my provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision on 14 July 2020.  In this I said:
Ref: DRN52172152Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  that this must  have 
been a very difficult  time for Mr V and Im really very sorry to learn of his 
circumstances.
mis-sale of the mortgage
Mr C has said that the interest-only  mortgage  was mis-sold and that a repayment 
mortgage would have been  much  more appropriate for Mr V at the time. Hes said 
that, at the time Mr V took the mortgage  out, he was on a good salary  so could have 
easily afforded the repayments. Hes also questioned why an endowment  policy 
wasnt taken out to accompany  the mortgage.
This mortgage was introduced to Barclays via a broker  so any complaint  about the 
sale would  need  to be directed to them. I can see that Barclays,  and our investigator, 
have explained  this to Mr C.
has Barclays treated Mr V unfairly?
When this mortgage  was taken out in 2003, it was agreed that the sum borrowed of
£430,000 would be repaid  at the end of the term. The term expired in 2014 and 
payments have not been made to the account since 2017. Unfortunately, over this 
time, Mr Cs health has deteriorated  and Im very sorry to hear that hes made  
attempts to end his life. Ive noted  the information  that weve received about Mr Vs 
mental and physical health and have kept this in mind throughout my review of this 
case.
I understand that at the end of the term, the initial plan to repay the mortgage was for 
Mr V to sell his boat, which he hoped would raise £500,000 - and that these funds 
could be used to repay  the balance. Mr V told Barclays  of this plan in August 2014,  a 
month after his mortgage  term ended and they kept in touch to get updates on this 
sale. They  stayed in contact following  this and Barclays sent Mr V a form to fill out 
details of his income  and expenditure so they could  assess his ability to repay the 
amount outstanding.
As the information  about Mr Vs income and expenditure wasnt received and the 
boat hadnt yet been sold, Barclays instructed a field agent to visit Mr V at his 
property in June  2015. During this visit, information was gathered around Mr Vs 
health and circumstances.
Barclays recognised  that Mr V was in a vulnerable position and has handled the 
account under its customer support team since  which is a team better  equipped  to 
contact customers who may have vulnerabilities  due to their health or other  
circumstances. Ive noted that litigation  was planned  before  this, but that Barclays  
recognised Mr Vs difficult circumstances so put this on hold.
In January 2016, Barclays contacted  Mr V and he explained that the boat was 
subject to a forced sale and the proceeds  were used to pay for costs associated  in 
keeping it, and a sum was paid to HM Revenue  and Customs. At this point, he asked 
Barclays to contact Mr C who was helping  him with his financial matters. Throughout 
the rest of 2016, Barclays attempted to make  contact and left voicemail messages 
Ref: DRN52172153asking for Mr V to contact them to provide an update. The contact notes record  that 
Barclays contacted  Mr C, and left a message asking Mr V to call them.
As no meaningful update about the plan to repay  the capital was received throughout 
that time and Mr C didnt  get in touch, Barclays wrote to Mr V at the beginning of 
2017 to ask for evidence of his medical conditions. Its recorded  that they are aware 
that he was being treated for clinical depression  and suicidal thoughts, amongst other  
physical health  conditions.
A further  field agent was instructed who interviewed Mr V, with Mr C present, in April 
2017. Information was gathered which showed  that unfortunately Mr Vs expenditure 
was greater than his income and details of Mr Vs other debts were recorded.
Following this, Mr C made an offer to Barclays to settle the debt. Barclays considered  
this but, as it was for less than half the amount outstanding, declined it. Mr C then 
became a representative on the case, and Barclays began to contact him for 
updates, a lot of which appears to be in relation  to obtaining a power of attorney 
(POA) document, which was received in November  2018.
Considering everything, I dont think that Barclays has treated Mr V unfairly. I think 
they have kept in appropriate contact throughout this time and showed patience and 
forbearance to Mr V considering his circumstances. I dont consider that the contact 
hes received amounts  to harassment  or bullying  as Mr C has said. I appreciate 
that Mr V is in a very difficult and stressful position  and that, as he holds other debts 
with different lenders and HMRC,  hes most likely received a number  of calls and 
letters throughout this time which must  be upsetting and distressing - particularly 
considering his health conditions.
Because of the information Barclays learnt about  Mr Vs health conditions,  they have  
waited to receive updates before taking any legal action to recover  the debt. Im also 
mindful that for a period of a year, from 2016  to 2017, they didnt receive any 
meaningful updates about the plan to repay the mortgage but havent taken any legal  
action to recover the debt.
Barclays also put notes  on their system from late 2017 to remind its staff not to 
contact Mr V directly as he finds it difficult to talk about the situation and to contact Mr 
C - but that they were  waiting  for the POA. In April 2018, Barclays  recorded that they 
had received a complaint from Mr C about  the level of contact Mr V had received  
from Barclays. In October 2018, Barclays also recorded that the matter was referred 
to an internal panel and it was agreed  that a three month stay of action  with 0% 
interest charged would  be applied to the mortgage account considering the 
circumstances. But, in offering this, Barclays  would  need the following conditions to 
be met  receipt of the official  POA  document within 30 days, to perform  a valuation 
of the property, for Mr C to help Mr V seek advice  from an independent  financial 
adviser to see if a lifetime  mortgage would be suitable, and to receive up to date 
medical evidence  and a proposal  to repay the amount outstanding  within  a 
reasonable timeframe.
I dont think that Barclays  acted unfairly or unreasonably in requesting this 
information. And Im mindful that at this stage, the term had ended  over four years 
ago.
Ref: DRN52172154Unfortunately, it does appear  that in 2017 Mr V had received text messages and calls 
from Barclays in relation to another account that he holds with them.  Mr C has said 
that Mr V attempted to take his own life following receipt of one of these text 
messages. Im very sorry to hear this and understand  that this must  have been a truly 
awful time for Mr V. Ive noted  a separate complaint has been raised about this, so I 
wont comment on this further  here.
Later, in 2019,  Mr C made a complaint about  the sale of the mortgage and Barclays  
had been dealing with this, but it also took steps to gain a valuation of the property. In 
August 2019,  Barclays instructed their solicitors to start legal proceedings, but this 
has been put on hold whilst the complaint has been  referred to this service.
Ive considered this contact and the steps  that Barclays have taken to recover the 
balance remaining on the account. Having done so, I dont think they have acted  
unfairly  especially as in 2019, when Mr C was sent Barclays final response on the 
matter and this service started  an investigation into the complaint  it was some five 
years after the term of the mortgage had expired.
Did Barclays act unfairly when it declined Mr Cs offers?
Mr C has made a few offers throughout this time to Barclays to settle the mortgage  
and release Mr V from any liabilities. Hes made  offers  of varying  amounts  but the 
highest and most recent has been £200,000. He states that this is in full and final 
settlement to write  off the debt and release Mr V from any liability to Barclays  for this 
mortgage.
Barclays has assessed but rejected this offer as it is lower than the valuation  they 
received on the property  and less than half the debt on the account, which was 
around £440,000. I would expect Barclays to fairly consider any proposals to repay 
the mortgage, but they are not obliged to accept  any particular proposal if it isnt a fair 
or suitable way to address  the outstanding balance at the end of the term - and I 
dont consider that Mr Cs offer is fair or suitable.  Ill explain  why.
Mr C disputes the valuation that Barclays obtained and has said that the property is 
in a state of disrepair so would not achieve the same value that Barclays has 
estimated. Barclays received a valuation for around £700,000 and another for 
£610,00. Mr V has provided  a valuation from another  estate  agent  for close to 
£500,000.
Mr C says that his offer is fair because, if the property was sold for £500,000, HMRC 
would need to take close to £300,000  which would  only leave £200,000 anyway, 
which is the amount  hes offered. Whilst Ive noted  Mr Cs strength of feelings that Mr 
V should remain in his home for the remainder  of his years, I do need to be fair to 
both parties.
At the time of taking  this mortgage out, it was agreed that Mr V would repay  Barclays
£430,000. Whilst  I appreciate  that Mr Vs health  has very much  deteriorated  over this 
time and he has other debts outstanding,  Barclays has a first charge over the 
property so does  take priority over other creditors with regards to this asset,  including 
HMRC. I would suggest that Mr V, with the help of Mr C, takes specialist financial 
advice about his financial situation.
Ref: DRN52172155Mr C has said that hes got a letter from Mr Vs mental health team, in which his 
psychiatrist insists he remains in his home. Ive seen a letter from December 2018 in 
which Mr Vs consultant psychiatrist  says that he is concerned about the adverse 
effect on Mr Vs mental state and related consequences, should he be evicted from 
his current home. There is a further letter  from him which  also says that he continues 
to hope that the matter can be resolved without much adverse effect on Mr Vs 
mental state.
I do understand and have  taken into account what the psychiatrist says about the 
impact on Mr Vs health if he isnt able to stay in his home. Its an important 
consideration in this case, and Id expect Barclays to take it into account in thinking  
about how the mortgage can be brought to an end. Ive explained that I think it has 
shown reasonable forbearance  over the last five years since the term ended, and it 
should continue  to do so while there are options to be explored.
Did Barclays poorly administer adding  Mr C as a Power  of Attorney (POA)?
Mr C has also said hes frustrated as he provided  Barclays with a copy of the POA 
thats in place in order to manage Mr Vs financial affairs. Hes said he provided 
Barclays with a copy of the POA  by taking it into a branch  and that this should  have 
been received  by internal  mail. The POA was granted in November 2017, Barclays 
has said that it didnt  receive the signed  and stamped  copy  that they required until 
November 2018.
Ive noted Mr Cs frustrations in this matter  as hes said he provided the information 
to a local branch  four times. I appreciate that this matter has been trying for Mr C and 
unfortunately, due to the passage of time,  its not clear what  happened  to these 
copies of the POA.  Mr C has since been  able to obtain a stamped copy  of the POA 
from the Office of Public Guardianship, which Barclays received in November 2018. 
Barclays has apologised and offered to reimburse Mr C for the cost of getting  this. I 
think this is a fair resolution  and so I wont be recommending  it do anything further 
here.
Next steps
I understand from what Mr C has said, that they have considered other options, such 
as a lifetime mortgage,  but that this isnt a viable option here.
Barclays hasnt accepted the offers made by Mr C and Ive seen a letter  from August 
2019 that advised Mr V that his property is at risk of being repossessed  and at the 
time the outstanding amount owed was around  just over £440,000. This action has 
been put on hold whilst  this service has considered the complaint.
This situation cant go on indefinitely and whilst Im very sorry to hear of Mr Vs poor 
health  Im mindful that further  interest  is accruing on the outstanding balance and 
no payments have been made to the account for some time.
I think that Barclays has shown reasonable forbearance in this case  up until this 
point. But due to the current Covid-19 Pandemic, and government restrictions 
imposed to restrict the spread of the virus, I dont think it would be reasonable for Mr 
V to be removed from his home at this time.  To be clear, Im not saying that this 
shouldnt happen  at all, rather that now is not the right time to do this.
Ref: DRN52172156Conclusions
Having considered everything, Im minded to propose a different solution in this case  
due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Due to Mr Vs vulnerabilities,  Im minded to 
ask Barclays to freeze the account and any associated interest  for a period of time.
This is an evolving situation, and no one knows exactly  what will happen  over the 
coming months. With this in mind, I think it reasonable to freeze the account for a 
period of one year,  from the point at which Mr V accepts this decision,  if he decides 
to. I think  this time period gives Mr V and Mr C time to make alternative 
arrangements for Mr Vs accommodation  (if arrangements to repay the loan cant be 
made) and I would expect, from January 2021,  that they keep Barclays  regularly 
updated  at least once a month  on the progress of these arrangements.
I understand that the current government guidance stipulates that no repossession  
action should  be taken until October 2020. Whilst this might  appear to be a 
reasonable time frame in other situations, I dont  consider it to be in this case 
considering Mr Vs health and the vulnerable position he could be in at this time. For 
the reasons Ive outlined, I think a grace period  of a year is reasonable in this case.
I would also suggest  that Mr C helps Mr V to reach  out to resources such as Age 
Concern and Shelter,  as well as consider taking  independent legal and financial 
advice concerning this matter.
I think this a fair resolution for both parties  considering the current  circumstances.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  Im minded not to uphold this complaint.  But due to the current 
Covid-19 pandemic Im recommending the following resolution to this matter.  My 
provisional decision, subject to further  comment from either party,  is:
I require Barclays to:
freeze the account and not apply  interest for a period of one year,  from the 
date that Mr V accepts  my final decision
While I cant direct them to do so, I recommend  that Mr C and Mr V:
use this time to take advice and consider any further options  to repay the 
amount owed
if no repayment solution can be found,  seek alternative accommodation for Mr 
V which will be available a year after he accepts the final decision
keep Barclays regularly updated about  these  arrangements  at least monthly 
from January 2021
I think this is a fair resolution  considering  the current circumstances,  but Ill look at 
any more comments and evidence that I get by 14 August 2020 before issuing my 
final decision.
Ref: DRN52172157Responses to my provisional decision
Barclays responded to say that it accepts the provisional decision but did raise concerns  
about the monthly updates and where it would stand  if these were not provided.
Mr C said that they had received the provisional  decision. He asked why they received a 
payment on a mis-sale complaint against  the broker in this case, but not from Barclays.  
Our investigator has provided clarity  around  this. Barclays acted as the lender  in this case, 
so Ive considered,  throughout  my decision,  whether it acted fairly  in this role. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  my provisional decision  in light of the comments  received. Having done so, 
Im not changing my opinion on this complaint. I appreciate Barclays concerns about not 
receiving updates from Mr V and Ive considered this carefully.  Having done so, I still require 
Barclays to freeze the account - and any associated  interest - for a period of one year.
But I strongly recommend  that Mr V, with the help of Mr C, provide regular updates  (as I 
suggested  once monthly) and keep an open dialogue with Barclays.  It will be in both 
parties best interests to do this, and to speak regularly to discuss  arrangements  to bring the 
mortgage to an end. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. But given the current Covid-19  
pandemic, I require the following:
I direct  Barclays to:
freeze the account and not apply  interest for a period of one year,  from the date that 
Mr V accepts  my final decision
While I cant direct them to do so, I recommend  that Mr C and Mr V:
use this time to take advice and consider any further options  to repay the amount 
owed
if no repayment solution can be found,  seek alternative accommodation for Mr V 
which will be available a year after he accepts the final decision
keep Barclays regularly updated about  these  arrangements  at least monthly from 
January 2021
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2020.
Camilla Finnigan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5217215