K820x#14complaint
Mrs M and Mr K complain that the vehicle they acquired on a hire purchase agreement 
financed by Blue Motor  Finance Ltd was not of satisfactory quality. They  want  to end the 
agreement and reject  the vehicle.
background
As Mrs M has been  the main correspondent,  for ease of reading, Ill mostly refer to her.
Mrs M tells us she acquired the vehicle in September  2017  from a dealer Ill call B. She 
said shes had problems  with the vehicle from the time she took possession of it. She said 
shed had the vehicle examined  in November 2017 and various faults had been  identified. 
These included  poor repairs,  damage  to a radiator  and grille, issues with the paintwork and it 
appeared that the vehicle  may have been  involved in a serious accident. 
Mrs M told us shed  later arranged for an independent vehicle examiner, a company  Ill refer 
to as A, to inspect the vehicle. She that it had found numerous faults with the vehicle during 
this inspection. She says she wasnt told about  these  issues at the time she obtained the 
vehicle.
BMF told us that Mrs M had accepted  a price reduction of £800 at the time she acquired the 
vehicle. It said that as shed accepted the vehicle  - with parts  missing  - and had received a 
price reduction, she couldnt now reject the vehicle.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said that Mrs M 
had accepted the vehicle  with parts missing and had signed a letter  to say she accepted  the 
condition of the vehicle at the point of supply.  She said that Mrs M had taken photos of the 
vehicle at this time and that the issues now complained of were  visible.  She said Mrs M had 
negotiated a price  reduction and if she was unhappy  about the quality of the bodywork she 
wouldve expected  her to raise  any concerns  sooner.
Mrs M didnt  agree with this outcome and said she wanted to take the matter  further.  As its 
not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsman  has been asked to make the final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mrs M is unhappy with the vehicle and that shes  experienced various 
problems with it. Unfortunately, things  sometimes  go wrong  and thats all the more likely  to 
affect a used vehicle - such as this one - which has had above average use.
Mrs Ms hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. BMF  supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act of 
2015 (CRA). 
Ref: DRN50704032I can see from the MOT  history that the vehicle was about four years  old and had a recorded 
mileage of 58,564  when  supplied to Mrs M. Its also clear that it was known to Mrs M that the 
vehicle was being supplied with various defects. Shes signed a letter to this effect:
I understand that I am purchasing vehicle  with several parts missing. I accept the discount 
of £800 to compensate for all missing parts.  We have taken photos of the car and can 
confirm I am satisfied with the outcome.
Ive also seen a copy of the vehicle  inspection report which  was compiled by A. The vehicle 
was examined in May 2018 and by then had a recorded mileage of 65,935. A found 
numerous faults with the vehicle but no evidence  of any serious  accident  damage.  It stated:
We would conclude  that the vehicle has had extensive previous repairs, although no
evidence of significant structural repair was noted.  With the exception  of a dent in the 
nearside rear door which appeared of recent  origin,  and the blistering on the window 
mouldings which would be considered  generally age related, the conditions appear to all 
have been due to repairs of longstanding  nature. The windscreen has been replaced with an 
incorrect specification screen  which has no heated  element.
However, it appears the vehicle has covered 7281  miles and from an engineering
perspective what might have developed in this time is open to debate,  particularly earlier on
in that time. The owner will need  to provide the evidence verbal or otherwise that no work
has been completed in that time and if confirmed the issues  will have been developing at
sale.
Its been confirmed  that B hasnt repaired the vehicle  and Ive no other information that the 
vehicle has been  repaired elsewhere. I also note that the vehicle passed an MOT test in 
September 2018, after an initial failure. But the failure was due to defective tyres and a 
registration light not working. No other  major defects were  noted. The mileage at this time 
was recorded  as 69,419.
Ive previously referred to the CRA and a section of particular  relevance is:
s. 9 Goods to be of satisfactory quality
(1)Every contract to supply goods  is to be treated as including a term that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory.
(4)  The term mentioned  in subsection (1) does not cover anything which makes the quality 
of the goods unsatisfactory
(a)  which is specifically drawn to the consumers attention before the contract  is made,
(b)  where the consumer  examines the goods  before the contract is made, which  that 
examination ought  to reveal.
The information with which  Ive been  provided  shows specific  information about missing  
parts was drawn  to Mrs Ms attention. A price reduction was applied.  And Mrs M took 
photographs of the vehicles outward condition. The majority of the complaint she now brings  
relates to faults  with the bodywork alignment and paintwork. 
Ref: DRN50704033Id expect faults with any misalignment of bodywork panels and doors  to be readily visible  at 
the point of supply if they were present at that time.  And the same comment  would  apply to 
any issues with the paintwork.  So I think its probable Mrs M knew,  or ought reasonably to 
have known, of these issues when she acquired the vehicle. And she certainly was made 
aware of some of the points now raised  after the November 2017 examination. So Id expect  
she wouldve brought the complaint to BMF at or near that time. I must also take into 
account that the vehicle  - despite  these issues - has covered over 10,000  in the year after 
supply and passed an MOT test in September 2018.
In summary,  I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to say this vehicle was not of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. The faults which might otherwise have made the vehicle 
not of satisfactory  quality  were either brought to Mrs Ms attention or would have been visible  
at the point of supply.  And she went ahead and entered  the agreement  with this knowledge.  
The vehicle has covered substantial mileage since and this also supports the view that there 
was nothing else of significance wrong with it when it was acquired  by Mrs M.
Im sorry  my decision  will come as a disappointment  to Mrs M and Mr K but Im not 
upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 October  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5070403