K820x#14Complaint
Mrs H says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
I sent Mrs H and FICL a provisional decision on 24 June 2019 to explain why I wasnt  
intending to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional  decision is set out below:
When selling the PPI, FICL had to make it clear to Mrs H that she had a choice about it. But 
Mrs H says PPI wasnt mentioned during the sale.
FICL has sent us a copy of Mrs Hs application  form for the store card.  This included a 
section on PPI with a space for Mrs H to sign if she wanted to take it out. And Mrs H has 
signed in the space.
Based on this, I think FICL did make it clear to Mrs H that she had a choice about the PPI. 
And that Mrs H chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Mrs H any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to her. This means FICL  didnt  have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Mrs H. But it did have to make  sure she got the information  she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like Mrs 
H was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the cover. So it looks  like the PPI 
couldve been useful  to her if something went wrong.
Mrs H initially  told us she wouldve been entitled to a significant amount of sick pay from her 
employer and had a significant  amount of other means she couldve used to make her 
repayments if she wasnt earning. But FICL sent us a copy of an earlier questionnaire in 
which Mrs H said she was entitled to less sick pay and had less other means. And Mrs H 
has since confirmed that the lesser  sick pay amount  is correct  and that the savings she had 
mentioned were ultimately used for another purpose.
So the PPI policy couldve paid out for longer than Mrs H wouldve been entitled to sick pay. 
And it wouldve meant she didnt need to rely on any savings or other  means she had to 
make her repayments if she wasnt earning. So I still think  the PPI couldve been  useful to 
her if something went wrong. And I dont think better information about the PPI wouldve put 
Mrs H off taking  it out.
I said Id consider any further information  either Mrs H or FICL sent me.
FICL hasnt  sent in any further information.  Mrs H raised a number of points, which  I will 
address below.
My findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN51600722Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mrs H said she wasnt  told about the PPI and was 
just told to fill out the application form.
I accepted in my provisional decision that the information Mrs H was given about the PPI 
may not have been as clear as it shouldve been. But I explained that I thought  the PPI could  
still have been  useful to her and so I didnt think better information about  the PPI would have  
put her off taking it out.
And the copy of the application form Ive seen showed a space for Mrs H to sign in if she 
wanted to take out PPI, and that Mrs H had signed in this space.  I havent  seen anything to 
suggest Mrs H was told she had to take the PPI. So if Mrs H didnt  want  the PPI, I think she 
couldve left this space  blank.
And so, based on the evidence Ive seen,  I still think FICL made it clear to Mrs H that she 
had a choice about the PPI. And that Mrs H chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
Mrs H also said she couldve relied on her husbands wages  and savings to make her 
repayments. And that it was up to her whether  to rely on her savings to make her 
repayments.
I dont doubt that her husband wouldve wanted  to help.  But peoples  financial circumstances  
can change, so he might not have been able to help when Mrs H needed it. And Mrs Hs 
husband wouldnt have  had any contractual responsibility to meet the card repayments. So I 
dont think it would be reasonable to take his financial circumstances into account when 
looking at whether the PPI could have been  useful to Mrs H.
And Mrs H told us that her savings  were ultimately used for another  purpose.  So she might  
not have been able to do this if shed had to use some of her savings to make the card 
repayments. It is up to Mrs H what she chooses to use her savings for. But I must make an 
assessment on whether  better information  about the benefits of the PPI wouldve stopped 
her taking out the PPI. And, taking all the information I have about her sick pay entitlement,  
savings and other means into account, I still think the policy could have been  useful to her, 
so I dont think better information  about the benefits of it would have put her off taking  it out.
So I still think the conclusions from my provisional  decision are correct, and that the PPI 
wasnt mis-sold.
Ref: DRN51600723My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  by 5 September 2019.  
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5160072