K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc have unfairly refused to pay him a 
bonus of £125 for switching his account  to it. 
background
In mid 2018  Mr H applied  to switch his savings account from a building  society  to NatWest.
 At that time NatWest was offering a bonus  of £125 to customers who opened  certain 
accounts with it  these were several of NatWests  current accounts. There  were other 
conditions of the offer relating to depositing  an amount of £1,500 into the account and 
logging into online or mobile banking by a certain date.  A customer  also had to complete a 
full switch of a non-NatWest account to a NatWest current account  using the current  account 
switch service. 
Mr H complained to NatWest when he didnt receive the bonus, despite paying  in the £1,500  
and registering for online  banking. NatWest told him the offer didnt include savings 
accounts. In its written response to his complaint it also said that as his building society 
didnt hold a Current  Account Switch Service Trustmark  it wasnt  possible to use the switch 
service so he wouldnt qualify for the offer. 
Mr H brought his complaint to us. He says he was given a document  saying he could switch 
a savings account. And hed been  notified  by NatWest that the switch was underway. He 
thought the switch offer was ambiguous.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr H had satisfied the conditions for the bonus to be paid. So Mr 
H asked for a decision from an ombudsman. Mr H said that the main issue  was that the 
information sheet  given by NatWest gave  contrary instructions and it was not fair to expect a 
member of the public  to decipher such mixed messages. He thought NatWest should pay 
the bonus as a goodwill  gesture. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see that Mr H feels strongly  that he 
should receive the bonus. But Im afraid Ill have to disappoint him, as I agree with our 
adjudicator, for much the same reasons. 
As our adjudicator said,  in order to be eligible for the bonus,  a full switch  of a non-NatWest  
account to an eligible  NatWest account needed  to be done  using the current  account switch  
service. And only current accounts  can be switched  using that service. As Mr H switched a 
savings account,  he didnt meet the criteria for the bonus offer.
Mr H says he was given  a document that showed  savings accounts  could be switched. Ive 
seen the document and it does indeed say that. But it doesnt say that switching a savings  
account will qualify for the bonus offer. 
I understand that Mr H feels that mixed messages were given. I can see how he feels this 
way. But customers do at times switch accounts for reasons  other than to qualify for a 
bonus. It may be to qualify for different interest rates, or account features, for example. And 
customers may choose to switch  savings as well as current accounts. So I would expect 
Ref: DRN57502822NatWest to provide  information relating to switching in general, and not just in relation to 
qualifying for a bonus. As far as I am aware, NatWest doesnt offer a bonus  for switching 
accounts all year round, but it is possible to switch certain accounts at all times. So I would  
expect to see two sets of information. Im sorry if Mrs H found it confusing,  but I dont think 
NatWest did anything wrong. 
NatWest is entitled  to set terms  and conditions as to what account switches it is prepared to 
pay a bonus for. And that is what  it did. Unfortunately Mr H didnt qualify for the bonus 
because of the type of the account  she switched. There  was a further issue  in that Mr Hs 
building society wasnt able to use the Current Account Switch Service  but I havent spent 
any time on that in this decision  because it would only have  been  relevant if Mr H had been  
switching his current account with the building society, and he wasnt.  
So although  I know it will disappoint  Mr H, and Im sorry  for that, for the reasons given above 
it wouldnt be fair of me to ask NatWest to pay the bonus to him. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5750282