K821x#15complaint
Mr H instructed Harrington Jones Ltd (Guernsey) (the business) to deal with a number of 
claims for potentially mis-sold PPI.
background
Mr H is unhappy with the business. He has complained that they:
Didnt tell him about a claim  from 2016.
Sent him a letter which didnt  make it clear what claim was being looked into.
Didnt tell him about a fee cap put in place by the Claims Management Regulator 
(CMR).
Didnt give him an itemised bill.
This complaint was originally investigated  by the Legal Ombudsman, but was transferred to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman Service) as part of the 
change in the regulation  of claims management companies. The Legal Ombudsman  
investigator found the business hadnt followed the CMRs guidance and didnt tell Mr H 
about the fee cap when  they shouldve done.  He recommended  that the fee cap should  
apply to the businesss fees. He didnt uphold the other complaints.
The business didnt  agree with the Legal Ombudsman. They feel that the requirement to tell 
Mr H about the fee cap didnt  apply  to them, as this wasnt a high pressure sale.  They  
believe that the guidance issued by the CMR  about  the fee cap only applied to high 
pressure sales.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The Financial Guidance  and Claims Act 2018 (the Act) required the CMR to introduce a fee 
cap for PPI claims. The fee cap came into force on 10 July 2018. From this date, claims 
management companies couldnt  legally  charge  a success fee of more  than 20% plus VAT.
Mr H instructed the business  on 12 May 2018  after the Act was passed  but before the fee 
cap came  into force.  Because of this the fee cap shouldnt apply to his claims.
But, on 11 May 2018, the CMR issued guidance  to all claims management companies. This 
said from  the date of this guidance you should  inform  all new or potential  clients of the 
upcoming change  to the fees you can charge. In December  2018, the CMR  told the 
Legal Ombudsman how this guidance should  be applied. They confirmed that, once  the 
guidance had been issued, we expected businesses to inform  all new or potential clients of 
the change to the fees that could be charged.  This was regardless of whether it was a high 
pressure sale or not.
My decision  is based  on the 11 May 2018  guidance and the December 2018 clarification 
from the CMR. I would expect the business  to have clearly advised Mr H (at the time they 
received his instructions)  that their fees were reducing from 10 July 2018. Ive not seen any 
evidence the business did this.  
Ref: DRN56384492Ive also not seen any evidence that Mr H wanted his claim to be progressed  as fast or as 
soon as possible. Had Mr H known of the fee cap, its likely he wouldve waited until after the 
fee cap came into force  before  instructing  the business. He would then only have had to pay 
a fee of 20% plus VAT.  Because  of this I agree with the Legal Ombudsman  that fee cap 
applying to the businesss fees is a fair and reasonable  remedy in the circumstances.
putting things right
Harrington Jones Ltd (Guernsey) should  reduce their fees to 20% (plus VAT if applicable). 
If Mr H hasnt yet paid their fees, they should reissue invoices  showing the reduced 
fee. 
If Mr H has paid the fees, they should  refund him the difference between the amount 
he had paid and the reduced fee, along with simple interest calculated at 8% a year 
from the date they received his payment to the date of the refund.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold the complaint about the fees. Harrington Jones 
Ltd (Guernsey) must  follow the directions Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5638449