K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a single premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a loan in 1998. Miss P says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold her 
the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Both parties  agree that the sale took place during a meeting in a branch. And I think  thats  
likely to be the case. Halifax had to make it clear  that the PPI was optional and Miss P had to 
agree to take it. Miss P has said it wasnt made clear that the policy was optional.  Due to the 
time that has passed, Halifax doesnt  have all of the documentation from the sale  which  
isnt surprising considering this took place over 20 years ago. Where there is a dispute,  Ill 
base my decision on what I think is most likely  to have happened.
From what  we know about the way Halifax sold these  policies  at the time, it would have  
been likely  that Miss P would have completed a loan application form. From the examples 
we have seen  this would have required her to sign to say Yes or No for PPI. Halifax  has 
been able to provide a copy of the personal loan agreement from the sale and this shows  
the cost of the loan and the breakdown  of the cost of the PPI including the interest. I think 
this information  would  only have been detailed on Miss Ps loan agreement following  her 
agreeing to the PPI on an application form. 
While I note Miss P has said she wasnt told the policy was optional,  she hasnt given much 
information as to why she thinks this. And I have to take into consideration that recollections 
from that long ago could fade over time.  I think that if she had seen the loan agreement 
which included information about  the PPI policy and wasnt  aware  of what this was or hadnt 
agreed to take it out, I think she would have questioned this at the time.  So based on 
everything Ive seen and been told, along  with what we know about  Halifaxs sales 
processes from the time, I think its more likely that Halifax made Miss P aware the policy 
was optional and that she agreed to take it out, knowing she could  refuse it if she didnt 
want it  even if that is not her recollection now.
Halifax has said that it recommended the policy. That means it had to take reasonable steps 
to recommend something suitable. And, based  on what I know about her circumstances, I 
think it was right for Miss P. I say this because she was eligible for the policy and doesnt 
seem to have  been affected  by the main  things the policy didnt cover, such as unusual 
working arrangements or a medical  condition of which she was already aware.
Miss P has told us she would statutory  sick pay from her employer  if she was too ill to work. 
But this policy would  have paid out for up to 60 months if she was off sick, which would have 
been in addition to and potentially for longer  than,  any sick pay she received. And the policy  
would have covered her for 12 months if she was to lose her job. Whilst I note she may have 
been entitled to redundancy pay this is likely  to be significantly less than 12 months  income. 
Ref: DRN54758842I understand Miss P didnt  have any savings or other  means with which to meet her 
repayments and so I think this policy could  have been of use to her.
The cost of the policy and loan was shown on the credit agreement, which  she signed. So I 
think Miss P would have understood how much she needed to pay for it when she took the 
loan out. But its possible that some other information  Halifax  gave her about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But for the same reasons  I think the policy was suitable,  I 
dont think better information  wouldve stopped her from buying  it.
From the documentation  Ive seen,  if Miss P repaid her loan early,  she wouldnt receive a 
proportionate refund of the premium.  I dont know what  was said to Miss P about early 
repayment when  she took the policy but from looking  at everything on file I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Miss P needed  this kind of flexibility when she took the loan or that 
she told Halifax she may repay the loan early. So I dont think this makes  a difference.
So when taking  everything into account,  I dont  think that the policy was mis-sold. So Halifax  
doesnt need to refund any of the premiums paid.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5475884