K820x#14complaint
Mr O and Mr D complain that Fresh Insurance Services Group Limited  mis-sold  them  their 
home insurance policy because it didnt include cover for trace and access.
background
Mr O and Mr D purchased  a home  insurance policy through Fresh (a broker) via a price 
comparison website on 18 April 2018.  On 2 August 2018 they notified Fresh  that they 
wanted to make a claim for a water  leak. The next day the claims handler emailed them to 
acknowledge they wanted to make  the claim. The email also said that their policy  didnt 
include trace  and access cover so the repair of the leak wasnt  covered nor was any damage  
caused in locating the source of the leak or any subsequent making good. The claims 
handler asked  Mr O and Mr D to let it have a copy of their plumbers invoice in respect  of the 
repair of the leak so it could verify the cause  and location of the leak had been fixed. Mr O 
and Mr D withdrew the claim on 6 September 2018.  
On 4 April 2019,  Mr O and Mr D contacted Freshs customer care team to report  a claim for 
an escape of water following a leak that had damaged their dining room ceiling. They said to 
Fresh that their home emergency insurer had located and isolated the leak but was unable 
to gain access to the pipe to carry out the repair and it may be necessary to remove tiles in 
the bathroom to do so. Fresh said to Mr O and Mr D that their policy  wouldnt cover  the 
repair to the pipe because it didnt include the benefit of trace and access cover. Fresh said 
that Mr O and Mr D could  claim  for the damage cause by the escape of water. 
Mr O and Mr D said they were  shocked and upset to be told that the damage caused by 
repairing the leak wasnt covered. They said the bathroom needed to be ripped apart  and 
they expected their insurer to pick up the bill. They said theyd made it clear when taking out 
the policy that they wanted to be covered for trace and access.  Fresh  said trace and access 
cover was an additional feature which wasnt included  on their policy.
 
Mr O and Mr D said they felt that their policy had been mis-sold  because theyd not been 
made aware  at the point of sale that they didnt have trace  and access  cover. They said they 
wanted to make a formal  complaint. Mr O said to Fresh that hed checked  the policy terms 
and felt that if cover for trace and access was excluded then it shouldve  been mentioned  
alongside the other escape of water  exclusions.
Fresh looked into Mr O and Mr Ds complaint and issued its final response on 15 April 2019. 
It said that the policy provided  cover for damage  caused by an escape of water  but there 
was a specific exclusion (4(f)) which stated there was no cover for loss or damage to the 
appliance/system/pipe from which the water escaped. Fresh said Mr O and Mr D could still 
pursue a claim for the damage caused by the leak. It said that the actual repair of the leak 
itself wasnt covered because it was considered  to be a maintenance issue and they werent  
covered by insurance policies. 
Fresh also said trace and access  wasnt an insured peril but rather a feature/benefit  offered 
or provided  by some insurers. It said the insurer of Mr O and Mr Ds policy  didnt offer it as a 
policy benefit. And Fresh  said trace and access cover wasnt  a policy  term, exclusion or 
limitation that was required by the regulator  to be disclosed at the point of sale. It said there  
were many uninsurable  perils that home  insurance  policies  didnt  cover  and it wasnt 
possible for policies  to list them all. 
Ref: DRN59286842Fresh said it was happy that Mr O and Mr D had been provided with accurate information 
before purchasing the policy and afterwards  when they were  sent their policy  documentation  
confirming cover. It said the inclusion  of the trace and access  benefit wasnt  standard  nor 
was it necessary for it to disclose that no cover was included at the point of sale. 
Mr O and Mr D replied to Fresh to say there was no exclusion 4(f) in their policy.  Fresh  
apologised and said it had mistakenly referred  to the wrong  edition  of the policy  terms. 
Despite doing  so, it said there was still no trace and access  cover provided by the policy (so 
it didnt matter that it wasnt specifically excluded).  
Unhappy with the outcome of Freshs investigation, Mr O and Mr D complained to this 
service. They said they had suffered emotional  distress by having to deal with a broker  who 
refused to accept their claim  for the repair work and damage it caused.  They  said they 
wanted Fresh  to accept this aspect of their claim and to pay them  compensation of £500.  
Our investigator looked into their complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld.  He said 
the policy didnt  include cover for trace  and access nor was there any evidence Mr O and 
Mr D has asked for it to be included at the point of sale. Mr O and Mr D disagreed with our 
investigator. They said that the policy wording didnt explicitly exclude cover for trace  and 
access. And they said the terms stated the full cost of repair would be met which must 
include any costs associated with fixing the leak and reinstating  the bathroom.  Finally they 
said trace  and access was a significant  exclusion, that the policy wording theyd received 
was unclear and that the wording led them  to believe they had it. 
Our investigator thought about  what Mr O and Mr D had said but wasnt persuaded to 
change his mind. The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the policy terms
The policy terms in force at the time of the claim didnt include exclusion 4(f). Fresh  has now 
accepted that it was wrong to refer to it. Its not unusual  for insurers  to revise policy terms 
and conditions but this service expects the correct  version to be applied  to any claim made.  
But I dont think the absence of this exclusion means that the policy includes cover for 
damage caused by trace  and access though. Ill explain why.
Mr O and Mr D have said that they want the damage  caused  to their home by investigating 
and fixing the water leak to be covered by their policy/met by Fresh. Unfortunately  their 
policy doesnt state that damage caused  in this way is covered. 
Not all damage a home sustains is covered  by home  insurance. Only damage  caused by the 
insured events listed in the policy is covered. Damage caused  by an escape  of water is one 
such event covered by the policy. But it is also possible for a home  to sustain damage as a 
result of events not listed in the policy. Damage caused by something not specifically 
included in the policy isnt covered and, in such circumstances,  the policy  will not engage. It 
isnt possible or feasible  for an insurance policy to list all the potential causes of damage to a 
home that arent  covered.
Ref: DRN59286843The cover provided by Mr O and Mr Ds policy terms is as follows:  
This insurance covers the buildings  for loss or damage directly caused by
4. escape of water from and frost damage  to fixed water tanks, apparatus  or pipes
So the damage caused to Mr O and Mr Ds home by the water escaping  from the leaking 
pipe can be covered (subject  to the application  of any policy exclusion) by the insurer. 
The fact that the policy  is silent on damage caused  by trace  and access being covered 
means, by default,  that the policy doesnt  cover it. And I note that the fact they didnt have 
this cover had been drawn to their attention  by Freshs  claims team  in August 2018. So I 
dont think that Fresh has unreasonably advised  Mr O and Mr D that the insurer  is unlikely  to 
cover it. 
Trace and access cover is a feature/add-on benefit (rather  than an insured peril/event) 
included, or offered, by some insurers within their policies.  Cover for it can also be provided 
by a stand-alone policy. If offered as a policy add-on it will sometimes  attract an additional 
premium. And some insurers dont offer the benefit  at all. But trace  and access isnt a policy 
exclusion that requires  specific mention  within the policy terms. Rather in this instance, it just 
isnt part of the policy. The policy doesnt need to exclude a benefit that isnt included. 
  
the damage
Mr O and Mr D have said their policy provides cover for the full cost of repair  which must 
extend to include  the damage  caused by accessing  and repairing the leak. I can see that the 
section of the policy that addresses how claims will be dealt with states:  
If your claim for loss or damage is covered under section one, Insurers will pay the full cost 
of repair.
This means  that for the full cost of repair to be covered by the insurer,  the damage  must be 
covered under section one (which includes the escape of water peril referred to above).  Mr D 
and Mr O say the damage  a hole cut in the ceiling and the potential  removal  of the 
bathroom tiles  was a direct result of the leaking pipe and is so covered; but I cant agree. 
Thats because the hole in the ceiling wasnt caused  by the water leak. Nor was the removal  
of the tiles. They were  the result of trying  to trace the source  of the leak.  Damage of this 
nature isnt covered by section one. So I dont think that Freshs  claims team  unreasonably 
advised Mr O and Mr D that these costs wouldnt be met. 
the policy sale
Mr O and Mr D have said they made it clear to Fresh when the policy  was sold that they 
wanted trace  and access cover included. And they said the absence of trace and access  
cover shouldve been drawn  to their attention by Fresh at the point of sale because it 
couldve effected their decision to purchase  that particular policy.
I can see that Mr O and Mr D obtained  a quote  for their insurance with Fresh  through  a price 
comparison site. Ive seen  a print out of the questions  and answers during that process and 
note that there was no mention of trace and access cover. I can also see that having  done 
so they then phoned Fresh to take up the cover theyd been offered online. 
Ref: DRN59286844Its up to individual  insurers to decide  what they want to include and exclude from cover in 
their policies. Fresh has explained that trace and access cover isnt offered by the insurer of 
Mr O and Mr Ds policy nor is it a benefit  it offers as part of its standard  cover or as an 
add-on. Fresh  says it makes no mention of trace and access throughout the customer  
journey unless specifically raised  by the customer,  in which  case it would try and find a 
policy that offered  it. 
No mention was made by Mr O and Mr D during the sales  call in April 2018 that they wanted 
trace and access cover to be included. During  the call the sales  consultant asked if they 
were happy  that the policy met their needs  which they said it did. The consultant said that 
the policy documents would be sent by email and that they should check  to see if there  were  
any errors which they should report  to customer services. The sales consultant finished the 
call by saying that it wasnt  possible to go through all the policy  terms and wording over the 
phone but they were  on their website and would be sent to them after the call. 
This appears  to have  been an advised  sale on the part of Fresh.  That means it must 
highlight any unusual,  onerous or restrictive  terms and make sure that he policy  is suitable  
for Mr O and Mr Ds needs. Ive seen the Demands and Needs statement Mr O and Mr D 
were sent by Fresh  after the sales phone call. It says the statement  is based on the 
information they provided to Fresh and that it reviewed the policies within its range. It goes 
on to say We would ask that you read this document  carefully and together with the rest of 
your insurance information and contact us immediately with any queries. 
Then the document goes  on to list what cover is provided  standard buildings and contents 
cover, no personal  possessions, no business  use, no home  emergency  cover but including  
legal protection.  The document finishes  by stating: Any demands or needs  that we could not 
meet are shown below:  All demands and needs have been fulfilled with your policy.
Ive seen the policy summary  that Mr O and Mr D were sent by email immediately after the 
sale. It says, This document  contains  some important facts about [Xs] Household  
Insurance. It is only a summary of cover  to help assist you in making  an informed purchase 
decision.Please take time to read this policy document to make sure you understand the 
cover provided. There then appear two columns;  one headed What is insured and one 
headed What  is not insured. There is no mention anywhere of trace  and access cover.  
Ive seen no evidence  that Mr O and Mr D asked Fresh during the sale to include trace and 
access cover nor that they contacted  Fresh  after the sales call to ask it about  including  it. 
Nor have  I seen any onerous  or unusual terms that shouldve been  highlighted that werent. 
And I think that Fresh  has been able to show that it assessed the policy  was suitable  for the 
stated needs of Mr O and Mr D. So I dont think I can reasonably conclude that the policy  
was mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 July 2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5928684