K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained about 2 Plan Wealth Management Limited.  He is unhappy  about  the 
service it provided when he took advice about transferring the deferred benefits he held in a 
former employers occupational  pension  scheme  (OPS).
background
Mr K took advice in the latter part of 2017.  He had obtained a cash  equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) for the benefits he held in an OPS.  The OPS  was a defined  benefit scheme. The 
CETV was over £900,000 and guaranteed until mid-January 2018.
Mr K met with an adviser from 2 Plan. Mr K says that he explained that he wished to transfer 
out of the OPS and invest in a SIPP.  He  says that some of his main  objectives were; 
to avoid his pension dying with him, 
he was about to finalise his divorce and wanted a lump  sum to do this, 
his children  would  not benefit from the OPS,  
to have greater tax efficiency, he did not need the full pension income as he worked 
part-time seasonally.
It seems  that the original  adviser from 2 Plan felt that the transfer would be suitable.  But when 
the transaction was referred  to a pension specialist as part of 2 Plans compliance process, 2 
Plan advised against it. It said the transfer wasnt suitable and did not represent good  value.
Mr K questioned the advice and said that his specific personal circumstances had not been  
properly taken into account. He asked why a comparison  had been  made  with the cost of an 
annuity when  he had no intention of purchasing an annuity. He also pointed  to errors in the 
written advice such as a reference  to his being married and the advice being provided on a 
joint basis when he was single.
Although 2 Plan had advised against the transfer  its advice had left open the possibility of it 
proceeding with the transfer on an insistent client basis. It had suggested  a two week period 
for Mr K to reflect. It also asked him to confirm  he understood the risks and set out, in his 
own words, his reasons  for wanting to proceed  against its advice.
But Mr K reiterated that he felt the advice was flawed. So 2 Plan decided, in effect,  to 
withdraw and said that it wouldnt proceed with the transfer. It didnt raise any charge for its 
work to that point.
Mr K instructed another business which advised  in favour  of the transfer  and this was completed.
Mr K complained to 2 Plan. It didnt  uphold the complaint and it was referred to this service 
where it was considered  by an adjudicator. She didnt think  the complaint should be upheld. 
In summary,  she noted that 2 Plan had advised  against the transfer and said it was not 
obliged to proceed with it. It didnt  have to go ahead and treat Mr K as an insistent  client if it 
wasnt satisfied that he had accepted and understood its advice. She didnt agree  that 2 Plan 
had acted for personal rather  than professional reasons as Mr K had said.  She also 
explained that professional advice will vary and the fact that another  adviser had reached a 
different opinion didnt mean that 2 Plan were  wrong. 
Mr K didnt agree and the complaint has been  referred to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN52301902my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive noted some specific questions Mr K has posed,  but its my role to assess the complaint 
and determine  which issues are most relevant.  So I wont be responding to each and every  
point he has raised.
Mr K is unhappy with the advice he received from 2 Plan. This service  often has to assess 
the suitability and appropriateness of advice that has been  given by financial advisers in 
pension transfers  like this. But mostly  that consideration is made when a consumer is 
unhappy about advice they have been given,  and followed, which  they later believe  to have 
been bad  advice which has caused  them losses.
In this case, I dont  propose to reach a definitive  conclusion on whether or not   the advice 2 
Plan gave  was suitable for Mr K. Mr K didnt agree with the advice, and as he wasnt  willing 
to confirm to 2Plan in the way it was seeking  that he wanted to act against its advice, there  
was no prospect of 2Plan  being  able to carry out the transaction for him. So the advice itself 
didnt actually cause  him any direct  financial  loss. 
To be clear, Im satisfied  that 2Plans request for Mr K to explain why he wanted to act 
against the advice was reasonable.  2Plan  would  potentially  have a liability  if Mr K proceeded 
to transfer without 2Plan making sure hed understood the implications of his decision.  So 
whilst I appreciate that it took some time for Mr K to then obtain alternative advice, that in my 
view is a consequence of him not being  willing to provide  this reasonable confirmation to 
2Plan, rather than 2Plan giving him the wrong advice.
I can understand why Mr K may have  lacked confidence in the advice  he was ultimately 
given. He had no doubt expected more positive advice after his initial  meetings with 2 Plans 
adviser. And the report he received  did include factual errors, such as the reference  to his 
marital status. When  he spoke with the 2 Plan adviser there  was also confusion  about his 
selected retirement age which led to a discussion being aborted  and delayed.
Mr K clearly  thought the advice was flawed  on a number of grounds.  He didnt think there 
should have been so much reliance on a comparison with the costs of an annuity  for 
example. And he felt there was a lack of focus  on his specific  personal circumstances.
In relation to the annuity comparison, whilst Mr K may never have intended to buy an 
annuity, I dont  believe the comparison 2 Plan made was inappropriate. It is one way of 
demonstrating the potential value of the guaranteed benefits Mr K was intending  to give up. 
And it wasnt the only comparison it made.
The FCA has issued guidance on transfers like this one which sets out that an adviser 
should always start by assuming a transfer  is not suitable. It has also issued  guidance on 
dealing with insistent  clients (Factsheet 035).  A crucial aspect of this is that before a 
consumer goes ahead against advice, the adviser should be able to demonstrate  that the 
advice given is clear  and the risks of not following it have  been understood. But here there 
was a fundamental disagreement about the basis of the advice itself, and so I can 
understand why 2 Plan felt that it couldnt proceed and treat Mr K as an insistent client.  
Ref: DRN523019032 Plan certainly  wasnt under any obligation  to treat Mr K as an insistent client,  and it was 
free to decide  the work  it would undertake or not.
I do note Mr Ks point that another firm was able to recommend the transfer and his view that 
this should therefore raise  a question mark over the advice from 2 Plan. I can understand  
why he may say that, but ultimately  advice like this is a matter  of professional opinion. The 
fact that advice differs doesnt necessarily  mean  that one opinion is wrong. Mr K was free to 
reject the advice he was given  by 2 Plan as he did. But as Ive said above,  I dont think  2Plan 
could have been expected to still carry out the transaction given Mr Ks stance on its advice.
Its not the role or function of this service to make comparative assessments of the quality of 
financial advice between  one adviser and another. There was no prospect of the transfer 
proceeding given the breakdown in the relationship between Mr K and 2Plan, so Im not 
persuaded Mr K suffered  any loss as a direct result  of 2Plans  advice.  And 2 Plan waived its 
fees. Im not satisfied  the factual errors 2 Plan made  in its initial advice were so material  that 
without these its advice  would have been  different.  
I can understand Mr Ks frustrations but having considered all the circumstances of the case  
I dont think it would  be fair and reasonable to uphold  this complaint.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5230190