K822xcomplaint
Mrs N complains that shes  been unable to make  payments from her TSB Bank  plc accounts 
following its upgrade  to its IT systems in 2018.
background 
In early 2018, TSB upgraded its IT systems which affected its online banking and mobile 
phone app. Unfortunately,  things didnt  all go as TSB hoped resulting in issues for a number 
of its customers, including Mrs N.
In Mrs Ns case, she wasnt able to make payments from her accounts. She complained,  
saying that as she was based abroad  she couldnt receive the one-time-passcode (OTP)  she 
needed to complete the transactions. She said shed been able to do so without any 
problems before the IT upgrade.
TSB said it would try to fix the problem, and in the meantime Mrs N had to use her brothers 
phone in the UK to receive OTPs and make payments. Even that didnt always work, and 
Mrs N had to fly to the UK from a holiday in order to authorise a payment in branch.
TSB apologised  for the inconvenience  Mrs N had been caused and offered her £100 to say 
sorry and said it would  cover the cost of her phone calls trying to sort things out.
After our investigator considered the complaint,  TSB took another  look at everything and 
said it didnt think it would  be able to fix the problem  with sending OTPs to overseas phone  
numbers. So it said Mrs N might need to move her bank accounts elsewhere  if shed  need  to 
make regular payments  from her accounts. In recognition of the additional inconvenience 
this would be likely to cause, TSB said it would pay Mrs N £1,000 compensation.
Mrs N didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. She didnt feel TSBs 
offer adequately compensated  her for the trouble shed been caused, and would have to 
experience in trying to move all her accounts  and payments when shed  have to travel to and 
from the UK to do so.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter.  As the issue hadnt been fully addressed 
previously, I first concluded that Mrs Ns complaint was one our service could consider, 
because she was an eligible complainant. Regarding the complaint itself, I said:
I can see Mrs N feels strongly about her complaint. And its not in dispute  that TSBs IT 
upgrades caused  her problems. I think these were then exacerbated afterwards by the 
alternatives it offered  and how long it took to finally explain it couldnt  continue 
providing her with services in the same  way it used to.
When Mrs N first discovered she couldnt receive  the OTPs she needed to make 
payments, it caused her inconvenience in needing to ask her brother to help. And she 
had to fly to the UK to make  one large payment. Im pleased to see TSB has agreed to 
pay the financial costs  Mrs N incurred  here  for phone calls and her flights to and 
from the UK.
This situation persisted for some time as TSB said it was looking into a solution. But 
eventually it concluded  it wasnt  able to issue OTPs to phone numbers abroad, as this 
wasnt supported by its new systems.
Ref: DRN51098052Mrs N wasnt given any advance warning of this and is now left with a banking service  
that doesnt do what it did before. She may need  to move banks to be able to run her 
accounts the way she wants to.
Im satisfied that all of this constitutes  a large  degree of inconvenience  TSB has put 
Mrs N and her businesses  to. So I think its right that it should pay to compensate  her 
for that.
Taking everything into account  Im satisfied that the £1,000  it has now offered is fair 
and reasonable compensation for the inconvenience Mrs N has been caused.
Both parties  responded to say they accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional  findings,  I see no reason to depart from them here.  I 
therefore make the same  findings and reach the same  conclusions, and make them final.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  here and in my provisional  decision  I uphold this complaint, and direct 
TSB Bank plc to pay Mrs N:
£244.16 for the financial  losses  she incurred;  and
£1,000 for the inconvenience she suffered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5109805