K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained to us that she was mis-sold mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) by Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds).  The policy covered her mortgage  repayments in the 
event that she lost her job or was too ill to work. 
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that it shouldnt  be upheld.  
Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been  passed to me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  and Ill explain  the reasons  for this.
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances. The sale appears to have taken place during a meeting in a branch.  Theres  
very limited information available about  this sale, but given that it took place many  years ago 
in 1996 and the mortgage was redeemed in 2003, this isnt unusual. 
The first thing to say is there were rules about  who could qualify for the policy  and based  on 
the information thats been provided to us, it looks like Mrs B met those  rules.  So I think  
shed have been able to claim  on the MPPI if she needed to.
Next, Ive looked at whether Lloyds made it sufficiently clear to Mrs B that the policy  
was optional. Mrs B told us that at the meeting she declined the MPPI. Then in 2018,  she 
was contacted by Lloyds  and she was surprised to learn that the policy had been added  to 
her mortgage in 1996. 
Im sure Mrs Bs recollections are genuinely  held,  but Ive noted  that she hasnt been able to 
recall a great  deal of detail about the sale. This is entirely understandable given how much  
time has passed. So Ive carefully considered whether its likely that Lloyds added the MPPI 
without her knowledge.  Based on all the available information, it seems more  likely to me 
that Mrs B would have  chosen to take out the MPPI.  Ive explained  the reasons for this 
below. So overall, Im not persuaded  that theres strong enough evidence for me to uphold 
her complaint on this basis. 
Next Ive considered  whether the policy was suitable  for Mrs B. First of all, Ive checked the 
main exclusions  and restrictions of the policy and it doesnt look like Mrs B would have been 
caught by any of them.
Ive also considered that given her job, its likely Mrs B would have been entitled to sick pay 
and redundancy  pay. But I dont think this is enough  for me to say the MPPI wasnt  suitable. 
The policy was intended to provide comfort against  the consequences of defaulting on ones 
Ref: DRN58407272mortgage. If Mrs B was too ill to work or was made unemployed, the policy  would have 
covered her mortgage  repayment. This would have given her peace of mind and security. It 
also would  have allowed her to use any sick pay or redundancy monies  for other  necessary 
household expenses. 
So having  considered all these factors, I think that the recommendation was suitable  and the 
MPPI would have provided her with a useful  benefit  which was affordable for her. 
Finally, Lloyds had to give Mr B information that was clear,  fair and not misleading  so she 
could make the decision for herself about whether or not to take the MPPI. Ive considered  
the possibility  that Lloyds  didnt give Mrs B clear enough information about the cost, benefits, 
main exclusions  and restrictions of the policy. 
But the cost was comparable to the cost of other, similar policies available  at the time. And 
its possible Lloyds didnt  point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But Mrs B wouldnt  
have been affected by any of those things. On balance, I dont think having better 
information would have dissuaded her from buying  the PPI. So overall, I dont think  this 
policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs B but for the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5840727