K820x#14summary and background to complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained about the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI)  
policy taken out in October 1992  in connection  with a mortgage.  
Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) says that a different business  Business A  
was responsible for the sale of the PPI. So Nationwide says that it was not responsible for 
the sale of the PPI.
An adjudicator has looked at the case and agreed  that Nationwide  wasnt responsible for the 
sale of the PPI. Mr and Mrs S disagree  with this so the case has come  to me to make a 
decision. 
I set out in my provisional decision dated 18 February 2019 why I was minded to find that 
Nationwide wasnt responsible for the sale of the PPI. I invited both parties to let me have 
any further comments and evidence. 
No further information has been provided  by Nationwide. Mr and Mrs S have provided  some 
further submissions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I set out the following:
The first thing I need  to decide is whether Nationwide  is responsible for the sale of 
the policy. If I decide it is, then I can decide whether the sale happened  as it 
shouldve done. If I dont think Nationwide was responsible  for the sale of the policy 
to Mr and Mrs S, then Im not going  to be able to uphold  a complaint about  the PPI 
sale against Nationwide.
Ive looked  at all the evidence provided  and at what Nationwide  and Mr and Mrs S 
have told us about the sale. Mr and Mrs S say that the sale took place in a 
Nationwide branch with a Nationwide  staff member, so they say that the PPI was 
sold by Nationwide. Nationwide say that the policy appears to have been sold by 
Business A. Nationwide  says that it is possible that Business A sold the mortgage 
and PPI from a Nationwide branch as they were  entitled to sell products there as an 
independent entity.
Whilst I accept  that Business A has a similar name to Nationwide  and may have 
been part of the same  group,  it is a different business to Nationwide.  Therefore 
Nationwide would  not therefore  be responsible  for the sale of the PPI if it was sold by 
Business A  even if this took place in Nationwides  branch.
I can see that Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage  was provided by Nationwide  and was taken 
out in October 1990. I can see from the PPI policy document provided by the insurer  
that the PPI cover  was taken out in October 1992 to cover Mr S only.  I have also 
seen the mortgage  application  form and this indicates that PPI was not applied  for at 
the same time as the mortgage.
Ref: DRN53916062Nationwide says the only policy Mr and Mrs S had through Nationwide  along with the 
mortgage was a life assurance  policy. I can see from screenshots of Nationwides 
internal systems  of all transactions  on the account that deductions were  being made 
for the life assurance.  Likewise, I can also see on Mr and Mrs Ss annual mortgage  
statements that payments were  being  made for life assurance along with the 
mortgage payments. Nationwide has said that if Mr and Mrs S had taken PPI through 
Nationwide then it would show up on the transactions. However, there  are no similar 
payments for PPI indicated on either the transaction  history  or the annual mortgage 
statements for Mr and Mrs S. 
I have seen  the welcome letter  sent to Mr S from the insurer  in October 1992. This 
refers to the Business A Policy document. The policy  document itself is headed 
Mortgage Care and sets out that the lender  was Nationwide.  The title of the policy  is 
the Credit Disability Credit Redundancy and Hospitalisation Insurance  Policy." I 
have also seen  a letter  sent to Mr S from the insurer  in June 1993 referring to the 
Mortgage Care Scheme, the Business A Accident, Sickness and Redundancy 
policy  and the Business A policy.
Nationwide has said it didnt sell a product called Credit Disability Credit 
Redundancy  and Hospitalisation Insurance Policy  referred to in the policy  document  
and that it didnt sell Mortgage Care. It says that its mortgage PPI was called by a 
different name at the time. 
In light of the above, I am satisfied that Nationwide  was not responsible  for the sale 
of the PPI. I say this because Nationwides systems show no record or Mrs and Mr S 
having PPI with it, along  with the fact that Business A is referred  to on the policy 
documents and the policy itself is referred  to as being  Business As policy. 
As Nationwide didnt sell the PPI (and wasnt responsible for the business  who did 
sell it), Im minded  to find that Nationwide wasnt  responsible for the sale. It follows 
that it wasnt responsible for carrying out the sale properly.  So, as I dont think  it did 
anything wrong,  Im intending  not to uphold  the complaint against Nationwide.
The company  which  is responsible  for the sale of the PPI is Business A, so Mr and 
Mrs S would have to complain to this company about the mis-sale. However,  I can 
only consider a complaint if it falls within certain criteria laid down in our case-
handling rules,  which  are found in the DISP  section  of the Financial Conduct 
Authority Handbook  (available online). 
The event that Mr and Mrs S have complained about is insurance intermediation, that 
is, the marketing, advising and selling of insurance, etc. This did not become a 
regulated activity until 14 January 2005.  
This sale took place in 1992 and Business A was not subject to our compulsory 
jurisdiction at this time.  The rules  do allow me to consider some  complaints about the 
sale of insurance  before January  2005  where the business was subject to a former 
scheme at the relevant time. But Business A was not a member  of any of these 
schemes at the time the policy  was sold (and it did not need to be because  they were  
mostly voluntary). So it follows that I wouldnt be able to consider this complaint 
against Business  A either if Mr and Mrs S did complain about it.
Ref: DRN53916063I can only consider complaints which fall within my jurisdiction under the case-
handling rules  which  I must  apply.  Therefore,  Mr and Mrs S can complain  to 
Business A, but if they dont like the answer, this service wont  have the power to 
look at the complaint against Business A. I know Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed  
that Im reaching this conclusion. Im sorry we cant help them on this occasion.
But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because:  
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr and Mrs 
S about that. Because  Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI 
premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Just to be clear, the reason Nationwide has paid back  some of the commission is 
because it was the lender and this has no bearing on who actually sold the policy.
Mr and Mrs S have  made some  further submissions. They say that there  has been no 
evaluation of who physically sold the policy and that the PPI was sold by the same person 
who sold them the mortgage. They say this was either the manager or deputy manager  who 
they believe to have been an employee of Nationwide. Mr and Mrs S say that Nationwide  
must have  been  acting  as an agent  for the PPI as otherwise it wouldnt have received 
commission for the sale. 
In relation to who sold the policy, Mr and Mrs S have previously said that in a meeting to 
discuss and finalise the mortgage  arrangements with Nationwide,  they were  told that the 
insurance was compulsory and that this would be arranged by Nationwide. They have said 
that they were  told that the insurance was a requirement of the Nationwide mortgage.
As set out in my provisional  decision, I have seen  evidence showing that Mr and Mrs Ss 
mortgage was taken out in October  1990.  Screenshots from Nationwide  show that the date 
of advance for the mortgage account ending 289-02 was 12 October  1990  (there  was also a 
further advance  taken out on 18 February  1991 with a different  account number). I also 
explained that I had looked  at the PPI policy document and that this showed that the PPI 
cover was taken out in October 1992.  The policy document also shows  the account number 
to which  the PPI relates, ending 289-02. The welcome letter  from the insurer  also sets out 
that the PPI commenced on 7 October  1992. 
So I am satisfied that, as the mortgage  account number is the same on both documents,  the 
PPI taken out in October 1992  relates to the mortgage which commenced in October  1990. 
Therefore, whilst I cant be satisfied of precisely who physically sold either the mortgage or 
the PPI, it appears  that they were  not sold by the same person at the same time. This is 
because the PPI was taken  out almost two years after the Nationwide  mortgage to which  it 
relates. This is also supported by the fact that it appears PPI was not applied for on the 
mortgage application form I have seen.
In relation to the commission, the reason Nationwide received commission is because it was 
the lender. This doesnt mean that it was responsible for selling the PPI policy.
Ref: DRN53916064I have considered what Mr and Mrs S have  said but this doesnt change my mind  about who 
sold the policy. As set out in my provisional  decision, in light of the fact that Nationwides 
systems show  no record or Mrs and Mr S having  PPI with it, along with the fact that 
Business A is referred to on the policy documents, I am satisfied on balance  that Nationwide  
did not sell the PPI. 
As Nationwide  didnt sell the PPI (and wasnt responsible for the business  who did sell it), it 
is my finding  that Nationwide wasnt  responsible for the sale. It follows  that it wasnt 
responsible for carrying out the sale properly.  So, as I dont think  it did anything wrong, I 
dont uphold the complaint against  Nationwide.
I know Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed that Im reaching this conclusion. Im sorry we cant  
help them on this occasion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and above,  my decision is that 
Nationwide Building  Society wasnt responsible for the sale of the PPI and therefore  I dont  
uphold this complaint against it.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 May 2019.
Rachel Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5391606