K820x#14complaint
Miss J has complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold her an income protection insurance  
policy.
background
In 2001, Miss J met with an adviser from HSBC while in the process of trying  to obtain a 
mortgage. On the advisers recommendation, Miss J agreed to take out an income protection  
insurance policy.
In 2017, Miss J cancelled  the policy and complained that it had been mis-sold.  She felt the 
policy was unsuitable  for her needs  and said shed been pressured into taking it out. In 
particular she said that, in the event  of ill-health for more than twelve months, she would 
have been entitled to receive an early pension through her employers  pension  scheme 
which meant the policy would have been  of no use.
HSBC didnt uphold  her complaint. It was satisfied the policy was suitable for her needs 
based on the information which Miss J had provided at the time.  It could find no evidence  
that its adviser had been made  aware of the employers pension scheme benefits. 
Miss J was unhappy at HSBCs response. She referred her complaint to us. She said she 
had given the adviser details of her then-current employers sickness  terms and conditions 
which showed that after one years sickness she would have been entitled  to receive an 
early pension. She said the adviser  told her that this would supplement the 50% of her pre-
incapacity income she would receive as benefit  through the policy  so that she would end up 
receiving 100% of her pre-incapacity income. She said she now understood this advice was 
wrong. She pointed out that HSBC  had conceded  it had mis-sold two other  insurance  
policies at the same time as this policy was sold.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  In her opinion, the 
sale had been  carried out in an appropriate  way and the recommended  policy had been 
suitable for Miss J. Our adjudicator noted  the adviser had recorded that she didnt have full 
details of Miss Js pension.
Miss J didnt  accept the adjudicators findings. She provided some details of her then-
employers pension scheme and said this had been provided to the adviser at the time. She 
reiterated that the adviser had wrongly told her that if she were to receive an early pension  it 
would have no effect on her benefit payments.
  
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The evidence from the time of sale shows the adviser met with Miss J and carried  out a fact 
find. She noted  that Miss J wanted  to protect  her income and received  52 weeks sickness  
pay from her employer.  She therefore  recommended an income protection insurance policy 
with a 52 week deferred period which would pay benefit equivalent to 50% of Miss Js gross  
Ref: DRN53246012salary, the maximum amount allowed under the policy terms.  On the face of it, I consider this 
to be a suitable recommendation.
Miss J says that she showed  the adviser evidence that she would receive  an early pension  
from her then-employer in the event that she was medically unable  to work for twelve 
months. She says the adviser told her this wouldnt affect her entitlement  to benefit  under the 
policy.
An early  pension would have affected  Miss Js benefit payments. This was made clear in the 
policys key features document, a copy of which was provided to Miss J at the time. 
However, beyond  her testimony, Ive seen no evidence that Miss J provided details of her 
potential entitlement  to an early pension to the adviser. Miss J is trying to recall events from 
eighteen years ago. Miss J also recalled  that she never met the adviser and the sale was 
conducted only through telephone interviews  but the documentary  evidence records that a 
meeting took place  in Miss Js home. This demonstrates  the difficulty  in relying on 
recollections from so long ago. The adviser  noted in the fact find that she hadnt received full 
details of Miss Js pension. In view of all the evidence,  I cant  reasonably assume  Miss J 
made the adviser aware  of her potential entitlement to an early  pension. I therefore cant  find 
the adviser at fault for failing to take this factor into account.
Furthermore, Miss J has provided  the pension scheme brochure to us and while this says 
that Miss J may be considered for an early pension if she stops work due to illness or 
disability and is judged  to be incapable of ever returning, there is nothing to say that this will 
automatically be applied  after 12 months absence. In addition, Miss J is apparently no 
longer with this employer.  I cant therefore  say that the existence  of the potential benefit has 
rendered her policy of no value throughout its period of operation.
Miss J has drawn attention to two other policies which were sold at the same  time as the 
income protection policy, for which HSBC has already  agreed  to refund her premiums.  I am 
aware of these other policies and HSBCs action. However, just because one policy  has 
been mis-sold, it doesnt automatically follow that any other  policy sold at the same time was 
also mis-sold.  Each sale has to be judged  on its own merits. Im satisfied  that in respect  of 
the income protection policy, the adviser made a suitable recommendation based on the 
information which Miss J provided. Ive seen nothing to suggest Miss J was put under undue  
pressure to take out the policy. I therefore see no reasonable grounds for concluding  that the 
policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5324601