K820x#14complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about the service  he received  from Standard  Life Investments 
(Mutual Funds) Limited (Standard Life) when he sought to transfer  his Independent  Savings 
Account to another firm.
background
Mr P says he submitted  an electronic transfer request on 22 August 2018  and that due to 
Standard Lifes  poor level of service the transfer  was obstructed  and delayed.  Mr P 
thereafter completed the transfer on 12 September 2018. He seeks compensation for the 
trouble and upset  he says the matter has caused  him.
Standard Life apologises for the dissatisfaction expressed  by Mr P but it does not accept that 
there is a basis for the compensation he seeks.  It explains  the matter  mainly as follows: 
At the time of the transfer request Mr P had held his account for around  18 years and 
there had been no material activity within it so his Anti Money Laundering (AML) 
related status  was unverified  and needed  to be verified  through an Experian check.
The electronic  transfer was automatically rejected and the transferee firm was 
notified.
On 28 August Mr P contacted Standard Life to query the rejection, the reason for the 
rejection was explained to him and he was told he would need to establish verified 
status first and then restart the transfer request. He asked  for an Experian check to 
be conducted and he was told it would take two to three working  days to complete. 
This process was successful and Mr P then resubmitted and completed the transfer.
It accepts  that information about the Experian check  was slightly  wrong   Mr P 
should have been  told, on 28 August, that it could take three  to five working days,  not 
two to three working days  but given  that the check was completed in four days and 
given that transfer was then resubmitted and completed on 12 September  the 
misinformation did not cause a material delay.
Mr Ps argument is that the Experian check should  have been  conducted at the outset  of his 
transfer request  on 22 August, not as a result  of his query on 28 August, and that had that 
been done the problem  he faced could have been  avoided. One of our investigators  looked 
into the complaint  and initially agreed with Mr P on this point. He was not persuaded by 
Standard Lifes  explanation that the check would  have been triggered  if the transfer was 
requested by post (or if there was a withdrawal request) but was not supposed to be 
triggered in an electronic  request. He did not see why the method of the request was 
relevant. The investigator also noted  that Mr P had been misinformed about the duration of 
the check. Overall,  he initially concluded  that the complaint should be upheld.
Standard Life explained the automated  nature of the electronic  transfer  request. It referred to 
the processing of such a request as quickly as possible and with minimal human intervention 
 hence the automated rejection that arose in Mr Ps case.  It said it would defeat the 
purpose of the electronic process  and would be uneconomical  if the Experian check was 
part of it and that it would not be feasible to monitor each rejected electronic transfer request 
to establish the rejection reason. It says it reasonably  relies  on the transferee firm  who is 
notified of the rejection  liaising with the client in this respect.
Standard Life also elaborated  upon its point that the misinformation given to Mr P on 
28 August was negligible.  The investigator  reviewed the matter  and reversed his conclusion. 
Ref: DRN55259652He agreed with Standard Lifes points and did not uphold  the complaint. He also said he had 
listened to the telephone call of 28 August and did not agree with Mr Ps assertion that 
Standard Life displayed an incompetent service within it. Mr P did not agree with this 
outcome and the matter was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators revised view, I do not consider there  is a basis  for the compensation sought by 
Mr P and I do not uphold  the complaint.
I too have listened to telephone call of 28 August. Mr Ps dissatisfaction  during the call is 
notable. He particularly objected to the idea that AML related  verification  could  be required 
for assets  that had already been in his account for around 18 years and to the absence  of an 
Experian check at the outset of his electronic transfer request. In response, Standard Life 
courteously explained that AML related verification  was kept under review  in the account and 
was reasonably required at the time of his request, it apologised for his dissatisfaction about 
the Experian check and it agreed  to conduct the check in order  for him to resubmit  the 
request.
Overall, I do not consider  that Standard Life handled  the call incompetently.  It gave a 
reasonable explanation  for the AML related verification  which I accept  and it was willing 
to help Mr P complete  the check in order for him to resubmit and complete  his transfer. I 
appreciate that Mr P was misinformed about  the duration of the check.  However, in real 
terms, the check was completed only one day later than Mr P had been told and thereafter  
his transfer relied  upon his resubmission of the request. The transfer was completed  on 
12 September in this context and I agree that the effect of the misinformation was negligible. 
With regards to Mr Ps point about the Experian check, I understand his logic but I also 
understand and accept  Standard Lifes rationale for not making the check a part of the 
electronic transfer  process  or for not applying it at the outset  of that process. The process  
appears to be designed  to cater,  quickly, for transfers which can be completed with minimal  
human intervention. Due to the AML related verification required in Mr Ps case, his was not 
such a transfer. I am not satisfied that there  is enough evidence to show  that the electronic 
transfer request  and its outcome could  have been foreseen  and avoided  by either party.   
During the telephone call of 28 August the parties briefly debated whether (or not) the 
verification was or should have been routinely reviewed and addressed previously. I 
understand Mr Ps point  in this respect too, but the fact remains that at the point of his 
transfer request  Standard Life appear to have had a legitimate need to conduct  the 
verification. The electronic  transfer  process did not cater for that, hence the process that 
followed after Mr Ps query. Overall and on balance,  I am not persuaded that Mr Ps 
complaint should  be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Ref: DRN55259653Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5525965