K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold them  a Total  Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP) policy in 2003,  with their joint mortgage. 
background
A TMPP  is a type of protection policy which typically includes mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) together with other features,  such as life insurance and critical illness cover 
(CIC). The individual elements of the TMPP can be added or taken out as the consumer 
wishes. 
Mr P was covered for all elements of the TMPP  PPI, life and CIC. Mrs P was only covered 
for life and CIC. And they paid a monthly amount for the policy.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why. 
did Mr and Mrs P agree  to the TMPP?
Mr and Mrs P and Halifax agree the policy was taken out during a meeting. And during that 
meeting, Halifax shouldve made Mr and Mrs P aware the TMPP was optional. 
These events were obviously a long time ago now. We dont have much documentary 
evidence to refer to because Halifax no longer has any copies. This is unfortunate, but not 
particularly unusual given  how long ago the sale was.
However, Ive looked at the main points  of complaint put forward by Mr and Mrs P. The key 
one is that they were  told it was essential to take the TMPP to have the mortgage 
approved. Whilst I accept this may well be their genuine belief now,  weve seen quite a few 
similar sales  to this from that time period. And as a result, weve looked in detail at what  
Halifaxs sales processes  were like.
We know for example  that consumers were  normally  sent or given a letter about the types 
of cover theyd agreed to at the mortgage  interview. This usually set out that consumers, 
like Mr and Mrs P, had accepted the recommendation  to have certain, or all, elements of 
the TMPP policy.
We were also sent some  screenshots of Halifaxs internal computer system. Ive seen  
quite a few of these  before and I also know from experience  that they show, as in this case,  
that Mr and Mrs P were asked several questions relating  to the cover theyd agreed to buy. 
Because I think what was keyed into the Halifax computer system,  would  have been  done 
at the time of the mortgage  interview   I think its most likely  all aspects of the TMPP were 
probably discussed in some  detail. 
Ref: DRN53972272Finally, I can see that whilst the life and CIC elements were  sold to both Mr and Mrs P, only  
Mr P was insured under the PPI. This further  leads  me to think they discussed different 
forms of protection  with Halifax  and took the level of cover most suitable  for their 
circumstances.
So overall, I think its more likely  Mr and Mrs P agreed to the TMPP at the time of the 
mortgage interview and sale.  
were Mr and Mrs P given suitable recommendations?
Halifax accepts it recommended the TMPP to Mr and Mrs P. So it had to make  sure it was 
suitable for them.
Halifax says that it shouldve sold Mr and Mrs P a decreasing term assurance,  instead  of a 
level term assurance. This is because their outstanding mortgage debt was being gradually 
reduced  so their payments for life and CIC cover  should have reflected this over time too. 
But Halifax  has gone on to say that at the time it didnt actually sell decreasing term 
assurance but we asked  Halifax to see how much it wouldve cost had they sold to it to 
make sure Mr and Mrs P havent lost out. Halifax has provided  evidence to show that the 
decreasing term assurance wouldve been more expensive, so Mr and Mrs P havent been 
financially disadvantaged by taking the level term assurance.   
Mr and Mrs P say Mr P had good  sick and redundancy benefits  from his employer. But the 
PPI element of the policy wouldve paid out alongside  his employee benefits. 
Ive reviewed the information Mr and Mrs P have provided about the other  policies they say 
they had. But having this form of life cover didnt make the TMPP element specific  to the 
mortgage unsuitable. It wasnt unusual for couples  to take out life cover to help each other 
out if the worst happened.
And I dont  believe any of the protections Mr and Mrs P had with their jobs rendered  PPI, 
life protection  or CIC unsuitable for them. Mr and Mrs P were relatively young at the time 
and not uncommonly, they were taking on a mortgage which I think would have been a long 
term commitment  for them. 
The life / CIC cover was designed  to help their next of kin cope with unforeseen or sudden 
financial uncertainty and I dont  think it was unreasonable that Halifax recommended  these  
elements as part of the overall TMPP policy. 
For the PPI element, I also think the recommendation that they take this was suitable. Only 
Mr P decided to buy it and he appears  to have been eligible for the PPI cover and not 
affected by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. Their mortgage 
was also secured against their home  and so the consequences of them  not being able to 
make the repayments  could have been  serious. The PPI policy,  on the other  hand,  was 
designed to pay a monthly  sum for up to 24 months if he had needed  to claim. 
were they given enough information?
During the sale Halifax shouldve provided information which was clear.  I cant  say Mr and 
Mrs P were  told or given  all the information they should have been but I think they would 
have been easily able to see how much the TMPP cost and what  was covered. I think they 
would have also been given a copy of the policy rules.
Ref: DRN53972273Having carefully considered this case,  I think its much more  likely that Mr and Mrs P 
tailored the TMPP  cover  to suit their needs  of the time. I think  they probably agreed to the 
elements of the cover because it was something  they thought would be useful to have.  
All this means I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland  Plc  doesnt  need to 
refund everything  Mr and Mrs P paid for it. But its offered to give them back some  of the 
cost of the PPI. I dont  think it needs  to do anything  more. 
If it hasnt  done  so already, Halifax will make  arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs P now Ive 
issued my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. I dont direct Bank 
of Scotland Plc to do anything  more  than the above,  to put matters right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5397227