K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a store  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 1995. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this 
sale. So in my decision Ill just refer to FICL as the PPI seller. Mr M says FICL mis-sold  him the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Having done so, I dont consider that the PPI was mis-sold because:
 Ive seen a copy  of the application form Mr M signed. I can see FICL made him aware that he 
had a choice about buying  the PPI and that he chose to take it by ticking  the relevant  box. I 
can understand if he doesnt  remember  that now, after all this time.
 The parties agree that FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M. So it didnt have  to check if it 
was right for him. But FICL  should have given him enough information to be able to decide for 
himself if it was right for him. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  have 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And I 
can see why as, despite his entitlement to enhanced  sick pay from his employer and his other 
means, the PPI benefits were significant  and could  have paid out for a long time.  The PPI 
meant he could potentially protect any savings hed built up. I also think its likely Mr M 
realised there  was a cost for the cover.
 Based  on what Ive seen of Mr Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
significantly affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover   so it would  have 
been useful to him if something went wrong. 
Ive thought carefully about all of Mr Ms arguments, including  that someone  else ticked  for PPI on 
the application form and that he suspects FICL acted  fraudulently.  While I appreciate thats 
possible, Mr Ms made a serious allegation,  and I dont have enough evidence to conclude  on 
balance that thats what happened.
 
Overall, I dont  think Mr Ms lost out because  of how FICL sold him the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN54957502Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject 
my decision  before 23 February 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5495750