K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  changed the name on his
bank account  so he couldnt  access it, didnt  correct the details when he said there  was a 
problem, and gave  poor service.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 21 May 2019   a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I proposed to uphold Mr Ps complaint in part, and 
order Nationwide to pay Mr P £450 compensation for this complaint. I invited both parties to 
send any additional  evidence or comments they wished to make. 
Mr P accepted my provisional decision.
Nationwide rejected my provisional decision. It said that:
The proposed  compensation overstated the impact this error had on Mr P, because  he 
wasnt using the account as his main bank account; 
That the error didnt stop Mr P using his account  as hed said,  because  he could still 
withdraw cash and use his debit card; 
That Mr P hasnt  used  his account much  since the problem was fixed,  so he hadnt  
intended it to be his main  account;  
There was nothing  to prove that the branch manager Mr P dealt with here didnt try to 
contact him to fix the problem; and 
Its original  offer of £250 compensation was a fair and reasonable outcome. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is, what I consider is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available evidence  
and the wider circumstances.
Nationwide argues that my provisional  award is too much, considering how Mr P was using 
his account before and after this problem happened. Ive considered this argument  carefully  
but on balance,  Im not persuaded. Ill explain why.
Nationwide argues that Mr Ps bank statements show he wasnt using  this account as a main 
account. Ive reviewed the statements,  and Im satisfied that they agree with the explanation 
Mr Ps given  of his account  usage. Mr P hasnt  claimed that this was his main  account  hes 
explained that hed opened it and was starting to use it more because  he wanted  to transfer 
his banking across. Mr P says although  his salary was still being  paid into his account  with 
another branch, he regularly transferred money  in to his Nationwide account  and was using 
Ref: DRN59292222his account for some  spending. The statements agree with this explanation   there are 
regular credits, point  of sale transactions and cash withdrawals during 2015 and early  2016. 
Mr Ps also said hed asked Nationwide about  a switching  process,  so all his banking  would 
move across  including  any direct debits - but because this problem happened with his 
Nationwide account  he didnt go ahead with it. Theres no proof of this, because the switch 
didnt happen   but I find Mr Ps account  of events here to be detailed  and consistent  and 
the bank statements dont contradict it. On balance, Im still satisfied that although this 
wasnt Mr Ps main  bank account, he was inconvenienced when Nationwides error meant 
his access was restricted. And as I explained in my provisional decision,  my award takes into 
account the upset I think  Mr P experienced when Nationwide  staff didnt listen  to his 
concerns more than once   and not just the inconvenience it caused him.
Nationwide also argues that Mr P could still use his account when it was in the wrong name,  
because he still had his card. I agree  that practically  he could still use his account in this 
way. But Mr P says he lost trust in Nationwide when this problem happened and wasnt fixed 
after several efforts to speak to Nationwide staff.  He had failed security  for telephone 
banking and hadnt been allowed to withdraw cash in the branch. He knew the account  was 
in another persons name.  I think that in these circumstances, its reasonable of Mr P to have 
concerns about  the account   in particular transferring  more  money in. I dont think it would 
be fair of me to say that Mr P shouldve continued  to use a card for an account he knew was 
in the wrong name. 
Nationwide also argues that because  Mr Ps account usage  has been limited  since the 
problem was fixed, he hadnt ever intended it to be his main account.  Mr P has said he lost 
trust in Nationwide because of this problem and no longer wanted it to be his main bank. 
And I can see that he wouldve made other  banking arrangements  during  the extended time 
the account was in the wrong name.  Although the evidence  here is inconclusive,  I dont think  
theres enough to find that Mr P never meant  to use this account as his main account. 
Nationwide disagrees  with my provisional view that it gave poor service here. I agree that the 
branch manager  was trying to investigate and fix the problem. Mr P has confirmed they left 
one voicemail, but says that when he tried to call back the number took him to a call centre   
but they wouldnt talk to him because he couldnt  pass security because  the account was in 
the wrong name. And, as Mr P had said before, when he next tried to discuss  the problem  in 
the branch his complaint  wasnt listened to and nothing was done. As I said in my provisional 
decision, I think that in the circumstances here  where the manager knew an account  was 
in the wrong name  its reasonable to have made  repeated  efforts to contact Mr P. But 
Nationwide hasnt shared any records of a letter being sent to Mr P, or any more efforts  to 
call him, or any notes on its system for other advisors, which Id expect to see if this had 
happened. So although I think  the branch manager  started to investigate  the problem for Mr 
P, on balance I think more shouldve been  done here and that the service fell short  of what  I 
wouldve expected.  
 
In summary,  I see no reason to change my conclusion  from that set out in my provisional 
decision and award Mr P £450  total compensation for this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint and order  Nationwide  Building Society to 
pay him £450 compensation.
Ref: DRN59292223Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019. 
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN59292224Copy of Provisional Decision 
complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide  Building Society (Nationwide) changed the name on his bank 
account so he couldnt access it, didnt  correct  the details  when he said there was a problem, and 
gave poor service.
background
Mr Ps complaint has been brought by his representative, but to keep things simple Ive written my 
decision as if Mr P has contacted our service directly.
Mr P has a bank account with Nationwide.  Nationwide  changed the recorded  name and date of birth 
on the account to his brothers details because of an administration error. Mr P says he realised  there 
was a problem in 2016 when he couldnt take out money in the branch because he failed the security 
checks. Mr P says he was embarrassed by this and the branch staff made  him feel like hed done 
something wrong. Mr P says this happened again and he was embarrassed further so he stopped 
visiting the branch and didnt  use his account much. He says he was in the process  of switching his 
banking to Nationwide  when this happened and in the end didnt complete the switch.
Later in 2016, Mr P spoke to the branch again  and they realised there was a problem with the account 
details - but didnt call him back as promised or correct the details. Nationwide  says the branch 
manager tried to contact Mr P to confirm the right account details but couldnt reach him. But Mr P 
says he didnt  hear back from the branch.  He explains he couldnt  visit during opening  hours  because  
of his work and that Nationwides call centre wouldnt talk to him because  the account wasnt in his 
name. Mr P also says that during this time he told his brother what had happened, which caused 
family issues because his brother  thought  hed done it deliberately to commit fraud.
Mr P and his wife say they went  back to the same branch  to discuss the problem in September 2018 
 but the branch staff again told them there wasnt a mistake. So they spoke to the manager  of 
another branch.  They found the error and corrected it within a few days. They also opened a 
complaint and verbally offered Mr Ps wife £250 compensation on his behalf. She says she didnt 
accept the offer because she needed  to speak to Mr P first - but the branch  manager  closed the 
complaint and wrote  to Mr P saying  it had been accepted.
Mr P complained to Nationwide  about the original mistake and how long it had taken to resolve, and 
that it closed his complaint  before hed had the opportunity to consider its offer. Nationwide  issued a 
final response letter  in September 2018 that agreed it made  a mistake when it changed  Mr Ps contact 
details, but said that Mrs P had accepted the compensation offer.
Mr P was unhappy  with Nationwides response and came to our service for an independent  view. An 
adjudicator considered the complaint and thought Nationwide should increase its compensation by 
£350, to £600, because of the trouble and upset to Mr P. Nationwide disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman decision,  so Mr Ps complaint  was referred to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where there is a dispute about what  happened, I have based  my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what  I consider is most  likely to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence.
Theres no dispute that the original change in account details was due to a Nationwide error, so I 
havent discussed that here.  Ive focused  on what Nationwide did after the mistake  came to light and 
whether this led to a fair and reasonable outcome for Mr P here.
Ref: DRN59292225From the evidence, the first record of Nationwide  realising  the problem  was in 2016 when Mr P spoke 
to a branch manager, although Mr P says hed tried to discuss the problem with branch  staff before 
then. Nationwides records from 2016 show that the branch  manager realised Mr Ps account had 
been merged with his brothers  but didnt  correct  it because they couldnt reach  Mr P to confirm the 
correct name and date of birth. 
Nationwide says it doesnt  have records of letters being sent to Mr P or any other communication 
attempts  so Ive considered what I think was most likely, on the balance of probability.  The 
managers emails from the time say that Mr P was chasing him up for an answer and wanted  a full 
investigation into what had happened. In these  circumstances, I think that if Mr P knew  Nationwide 
needed to confirm  his details to fix the problem, he wouldve responded. Because of this, I think  its 
unlikely the manager  made several attempts  to contact Mr P  which  is what I wouldve  expected 
here. The branch  manager  also didnt record a complaint  even though I think  they wouldve  known 
that he hadnt  been able to contact Mr P or fix the mistake. I think there were some shortcomings in 
customer service  here which  meant the problem  with Mr Ps account continued for longer  than it 
needed to.
Theres no evidence  of Mr Ps other branch  visits. I wouldnt necessarily  expect there to be, because if 
Nationwide staff dismissed Mr Ps concerns as he says they did, I dont think they wouldve kept a 
record of the conversations.  And Ive found  Mr Ps version of events to be persuasive  and consistent 
overall  so, on balance, I think he tried to discuss the problem with other Nationwide staff as he says 
he did. Nationwide  also accepted this in its final response letter  of September  2018. And although  Mr 
P couldve contacted Nationwide again before September 2018, I can see that he wouldve been 
reluctant to keep speaking to branch staff if they hadnt helped him before  which I think is what had 
happened.
Taking everything together, I think Nationwide  missed these opportunities to correct  Mr Ps account 
details and this meant he didnt have full access  to his bank account  for an extended time because  he 
couldnt pass  security. Im also persuaded by Mr Ps argument that the conversations he had with 
branch staff wouldve  been  upsetting for him personally.
The second  aspect of Mr Ps complaint is about how Nationwide dealt with the matter  after it came to 
light in 2018. I can see that Mr P wouldve been upset if he thought Nationwide closed the complaint 
before hed time to consider  its offer.  Ive considered the branch managers version  of events  and 
although theres no conclusive evidence, I think their explanation that they thought Mr Ps wife had 
accepted the compensation offer is credible  so I dont find they deliberately closed  the complaint 
without Mr Ps agreement. And the letter sent to Mr P afterwards explained that he could contact 
Nationwide to discuss  the situation  further, or refer his complaint to our service. This leads me to find 
that even  if the branch  manager did close the complaint too soon  which, from the evidence, Im not 
able to say conclusively  - it didnt change the outcome for Mr P and he didnt suffer any disadvantage.  
So although I understand  that this mightve  been frustrating for Mr P  particularly because
part of his original concerns  were that Nationwide staff hadnt listened  to him  I dont uphold this part 
of his complaint.
Ive considered what Nationwide should do to put things  right here. Nationwide says it offered £250 
compensation because Mr P didnt use his account much from 2016 to 2018.  But I think the main 
reason Mr P didnt use his account over this time was because he didnt have full access  - due to 
Nationwides errors. He had access to another bank account, but I think  this wouldve been 
inconvenient because hed made arrangements for this to be his main account. I also think  the 
compensation needs to take into account the upset and concern Mr P suffered when his concerns 
werent listened  to several times. So, having  considered the impact  the problem  had on Mr P, the time 
it continued and the upset it caused him, my provisional  decision is to award  him £450  compensation  
in total.
Ref: DRN59292226my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I propose to uphold Mr Ps complaint.  I order Nationwide
Building Society to pay Mr P £450 compensation, less any compensation hes already been paid for 
this complaint.
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5929222