K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Santander plc is holding him liable for a large  number of card payments 
that he says he neither  made nor authorised.
background
In January 2018 Santander blocked Mr Es bank account and contacted  him to query  several 
payments to Uber Eats over the previous few days.  He said those payments were  genuine. 
Over the following weeks, there were several more payments to Uber Eats, and Santander 
contacted Mr E again in February 2018. This time Mr E said the payments  werent  genuine; 
he said as well that the payments hed discussed  werent genuine either  and explained that 
hed confused Uber  Eats with a different delivery firm had used  and whose  website hed 
used when looking for a job. Santander  asked about previous payments to Uber  Eats in 
October 2017, and Mr E said he wasnt responsible  for these either. 
Santander says it tried to get more information from the merchants involved but wasnt  able 
to do so, because  of confidentiality concerns. But  based largely on the conversations it had 
had with Mr E  it concluded that it was more  likely  than not that he had made  or authorised 
the payments  himself.  It said it wouldnt be offering  a refund. 
Mr E complained to this service and one of our investigators considered what  he and 
Santander had said about the complaint.  Whilst he thought  Santander should have 
challenged the payments  through the relevant card scheme, he wasnt persuaded that would 
have been successful. On balance, he thought that Mr E authorised the transactions himself.  
Mr E didnt accept the investigators findings and asked  that an ombudsman review  them   
as hes entitled  to do and as the final stage in our consideration of the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
It is of course unfortunate that theres  very little information from the recipients of the card 
payments here. In part, thats because the bank didnt seek to challenge those payments 
through the card scheme. That means  in turn that the investigator relied quite heavily on 
inconsistencies in Mr Es recollection of events, and Mr E highlighted that in response to the 
investigators view. And I agree that it would be preferable to have more  direct evidence of 
the payments  themselves. 
That said,  I have noted carefully what Mr E told Santander  and, where they are available,  
Ive listened to recordings of the calls between  them.  Whilst I can understand that some  
details might not have  been readily available to Mr E, some  of the inconsistencies are about 
matters I would expect  him to recall very clearly. 
As Ive explained, Mr E said in January 2018  that certain payments were genuine, but 
contradicted that a month later. When challenged about that, he said that he was confused 
at the time and had mixed up two different delivery companies. But in fact there  was quite a 
long conversation, when the Santander staff member  went through  each  payment  
separately. I dont think there can have been any doubt about which company was under 
Ref: DRN59704052discussion. If there had been, Mr E could have  checked his account  statement to ensure 
hed provided  accurate  information. Nor do I find his explanation that he was confused  
because hed been looking for a job with the second business very credible. The 
conversation with Santander was about  card payments, not jobs.  
In a telephone call on 20 February 2018 Mr E told Santander that he didnt have an Uber 
account. But hed confirmed a series of payments to Uber Eats the previous month.  In 
addition, when it was pointed out that there had been similar payments the previous 
October, Mr E said he hadnt noticed  them. He did however print a statement  at a cash  
machine just two days later. I think it likely that he would have seen  them. But he didnt 
contact Santander  at the time, indicating in my view that he recognised and had authorised 
them. 
Mr E has said he didnt  let anyone else use his card. The nature of the payments is such that 
the card details, rather than the physical card itself,  would  have  been  used. That means it 
would have been much  easier for someone  to use Mr Es card without  consent  for those 
payments than, say, to make cash machine withdrawals. But, given all the other  
circumstances, I think  it more likely than not that Mr E either made  the payments himself  or 
let someone else do so. Whichever  is the true explanation, it wouldnt be fair to require 
Santander to refund them. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Santander UK plc to do anything 
further to resolve  Mr Es complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr E to accept or reject  my decision before 28 November  2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5970405