K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Morses Club PLC has recorded defaults  on her credit history 
incorrectly. 
background
Mrs P had three accounts with Morses which she was paying £8 a month towards  via a 
continuous payment  authority. The £8 payment was split across the three accounts. 
In April 2018, the card which the payment authority was set up against  expired. This meant 
no further payments  were  made to the three accounts. 
Morses records  show it sent Mrs P an arrears notice on 25 June 2018.  It also tried ringing 
her, unsuccessfully, on 2 July 2018.  On 8 July 2018 it sent out three default notices, one for 
each account.  As Mrs P didnt bring  the accounts  up to date they were  defaulted  in 
September 2018 and the loans subsequently  sold to a third party. 
Mrs P complained to Morses as it never informed her, her card had expired as it said it 
would. And she complained she never  received any letters from Morses about  the arrears  or 
any default notices.  While  waiting  for Morses to investigate her complaint, Mrs P asked us to 
get involved as she was particularly worried about this. Morses didnt uphold  her complaint 
as it was satisfied  it had contacted her about  the arrears and gave notice  of the defaults.
Mrs P is particularly  unhappy as she doesnt  believe Morses have complied with its 
obligations under  The Consumer Credit  Act 1974 in relation to the default. She doesnt 
believe sufficient notice  was given of the default  as the defaults were registered on the same 
day it says it sent the notices  so they should be removed. And she says she was told by 
the third party  that it bought the debt at the same time. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and concluded that Morses  didnt do anything  
wrong. He was satisfied  that it had sent arrears notices and default notices to Mrs P, whilst 
acknowledging she might  not have received them. He also concluded the defaults were 
added to her credit  history  in September 2018. 
Mrs P has asked  for the matter to be reviewed. In summary, she doesnt  believe Morses has 
complied with its obligations under the Act and she didnt receive and arrears or default  
notices. Because  of that she thinks the defaults  should be removed from her credit  history. 
She also says that had she been aware  she would have repaid the arrears as this issue 
could affect her employment, as her employer carries out credit checks. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand this situation has been  very upsetting and worrying  for Mrs P. I would  like to 
reassure her that although  I have only summarised the back  ground and her arguments 
above, I have  read and considered everything  in its entirety. 
Understandably, Mrs P is worried about  the impact the defaults registered on her credit 
history will have. Where  information is recorded is should be an accurate reflection of the 
Ref: DRN51783552account. So I will only ask Morses to remove the defaults if I find it didnt follow the required 
process or if the information is incorrect. 
Mrs Ps card expired  in April 2018, meaning it was no longer a valid card for the continuous 
payment authority she had set up to pay £8 a month  towards the three accounts. That was 
the last month it received a payment.  I appreciate Mrs P says Morses should  have notified 
her of this. I havent seen  persuasive evidence that it said it would do this, and Im not aware 
of any obligation  on it to do so. Ultimately, it was for Mrs P to ensure  payments were made 
as and when due. 
Morses records  show that it sent Mrs P an arrears notice on 25 June 2018 and it held her 
correct address on its records. Im satisfied  this letter was sent. I understand Mrs P has said 
she didnt receive  it, and I know from her later calls with Morses that it appears she may 
have been having problems with her post. But, Morses has complied with its obligations by 
sending out the notice.
Morses records  also show  it sent out a default notice on each of the accounts on 8 July 
2018. Although  it hasnt  been able to provide  a copy of the actual letters sent,  it has provided 
the template,  which Im satisfied I can rely on as representative of what Mrs P would have 
been sent. The template shows Mrs P was given  14 days to get in contact with Morses with 
payment proposals  or clear the arrears. Im satisfied this complies with the requirements of 
the Act and gave  Mrs P time before the default  was applied.  
Mrs P has provided copies of her credit file which she believes shows the defaults were  
applied on the same day  8 July 2018. But thats not right,  the entries for Morses show the 
accounts were defaulted  on 22 September 2018  more than 10 weeks  after the default 
notices were sent. This means Mrs P was provided  with substantially more than the 14 days 
required under  the Act or set out in the notices. Again,  I understand that Mrs P didnt receive  
the notices, but as above Morses has complied  with its obligations by sending  the notices 
when it did.
I can also see from the records that Morses didnt sell the debt to a third party  until October  
2018. I appreciate  Mrs P appears to have been  told something different by the third party.  
And I understand the third party  may have also added some  information to her credit file that 
was wrong and has since been  rectified. But that is a matter for the third party not Morses.  
Overall, Im satisfied Morses followed the correct process before it defaulted Mrs Ps 
accounts. And Im satisfied it is a correct reflection of Mrs Ps account history. I understand 
and accept it was only a small sum outstanding  and that Mrs P could have repaid this. I also 
understand it might cause  difficulties going  forward. But as I dont think Morses  did anything 
wrong, I wont be asking to remove the information  it recorded.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5178355