K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) havent upheld  a claim she 
made to them  under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section  75).
background
Mrs F paid for a holiday  package which included a cruise, flights, hotels and transfers, using 
her Tesco credit card. 
Her bags  were supposed to be transferred from her hotel to the ship but this didnt happen 
and, despite several  promises  they would be available at the next port, Mrs F didnt receive  
her luggage  until the two week  cruise  had finished. 
Mrs F said this ruined her holiday. Her and her husband were  left with only one set of 
tropical clothing and this limited  the activities they could participate in and their access  to 
formal dinners. When she returned home  she made a complaint to the cruise  line.
The cruise  line accepted their failings and offered a 50% refund of the cruise  cost (£1,350) or 
a £2,747.98 credit towards a future cruise with them. They  also explained that they had 
credited Mrs Fs cruise  account with $500 to allow her to purchase  essential items at the 
next port.
Mrs F wasnt satisfied  with their offer so she contacted Tesco.  She said that section 75 
allowed her a like claim against the provider of credit as she had against  the supplier. 
Tesco didnt  uphold  her complaint. They thought the cruise  lines offer of compensation had 
been reasonable in the circumstances.  
So Mrs F referred her complaint to this service  and our investigator  provided her opinion.  
She explained that normally this service would look at giving the consumer a partial refund 
where it was clear they had benefitted from some  of the services  theyd  paid for. And here, 
whilst she understood  that Mrs F would  have been significantly inconvenienced by these 
issues, she did think the cruise lines offer had been  a fair one. 
Mrs F disagreed with the investigator and she therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs F but I agree  with the investigators view of this complaint; so 
please let me explain  why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN50080002board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs F made a claim through  them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Theres no doubting here that there  was a breach  of the implied conditions of the contract 
Mrs F had with the cruise  line. The package  included  hotels and transfers and luggage was 
to be transported from the hotel to the ship. The cruise line failed to do this and also failed to 
have the luggage sent on to be available at other ports.
That must have been  distressing for Mrs F. Ive read her statements and I can understand it 
would have limited  her ability to enjoy the activities on board and the excursions available  at 
port. Ive noted  that she had to borrow clothes and arrange for express laundry and its clear 
none of this would have  been necessary had the cruise line done what it should  have done. 
It must have been even  more frustrating to have  been made promises  that luggage would be 
available at the next port, only to find that it wasnt. 
I understand that Mrs F wants the cost of the whole  holiday  refunding.  But I think it is 
reasonable for a business to make deductions  for the provision of those facilities the 
customer was able to benefit from. Here  it seems clear that the hotels, personal transfers, 
flights and cruise were provided.  I completely understand  that the cruise element was 
disrupted but I think the business offer to refund half of the cruise cost was a fair one given 
that the cruise  did take place and Mrs F would  have been able to benefit from some of it. 
So I dont  think Tesco have been  unreasonable when rejecting Mrs Fs claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5008000