K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains that a new car she acquired via a conditional sale agreement  with 
Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
background
In October  2017 Ms C acquired  a new car via a four year conditional sale agreement  with 
Santander. Ms C said the following day, after collecting the car, she found the off-side  
(drivers side)  rear door wouldnt open.  She said she wrote  to the dealership  asking to reject 
the car a few days later.
The dealership says that Ms C brought the car in on three separate occasions  but it wasnt 
able to find any fault with the door on the first two visits. It decided  to replace the door 
handle/ lock on the third visit as a gesture of goodwill under the cars  warranty.
In December 2017 Ms C reported an issue with one of the front tyres. This was discovered  
to have been caused by a nail and was repaired.
In January 2018 Ms C complained to Santander  that the drivers door wasnt  opening 
correctly, and she said she was unhappy about the quality of the car as this was now the 
third fault that had required  repair.  Santander arranged for the car to be independently 
inspected.
The independent engineer found that there was a fault with the door handle of the front 
drivers door and said he thought the fault would have been present at the point of sale. 
Santander said it wouldnt be proportionate to reject  the car for this fault as Ms C had still 
been able to use it. It also noted this was a different fault to one that had been previously 
repaired and said it should  have the opportunity to fix it. Santander said it agreed the car 
required the repair to the drivers door and so upheld Ms Cs complaint.
However, within a short  time Ms C complained  again to Santander that she was still having 
issues with the cars  door handles. A further independent inspection of the car was arranged 
for March 2018.
This time the independent engineer reported  he couldnt find any fault with the cars  door 
handles and they were all functioning  without  any problems.  However,  the engineer did 
report that the rear off-side door was misaligned.  They said this was likely due to a previous 
repair and incorrect fitment of the doors  trim rather than being  the result  of a sudden  
mechanical fault. They said this fault wouldnt have been present at the point  of sale.  
Santander didnt  uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Ms C was unhappy about Santanders decision and complained to this service.  Our 
adjudicator recommended  that her complaint should  be upheld.
Our adjudicator said he wouldnt expect a new car to develop  faults  so soon with its door 
handles. He also said that although  Ms C had asked the dealership  to be allowed to reject 
the car this request  wasnt  known to Santander. As the fault with the rear off-side door 
handle had then been repaired,  and Ms C had collected the car from the dealership, he 
didnt think Santander  had done  anything wrong  at that point.
Ref: DRN59637522Our adjudicator said that hed seen the fault with the tyre was due to a slow puncture caused 
by a nail. He said this would be a matter  for the driver to repair rather  than being considered 
a fault with the car.
However, the independent engineer had confirmed there was a fault cars drivers door 
handle that required  repair  during  their inspection in January 2018. Our adjudicator said that, 
taking into account  that there had already been  a repair to another of the cars door handles 
in November 2017, he thought Santander  had acted  unfairly in not agreeing to Ms Cs 
request to reject the car at that point.  He said the car wasnt  free from minor defects as 
would be expected of a new car.
Ms C had continued to use the car but complained that there were still problems with its door 
handles. The second independent engineer had found a fault with the rear off-side door 
which had been  the subject of the repair in November 2017. Our adjudicator  said that on 
balance of probabilities he thought it was likely that repair  was linked to the misalignment of 
the door and that it would be fair for Ms C to now reject the car and cancel the agreement. 
He also thought the Santander should  pay Ms C £350 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience due to having to deal with the faulty car.
Santander disagreed with our adjudicators view. It said that the misalignment of the door 
was only due to a rubber fitting that wasnt quite the right size being fitted. It also said that 
this current fault hadnt  been present at the point  of sale and so wasnt  the responsibility of 
the supplying  retailer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The finance agreement, that is the conditional sale agreement, in this case  is a 
regulated consumer  credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints 
relating to it. Santander is also the supplier  of the goods under this type of agreement,  
and responsible for a complaint  about  their quality .
Under the Sale of Goods Act 2015 there is an implied term that when  goods  are supplied  
"the quality of the goods  is satisfactory".
And the relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard  that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, price  and all other  relevant circumstances. So, where the 
supply of a car is involved,  the other  relevant circumstances would include things like 
the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicle's history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition  
and other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish,  freedom from 
minor  defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality  of the goods.
Here  the car was new when  Ms C acquired  it in October  2017  and I think  a reasonable  
person  would  expect  it to be fault free. However,  Ms C experienced  issues  with the cars  
door handles  after a very short  period  time.  And while  I appreciate  the dealership  says  it 
wasnt  able to replicate  the fault with the rear off-side  door it did replace  the door lock in 
November  2017.  It is this same  door that was found  to be misaligned  when  the car was 
Ref: DRN59637523inspected  by the second  independent  engineer  in March  2018.  So, its more  likely  than 
not that the misalignment  and earlier  repair  are linked.
It isnt disputed  that the car was found  to have  a fault when  the first independent  engineer  
inspected  it in January  2018.  A fault with the drivers  door handle  was found  and the 
opinion  of the engineer  was that it had been  present  at the point  of sale.  Santander  said it 
was disproportionate  for Ms C to reject  the car for this fault as she had been  able to use 
the car. However,  Ms C was concerned  that the locking/unlocking  system  appeared  to be 
failing  and she had lost confidence  in the car. Santander  had also not considered  that this 
was the second  time Ms C had complained  about  the cars  door handles  and that an 
earlier  repair,  albeit  to a different  door,  had already  been  carried  out. 
It appears  that Ms C took the car to the dealership  three  times  in November  2017  about  
the rear door not opening  properly.  And I think  this shows  its likely  she was experiencing  
a regular  problem  opening  that door at that time.  So, I think  its likely  this car also had a 
fault with the rear door as well as the drivers  door opening  from the point  of sale and the 
car wasnt  free from minor  defect  as would  reasonably  be expected.
So, I think  that it would  have  been  fair for Santander  to have  allowed  Ms C to reject  the 
car from the point  of the first independent  inspection.  I think  its reasonable  to conclude  
that the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality  from the point  of sale.
The cars  rear offside  door is now misaligned.  I appreciate  that Santander  considers  this 
a minor  issue  arising  from a repair  rather  being  a new fault  and that it isnt its 
responsibility  but I disagree.  Ms C is experiencing  further  problems  with the car due to 
this earlier  repair  for a fault that had been  present  at the point  of sale.
So, I am satisfied  that the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality  at the point  of sale and Im 
upholding  her complaint.  I think  that it would  be fair for Ms C to now reject  it and cancel  
the agreement.  As Ms C has been  able to use the car Im not requiring  Santander  to 
reimburse  her the monthly  payments  she has made  under  the agreement.  But I am 
requiring  it to do the following:
Collect  the car at no cost to Ms C
Cancel  the agreement  with nothing  further  to pay
Reimburse  Ms C her deposit  together  with interest  at the yearly  rate of 8% simple  
from the date of payment  until the date of settlement
Pay Ms C £350  compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience  of having  to deal 
with the faulty  car
Remove  any adverse  information  about  this agreement  from Ms Cs credit  file.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im upholding Ms Cs complaint. Im asking Santander  
Consumer (UK) Plc to do the following:
Collect  the car at no cost to Ms C
Cancel  the agreement  with nothing  further  to pay
Ref: DRN59637524Reimburse  Ms C her deposit  together  with interest  at the yearly  rate of 8% simple  
from the date of payment  until the date of settlement
Pay Ms C £350  compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience  of having  to deal 
with the faulty  car
Remove  any adverse  information  about  this agreement  from Ms Cs credit  file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5963752