K820x#14complaint
Mrs J says Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs J bought the policy when she took out a loan for a holiday in 1997. The loan included  an 
amount to pay for the policy.  The policy protected her repayments on the loan for up to twelve 
months if she became  unemployed,  and for up to the remaining term of the loan if she couldnt  
work because of an accident  or sickness. The policy also provided her with life cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Js complaint, Ill explain why. 
The policy was sold over 21 years  ago, so it isnt surprising that neither Mrs J nor Lloyds still 
have copies of the actual  paperwork completed at the time. I also have to take into account  
that memories can fade over time. In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I have  to make my decision on the balance of probabilities   that is, to decide 
what is most likely  to have happened. 
Lloyds has provided  a sample  loan agreement which it says was in use at the time the policy 
was sold. I think its more  likely than not Mrs J was asked to sign an agreement like this to 
get her loan funds.  On the loan agreement  there  is a section called Optional Loan 
Repayment Protection  and it has Yes and No boxes in that section to indicate  if cover was 
required. Mrs J ought to have understood that this was something she could  say No to. So, 
I think its more likely than not Mrs J would  have been aware she had a choice about buying 
the PPI policy  and that she chose to take it out. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs J, so it needed  to check that it was right for her. I think  
it was. Mrs J was eligible for the policy and the main exclusions around employment and 
pre-existing medical conditions didnt apply to her. 
Mrs J has said that she had good sick pay from her employer initially  but it dropped 
significantly after six months.  And Mrs J told us she had no other means she could rely on in 
that eventuality,  or if she lost her job, so she may have had to rely on her husband for 
support. But the policy  provided cover, in addition, to any employer benefits Mrs J wouldve 
had. And, potentially it wouldve paid out for a lot longer than Mrs Js sick pay would have  
paid out at her full rate of pay and would have reduced her reliance on any support her 
husband may have  been  able to provide. I think the policy was suitable for her 
circumstances even  taking into account  her existing  benefits and means.  
Mrs J wouldve got back only a limited  refund of the PPI premium if she cancelled the policy  
early. I dont  know if Lloyds thought about  this when it recommended  the policy, or if it 
explained the situation clearly to Mrs J. But I havent seen anything to suggest at the time of 
Ref: DRN57085552the sale she thought shed repay the loan early. So I dont think  this meant the policy  wasnt 
right for her  or that better  information about  this wouldve stopped  her buying it. 
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. Lloyds didnt include 
information on the amount of interest  which would be payable on the PPI policy  over the loan 
term. But even if it had, I think Mrs J would still have  bought it. Given  how long the policy 
could have paid out for, if Mrs J made  a successful  claim she couldve got back quite a bit 
more than she paid for it. 
I cant be certain  that Lloyds provided full information to Mrs J. But for the same  reason that I 
think the policy was suitable, I dont think better  information  would have led Mrs J to avoid 
the policy. 
So Lloyds doesnt have to pay back to Mrs J what the policy cost her over the years.
 
Mrs J has complained that Lloyds will not refund any commission  it received from her 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) premiums for this policy. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
Lloyds has provided  information that shows Mrs Js loan was taken out in 1997 and ended  in 
1999. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the 
FCA in relation to the non-disclosure  of commission  apply here.
Mrs J feels that the business had responsibilities  under  other codes and regulatory regimes 
that should make it refund  the commission. It didnt. When selling insurance the relevant 
insurance codes  in place at the time did not specifically require the business  to tell a 
consumer about  commission.     
So Lloyds doesnt need to refund any of the commission  Mrs J paid for the PPI she had with 
her loan. 
Ref: DRN57085553my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint about Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs J to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5708555