K820x#14complaint
Mr Gs complained about a loan Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to him in August  2016. He says Likely  Loans failed to carry out proper affordability 
checks and didnt obtain evidence of income and expenditure before providing him with his 
loan.
background
One of our investigators  reviewed what Mr G and Likely Loans had told us. And he didnt 
think that Likely . So he didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. Mr G disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  unaffordable/irresponsible lending on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide  Mr Gs complaint. 
Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether  any 
lending was sustainable for Mr G before providing  it. Our website sets out what  we typically  
think about when  deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we 
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers  and what  it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im not upholding Mr Gs 
complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Mr G took out a loan for £1,000.00 in August 2016.  The loan was to be repaid over a period 
of 12 months and the monthly repayments were around £115.96.  
Likely Loans said it agreed to Mr Gs application  after hed provided details of his monthly  
income and expenditure and it carried out a credit check. It says the information  Mr G 
gathered suggested that hed be able to make  the monthly payment and this is supported  by 
him having made the first three. So in these  circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On the 
other hand Mr G says an affordability  assessment  wasnt carried  out.
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr G and Likely Loans have said.  The first thing  for me to 
say is that is that I dont  agree that Mr G making three payments, in itself, means that the 
loan was affordable  and Likely Loans  met its obligations.  A lender is required to establish 
that a borrower  can repay without undue difficulty or borrowing further. And Mr G might only 
have been able to make his payments by borrowing from elsewhere or with difficulty. 
Turning now to the checks carried out, the information provided  does  suggest  that Mr G was 
asked to provide  details  of his income  and expenditure.  It does  look like the information on 
Ref: DRN52607102paper at least suggested Mr G could  make his monthly repayments. There are a couple of 
issues on Mr Gs credit file which probably could have and should have been probed further. 
But without anything else from Mr G to support what his financial circumstances were  like, at 
the time,  Im afraid I dont  have enough here to say that probing Mr Gs credit file further  
would have shown  that this loan shouldnt have been provided.
So overall I dont  have enough to say that proportionate  checks would more likely than not 
have shown that Likely Loans  shouldnt  have provided this loan to Mr G. As this is the case, 
Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. I appreciate  this will be very disappointing for Mr G. But I 
hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns 
have been listened to.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5260710