K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains about Bank of Scotland plc and says that it issued incorrect arrears  notices  
and did not deal fairly with her financial difficulties with her mortgage.
background
Bank of Scotland had accepted that it issued an incorrect arrears notice for the mortgage in 
2011. It had refunded interest of £16,150.51 to the mortgage as a result. And Ms R had 
decided to withdraw this money. Bank  of Scotland had also refunded a number of arrears 
fees.
Our investigator did not recommend that Bank of Scotland do any more than it had already. 
She said that:
-On 8 September 2017 Bank of Scotland wrote to Ms R to tell her that it had issued a 
notice of arrears in 2011 that was not compliant with the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 
(CCA). It said it could  not charge any interest or default sums until this had been 
rectified.
-As a result  it made a credit to the mortgage  and Ms R decided  to withdraw this 
amount. This refund was based on a technicality and not because the interest 
charged was wrong.
-Ms R also complained through her representative  about the related  collections 
activity in 2011 and the fees that were charged. Bank of Scotland  refunded fees and 
sent a letter  dated  12 January 2018 saying  that the refund was £97.79.
-Bank of Scotland had written  to Ms R about the arrears in 2011 and sent a field agent  
to her house. The account was in arrears and the collections  activity was appropriate. 
Ms R had not complained about  this at the time.
Ms R did not agree.  Her representative sent a detailed  letter  making a number of points  
which I will summarise  her. He said that he made complaints on Ms Rs behalf  about the 
notice of arrears letters  in 2011. The account  was brought  back into order by benefits  
payments by June  2011 and so the field agent  visit was not appropriate. Ms R had made 
overpayments in the following years so it was not clear why notice of arrears  letters  were  still 
sent. The figures for refunds  of fees quoted by the investigator did not tie up to the final 
response letter so it was not clear what this service had decided was fair. Bank  of Scotland  
had been heavy handed and unsympathetic  and Ms R wanted this recognised  with further  
compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R had difficulty making payments to her mortgage in 2011  due to a change  in personal 
circumstances. By June 2011 Bank  of Scotland  records that she was in arrears  by three 
monthly payments.  
There were two sub parts to her mortgage. An arrears notice for part with account number 
ending in 3201 was issued incorrectly. It did not quote the correct arrears  figure  or include 
all information that was required to comply with the CCA. That did not mean that Ms R was 
not in arrears or it was not appropriate  for an arrears notice  to be sent out. But it did mean 
that Bank  of Scotland was not legally entitled  to charge interest on that part of the mortgage 
Ref: DRN59297002until after the arrears  notice was rectified. That was done in a notice dated 8 September  
2017. Bank of Scotland refunded the interest. I understand that our investigator has given  
Ms R and her representative a breakdown  of this calculation. As already stated Ms R had 
decided to withdraw the money rather than reduce the mortgage balance.
Ms R had arranged a claim in 2011 for benefit  payments towards  her mortgage payments. 
The first such  payments were credited to her mortgage on 30 June 2011. These were  not 
sufficient to clear all the arrears. It is clear  that an appeal to the relevant benefits agency was 
made. Ms R told Bank of Scotland on 8 July 2011 that the appeal had been won and all 
arrears would be cleared.  A further payment  which cleared  the arrears  was made to the 
mortgage on 21 July 2011.
Bank of Scotland charged an arrears fee to the mortgage on 9 May 2011 of £35. It arranged  
for a field agent  to visit. Ms R has provided a letter dated 2 June 2011 left at her property 
when the field agent first attempted  contact. A fee of £52 was applied to her mortgage for the 
subsequent visit. Prior  fees of £105  had also been  applied to her account  when items had 
been returned unpaid over the period 2003  to 2007.
When Ms R made this complaint these fees were reviewed. A decision was made by Bank of 
Scotland to refund  all of them. And to pay simple interest at a rate of eight per cent per 
annum from the date they were applied  to the date of refund. These  refunds were  set out in 
the final response letter.
Confusion has arisen because Bank  of Scotland had a separate  bank wide review of fees 
that it had charged  for arrears management. The same arrears fees of £87 (£52 and £35) 
were covered by that review and were referred to in letters to Ms R of 30 November 2017 
and 12 January 2018. Bank of Scotland  has confirmed to me that Ms R had the higher 
refund referred  to in its response  letter  applied  to her account  including  the simple interest.
As part of the review  across Bank of Scotland Ms R was also told she could claim if the 
arrears management  fees had caused particular distress or extra costs to her. She has 
asked for this compensation. Im not persuaded that any compensation is fairly due. These 
fees arose from her personal financial difficulties and the collections activity would have 
taken place in any event. I am not persuaded that these fees added to her distress or 
resulted in any further costs. And as Ive said that collections activity seemed appropriate 
while the account was in arrears. 
An ongoing  issue  for Ms R has been  that she has been sent further notices of arrears.  Her 
representative refers  specifically to one in November  2011. Bank of Scotland  says in its final 
response that further notices had either been  caused by its computer system or reflected 
timing differences  to benefits payments and any shortfall required from Ms R. It appears  that 
the benefits payments were made into one sub account of the mortgage  3201 and had to be 
adjusted to cover the other part 3703.  I have  not been provided with copies of the notices 
since 2011. But the need to make adjustments to sub account  ending 3703 would seem  to 
explain why there  were arrears notices  for that account. This seems in line with what the 
representative says.
The Bank of Scotland case notes record a call from her representative in November 2011. It 
said an apology was made and the representative told this was no fault of Ms R. Bank  of 
Scotland records that he was happy with this. As our investigator says no complaint was 
pursued about this. The case notes also record that this happened on further  occasions  and 
similar explanations were  given.
Ref: DRN59297003I asked Bank  of Scotland about  the overpayments the representative  said that had been  
made since 2012. Bank of Scotland did not recognise these amounts and says that notices 
were sent when there were arrears.
From the evidence Ive been provided with it does seem that these further notices were only 
related to timing  issues with payments. So no significant action was required by Ms R. She 
seemed to be aware of this and no further  arrears management fees were  charged after 
2011.
I dont doubt that this was an irritation for her and her representative. But Im going  to 
consider this in light of the overall position  she is now in following this complaint. She 
received a significant refund of interest. She had agreed to pay that under the terms of her 
mortgage and it could not be charged  on a technicality. Nevertheless she has had the 
benefit of this money. All arrears fees charged to her mortgage have also been refunded.  
Im not persuaded that any further  payment is fairly  due to Ms R taking into account what  
happened to her mortgage  during the period and the actions taken already by Bank of 
Scotland. I make clear that I am looking at the period up to the final response  letter  of 20 
December 2017  and I know she has made  comments to our investigator  about subsequent 
events. They  would  need first to be raised with Bank of Scotland.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that Bank of Scotland  plc need  
take no further action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5929700