K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy which Mr M took out in 2001 with a 
personal loan.  Mr M says that HSBC sold him the PPI in a meeting at one of HSBCs 
branches when  he was applying for his loan.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that the complaint  should be upheld. Mr M disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.  Having done  so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
Mr M says he wasnt aware at the time that PPI had been added to his loan. So he thinks  
this was done without his knowledge or consent.  He says he wouldnt have agreed to the 
PPI if it had been offered to him and doesnt  think he needed it.
HSBC doesnt  still have much in the way of documentation from the time of the sale. Thats  
not altogether  surprising  to me given  how long ago it took place. It says this means that it 
cant be sure how the PPI was sold to Mr M, or whether it was recommended to him. But Ive 
no reason to think that Mr M is wrong  in saying that the PPI was sold to him at the time he 
was applying for his loan in an HSBC branch. And, given this, I think its most likely that the 
PPI was recommended to him by HSBC.
HSBC doesnt  have a copy of the credit agreement  which Mr M would have signed for his 
loan. But from what I know about  HSBCs  sales process at the time, I think  a separate 
creditor/loan protection declaration  would have to have been produced and signed by Mr M 
for the PPI policy to have been  opened. So I think its most likely that Mr M knew  at the time 
that he had a choice about  buying PPI and actively decided to accept HSBCs 
recommendation to do so. But I can understand  why he may not be able to recall this after 
such a long time. 
As I think  HSBC recommended the policy to Mr M, it needed  to make sure it was suitable for 
him. And from what  I know of his circumstances at the time, I cant  see any reason why it 
wouldnt have been. I say this because:
Mr M appears  to have been eligible for the policy and not affected  by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. 
Mr M says he was entitled to some  sick pay at the time of the sale and could also have 
relied on his partner to support him in need. But this policy  would have paid out in 
addition to any other means  he might have had. It would also have lasted  for longer than 
Ref: DRN51234912he was eligible for sick pay and it would have been  more secure than relying  on others  
for financial help. So I still think he would have valued the extra security that this PPI 
policy gave him and been willing to pay for it.
Ive no reason to think the PPI was unaffordable  for him.
Mr M would only have  got back a limited  refund  of the PPI premium  if he cancelled  the 
policy early.  I dont  know if HSBC thought about  this when it recommended the policy,  or 
if it explained the situation clearly  to Mr M. But I havent seen anything to suggest  he 
thought hed repay the loan early.  So I dont think this meant the policy  wasnt  right for 
him.
From the sample credit agreements Ive seen from around this time, Im satisfied that HSBC  
would have given  Mr M details of how much  the PPI policy would cost him. Its possible that 
HSBC didnt give Mr M all the other  information it should have done  about  the policy. But for 
much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was unsuitable for him, I dont think  
better information would  have  stopped him from buying it. I think  he would still have thought  
the policy gave  him useful  cover at an affordable price.
So from what Ive seen,  I dont think Mr M has lost out by anything  which  HSBC may have  
done wrong when selling this PPI policy to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5123491