K822xComplaint
Mr S complains that Lex Autolease Ltd gave him incorrect information when he extended  his 
hire agreement.
Background 
Mr S entered into a hire agreement with Lex Autolease  in May 2016. The original agreement 
was for a term of 36 months. Mr S then agreed  an extension with Lex Autolease for a further 
six months.
Mr S says that when  the extension was agreed  he was told that everything in his agreement 
would stay the same. His partner was on the insurance for the original agreement  but was 
then removed when  the extension was provided.  He says he was told his partner couldnt be 
put back on the agreement and that he should  hire another car for her to travel. He says this 
would cost a lot of money and the offer of £200 companion  wasnt  sufficient.
Lex Autolease says that the insurer had confirmed that Mr S partner was added to his policy 
during the term of the hire agreement and not at the outset and it was unable to add her to 
the extended lease. It says that its customer service team accepted it had provided  incorrect  
information to Mr S as they said everything  would  stay the same  with the extension.  
Because of this it apologised and upheld Mr S complaint and offered to pay him £200  
compensation for any gaps in its communication. 
Our adjudicator noted that Mr S had been  given incorrect information but thought that the 
offer made by Lex Autolease  was reasonable. She said Mr S could have got a separate 
insurance policy to cover  his partner  and noted that only the impact on Mr S could be 
considered as he was the complainant.
Mr S didnt accept our adjudicators view. He said that the suggestion of a separate 
insurance policy wasnt made by Lex Autolease and he wasnt aware he could do this. He 
said Lex Autolease  had admitted it failed to deliver  the service  it should have and that the 
offer of £200 wasnt enough to cover  this. He says the issue  has had a number of impacts on 
him as he has had to drive his partner to and from work and has been  caused stress and 
inconvenience in dealing  with the complaint.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S entered into a salary sacrifice hire agreement with Lex Autolease in 2016.  He says that 
he added  his partner  on to his insurance  in December 2018. Mr S decided to extend the 
lease agreement and a six month  extension  was agreed. 
It has been accepted that Mr S was told that nothing would change in regard to his 
agreement. However,  Mr S found  out after receiving the insurance  information that his 
partner wasnt covered.
Our role is not to punish  the business but where  a mistake has been made to put the 
consumer back in the position they would have been  had the mistake  not occurred. In this 
Ref: DRN51864092case Mr S was told nothing would change and hadnt been told that his partner, who he had 
added to his insurance, would  not be covered in the extension period insurance policy.
Lex Autolease has provided information regarding this issue  which explains why Mr S 
partner could not be added to the policy. It appears  that this was a new issue to Lex 
Autolease and the reason  was because the insurer wasnt able to add the additional party  to 
the extension  period.  Therefore I cannot  say that had Lex Autolease acted differently Mr S 
partner would have  been covered in the extension period.  
I also understand that the extension period has now finished and Mr S has a different car. 
Therefore the outstanding issue is what would have happened had Mr S been told his 
partner would not be covered by the insurance.  
Mr S says that had he known his partner wouldnt be covered he would have  looked  for an 
alternative agreement.  It is clear  that Mr S wasnt given accurate information when he 
discussed extending his agreement. However Mr S has said he discovered his partner 
wasnt insured the day before the extension was due to start and so it might have been  
possible to take action at that time.  Even if this wasnt possible, and I accept Mr S would be 
relying on having use of the car, it would  have been  possible  for him to consider other 
options such as getting separate insurance to cover his partner. I appreciate this may not 
have been mentioned to him but I think it reasonable that he would have considered  this. 
Mr S has mentioned that he was told to hire another car and I appreciate this would have 
been expensive.  However he didnt do this and I have no evidence to show that he suffered  
a financial loss as a result of this issue. I do accept that he was inconvenienced as he has 
explained he had to drive his partner  to and from work. I also note the comments he has 
made reading the other impacts the issue has had. 
However, on balance,  I find that the £200 offered by Lex Autolease  is sufficient. I say this as 
there is no evidence  of any financial loss to Mr S and I also accept that Mr S may have been 
able to do more  to mitigate the impact the issue had. I know that Mr S doesnt  feel that £200 
is sufficient, however in this case I find that it is reasonable  and because  of this I find that 
Lex Autolease has done  enough  to settle this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Lex Autolease offer of £200  compensation is sufficient to resolve  
this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5186409