K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  (BG) wont repair  his boiler  under his 
contract with them.
Ive previously issued  a provisional decision  in this case. In response to this, Ive received 
further information from both Mr S and BG which  Ive taken into consideration, and to which 
Ill refer below.
background
In May 2018, Mr S took out a Homecare policy with BG to cover repairs  to his boiler and 
central heating system.  This involved an initial inspection visit by BG. Mr S says a BG 
engineer attended on 23 May 2018 and spent over two hours at his property inspecting and 
testing his boiler and central heating system. He says the engineer  didnt find any installation  
or design faults and BG took his system under cover. 
In October  2018, Mr Ss boiler stopped working and a BG engineer  attended on 2 
November. He said that the wiring  to the tank needed a stronger  cable which was why a fuse 
had blown. Mr S said his own electrician had changed a blown fuse but that this was the only 
work that had been done by a third party. Mr S was quoted £205 to replace the wiring,  and 
Mr S accepted this quote. The boiler  was turned  off until this work had been done.
BGs engineer returned a week later to replace the wiring. He brought  a colleague with him. 
This colleague identified other issues with Mr Ss boiler in addition to the wiring.  He 
considered that Mr Ss system had been  piped and wired incorrectly  and was unsafe, so the 
system was turned  off for safety reasons. The engineer quoted £2,496  for the work needed 
to rectify the problems  that had been identified. Mr S says he raised this with the engineers 
who had installed the system six months earlier, but because the system  was now being 
managed by BG, they wouldnt help. Mr S considered that the necessary work should be 
done free by BG under  his contract  with it, but BG said it would be chargeable.
Mr S maintains that he had a contract with BG under which  it would carry out repair  work  for 
free. BG had inspected his system when he first took out cover, and hadnt identified any 
design or other faults. The engineer who attended  on 2 November also didnt identify  any 
faults other than the wiring. Mr S says that BG was now saying that because of the way the 
system had been  installed, additional  work had to be done  to make the boiler safe to 
operate. He says it shouldve identified this before it accepted him for cover. As his cover 
continued after BGs initial inspection of the system, it should undertake this work under his 
contract. 
BG says that Mr Ss complaint isnt justified. It relies on two grounds. Firstly, it says that after 
its initial inspection in May 2018, some  third party work had been completed  at some time 
before it returned  in November when his boiler  developed a fault. The policy states:
Damage caused by anyone but us
Unless your product includes accidental damage  we wont cover any damage  youve  
caused. If anyone  other  than us carries out any work on your boiler, appliance or 
system and damages  it, your cover doesnt include putting  that right.
So because BG believes that a third party had worked on the system, this breached  a term 
of his contract.  
Ref: DRN50426202BG also maintains  that the work  required to rectify these issues  isnt covered under his 
contract because it arises from pre-existing design  faults with the system. Rectification of 
these is excluded under  his policy. The policy term that BG relies  upon states:
Pre-existing faults
Our products dont  include cover for any faults or design faults that:
 Were already there when your boiler,  appliance or system  was installed, or were  
caused by anybody other than us when any change or additions were  made  to your 
boiler, appliance or system
 Weve told you about before and you havent fixed
 We couldnt reasonably  have been  expected to know about before. For example, 
faulty pipes that dont  have the correct  protection, which are buried under concrete 
floors
 Or, prevent access because a part of your system has been permanently built over.
It said it would do the necessary  work,  but it would be chargeable.
BG appears  to have  accepted that some of the problems with Mr Ss system shouldve been 
identified by its engineer at the initial visit in May. But it also says that there  was no evidence  
that all of the issues wouldve been easily identified on an initial  inspection,  and some issues  
wouldnt have been found until a fault occurred. However it maintains that these still wouldnt 
have been covered under the Terms and Conditions of his Policy even if initially  identified. 
BG says it agreed in the interests of fairness  to refund to Mr S what  hed paid BG since  the 
first visit in May 2018, and has paid him £240.  Mr S says he doesnt accept a refund of 
premium as closure of his complaint.
Mr S was dissatisfied with BGs response to his complaint and so he brought it to this 
service. Our investigator accepted BGs explanation that third party  work  had been  done to 
Mr Ss boiler system  between May and November 2018 and that BG hadnt done  anything 
wrong in declining to undertake the necessary  work under his policy  because  work by a third 
party negated his cover.  
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators  assessment  of his complaint and asked that it be 
referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision was to require BG to undertake the work necessary to ensure that 
Mr Ss boiler and central hearing  system were fully and safely operating  without cost to Mr S, 
and to pay Mr S compensation of £500 for the loss of use of his boiler between November 
2018 and May 2019.. 
In response to my provisional decision,  BG and Mr S provided further information.
BGs service manager says that he visited Mr S and had lengthy  phone conversations  with 
him on several occasions to discuss his system problems.  He says he explained that the 
faults identified  were related to design and wouldnt be covered under the terms and 
conditions of the contract, and that the outcome would remain the same whether theyd been  
identified by the initial engineer or by subsequent  engineers. He says he discussed  this at 
length with Mr S, including the options available to rectify the system design faults.  He says 
Mr S confirmed that a third party plumber had worked on the system  between May and 
November.  He also says Mr S asked for a refund of what hed paid BG since  his cover  
Ref: DRN50426203started and hed use that money to pay his own plumber to carry out the necessary work. He 
says Mr S asked if he would speak to his own plumber  and tell him what  work  was required. 
I asked Mr S for his response to this. He says that BGs service manager confirmed to him 
and his wife that some  of the installation  faults shouldve been  spotted by the engineer on 
the very first visit. He says these obvious  installation faults made  his boiler very dangerous. 
He says that the service manager told him that had the engineer  identified  any of the 
installation faults  on the very first visit, BG wouldnt have taken on the repair  contract until 
the faults had been  rectified.  He maintains  that no third party plumber worked on the boiler  
from the day of installation.
Mr S also says that the service manager didnt  speak  with his plumber, or provide a list of 
faults/parts required to fix the boiler. He says he didnt ask for his premium to be refunded, 
and that this was the service managers suggestion.   He also suggested that Mr S should  get 
his boiler repaired  by a third party,  as it would be much cheaper than BG. He says that 
despite numerous calls to the service  manager,  he was never provided with a list of 
faults/parts or a revised quotation after the service  manager had suggested a lower cost 
repair option
Mr S has said that hes now had his boiler  repaired by a third party.  This cost £2,010.  His 
plumber says the following about  Mr Ss system:
It was badly  installed and did not work correctly. The pipework below the boiler, 
pipework to the cylinder and also to the pipework to the UFH was removed and 
reconnected correctly.  A Grundfos 25/60 pump was added to help circulation  and a 
condense pump, Honeywell zone valves and wiring  center were also installed .The 
Hive smart control  was also rewired  correctly.
BG has said that my provisional decision isnt reasonable,  and refers  again to the exclusions 
quoted above about existing faults and third party intervention.
my findings 
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments, including the further 
information I received  in response to my provisional  decision, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to continue  to uphold Mr Ss 
complaint and Ill explain why.
BG inspected Mr Ss boiler system  in May 2018. It didnt identify any issues  with it at that 
point and so his cover continued. A different engineer  visited in November, and only 
identified that there  had been some wiring  replaced. Another engineer, on a subsequent visit 
with his colleague who was going  to deal with the wiring issue,  identified a variety of other 
problems, and the system  was turned off on safety  grounds. Mr S has only recently had 
another plumber  correct  the faults, and for the first time in six months his boiler is now 
working again.
BG is relying  on terms of Mr Ss policy that excludes cover for pre-existing faults  and also 
where a third party has worked on the system. 
It appears to me that BG has made  an assumption  that a third party is responsible  for all the 
defects in the system  that it identified in November because it has no record  of any BG visit 
Ref: DRN50426204between May, when the initial inspection  took place, and November. Mr S has stated that the 
only third party involvement  during that period was the replacement of a fuse.
BGs service manager has said that Mr S confirmed  that a third party  plumber had done 
work on the boiler. Mr S disputes this. Given the conflict  of evidence on this point, Ill have to 
form a view based on the balance of probabilities - what  I think  is more  likely to be the case 
than not.
I consider it highly improbable that Mr S would pay for a policy  with BG only then to have a 
third party undertake work on his boiler.  I think  its more likely than not that the design  faults  
that were identified in November  were  present in May, but just werent identified then. But 
they appear to have  been easily identified by the BG engineer  who visited  in November.
So I dont  consider it reasonable for BG to seek to rely on the term of his policy that excludes  
cover if third party work has taken place.  
BG also relies on the term in the General Exclusions section of the policy that says that the 
policy doesnt include cover for any pre-existing faults. This includes design faults.
The policy says under the heading First service:
At the first service  our engineer will check that your boiler is on our approved  list and 
your boiler or central hearting and ventilation dont have any pre-existing faults. If we 
find its not on the approved list, or it has a pre-existing fault, well either:
Tell you what needs to be done  to fix it  and how much it will cost
Offer you a different product or level of cover
Or, cancel your agreement or product.
I think its unreasonable for BG to undertake  a first service which  doesnt  result in any of the 
actions referred to above, and to allow the customer to believe they are covered, only to say 
at a later date that they arent because BG didnt spot something  at the first service.  A 
customer could end up prejudiced by such action,  as Mr S says he has been, because he 
now no longer  has any recourse against  the installers of his system  due to BGs intervention.
 
I accept that not all faults might be capable of being identified  at a first visit, and may only 
become apparent at a later visit when something has gone  wrong.  But that doesnt appear to 
me to be the case here. The problems were identified in November  by another  BG engineer 
who attended with the engineer who was coming  to deal with the wiring issue. He was able 
to identify them in sufficient detail to be able to quote £2,496 for putting them right. I think  
they shouldve  been identified by the engineer who spent two hours undertaking the initial  
inspection in May.
I dont agree that BG can say that it couldnt  reasonably have been expected to know about 
the faults. To quote from the exclusion wording that BG relies  on, they werent, for example, 
faulty pipes that dont  have the correct  protection, which are buried under concrete floors.
 
So I think in the circumstances its unreasonable for BG to seek  to rely on this exclusion as 
well.
So Im going to require BG to reimburse to Mr S the £2,010 he had to pay a third party  
plumber to make his heating system safe so he could get hot water and heating from his 
boiler again. I consider this is work that BG shouldve undertaken under his contract once it 
Ref: DRN50426205had inspected his system  and accepted  it for cover. But I think  it would be reasonable for BG 
to deduct from this the £240 its already paid him.
I also think BG should pay Mr S £500 compensation for his lack of hot water and heating  
from November 2018 to May 2019. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my decision is to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to reimburse to Mr S the sum of £2,010 that he paid 
to a third party plumber to undertake the work  necessary  to ensure that his boiler and central  
hearing system were  fully and safely operating, less £240 already paid to him, so a total of 
£1,770. 
I also require British  Gas Insurance  Limited  to pay interest on the sum payable  at the simple 
rate of 8% a year from the date Mr S made this payment  to the date payment  is made  to 
him.
If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should 
also give him a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I also require British  Gas Insurance  Limited  to pay Mr S compensation of £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.  
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5042620