K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that she was unable to withdraw  funds from her savings account with 
Sainsburys Bank Plc, which left her unable to pay important bills, and related issues.
background
In October  2018 Mrs M tried to transfer money from her Sainsburys savings account to her 
current account, in order to pay an important bill the next day. She did this online. But 
Sainsburys systems  blocked the payment.  This was because the current account was a joint 
account she held with her husband, and Sainsburys systems did not recognise that Mrs M 
was the other account holder. Her husband was the first named account holder, and she 
was the second named. Mrs M says this discriminates against women, since  her husband 
would not have encountered this problem.
Mrs M immediately phoned Sainsburys,  and was told that the only solution was for her to 
print a bank statement for the joint account  and post it to Sainsburys,  as proof that it was her 
account. Sainsburys would not accept confirmation of this over the phone or by email. She 
asked to close her account,  but this was not possible either,  for the same  reason. So she 
posted a statement,  but this was never  received. She posted it again, and after two weeks  
Sainsburys allowed her to make  payments to the joint account. But by this time two 
important payments had been missed, causing  her and her children considerable 
embarrassment and inconvenience (they were payments  for her childrens education).
In the meantime, Mrs M had phoned Sainsburys again and spoken  to a different call 
handler, who had advised her to send £5 from the joint account  to her savings account. 
Once this was done, the call handler told Mrs M that this would enable her to transfer money  
to the joint account,  and that this would be processed  by the next day. But this turned out to 
be wrong.
Mrs M complained about the original problem, and also about being  misinformed  by the 
second call handler.  She said the whole matter took too long to resolve.  She also 
complained about the fact that the account  had been advertised as one where everything 
could be done  online, which was not the case after all. She said this meant that the account  
had been mis-sold. She said the terms and conditions  say she can close  her account at any 
time. She later complained about poor handling  of her complaint, because  Sainsburys had 
not sent her its letter setting out its response to her complaint. Sainsburys paid her £50 for 
that last error, and sent her its final response letter, but it did not uphold  the rest of her 
complaint. It said it had been  obliged to follow its security procedures,  and it had done so.
Mrs M brought this complaint to our Service, but our investigator agreed that Sainsburys 
couldnt have  done anything else, and that £50 was fair compensation for how it had dealt 
with her complaint.  Mrs M asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys uses software called  Bank  Wizard Absolute to check  whether the current  
account it has been instructed to make a payment to is held by the same person as the 
Sainsburys savings account the payment is to be made from. Bank  Wizard Absolute  is not 
Ref: DRN53356312Sainsburys own software, but is provided by a third party. It checks  information  held on a 
database maintained by a credit reference  agency; the information is provided by the bank 
where the current account is. In the case of joint accounts, it should recognise both account  
holders, and I dont  know why it didnt on this occasion. Mrs M tells us that she opened a 
new savings account  with a building society and made a token payment to the joint account, 
and that this was successful. I dont know whether the building society uses  the same 
software, or gets its information from the same credit reference  agency. But if it does, and 
the software worked  for the building society but not for Sainsburys, that wouldnt necessarily 
prove that the problem was Sainsburys fault.
I recognise how immensely  frustrating  this experience must have been for Mrs M. She 
expected the account  to be one which could be operated entirely online, and yet when she 
tried to make a withdrawal  she was told that she needed to send a paper bank statement in 
the post. The delay caused her (and her children) great inconvenience. So its easy  to see 
why she has complained.
However, Sainsburys is entitled to decide  on what security procedures to follow  to protect  its 
customers money. I have read the procedure its staff are trained to follow,  and it says that 
when Bank  Wizard  Absolute fails to match a customer  to a current account, the payment 
must not be processed  until the customer sends in a bank statement showing that the 
account is in their name. I think sends in means sends in the post,  not by email, and 
I accept Sainsburys explanation that this is because email is unsecure. I know that 
contradicts what Mrs M was originally told about being able to operate  the savings account 
wholly online, but I think that a banks duty to maintain security  and prevent  fraud  is more  
important.
There is an exception to that procedure: if a credit  has previously been made to the savings 
account from the same current account, then this may be used as evidence  that the current  
account is in the same  customers name.  Mrs Ms joint account had indeed been  used to 
make two credits to her savings account in the past.  However, on the statement for Mrs Ms 
savings account,  the credit  from the joint account  just appears as a credit from her husband.  
It doesnt indicate that this was a joint account, so that potential  solution didnt work this time.
The joint account  appeared  as if it was actually Mrs Ms husbands sole account because he 
was the first named account  holder,  and the second account holder  (Mrs M) did not show  up 
on the system. Mrs M argues that this problem discriminates against women, because if her 
husband had tried to make a payment from his own savings account (assuming he had one) 
then he would not have encountered this problem. But I cant  blame  Sainsburys for that, 
because if it is standard  practice in the banking industry to put the husbands  name first, then 
I cant require Sainsburys (or any other bank)  to stop doing  that. That would be a matter for 
the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
I accept that Mrs M sent the statement promptly. I also accept  that Sainsburys did not 
receive it. I infer that it was lost in the post.  Its unfortunate,  but I cant hold Sainsburys 
responsible for that.
However, even if that had not happened, Sainsburys  still released the money within the 
timescale it told Mrs M to expect. Mrs M told us that in her first phone  call to Sainsburys,  she 
was told that it would take five to ten working  days to process the payment once the 
statement was received. That was on 11 October. Mrs M posted the statement (for the first 
time) on 14 October, and the payment was processed on 25 October. That is within  ten 
working days of when Sainsburys would have received  the statement, if it had arrived  on 15 
Ref: DRN53356313October, the day after Mrs M posted  it. (Mrs M posted the statement for the second time on 
19 October, so Sainsburys was actually quicker than that.)  So I think  Sainsburys did what  it 
said it would  do, and what it was obliged to do.
I recognise that time was of the essence, because Mrs M had to pay her bills on time.  But 
given the urgency, I think some time could have been saved if, instead of opening a new 
savings account  with her building  society, Mrs M had opened a new current account. She 
could then have  paid her savings to that new account, and then paid the bills from that 
account, or transferred the money from that account to her joint account. I emphasize  here 
that the original  problem  was not Mrs Ms fault at all  it was entirely  due to the software 
Sainsburys was using  failing to recognise that she had a joint account. But once a problem 
comes to light, a customer has a legal duty to try to take reasonable steps to reduce its 
impact, if its possible to do so. (This is known  in court as mitigation of loss.)  This couldnt 
have happened  in time to make the first payment on time, but I think  it could have been done 
in time to make the second  payment.  This is not meant to be a criticism of Mrs M, but as a 
further explanation for why I am not ordering Sainsburys to pay her compensation for the 
delay to her second  bill payment.
I have considered Mrs Ms argument that the savings  account was mis-sold to her, because  
it was advertised as being usable  entirely online,  and this turned out not to be the case. (She  
suggested that in future  Sainsburys should ask new customers  to nominate a current 
account for withdrawals at the same  time as applying for the savings account, to prevent this 
sort of thing from happening  again. I think that is a very sensible idea, and I encourage 
Sainsburys to consider it, but I cannot  order them to.) I understand Mrs Ms point, but I dont 
think that asking  a customer to print and post a bank statement is part of the routine 
operation of the account, but a solution  to a problem which  would not normally occur.  I think 
that occasionally problems may arise from time to time which cannot be solved online  but 
which require offline  activity such as that, now and then,  and that this may happen with any 
bank, not just with Sainsburys. For that reason, I dont think  it is false advertising  to market 
an account as one which can be run entirely  online, just because  a problem may 
unexpectedly arise which requires an offline solution  to maintain security.
Finally, I think  that £50 is fair compensation for Sainsburys not sending Mrs M its written  
answer to her complaint. This did not cause her financial loss or affect  the problem she was 
complaining about.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5335631