K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained about the settlement offer Fairmead Insurance Limited made to him 
after he complained  about the poor work it was carrying out at his property in respect of his 
water leak claim. He also felt the claim had taken too long.
background
Mr T had a leak in his bathroom in August 2018. He contacted the home  emergency  team  
and a representative attended, telling Mr T it was just a leak from the shower  and as long 
as it wasnt used it would be alright. Subsequently Fairmead appointed a surveyor  and 
contractors to deal with the water damage claim. It transpired leaks  at the property were 
on-going. Fairmead  couldnt do work  to dry the property until these were resolved. Mr T was 
unhappy about the initial advice hed received but Fairmead explained  that it doesnt 
provide the home emergency cover  provided  within his policy. Fairmead also advised Mr T 
that his home policy didnt  include  cover  for tracing  and accessing  leaks.
Mr T had the leaks found and repaired. Fairmead  stripped the bathroom in October 2018 
and began drying it in November 2018.  A certificate  confirming the property was dry was 
issued in January  2019.
In January 2019 Mr T spoke to the surveyor and Fairmead about what  reinstatement works 
would be done.  Fairmead said that only two walls of Mr Ts bathroom  needed re-tiling,  the 
other two walls were undamaged. Fairmead  said Mr T would  have to contribute  towards the 
cost of removing  and replacing the tiles on the undamaged walls to create  a match  with the 
tiles it was replacing on the damaged  walls. Initially Fairmead said Mr T would have to pay 
75% of the cost of reinstating the undamaged areas,  but then it agreed to pay 50% itself 
with Mr T contribution 50%. Mr T said he was happy with that  although  there wouldnt 
have been an issue if the leaks had been  stopped earlier as none of the walls  were 
damaged initially.
The work to reinstate the bathroom began in late January 2019. Mr T was unhappy  with its 
progress. He said it was moving too slowly  and the work being done was poor. Around this 
time the contractors on site told the surveyor Mr T had been verbally abusive both over the 
telephone and to the contractors in person.
Fairmead told Mr T its contractors would not return, and given the report of his behaviour  it 
wouldnt appoint an alternative contractor. Fairmead said it would settle the claim in cash  
based on what it would have cost it to complete the work, including resolving the poor wok. 
Fairmead noted Mr T had an estimate  for £5,800  but it said its cost was £4,086.30, so after 
deducting the excess it would pay him £3,636.30.
Mr T was unhappy. Fairmead  said that it felt it had caused some delays during the claim, 
but it wasnt responsible  for the actions  or advice of the home emergency team.  For the 
upset it felt it had caused  it said it would pay Mr T £100 compensation. But Fairmead wasnt  
prepared to change  its mind about settling  in cash, or to increase the price it had offered in 
this respect. Mr T complained to us.
Our investigator felt that Fairmeads decision  to settle in cash  was fair given what  its 
contractor had reported about  Mr Ts behaviour.  He was satisfied its offer included  costs for 
all relevant work. Therefore, he wasnt minded to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Mr T asked for 
an ombudsman to review  matters.
Ref: DRN50141182The complaint came to me and I felt that Fairmead had failed Mr T. I felt it should be 
recalculating its settlement based on what it had cost Mr T to complete the work. 
I explained my view in a provisional  decision, which both parties considered and accepted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
My provisional findings were:
Fairmead had entered  into a contract  with Mr T to repair his property. Therefore, only if 
Mr T acted so badly as to frustrate that contract  can Fairmead reasonably  turn away from it 
and look to settle in cash under the terms of the policy. And to show that frustration has 
occurred Fairmead has to be able to evidence what has happened. Otherwise it is just the 
contractors word against Mr Ts. Whilst Fairmead  owes a duty to its contractors,  it also 
owes Mr T a duty as its policyholder. I dont think Fairmead has demonstrated  that Mr T 
frustrated the contract.
Fairmeads contractors reported Mr Ts alleged  bad behaviour. But Mr T says he wasnt 
abusive  he was just unhappy  about the work  and how long things were taking. The 
contractors dont record calls and, understandably, there is no record  of the face-to-face 
contact that took place.  So there is an absence of evidence which might show conclusively 
whether Mr T acted unreasonably,  or whether  he made legitimate, if frustrated, complaints 
which the contractor  overreacted to.
But I also see there is an absence of any other  incident of abusive  behaviour  on Mr Ts part 
during the rest of the claim.  And there were stress points during the preceding months,  and 
plenty of contact  between Mr T and Fairmead,  as well as Mr T and Fairmeads  surveyor.  
Mr T learnt that his home had been damaged following poor advice, and that Fairmead was 
denying liability for that, but there  was no report of him being  abusive then. There was also 
the dispute over tiling. But again  there  was no suggestion Mr T was abusive then. So this 
makes me less inclined to take the contractors  word over Mr Ts.
In any event, I dont think  its reasonable that, in this instance, Fairmead, with absolutely no 
corroborating evidence or suggestion of poor behaviour on the part of Mr T, took its 
contractors word over Mr Ts. Whilst Fairmead  couldnt force that contractor to return to 
finish its work, it could have given Mr T the benefit of the doubt and appointed another  
contractor. Settling based on its cost to repair when it had no evidence  that supported the 
allegation that Mr T had frustrated the contract was not fair or reasonable.
Mr Ts estimate  was for £5,800. But this included all tiling costs.  And it is clear  to me that 
Fairmead was only responsible for 75% of those costs  or rather 100% of reinstating the 
two damaged walls and 50% of the cost for reinstating the two undamaged walls. Fairmead 
will have to review the estimate and pay an increased amount to Mr T to reflect his cost to 
fix the poor work  and finish the reinstatement  work necessary following the leak, less the 
policy excess, less the settlement already paid, but plus interest* from the date of loss until 
settlement is made, taking  account of the parties  liability for tiling costs.
Fairmead got the outcome of this claim wrong  but I dont think it acted unfairly  before this 
point, or delayed the claim at all. I see matters moved  slowly  at the start due to the 
Ref: DRN50141183continued leak. But that wasnt Fairmeads fault.  I see it took a while to dry the property. But 
I havent seen  that drying was carried out improperly and it does sometimes take a while to 
ensure a property  is dry. There was a lead time once the property was dry before 
reinstatement works  could  start,  but that wasnt unusual either. I know  Mr T felt that a 
schedule of three weeks for reinstating  was too long but given the different pieces of work 
that were necessary I dont think that was unreasonable timescale to allow. I dont know  
whether the work was being  done quickly enough to fit within  that schedule because  the 
contractors downed tools before the initial repair period came to an end.
Overall, I dont  think Fairmead caused  delays to the claim  so Im not going to make  it pay 
compensation in this respect. Fairmead did get the claim outcome wrong, as I said, but its 
settlement offered should have been  enough  to allow Mr T to start repairs, and if Mr T has 
been out of pocket since, the interest Im awarding will make up for that. So Im not 
persuaded there is any distress or inconvenience to require Fairmead to make  up for 
regarding this failure.
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  decision, these  are now the findings, of this, 
my final decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  Fairmead  Insurance Limited to recalculate its 
settlement for this claim, paying Mr T what it cost him to do the work, less the policy excess 
and less the previous settlement paid, but plus interest* from the date of loss until 
settlement is made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Legal  & General 
Insurance Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr T, 
it should  tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr T a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5014118