K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that Santander UK plc (Santander) didnt transfer a regular payment to 
enable her to get interest on her account.   She  would like the interest from 2014 to 2018  
credited to her. She is also not happy at how her complaint has been handled by Santander.
background
Ms H says in 2014 she opened a 123 account  with Santander in branch. To be eligible to get 
interest on the account she had to have two active direct debits and £500 per month paid 
into the account.  She says Santander  told her it would arrange a monthly  flip transaction  
for £500. But she says this didnt happen. So she didnt get any interest on the account.
Ms H also says she wasnt  happy with the service she received in branch. And over the 
phone.
Santander said that its staff wouldnt be able to set up an external transfer  for a customer. 
And as Ms H hadnt  met the requirements  to get interest it hadnt made any mistake.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He found it likely that Santander gave Ms H the 
information she needed to qualify for interest.  But didnt feel it was likely it would have 
agreed to set up the flip for her.
Our adjudicator listened to calls between Ms H and Santanders call centre.  He couldnt 
listen to branch calls as these are not recorded.  He didnt find any evidence that the banks 
service was unreasonable. And said at one point Mrs H described the manager as lovely
Ms H didnt accept this view. She insisted that the mistake was Santanders. She said she 
had now sorted the account out. And said had she known she needed to do something 
herself she would have done  it. She also didnt accept our adjudicators  view of Santanders  
customer service.  She said the reference to lovely was about  the individual who helped  her 
finally sort out her account. She wanted the interest  from 2014  to 2018 given to her
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think that there is any dispute  that in April 2014 Mrs H opened a 123 account with 
Santander. That this account had certain  conditions in order  to qualify for interest  one of 
which was that £500 had to be paid monthly  into the account. That Ms Hs account didnt 
meet this condition so she didnt get any interest payments from when she opened  the 
account in 2014 to when  she set the account up properly in 20118.
The main  issue seems  to be whether Santander  agreed to set up a flip transaction for the 
£500 payment  for Ms H or not.
As I understand it the flip transaction is where a sum of money, £500 in this case, is 
transferred from a different bank into the Santander  account and then back to the original 
bank. This enables the account to qualify  for interest.
Ref: DRN54436732I accept Ms Hs point that if she knew she had to make this arrangement  herself she would 
have done so.  She says as soon as a member of staff told her she wasnt running  the 
account properly  she made arrangements for the £500 regular payment.
Santander tells us its staff cant arrange  transfers  from external accounts.  Ms H would  have 
had to do this. And Ms H has told us herself  she didnt really understand the flip 
arrangement. The member of staff Ms H dealt with at the time no longer works for 
Santander. And there is no record of what was discussed in branch. Unfortunately I think the 
most likely explanation is that Ms H misunderstood the flip arrangement,  how it works and 
what she needed to do.
Ive seen the terms and conditions  for the 123 account which are clear.  So from these I think  
Ms H would have known there was a requirement to pay £500 into the account each month.  
Ive also seen statements  for the account. From these Ms H would have known she wasnt  
meeting this requirement.
Unfortunately  as I havent found  any evidence that Santander has done  anything wrong I 
dont think I can reasonably expect it to credit Ms H with the interest she would have had on 
the account had the £500  transfer  been set up,
In terms of customer service Ms H seems  mainly upset by how her complaint was handled  
by the branch manager. Unfortunately calls to branches arent  recorded  so I cant  listen to 
those. I accept the positive comment she made in a call Santanders call centre was in 
relation to the member of staff who pointed out to her she wasnt running the account 
properly and advised her what she needed to do not about the manger. But from what I have 
seen and heard I dont  feel I have any evidence to show that Santander  dealt with Ms H 
inappropriately or discourteously.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5443673