K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that MYJAR  Limited  lent to him irresponsibly.
background and findings
I attach my provisional decision dated 23 October  2019, which  forms part of this final 
decision and should be read with it. 
In it I explained  why I intended  to uphold Mr Bs complaint in part. Both parties  had time to 
provide any further  comments they may have  by 6 November 2019  before I reached a 
further decision.
MYJAR has come back and agreed  with my provisional findings and the proposed redress. It 
has sent to us its calculations of the amount to pay Mr B which will be sent to him under 
separate cover. 
In light of this I have decided to uphold  Loans 3 to 6 and Loan 8 for the same  reasons as 
those set out in my provisional decision which is attached. 
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr B has paid on Loans 3 to 6 and Loan 8;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year* on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative payment information about Loans 3 and 8 from Mr Bs credit 
file;
the number  of loans taken from 4 in the first chain of lending  means  any information 
recorded about them is adverse. So, all entries  about Loans 4 to 6 inclusive should 
be removed from Mr Bs credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. It must  give Mr B a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  dated 23 October 2019, 
I uphold Mr Xs complaint  in part. MYJAR  Limited has agreed to put things right for Mr B in 
the way I have set out above.  Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am 
required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision on or before 12 December 2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN59903092the main body  of my provisional decision dated 23 October 2019
background
Using the information from the details MYJAR has sent to us, I have summarised  some of the details 
of the loans  in this table. MYJAR has told us that He repaid 3 loans  early, 4 on time and 1 loan 3 
days late.
Loan no
Date taken Date repaid Amount Term agreedHighest repayment due 
(rounded)
1 24 July 2015 28 August 2015 £125 35 days £160
2 26 September 2015 30 October 2015 £100 34 days £127
3 30 November 15 26 February 2016 £400 85 days £198
4 29 February 16 31 March  2016 £125 31 days £156
5 9 April 2016 29 April 2016 £100 20 days £116
6 4 May 2016 28 May 2016 £100 27 days £122
gap in lending 
7 22 January 2017 6 March 2017 £100 96 days £52
8 22 April 2017 31 August 2017 £225 192 days £71
One of our adjudicators  looked  at this complaint and thought  that MYJAR should  put things right for 
Mr B in relation  to Loans 4, 5 and 6. Its response was:
MYJAR feels the increased checks detailed  in our business  file were proportionate.  Due to the lack of 
information in the adjudication, we are not certain our data has been considered and would therefore  
like an Ombudsman to review this case.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  what  I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general  approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the relevant  rules, guidance  and good industry 
practice - on our website. 
gap in lending 
There was a significant period when MYJAR did not lend to Mr B after Loan 6 had been repaid.  So, I 
do think that it was reasonable of MYJAR to treat his application for Loan 7 as the start of a new 
lending relationship in January 2017. So, there are two lending chains I am reviewing: one from July 
2015 to May 2016; the other from January to August 2017.  
lending July 2015 to May 2016 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr B could repay the loans  
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN59903093But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish  whether  Mr B 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis  might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it does  not automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the ability to 
repay without  undue difficulties.  In particular the customer should  be able to make repayments on 
time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments,  and without  having to borrow to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower 
will not be able to make their repayments sustainably  if they need to borrow further in order to do that.
I have carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. And the information provided by MYJAR has given most 
of the detail  I needed to come to my provisional  findings. 
I do think that the MYJAR approvals for Loans 1 and 2 were satisfactory  bearing in mind  that Mr B 
was a new customer, declared  full time employment with a net monthly income of £1,400 and £1,300 
respectively. Both were  one month loans  and for modest amounts. 
I have looked at the information MYJAR has sent to us explaining  its method of carrying out its 
affordability assessments.  Without going into the details as MYJAR has requested that most of those 
details are kept confidential, I can see that it used a system which it says built into the calculations an 
added margin to afford  a degree of protection to any applicant. Its explanation to us for Mr B was: 
In order  to obtain the monthly affordable amount,  we subtract  housing  and credit commitment costs  
from the stated income and reduce the amount by the MIS, giving  a net disposable income total 
which, we further reduced by 30% for all his loans
MIS here refers  to a Minimum  Income Standards, which for Mr B, MYJAR has told us the figure it 
applied was £556. MYJAR has explained that it considered real time CRA data. And CRA  refers to 
Credit Reference Agency. 
With all this information to hand and bearing in mind that Mr Bs application for Loan 3 was within  four 
months of Loan 1 and was for four times the amount of Loan 2 (£400) then I think  that additional  
checks ought  to have been asked of him. 
Ref: DRN59903094It has sent to me a record that shows it knew that Mr Bs outstanding recent unsecured credit 
commitments came to £600  (EMC).  And yet Mr B had declared £0 for creditor repayments. This 
EMC figure had increased since  Mr B had become  its customer. And this increase combined with Mr 
Bs £0 declaration and the high new application for £400 ought to have prompted additional  
questions. I do not think MYJAR did that, and from the information I have for Mr B I have seen  that 
one of these unsecured  loans may well have been another short  term loan for £300,  which he took 
from another lender  on 2 November  2015.  It was due to be repaid by £204 on 1 December 2015 and 
£193 on 24 December  2015.   
MYJARs affordability figure calculation came to about £310. But with this Loan 3 application  plus the 
other unsecured  loans  it knew about (£600) still I think it ought to have done more. If it had, even on 
its own calculations it looks unlikely that Mr B was able to repay the repayments on one of the other 
loans from the other lender,  plus the repayments on Loan 3. So I am planning  to uphold  Mr Bs 
complaint for Loan 3. 
I have also looked at the overall pattern of MYJARs  lending history with Mr B, with a view to seeing  if 
there was a point at which MYJAR should reasonably  have seen that further lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it should  not have  
provided any further  loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think that this point  was reached by Loan 4. I say 
this because:
Loan  4 was applied for within a day or so of repaying Loan 3 a little late. I think that the last 
repayment for Loan 3 of £198 due on 23 February 2016, plus his other credit commitments 
likely put him out of pocket. So he had to apply  for Loan 4 almost immediately and this can be 
a signal  that Mr B was struggling  to meet  his commitments.
And from Loan 4 onwards Mr B was provided with a new loan within a few days of settling a 
previous one. So MYJAR  ought to have realised it was more  likely than not Mr B was having 
to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and 
that Mr Bs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
I think  that Mr B lost out because  MYJAR continued to provide borrowing from Loan 4 onwards 
because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time;
the number of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Bs 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these  high-cost loans.
So I am planning to uphold the complaint about Loans  4 to 6 and MYJAR should  put things right in 
relation to those. 
lending from January  2017
As I have outlined above,  the significant break in the lending relationship after Loan 6 does  make a 
difference. And I do not plan to uphold  the complaint in relation to Loan 7 which is the first loan 
approved by MYJAR in that new loan chain.
However when Mr B applied for Loan 8, MYJARs own records which  it has provided to me show that 
it has a record for MLC  which is 1. This has been explained as: MLC  -Total number of RTR 
accounts overdue. The threshold is one. So MYJAR was on notice that he had a problem  with some 
part of his finances. 
Ref: DRN59903095In addition, MYJAR  had information that his outstanding recent  credit figure (EMC)  had gone up a 
great deal from £200 for Loan  7 to £789 for Loan 8. And MYJARs own calculations had come to a 
very low affordability figure for him of about £82. And I think that this may have been the reason he 
was approved  for a 6 month instalment loan for Loan  8 in order  to keep the repayments under  £82. 
Additional checks and questions ought to have been asked to ensure  that Mr B was able to repay 
Loan 8 sustainably. I dont  think that MYJAR did that. 
Loan 8 extended his indebtedness for a further 6 months and each monthly  repayment was £71 which  
on MYJARs own affordability  calculations would have meant that Mr B was left with £11 cash  left 
over for the month. This was just too low a margin to be the result of responsible lending and so I am 
planning to uphold Mr Bs complaint for Loan 8 as well. 
end of extract 
Ref: DRN5990309