K820x#14Complaint
Mr J complains American Express  Services Europe  Limited (AMEX) wont  refund a 
transaction made from his credit card account  which he says he didnt authorise.  
Background
In April 2018, Mr J attended a property roadshow.  He says properties  in another country 
were being  advertised  for sale at this event.  He met a salesman there who offered a 
discount of £30,000 to anyone who was willing to put down a £2,000 deposit towards a 
property on the day of the roadshow. 
Mr J also says the salesman said theyd  need to run a credit check and he handed over his 
AMEX credit card and identification  for this purpose. He said he thought about this again  
later the same day and thought it was odd, checked his statement online and realised a 
transaction had been made  on his card on 21 April 2018 for £1,996.09. 
Mr J contacted AMEX to dispute the transaction on 29 April 2018. Initially  AMEX  refunded  it, 
but later debited it again from Mr Js account.  This was because, after looking into what had 
happened, AMEX received information  indicating Mr J had agreed to the transaction.
Mr J says he didnt agree to the transaction but also that the company involved is no longer 
willing to offer him the advertised  discount. He also told AMEX  he was unhappy  the charge 
had been made to his card in the currency of the country where the properties were, and not 
in pounds (GBP). 
Our investigator considered Mr Js complaint, she said, in summary, she thought  the 
evidence indicated that Mr J had agreed  to the transaction hed complained  of but was now 
unhappy that the property  company were no longer willing to offer the discount  hed been 
quoted, among other things. 
Mr J didnt agree. He said, in summary, that he thought AMEX had initially agreed with him 
and thats why theyd refunded the transaction and that theyd then wrongly re-debited the 
money from his account. He also said theyd made  a mistake by saying hed signed 
something for the transaction,  when he hadnt. 
As Mr J didnt  agree with the investigators findings,  the complaints been passed  to me. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  AMEX has 
treated Mr J unfairly. Ill explain why. 
Generally, AMEX is required to refund unauthorised transactions.  Theres  no dispute that 
Mr Js card details  were  used to make the transaction  he says himself  he handed his 
AMEX card to the salesman at the property event.  But Mr J says even though he gave them 
his card,  he didnt  agree  for any payment to be made. 
Mr J has said several  different things about  what prompted him to dispute this transaction 
with AMEX. When he first complained to our service, he said hed realised it was odd that 
Ref: DRN59788842hed been asked to hand over his card for an affordability check   so he checked  his online 
banking and then realised a transaction had been made which  he immediately disputed.  
But Ive seen copies  of correspondence  Mr J has sent to both AMEX  and the property 
developer. And what hes told us, isnt what he initially said to AMEX or the property 
developer in his complaints to them. In one, which appears to be directed to the property 
developer Mr J writes:
I am disputing the following:
No receipt of deposit and confirmation of unit size provided on payment (21/2/18)
Why the £30,000 has not been deducted to the booking of 25th April 2018 as the sq ft 
should have been  10% cheaper  by this discount.
How can the company request addition deposit amount
At no point  during this correspondence  to the property developer does Mr J request  a refund 
from them because he didnt agree to the transaction in the first place. 
One of these emails  said that he was unhappy because, among other things, he was 
expecting the transaction  to be charged  in GBP and not in the local currency of where  the 
property was. He said he was unhappy about this because the foreign currency  transaction 
attracted additional charges and interest  on his AMEX card.  Further  he was concerned  
because he didnt receive an invoice for the deposit.  
If, as Mr J tells us now, he never  intended to nor did he in fact make an authorised payment 
to the property developer  its not clear to me why it would matter what currency  the 
payment was in or why Mr J wouldve been  expecting an invoice for a deposit he never 
agreed to pay. Or why he would also be concerned that the discount he was told about at 
the event was not as described.  
So I find Mr J did authorise this payment and for this reason I dont think  AMEX are obliged  
to refund it. 
AMEX initially refunded the transaction  which Mr J says means  they agreed the 
transaction was unauthorised initially but then they changed their minds. Mr J says AMEX  
mistakenly re-debited  the money from his account because  they said they had information  to 
show hed signed  to approve  the transaction and that this is wrong. But the initial refund was 
only while  AMEX were  looking into the transaction. 
Mr Js provided  a transcript  of a conversation he had with AMEX, in it there  is a reference to 
signed documentation. But, thats not right. There is no evidence  Mr J signed  anything. 
However, as our investigator  explained,  this doesnt necessarily mean Mr J didnt authorise 
the transaction. And Ive explained already why I think he did authorise it  so I dont think  
this, or the initial refund, makes  a difference to the overall outcome of Mr Js case. 
Mr J has also more recently  told us hes got evidence from the salesman that he didnt 
authorise the transaction. He says this is available upon request. But I dont think this would  
make a difference to his complaint either. I say this because, based on all the other  evidence  
Ive seen  and set out above  I still think  for the reasons Ive already explained Mr J did 
authorise the payment. Even if the salesman is now prepared to say Mr J didnt. 
Ref: DRN59788843Since Ive found  that Mr J did authorise  the payment, Im not going to order AMEX to refund 
it to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2020.
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5978884