K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), trading as Halifax, have refused to uphold  
a claim hes made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (section  75).
background
Mr F bought  four wheels from a retailer in February  2017. He used his credit  card to 
complete the transaction. But he says the paint started to deteriorate  within  the first twelve 
months and eventually the paint started  to peel. Mr F says the wheels should maintain an 
adequate finish  for seven  years and he says theyve  now started to buckle and will need 
replacing or refurbishing.
He made  a claim to Lloyds who he said were equally liable under section  75 as they were 
the provider of the credit.
Lloyds noted that the supplier had provided  a one year warranty and that the warranty had 
now expired so they thought, in those circumstances, the supplier didnt need to replace the 
wheels or provide a refund and therefore there was no like claim against  them.
But Mr F disagreed and he referred  his complaint to this service where our adjudicator 
provided an opinion.  He agreed with Lloyds. He noted that Mr F had provided a video which 
he believed  showed  some peeling on the alloys but he noted this video was made about two 
years after the purchase and Mr F hadnt  provided  any further evidence to support his 
assertion that the wheels were of poor quality or that they were  now buckled.  So he didnt  
think there was sufficient evidence that the wheels had been supplied  with a fault or that 
Lloyds needed  to take any further action.
But Mr F disagreed. He said it was wrong  for a product to show signs of deterioration within  
the first twelve months and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I know it will disappoint Mr F but I agree  with the adjudicators opinion. Please  let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr F made a claim through  them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Ref: DRN54950302When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the wheels should have been  of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. If they werent  then Mr F would have  a like right to claim 
to Lloyds, who are the provider of credit, as he would against  the supplier.  
The relevant  law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard  that 
a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description  of the 
goods, the price  and all the other  relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this other relevant circumstances would include things like the age and 
mileage covered. These were new wheels and Mr F says hed only completed  a few 
thousand miles on them before they started  to show signs of deterioration. But he didnt 
report these issues until hed had the wheels for 22 months. 
The suppliers and therefore Lloyds responsibility  for the product is not unlimited.  Whilst they 
are responsible for the condition  at the point of purchase they are not responsible  for faults 
that develop afterwards such as those relating to wear  and tear.  
Legislation would encourage  us to assume that if the wheels  developed  a fault in the first six 
months it was likely to have been  there  from the point of supply. The relevant legislation 
says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
But if the fault happened after that wed usually look to the consumer to prove this was the 
case.
Im not persuaded that Mr F has provided  sufficient evidence to demonstrate the wheels 
were faulty  or developing faults when supplied as:
he says he first noticed the problem developing in December 2018,  22 months after 
purchase so as such a long time had passed I think its fair to expect Mr F to prove  
the issue was there  from the start
the video hes provided shows the problem was present about two years after 
purchase but doesnt show the problem was developing or present when the wheels 
were bought
theres been insufficient evidence that this damage has happened  because of a fault 
inherent in the wheels  at the point  of sale, such as an independent experts report
Mr F has provided an invoice for work to remedy the buckling and paint  peeling  but 
this isnt evidence  that the faults  he now complains  of were present or developing 
when the wheels were sold to him 
The supplier  offered a warranty  but Mr F didnt complain until that one year warranty  had 
expired and I therefore dont think Lloyds were being unreasonable when not upholding 
Ref: DRN54950303Mr Fs complaint as hed not provided evidence  to demonstrate the problem was inherent at 
the point of purchase and the warranty the supplier would have been obliged to uphold, had 
expired.
So for those reasons I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Lloyds  to take any 
further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5495030