K820x#14complaint
Miss O complains  that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave her misleading  information about 
chargeback time limits, re-debited her account  without telling her, and did not refund the 
money she had paid for a holiday timeshare.
background
In February 2018  Miss O bought a timeshare and paid over £11,000 for it with her Barclays  
debit card. In June  she realised that the timeshare did not include the destination shed 
wanted to visit. Because of that and other issues,  in September she asked  Barclays to raise  
a chargeback on the ground that it had been  mis-sold.  Barclays  told her that it was too late 
to raise a chargeback as it was more than 120 days since shed  bought the timeshare. It is 
now accepted  that this was wrong  and that Miss O had complained  in time, as it was less 
than 120 days since she had realised there  was a problem.
Barclays raised a chargeback, but it was unsuccessful and in December Barclays re-debited  
the money from Miss Os account, leaving her account overdrawn. She says this was 
unexpected, and caused her embarrassment when her card was declined while shopping. 
She also incurred  charges  adding up to £24 for unpaid direct debits, which Barclays  has 
since refunded.
When Miss O complained about these issues, Barclays gave her conflicting  information 
about what had happened. It transpired  that when Barclays had asked her to provide more  
evidence by a deadline, she had provided  it in time, but that Barclays  staff had not uploaded 
it to their system, and it had been overlooked. Barclays had therefore thought Miss O had 
missed the deadline,  and had closed her chargeback  for lack of a response.  Barclays  later 
apologised for these matters, and paid her £300.  But it did not agree to refund the money  
she had paid, so Miss O brought this complaint to our Service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He thought £324 was fair compensation for 
the customer service failings, including Barclays mistakes about the time limits. But he 
thought that the chargeback had been bound to fail, even if Barclays had considered 
Miss Os further evidence, because there had still been no evidence that the timeshare had 
been mis-sold. He also said that Barclays had warned Miss O in its letters that if the 
chargeback failed then the money  which it had re-credited to her account   would be re-
debited again.  So he didnt agree that Barclays should have to do anything else.
Miss O did not accept that opinion. She said that there had been nothing in the paperwork,  
at the point of sale, to suggest that the timeshare would not cover  her preferred destination. 
She asked  for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read Barclays customer contact notes. They were provided in confidence, so I cant 
share them with Miss O, but I can summarise the important  points here.
Miss O has made numerous  points  in support of her complaint.  But my decision focuses on 
what I consider are the central issues.
Ref: DRN52814272My role in this complaint is to consider how Barclays dealt with Miss Os chargeback  claim.
When Miss O first complained to the merchant,  she alleged  four misrepresentations. These 
were:
She had been  told that if she didnt want to use the property in the week  she had 
purchased, she could rent it out to a third party, and it was guaranteed that there 
would be high demand at a particular  price. This was untrue.
She had told the saleswoman that she wanted  to visit Mecca, in Saudi Arabia, every 
year for Ramadan, and the saleswoman  had told her that she would  be able to book 
hotels in Mecca at discounted  rates.  This was untrue, as the company did not cover  
Saudi Arabia at all (the timeshare is in another country). Miss O says she would not 
have entered  the contract at all if she had known it would  not allow her to travel  to 
Mecca. This is her main complaint.
The prices of five-star trips were  higher than shed been told.
She was told it would be easy to sell the timeshare when she was finished  with it, but 
this was untrue.
The merchant replied  to say that demand could not be guaranteed; trips to Saudi Arabia 
were not included; her contract had given a range of prices (which  went  higher than the 
prices Miss O was complaining about); and it could not guarantee how quickly  her contract 
could be resold. Miss O was not satisfied with those  answers, but the merchant stopped 
replying to her emails. The evidence Miss O initially submitted to Barclays consisted solely of 
the emails in which the above complaints and answers were set out.
On 9 October Barclays wrote to Miss O to say that it had raised  a chargeback,  and that it 
had temporarily refunded  her payment to her pending the outcome. It said its investigation 
would probably  take six to eight weeks. On the same day, she phoned Barclays.  The record 
of that phone call says that the call handler noticed that Miss O had moved  the £11,000 to 
another account, and so the call handler warned her not to spend it, as the investigation was 
still ongoing. Two days later, the same  call handler  repeated that warning in another phone  
call. On 11 December  Barclays  sent Miss O a letter telling her that the chargeback  had been  
unsuccessful. So because of those phone  calls and letters, I do not uphold Miss Os 
complaint that she was not warned that the money  would  be re-debited.  I accept  that she 
was not told the exact date on which that would happen, which turned out to be on 
Christmas Day, two weeks after the second letter. But she had been  warned not to spend 
the money, and she was given two weeks notice to return  the money to her account (if 
unspent). So I cannot agree that it is Barclays fault that her account  was overdrawn once 
the money was re-debited.
Meanwhile, on 13 November, Barclays sent Miss O the evidence the merchant had sent it. 
This consisted only of the contract and the pre-contractual information. Barclays  asked 
Miss O to provide her comments and any further evidence  she had within ten days. She 
responded within that time, but Barclays failed to add her new evidence to her file. I dont 
know why, but that was certainly an error. Then  on 11 December Barclays closed her 
chargeback investigation, because it thought she had not responded. But this letter did not 
tell her why the chargeback had failed.  In its final response letter in January, Barclays  said 
her chargeback had been declined because Miss O had not complained within  120 days of 
her payment  in February, but this was not the real reason, and of course Barclays  had 
already conceded in October that this interpretation of the time limit was wrong. So that letter 
just repeated an earlier mistake.
Ref: DRN52814273Meanwhile, on 21 December, another member of Barclays staff realised that Miss O had 
actually submitted her evidence on 21 November, before the deadline, and that the 
chargeback had been closed improperly.  She therefore asked her colleagues  to re-open the 
chargeback. Later that day, another  staff member looked at Miss Os further evidence, but 
concluded that there was still no written evidence to support Miss Os allegations about what  
she had been  told by the saleswoman. So Barclays decided that even if the chargeback had 
carried on, it would still have failed for lack of evidence.
I have therefore  considered  the evidence which was available  to Barclays before it closed 
the chargeback  investigation, to decide whether Barclays  was right to decline to re-open it, 
and whether Mrs O was disadvantaged  by its premature closure.
There is no contemporaneous  written evidence to support Miss Os allegations  of 
misrepresentation. The contract specifically says (in article 9) that there is no guarantee of 
resale. It makes no guarantees about rental  income or the prices of trips. The timeshare  
property is not in Saudi Arabia, and all the contract  says about travel elsewhere  is that a 
pack will be provided by a third party within 90 days,  and the pack will list the other available 
destinations. The contract can be cancelled with a full refund within  10 days,  after which 
there is no refund for cancellation.  So by the time the pack  arrives,  it will most  likely be too 
late to cancel the contract on the ground  that the alternative destinations turn out not to be 
satisfactory. Miss O agreed to those  terms. Finally, the pre-agreement information says this 
contract shall supersede  all oral agreements  or promises.
Miss O also provided a recording of a phone call she had with the same saleswoman in 
October, in which she complained about what she had been told in February. I have seen 
evidence that she provided this recording to Barclays within the ten-day  deadline.  I have 
listened to the recording.  I have also read Miss Os description of the call (in a letter  or email  
she sent to Barclays  with the recording),  but Im afraid I cannot agree that it is accurate. I did 
not hear the saleswoman admit that she had told Miss O in February  that she could  travel  to 
Saudi Arabia, or any of the other alleged promises. Instead, the saleswoman  repeatedly  
insisted that neither she nor anyone else in her line of work could or would give any 
guarantees about rental income  or resale.  She repeatedly said that travel to Saudi Arabia 
was currently not possible under  the contract, but that this situation  might change in two or 
three years, or in four or five years, but that it is out of her hands.  The saleswoman could 
have handled  that call much better, but the call does not assist Miss Os case.
So although  Barclays  was wrong to close the chargeback investigation when it did, I dont 
think the chargeback  would  have  succeeded  even if it had continued to its proper 
conclusion. I therefore think that Barclays error did not affect the outcome of Miss Os claim. 
Finally, I think  the £324 compensation Barclays has paid for its mistakes is fair.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN52814274Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2020.  But my final decision concludes  this Services 
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of 
its merits.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5281427