K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) cancelled  his debit card without 
notifying him.
background
Mr S contacted RBS in April 2019  to check the status of his debit card.  He was assured that 
it would  remain valid until the expiry date shown on the card,  which was the end of May 
2019. However on 6 May 2019  he discovered his card had been cancelled whilst he was 
abroad, leaving him unable to access his money. 
Mr S asked RBS to reactivate the card until its expiry date, but it told him it couldnt do this. It 
advised the card had been cancelled on 1 May 2019 after a replacement  card had been sent 
to him on 10 April 2019. It agreed it hadnt  notified  him that his existing card would be 
cancelled, and apologised for giving him incorrect information when it had previously told 
him this wouldnt happen.  And it paid him a total of £150 compensation to apologise for the 
inconvenience caused, and said it would be happy  to consider any specific expenses  he 
incurred as a result of the issue.
Mr S wasnt  happy with this response  so he came to our service.  He says hes experienced 
similar issues in the past and wants RBS to ensure this doesnt happen again to himself  or 
anyone else.
Our investigator said that they could understand why Mr S was so upset and disappointed 
about what had happened. But that on balance they felt £150  was fair compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused by RBSs mistakes.
Mr S said that although he wasnt looking for more compensation,  hed hoped  RBS would be 
held accountable for its actions and suffer a greater penalty that would make it think about 
changing its systems. So the case  has been  passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr S will be disappointed,  but Im 
not going to ask RBS to take any further  action in respect of this complaint. Ill explain why.
RBS has agreed it made mistakes here.  Its acknowledged that it didnt notify  Mr S that it 
would be ordering him a new debit card and cancelling his existing one before its expiry  
date. It also accepts he was incorrectly advised that his existing card would be valid until the 
end of May 2019.
I appreciate this matter  caused Mr S worry, distress  and inconvenience. He hadnt  received 
RBSs replacement card as he was abroad. Hes explained the impact RBSs mistake  had 
on him. And hes told us that he feels lucky the situation wasnt worse,  and he didnt suffer 
any direct  financial loss as a result of being unable to access his money.  
I know hell be disappointed, but taking everything  hes told us into account, I agree with our 
investigator that RBSs  payment of £150 compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. So I wont be asking it to do anything further.
Ref: DRN55589592I appreciate Mr S feels RBS should  suffer a greater penalty here,  and thinks  it should 
change its systems. But this service looks at individual complaints. Its not my role to punish  
RBS for its mistakes. And I dont  have the power to ask it to make changes  to its systems or 
processes. 
Its my role to consider the impact  of RBSs actions on Mr S, and how it should put things 
right for him. And for the reasons Ive outlined above  I think  the action its already taken here 
is sufficient.  
my final decision
I do not require  The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5558959