K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  (Ageas) hasnt settled a claim she made on 
her home insurance.
background
Mrs Bs home was damaged by a water leak. She contacted  Ageas and it agreed  to meet  
her claim. Mrs B doesnt think Ageas has paid her as much  in the settlement as she was 
promised.
Ageas paid Mrs B a total of £7,250  for both her buildings  and contents claims. This was after 
deducting £500 (2 x £250) excess for each of the claims.
Mrs B accepted the payment,  but complained that she should have received £8,250. She 
said that was because Ageas didnt include two promised payments - £500 for electrical  
work and £750  to replace  the stair carpet.  Mrs B says she was promised the £500 for 
electrical work to compensate her for any possible future problems.
Ageas says it didnt  promise to pay Mrs B £500 in case  something went  wrong with the 
electrics in the future.  It also says the quote for the work came  to £6310 plus VAT. It says it 
paid an enhanced amount  of £7,250 to Mrs B to settle the complaint in full. It doesnt  think  it 
needs to pay Mrs B any more.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to uphold this complaint. I understand this wont be what  Mrs B wants to hear,  
but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mrs B initially provided a quote for repairs to her home that Ageas thought was too high. A 
second, lower, quote was obtained, which was used as the basis  for settling  the claim. The 
quote  excluding the carpet and electric  work  (which Ill come  to later)  came to £6310  
excluding VAT. With VAT it came to £7572. 
The carpet was to cost £750 to replace. Ageas says it agreed  £7,000  for the building  repairs  
(about £700 above the value of the quote  excluding VAT) and £750 for the carpet. Thats  a 
total of £7,750. It then deducted  the two relevant excess amounts and paid Mrs B £7,250.
Ageas has based  its settlement for the building work  on the amount excluding VAT because  
it says the contractor isnt VAT registered. That seems fair to me, as if Mrs B uses  this 
contractor to do the work, she wouldnt need  to pay VAT. So Ageas has covered her actual 
costs, plus an additional amount, which  is somewhat more than Id expect it to do. If Mrs B 
can show Ageas she has paid VAT on this work  then Id expect  Ageas to cover this 
additional cost.  Unless she can do this, I wouldnt expect Ageas  to do more  on this point 
than it has.
Mrs B says she was promised a payment of £500 in case there were any future problems 
with the electrics in the property in the future. She says this is because they werent properly 
assessed for damage during the claim. Ageas  says this isnt something it would do, and 
Ref: DRN56850582there arent any records that it did promise this. Its representative says he has no 
recollection of promising this sum. Of course,  it may well be that this topic was raised  during 
a conversation  and theres no record of it. I dont  doubt that Mrs B recalls a conversation  
on this topic. But it would  be most  unusual for an insurer to make a payment  against future  
possible problems  especially with electrical  installations, as a malfunction could be 
dangerous. Offering such a payment would suggest the insurer  accepted responsibility for 
this, something it would be very difficult to prove  at some point in the future. Instead  an 
insurer would normally want to assess any damage and carry out repairs.
However, I can see that Mrs B accepted  a cash  settlement for the repairs to her house, even 
though she believed the electrics hadnt been assessed. Ive seen her email accepting  the 
offer. And the payment was based  on an amount  towards  building costs that was about  £700 
more than it should have cost for the work  to be done  and more  than the £500  Mrs B says 
was promised. I think the onus to check that the electrics in the house are safe now rests 
with Mrs B. If Mrs B wants to get the electrics  independently assessed  by an electrician 
qualified to do this, then she could do that for her own peace of mind. If such  an assessment 
identified problems caused by the original water leak,  Id expect Ageas to consider meeting  
the cost of the repairs if they came to more than the additional £700 or so the payment  
included. But I wouldnt ask it to make a payment towards unknown  possible future  
problems.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5685058