K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains about how British  Gas Insurance Limited (BG) dealt with her HomeCare  
insurance policy claim. My references to BG include its agents.
background
On 26 January 2018 Mrs H discovered water leaking  through the living  room  ceiling  in her 
home. She contacted BG to deal with the leak and it accepted her claim under her 
HomeCare policy.
BGs contracted  plumber attended  and couldnt  find the cause of the leak.  Mrs H says she 
told the plumber  she thought the leak was coming  from under her bathroom sink but the 
plumber said he couldnt check  there  due to his knee injury. He suggested  Mrs H replaced 
her shower cubicle sealant as he thought the leak was coming through  the silicone, which 
she did. 
The leak got worse  and a second  plumber attended  five days later. He also couldnt find the 
cause of the leak and didnt look under the sink as Mrs H suggested. He cut off the water 
supply to the house leaving  Mrs H without washing or toilet facilities overnight.  The plumber 
returned the next day to restore the water. He also cut a hole in Mrs Hs ceiling but still 
couldnt find the leak's source.
The damp patches on the ceiling and walls got larger. BGs plumber made another  visit on 
15 February. He also wasnt able to find the leaks source. The plumber noted roof flashing 
had just been done and Mrs H says the plumber suggested water may be coming from 
outside and travelling upwards. Mrs H complained  and BGs agents  supervisor attended  the 
next day. He found the source of the leak on the feed to the tap under the bathroom sink and 
fixed the problem.  Mrs H says the supervisor told her the previous three plumbers were 
trainees learning  on the job.
Mrs H complained to BG that it had taken multiple visits over serval  weeks  to find and fix a 
leak that its experienced plumber found  and fixed in 15 minutes.  She was also unhappy that 
BG had told her it would  fix the holes it made in her home but later told her to claim for the 
damage under her home  insurance.
BG offered Mrs H £100  for her inconvenience due to its poor service. BG said it wasnt  fully 
responsible for all the water damage but recognised its delays  may have caused further 
damage. It told Mrs H her home insurer would claim back  any proportion of the cost it 
thought BG liable for.
Mrs H complained to us. She thought  BGs offer wasnt  fair.
Our investigator recommended BG should  pay Mrs H an additional £200 in compensation 
(so £300 in total). She noted  that the home insurer and BG were in correspondence about 
BGs responsibilities  for the cost of the damage  under  Mrs Hs home insurance claim so 
didnt comment on that aspect.
Mrs H agreed  our investigators recommendation. BG disagreed  and wants an ombudsmans 
decision. It said its £100 offer was reasonable for Mrs Hs inconvenience caused by its three  
unproductive visits.
Ref: DRN50799112my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint.  BG must pay Mrs H £300  compensation  in total for her trouble and 
upset its poor service caused. Ill explain why.
BG policy says:
we are not responsible  for any loss or damageas a result of boiler,  appliance or 
system breaking or failing unless we caused it. For example, damage caused  by 
water leaks.
BG has said it isnt fully responsible for the damage  to Mrs Hs home  as damage was 
already caused  by the leak and some  repair would always have been necessary. But BGs 
February 2018 letter to Mrs H accepted its delay in finding and fixing  the leak may have  
caused further damage. 
Also, Ive seen a letter from Mrs Hs home insurer holding BG responsible for the costs it 
incurred under Mrs Hs home  insurance  claim.  Our investigator noted her understanding  that 
BG has agreed to contribute  to the cost of the claim  to Mrs Hs home insurers,  which BG 
hasnt disputed.
On the evidence I think BGs delay in finding  and fixing the leak did cause further damage.  
Im not going  to make a finding on BGs  level of responsibility for the damage in this decision 
as I understand  the home insurer  and BG are negotiating about BGs contribution to the 
home insurance claim costs.
However, BGs unreasonable delay in finding the leak meant the damage was greater (as 
BG accepts)  which meant  Mrs Hs has had greater disruption due to more  extensive repair 
works. The impact of the damage has caused Mrs H a lot of distress,  which shes  detailed.  
Also, she had no washing or toilet facilities for a day, which was unnecessary. She replaced 
the sealant around her shower  which was unnecessary.  She also had to be at home, or 
make arrangements  for a family member to be there, for BGs unnecessary visits.
Mrs H has said she unnecessarily installed flashing on her roof on the recommendation of 
one of BGs  plumbers. Theres no evidence to support BGs plumbers made that 
recommendation. Its notes say customer had flashing done as she thought it could be that. 
So I cant fairly say BG should pay for the cost of the flashing.
I think BG gave Mrs H very poor service. Its offer of £100 fails to take into account the 
considerable trouble and upset it caused Mrs H, which wasnt  just three unnecessary  visits. 
Mrs Hs accepted our investigators recommendation of £300 in total and I think thats a 
reasonable amount to acknowledge her distress and inconvenience BGs poor service 
caused.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN50799113I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs H £300 compensation in total for her 
distress and inconvenience due to its poor service within  28 days  of us telling it that Mrs H 
accepts my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5079911