K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains about the charges applied by Southern Pacific Mortgage Limited (SPML). 
Mr F wants SPML to refund the charges and fees with interest  and make  a decent goodwill 
gesture for the distress  he suffered.
background 
Mr F took out a mortgage in 2004 with SPML on a repayment basis  over 25 years.  Mr F had 
difficulties paying  the mortgage from early on and in 2005 SPML  applied  for a suspended 
possession order. Over  the years  there  were  several eviction warrants because  of poor 
payment history which were cancelled  after SPML  received full payment. As Mr F wasnt  
able to meet  the contractual monthly  payments  as they fell due, Mr F got assistance  from his 
partner and his parents  at different times.  
SPML reviewed the charges  it applied to Mr Fs account from 2012 and reversed fees of 
£1,150 which it paid to Mr F on 22 September 2018.  On review it identified  two further fees 
that it should reverse. These were arrears management fees of £70 that it applied  in two 
month where  it also charged legal fees. Our adjudicator believed that this suggested 
settlement was fair and recommended it to Mr F. Mr F disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F believes that SPML has unfairly charged him when he was in arrears. Mr F believes 
that his complaint should proceed  against a different company but that appears to be a 
service company which does work on behalf of SPML. I note that the letters from that 
company say it is writing  for and on behalf  of SPML. Mr Fs mortgage is with SPML and its 
SPML that raised the charges which is the subject of complaint so I believe that its correct 
that SPML is the subject of the complaint.
SPML says that the charges were properly  raised  at the time but on review it believed  it was 
unfair that it should  charge an arrears  management  fee when in the same month it also 
charged a legal fee. This would be in line with our view. So, SPML reversed these charges 
and paid Mr F. I note that in a second review  SPML identified a further two charges and its 
appropriate that it also offers to refund those. It would clearly have been preferable  if these 
charges had been identified before Mr F brought this complaint to our notice. But from my 
inspection of Mr Fs statement of account from 2012, I have no evidence that there  are other  
fees that SPML unfairly charged.
Mr F also raises  a query  as to why SPML wouldnt accept a payment from an unnamed  
friend in 2017  which  would  have  paid off his arrears.  In its letter to Mr F, SPML says that it 
had procedures to go through  to identify who was going to make  that payment  which  werent 
satisfied. I have to accept that under  the law, it was reasonable for SPML to query the 
source of the payment and not to accept  it if the source was unknown or if it was dissatisfied  
with the source.  
Ref: DRN51032402Mr F also questions  the support he got from SPML whilst in financial  difficulties.  In particular, 
Mr F says that SPML didnt suggest the capitalisation of the arrears spreading the debt over 
the remaining  term which Mr F says would make it affordable. Mr F at various  times  since  
2004 fell into arrears and there is an enormous amount of contact where clearly SPML 
worked with him to avoid the repossession of the property which  Mr F managed  to do for 
many years. There are a series of arrangements made which Mr M had difficulty  
maintaining. 
When Mr F, with the assistance  of others,  cleared the arrears,  the account  would at some 
stage fall into arrears again.  Against that background, I cant  see how capitalising  the arrears 
would have helped.  Mr Fs monthly  payments would have increased which would have made  
them harder to pay. Given the pattern on this account, its probable that the newly capitalised 
account would inevitably fall into arrears again  but only at a higher level. So, I cant  see that 
Mr F would have been any better off. Whilst I have sympathy with Mr F, apart from the £140 
which SPML  has agreed to pay Mr F, I cant say that SPML  has done anything wrong. So, I 
cant fairly uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  but approve the offer by Southern Pacific 
Mortgage Limited to pay Mr F £140.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5103240