K822xcomplaint
Mr K has complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) unfairly failed to 
refund an overpayment he made on an instalment  loan. 
background
It isnt in dispute that Mr K made an overpayment of £18.66 on his instalment loan. One of 
our adjudicators told Lending Stream  to refund the £18.66 plus 8% simple  interest  from the 
date the overpayment was made to the date of settlement. He also told Lending Stream to 
pay an additional £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr K. 
Lending Stream agreed to do this in early April 2019. But two months later Mr K contacted  
us saying this hadnt been done.  Lending Stream  initially  said it was in the process of paying  
what it needed to. It then said that it had paid what it needed to. But when it was asked to 
provide evidence of this, it failed to do so. Mr K maintains hes never  received  payment. 
As the parties have been unable to resolve  matters  the case was passed  to an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  Lending Stream  hasnt done enough to 
demonstrate that it has already paid Mr K what it has agreed to. So Im upholding Mr Ks 
complaint and Lending Stream  needs  to put things right in the way Ive set out below.  
what Lending Stream should do to put things right
To put things right for Mr K, Lending Stream should  do one of the following:
refund  the overpayment of £18.66 adding 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement  and £50 for the distress  an inconvenience  
caused; OR
if it has made payment already, provide documentary evidence of the date it made 
payment to Mr K and the method it used. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ks complaint. Gain  Credit LLC (trading as 
Lending Stream)  should put matters  right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ref: DRN57069632ombudsman
Ref: DRN5706963