K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC allowed a company to debit his account without 
his authority. He is also unhappy about  the way in which  it dealt with his complaint.
background
On 15 July 2018 Mr D booked a flight abroad  using a credit card that had been issued to him 
by another bank. And on 25 July 2018 Mr D paid for his luggage using the same credit card. 
Both purchases were  made online via a website, Ill call G. Mr Ds flight was scheduled to 
depart on 28 July 2018 and was operated by an airline Ill call N.
When Mr D arrived  at the airport  on 28 July 2018 he discovered  that N had cancelled  his 
flight. On the same  day N debited a large amount of money from Mr Ds Barclays current  
account using  his debit card. Mr D noticed this transaction when he logged  into his online 
account on 30 July. Mr D said he hadnt  given N his debit card or bank account details. And 
he said he hadnt authorised this payment. So he contacted Barclays  to query why this 
payment had been authorised. And Mr D said Barclays told him to speak to N about  this 
transaction instead.
On 4 August  2018 Mr D contacted Barclays again to raise  a complaint with it. He said he 
spoke to Barclays fraud department on several  occasions to query why the payment had 
been authorised.  But he said he hadnt been  told who had given his account details to N. 
And, while this transaction was reversed on 4 August 2018,  Mr D felt Barclays  hadnt dealt 
with his complaint  properly  because he felt it should  tell him why the money had debited his 
account without  his authority.
On 15 August 2018, Barclays  sent its final response to Mr D. In this letter  Barclays said it 
hadnt done anything wrong  in authorising the payment  to N. But it thought Mr D had 
received poor service  because he had been put through  to wrong  department to discuss  his 
complaint and had spent  a long time on the phone. So, it credited Mr Ds account  with £75 to 
recognise that.
Mr D remained  unhappy with Barclays response  to his complaint. So he referred this matter 
to our service. Our adjudicator investigated  what had happened and, while they empathised 
with Mr D, didnt think that Barclays needed  to do anything more here. They  thought that £75 
compensation was appropriate and fair to recognise the poor service  Mr D had received 
when Barclays had investigated his complaint. Mr D disagreed and asked for the matter  to 
be referred to an ombudsman. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ill explain why I wont be 
upholding this complaint.
Mr D told our service  that he didnt give N details of his Barclays account and he says,  on 
this basis, Barclays acted  in error  when it authorised  the transaction  that debited  his account 
on 28 July 2018.  The key issue here is whether Barclays  acted fairly and reasonably in 
authorising this payment. And I think its important to say at the outset that based on what 
Ive seen, I dont  think  it did anything wrong.  Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN52253902Barclays told our service  that the authorisation reports  indicate that this debit card payment 
was a manual  key entry. It said that this means  Mr Ds debit card details  were  provided to 
N either over the phone or online.
Barclays has said that Mr Ds debit card details can only have been given to N if either G or 
Mr D had provided them. I appreciate that Mr D said he didnt give N information regarding 
his bank account. And Ive no reason to doubt what he says here. Its clear that he had 
booked his previous flight  travel  and paid for his luggage using his credit card. 
Barclays has strongly refuted that it provided Mr Ds card details to N. Based on the 
evidence Ive seen,  theres nothing to suggest  that Barclays gave N any information about  
Mr Ds debit card or bank account either.  So, Im satisfied that Barclays hasnt disclosed that 
information to N. It follows  that I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible for N having the details 
of Mr Ds debit card in circumstances where it hasnt provided this information to N.
Here, Barclays said it was provided with the long card number and CVC code for Mr Ds 
debit card. And it said this information  matched the information it held for Mr Ds account. 
So, it authorised the transaction  request on this basis. It also said,  because the information it 
was given was correct, it wouldnt have had any reason  to make any further  checks on the 
payment before taking a decision to authorise it. 
Mr D said he had made very few purchases using his debit card and none  involving large  
amounts of money.  So, he said this purchase  amount  was contrary  to his typical spending  
behaviour. On this basis, he felt Barclays shouldve contacted him to query the validity of the 
transaction before authorising it. He said Barclays had done  so in the past when he had tried 
to make a large payment  from his bank account  or add a new payee.
Barclays told our service  that before this payment was authorised it was passed  through its 
fraud detection systems and assessed  against algorithms designed to identify fraudulent  
spending. And it said having  applied  that process the payment wasnt  deemed  to have been 
a high risk transaction. So, it said it had no reason to block the payment or to contact Mr D 
here to query it. 
Given the overall circumstances, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Barclays to think it 
had been presented with a legitimate request for payment, which  Mr D had authorised. Im 
also persuaded there was no reason for the bank not to make the payment in these  
circumstances.
Barclays has accepted  it didnt deal with Mr Ds complaint as well as it couldve done.  And it 
has already credited Mr Ds account  with £75 in recognition of the poor service he received.  
Its clear Mr D doesnt think  this adequately  reflects  his inconvenience  and experience. So, 
Ive thought about whether the amount of compensation Barclays has awarded is fair and 
reasonable.
In thinking about this, Ive considered things from both sides. I realise there was a large  
amount of money  involved here,  but I think the compensation already paid is fair in the 
circumstances. I say this because Barclays investigated Mr Ds complaint and sent him its 
final response promptly. And it reversed the transaction within a week of it being authorised. 
Mr D says he didnt have  access to this money for a week,  which caused him distress  and 
inconvenience. Its fortunate  that Mr D hasnt lost out financially as a result of what  
Ref: DRN52253903happened. I havent seen  any evidence that he had to use an overdraft or incur  bank  fees to 
meet his monthly  outgoings and other financial commitments prior to the transaction being 
reversed. 
I appreciate that being put through to the wrong  department and spending a long time on the 
telephone to Barclays must have been  very frustrating for Mr D. But I think Barclays did what 
it could to resolve this matter. 
Mr D is unhappy that Barclays  hasnt told him how N was provided with his debit card 
details. But Barclays has said it didnt disclose this information to N. And I dont think it is 
reasonable to expect  it to know how N acquired these details in circumstances where it 
didnt provide them. So I dont think it can give any further information to explain how N may 
have come by Mr Ds debit card details.
I appreciate that Mr D feels very strongly  about  the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered  everything he has said. But for the reasons Ive already given Im 
satisfied that Barclays  acted fairly and reasonably and I dont  think it would be fair to ask it to 
do anymore. I think the compensation  already paid to Mr D is a reasonable amount to 
resolve this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5225390