K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains HVF Limited provided  him with poor customer  service  when he purchased a 
vehicle from them. This led to trouble and upset for which he would  like to be adequately  
compensated. 
background
I set out the background  to Mr Ss complaint in my provisional decision.  Ill summarise it 
again here. 
Mr S has been a long-standing customer of HVF Limited and was looking to purchase  a new 
vehicle with it again. The new vehicle was to be delivered in early  March and this coincided  
with his wifes birthday and was intended to be a surprise for her.
Mr S contacted HVF to confirm delivery on Friday 2 March  2019 between 9am and 1pm. 
HVF confirmed the delivery  details  and so Mr S arranged to take half a day off work to be at 
home to take delivery of the vehicle. When it didnt arrive by 1pm, he telephoned  again and 
was told the dealership had cancelled delivery  on Friday 2 March, the same day Mr S had 
confirmed the delivery.
Understandably, Mr S wasnt very pleased. He was disappointed his wife didnt get the 
surprise he hoped for and he had to reinsure  his existing vehicle for a few more  days.  This 
incurred an admin  fee of £25. He also had to inform his workplace to ensure his carpark 
pass was valid. He re-arranged delivery of the vehicle for 9 March  between 2pm and 5pm.
Mr S booked another half day from work  to receive his vehicle. He intended  to leave work 
and return home to clean  out his old vehicle ready for collection. En route,  he received a 
telephone call from his wife to say the new vehicle had turned up an hour early and the 
delivery driver required  her to look the vehicle over and accept delivery. Mr S had to hurry 
home, empty his old car, and inspect the new car. Mr S says this wasnt  the new car delivery 
experience he had expected. He had to take two half days  off work and had the 
inconvenience of amending his insurance as well as rectifying his work pass. He feels this 
caused him trouble and upset that he should be compensated for and so he complained to 
HVF.
HVF have apologised  for any inconvenience. They explained the first delivery  was cancelled 
as the vehicle failed a final battery  inspection. This needed to be rectified  before  the vehicle 
was delivered to Mr S.  The dealership did send an email through to HVF but the mailbox 
was unmanned  and so it wasnt picked up in time to notify Mr S.
HVF agree  the delivery of Mr Ss vehicle arrived an hour earlier than the booked  time. Again, 
they apologised but explained the traffic was lighter than expected and so the delivery  driver  
reached him a little earlier than expected. They  upheld this part of Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S had his old vehicle for part of the month following the termination of his contract. HVF 
say under normal circumstances rental is charged for a whole month, even if a customer  
only has use of the vehicle for part of a month.   As a good will gesture, they refunded Mr S 
for the part of the month he didnt  have use of the vehicle. This amounted to £315.83 and 
they offered  him £50 as an apology  for the trouble and upset caused.
Ref: DRN59455342Our investigator looked into things for Mr S and didnt feel HVF had acted fairly. He thought  
the admin fee he had incurred and the disappointment of not receiving the vehicle on his 
wifes birthday as well as taking two half days from work warranted an increased  award  for 
distress and inconvenience and so he suggested the business increase its offer of £50 to 
£175.
Mr S accepted the findings but HVF didnt. They assert the £315.83 was a good  will gesture  
they didnt have to refund and in doing  so along with £50 for the trouble and upset caused 
they had already offered  in excess of the £175 suggested. They  felt it was unfair to pay a 
further £125 and so they asked for an ombudsman review.
In my provisional findings, I considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I looked  at all the 
information provided by both parties  afresh. Having done so I said I didnt agree with our 
investigators findings and I wasnt going to uphold this complaint. 
I said appreciated Mr S made a number of submissions regarding  his complaint. I explained I 
may not refer to all the points made, but I have  read and considered the whole file. I 
concentrated my comments  on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about  it but because I 
dont think I need  to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I said I could understand  Mr S has been left feeling  disappointed, especially as he wanted to 
surprise his wife on her birthday. I can also see he has had to make a number of 
adjustments for the delay  in receiving his new vehicle that must have been frustrating.
But, I explained what I have to consider is if the business has acted fairly and reasonably  in 
its actions and if not, what it should  do to rectify  any errors. To do this Ive looked  at amongst 
other things,  relevant law, industry  guidelines,  regulatory requirements and codes of 
practise.
I looked carefully at the terms and conditions of Mr Ss agreement - they dont refer to the 
delivery of the vehicle.  There are no time specific  service level conditions, save  for the fact in 
order for the agreement to be valid a vehicle has to be delivered and accepted by Mr S.
Theres no dispute here that the vehicle was accepted when it was finally  delivered the issue  
is around the customer service Mr S received and what he should have expected.
HVF have explained  the vehicle failed  a last minute  inspection with regard to the battery. 
Theyve explained if the dealership had allowed  the vehicle to be delivered  on the first 
occasion this may have  caused significantly more inconvenience to Mr S. I said I was in 
agreement with HVF here. Whilst unfortunate, the dealership had a responsibility to ensure 
the vehicle was of a satisfactory quality and if there  were concerns about  the battery, it 
seems reasonable  that further checks should  be carried  out. The dealership did send an 
email to the HVF mailbox but this wasnt picked  up in time to inform Mr S. So whilst I 
appreciate Mr S wanted to surprise his wife on her birthday I cant hold HVF responsible  for 
that failing  to happen. 
Similarly, with the delivery time on the 9 March, whilst Im sure every  effort  is made to 
comply with the 3 hour window given there are circumstances such  as lighter traffic road 
conditions making  a delivery earlier  than expected  or heavier  road traffic meaning  it could be 
later than expected.  These would be down to conditions  on the day and outside  of the 
Ref: DRN59455343control of HVF. Although  I accept, the time on the paperwork  should have read 14:00 hours 
to 17:00 and it actually read 12:00  to 15:00.
It also thought  it was Mr Ss choice  to take annual  leave  to receive the vehicle. I said I 
couldnt hold HVF responsible for that or the expect them to compensate him. Having said 
this HVF have acknowledged Mr S didnt get the service they would have hoped to provide. 
As Mr S has already paid for the vehicle up to 02 April 2018, HVF refunded a pro-rated 
payment for the time he hadnt had use of the vehicle amounting to £315.83. They also 
offered £50 by way of an apology for the trouble and upset this matter had caused.
There are no terms and condition within the agreement regarding  he delivery of the vehicle 
that allow me to determine HVF have acted outside the terms of the agreement. As HVF 
have already offered a total of £365.83  Im persuaded they have acted fairly and reasonably  
and so whilst  I understand  Mr S will be disappointed, Im not going  to ask them to do 
anything further.
In my provisional decision,  I said I didnt intend  to uphold Mr Ss complaint and I invited both 
parties to make any further  submissions they would like me to consider.
HVF Limited didnt have anything further  to add.
Mr S was very unhappy  that the refund of the rental overpayment was being  incorporated  as 
a material part of the decision. He feels this could give rise to a company deliberately moving 
a delivery date to charge for both the existing vehicle and the new one. He asked how this 
could be fair under the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) Treating Customers  Fairly 
principles known as outcome  3.
my findings
I thank Mr S for his response.  Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments  
afresh to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having 
done so, I havent found  anything in the submissions Mr S has made to change my view. 
Please allow  me to explain why.
At the outset, I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt 
intended to regulate or punish businesses  for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  Instead, this service looks to resolve individual  complaints between  a 
consumer and a business. Should  we decide  that something has gone wrong we would ask 
the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible,  in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
In this case, HVF were  responsible for delivering the new vehicle to Mr S in order  that the 
lease agreement he had taken out could  commence. As I have already said there  isnt 
anything in the terms and conditions that pertain to the delivery  itself.  So I have to look at 
this complaint from a customer  service  perspective and what  is fair and reasonable as there   
isnt a clause within the terms and conditions  of the agreement itself to determine  if HVF 
have or havent  complied  with it.
As far as I can see, there also isnt a clause in the terms and conditions, regarding  the 
refund or not of a part month rental payment. I have carefully considered the early 
termination quote, which clearly references  a £0 payment providing the vehicle  was returned 
Ref: DRN59455344in February 2018.  The quote also says it is only valid up to 28 February 2018 and a further  
quote will be required. HVF didnt  issue a further  quote; they have simply said in the interest 
of good customer  service they have refunded the part month payment.
In my decision, I have  looked at the actions HVF have taken to determine if they were fair 
and reasonable.  My view is that in refunding the part month rental  they have acted fairly and 
reasonably  it isnt that I have considered this as a material part of the redress  but as the 
appropriate action  to take, given  that Mr S only had the old vehicle for part of the month.
In terms of the trouble and upset caused  by the failure to deliver  the vehicle. Im not 
persuaded that Mr S has suffered a material loss. I accept he took two half days leave for 
the delivery that didnt arrive but Mr S would  have had to do that to accept delivery on at 
least one occasion.  HVF had a responsibility to ensure the vehicle was of satisfactory 
quality. When it failed  the final checks,  Im persuaded HVF Limited took the right decision to 
delay delivery until they were able to resolve the matter. Had they not done  so it may have 
led to problems later. 
The second  agreed delivery did result  in the vehicle reaching Mr S, albeit and hour earlier 
that it should have done. I also appreciate Mr S chose to take a further half days leave but 
as Ive said, that was his decision and Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable for 
HVF to compensate him for that. HVF have apologised for the inconvenience this matter  
caused Mr H and Im of the view the £50 offered was and is reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed but Im not going to ask HVF to do anything  further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5945534