K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr M says Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 23 January 2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
that the PPI was not mis-sold, but that Barclays had to pay back  any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
23 February 2019. But neither side sent me anything new to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the case, 
Ive come to the same  conclusion as before. 
my final decision
The PPI policy was not mis-sold, so Barclays Bank  UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN50209912COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in 2001. 
Mr M says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  this case.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think this policy was mis-sold   Ill explain why.
I can see Mr M went through  his credit card application with a staff member. There was a section 
for PPI, which briefly  explained what it would  cover if he wanted to pay for it. Then there were  two 
options to choose from: one to take out PPI and one to turn it down. The option to buy PPI was 
chosen and Mr M signed the agreement.  So I think that Barclays made  it clear Mr M didnt have  to 
take out PPI and that he chose  to take it  though I can understand why he might not remember 
this after so long.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr M, so it had to check  that the policy was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example, he 
doesnt seem  to have had any other way of keeping up his payments if he was off sick or lost his 
job. So the policy  couldve  really  been useful for Mr M in case  he fell on difficult times.
Mr M says he had a medical condition  which  wouldnt have been covered. But his condition  
doesnt seem  to be one that wouldve caused him to take significant time off work, and its worth 
bearing in mind that this policy was only there to cover  extended periods of illness. Further, when  
Mr M first complained to Barclays, and when  he came to our service, he said he didnt have any 
health problems at the time of sale. So it doesnt sound  like this condition  was necessarily at the 
forefront of his mind.
We asked  Mr Ms representative for more  details about how his condition  affected him and what 
treatment, if any, he had. But weve  not had an answer  to those questions. Based on what Ive 
seen so far, it doesnt  seem that Mr Ms condition  was likely to ever cause him to claim. And he 
wasnt affected by any of the policys other exclusions or limitations. So it looks like the 
recommendation was suitable for him overall.
Its possible  the information Barclays gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But here,  it looks  like he chose to take out the policy,  which implies he wanted this type of 
cover. As I said above, it doesnt look like he was significantly affected by any of the exclusions  to 
or limits on the PPI, and it could  have  been  useful  for Mr M in case  something went  wrong. And so 
I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have put him off taking out the cover.  
This means  that I dont  think Barclays has to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so 
it should  have told Mr M about that. Because Barclays didnt tell him, that was unfair. 
To put that right,  Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN50209913my provisional  decision
I think  that the PPI policy was not mis-sold,  which  would  mean Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But I do think  Barclays Bank UK PLC has to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it got 
that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand  it has already  done this, so I dont plan to 
award any further compensation. 
Please could  Barclays  and Mr M send me any more information or comments  to look at by 23 
February 2019. After that, Ill issue my final decision.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5020991