K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain that Phoenix Life Assurance  Limited wrongly advised them to invest  
too much  money  in an unsuitable product given they had no investment experience.  They 
said that this money came  from recent  inheritances; they were looking for a safe savings 
vehicle and werent given time to consider the recommendation.
background
An investigator at this service felt their complaint should be upheld.
From the evidence shed  seen, she thought  they did have some investment experience and 
probably had more than one meeting with the advisor. She also felt the product  itself  a 
with-profits bond  was not in itself an unsuitably risky product. 
But she felt that the advisor  had recommended they invest  too much of their capital given 
their overall circumstances. 
She firstly noted that Mr and Mrs I were 53 and 51 respectively and both planned to retire at 
60. The advisor recorded that they had a modest  joint income which  was entirely used  for 
ongoing expenses  plus an £80 a month contribution  towards  an ISA. This left them  with no 
surplus monthly income. They had £50,000  in cash-based savings and just over £15,000 in 
two PEPs.  So as a result of the advice to invest £30,000 of their £50,000 60% of their money 
was in risk-based  funds.
She also noted that they surrendered the bond  after four years,  rather than the 
recommended minimum commitment of five years, which she thought suggested this had 
proved too much to commit.
For all these reasons she felt the advisor  should  not have recommended more than a 
quarter of their £50,000 be placed in this investment (or any risk-based product) with the rest 
- £37,500  - free of risk.
She therefore felt that Phoenix  should  pay compensation by comparing the return they had 
received on three-quarters of their investment  - £37,500  with what they might  have got via 
a risk-free product,  and by using the standard formula  recommended by this service in these  
circumstances. That is, the returns on Bank  of England bonds of 12 to 17 months maturity. If 
this comparison showed a loss, she said Phoenix  should pay this and add 8% simple 
interest per annum from the date of surrender to the date of settlement  of the complaint.
Phoenix disagreed  that the percentage invested  was too high, saying:
The customers had a regular income and while they might have had no disposable 
income this would not be effected  by the bond, as this was a one-off lump  sum and 
not a regular premium
They had no mortgage or dependents and were  in a strong position to be able to 
invest a significant  portion  of their inheritance
It is documented that they wanted  to invest £30,000 of their £50,0000 and were left 
with £20,000 in instant access after the investment   which  was a significant amount 
considering they had no loans  or dependents
Ref: DRN53160162The money was invested in a professionally  managed fund appropriate to their risk 
profile and included a varied spread of investments
In addition to the £20,000 and the existing  emergency fund they also held £15,339 in 
existing PEPs
They were seven/nine years from their selected  retirement dates while the 
investment was recommended to be held for five years  upwards
The surrender  in 2005 was not driven by affordability issues but by lifestyle  choices 
i.e. to upgrade  a caravan and for home improvements
There is no prescribed formula to decide how much of an investors savings should 
be invested in one product. Each  case should  be based on its own merits and in this 
case it believes the percentage  recommended was appropriate
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like clarify  that while the investigator  said the result of this advice led to Mr and 
Mrs I having 60% of their £50,000 in risk-based products  given they already had £15,000 
plus in two risk-based  PEPS , this advice resulted in more than £45,000 of their total assets 
being exposed  to risk-based investments. In effect, the advisor was recommending  they put 
nearly 70% of their money at risk of loss. Given they were investing  a further £1,000  a year 
into a risk-based ISA, this percentage could rise each year - if they saw no growth on their 
investments.
Given their circumstances,  particularly the absence of any surplus  income, I think  this advice 
was clearly flawed.
Firstly, I cannot  agree  with Phoenixs  view that Mr and Mrs Is lack of any surplus income  
each month  is irrelevant to the merits of this advice.  The fact that they had no money left 
over, assuming they continued paying  into their tax-efficient  ISA, meant  they were always 
liable to calling on the £20,000 left in savings after this investment. So far from being a 
typical reserve fund for emergencies it was quite likely that this money was going to be 
depleted quite  frequently for expenditure outside  the normal monthly expenses.
Secondly, I think Phoenix has overlooked  a number of aspects of Mr and Mrs Is 
circumstances which bear upon  their financial  stability  and commitments.  The overwhelming 
majority of their income came from Mr I who was self-employed, so their ability to pay their 
monthly outgoings was dependent  on his continuing ability to get work. There is no evidence 
that he had any protection  plans which would replace this income if necessary. Nor, 
according to the advisors record, did Mr or Mrs I have any private pension provision. To be 
fair, the advisor  identified that they both had various protection needs but recorded that Mr 
and Mrs I did not want to pursue any proposed  action. But this indicates he was aware  that 
their financial  situation  in their 50s with little or no employment guarantees or relevant 
insurance plans   was not as stable as Phoenix  has implied.
Ref: DRN53160163Ive therefore  considered  how much  Mr and Mrs I ought reasonably have been 
recommended to invest given their overall  circumstances. Broadly speaking,  I believe it 
would have been reasonable to recommend they place half of their total assets at risk, 
including the £15,000 plus already invested (i.e. £17,500 in this bond) but for two issues.
This bond contained significant early redemption penalties  10% after the first year  and I 
think the advisor should have considered very carefully whether to recommend such  a 
product given Mr and Mrs I lack of surplus  income. Also, they were committed to an ongoing 
payment of £1,000 a year into a tax-efficient ISA.
Given these two additional considerations, I am satisfied   on balance   that the 
investigators proposed  composed is broadly fair and reasonable. On the basis  that Mr and 
Mrs I should only have  been advised to invest £12,500 in the bond, in her view, this would 
have resulted in around 40% of their total assets  being in risk-based investments. This feels  
about right to me. 
Phoenix Life should therefore  pay compensation by comparing the return  Mr and Mrs I 
received on three-quarters of their investment  - £37,500  with what they might  have got via 
a risk-free savings vehicle, and by using the standard formula  recommended by this service 
in these circumstances. That is, the returns on Bank of England bonds of 12 to 17 months 
maturity. If this comparison shows a loss,  Phoenix Life should pay this and add 8% simple 
interest per annum from the date of surrender (or dates) to the date of settlement of this 
complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Phoenix  Life Assurance Limited to pay compensation as 
outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5316016