K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about the sale of a travel insurance policy by Academy Insurance  
Services Ltd. 
background
In December 2016 Mr and Mrs P took out an annual  multi-trip travel  insurance policy  with a 
start date in January 2017. The insurer is a company Ill call M. They arranged the policy 
through Academy,  which is an insurance  intermediary or broker.  In response to questions  
about medical information Mr P told Academy about  Mrs Ps medical  conditions.  M agreed  to 
offer an insurance policy, and it charged an additional £9.90 to cover the medical conditions 
it was told about.  
In May 2017  Mrs P was unfortunately diagnosed with metastatic endometrial  carcinoma . 
As I understand it, this is where a cancer  which has started in the uterus (womb) has spread 
to other  parts of the body. As she needed chemotherapy she was advised not to travel. She 
and Mr P cancelled their pre-booked holidays  and made a claim to M.
M asked Mr and Mrs P and her doctors for further information. It then turned down their 
claim. It said that when  they applied for the policy it hadnt been told that Mrs P had been  
diagnosed with endometrial cancer  in mid-2015,  when shed had a hysterectomy. If it had 
known this M said it wouldnt have offered cover for any of her medical conditions. So it 
wouldnt pay the claim, but later offered a refund of the £9.90 premium  for her medical 
conditions. Mr and Mrs P came to us. They said theyd told Academy about Mrs Ps 
hysterectomy.
Our adjudicator arranged  for Mr and Mrs Ps complaint to be referred  to Academy. It 
responded to say that it had clearly  told Mr and Mrs P in 2015, when theyd applied for the 
policy that it couldnt get any policy cover  for Mrs Ps cancer.  Academy said it had explained  
this to them at the time.  Theyd  decided  to proceed  with the policy with M based on the cover 
being for Mrs Ps remaining medical conditions (a hip replacement  and pre-menstrual  
tension or PMT). Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy so we looked into this complaint. 
Our adjudicator concluded that Academy  had made  it clear to Mr and Mrs P in 2015 that the 
policy with M wouldnt give them cover  for Mrs Ps cancer or any related claim. Theyd 
accepted this, and proceeded with the policy covering her other medical  conditions.  So she 
didnt uphold  the complaint. Mr and Mrs P asked for a review so the complaints come  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. 
This decision is confined  to the complaint  about Academy. Ive issued a separate decision 
about the insurer M. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P did tell Academy  about Mrs Ps medical  conditions.  They  took 
reasonable care answering the questions  they were asked by Academy. Mrs P explained 
that shed had cancer of the womb  and a hysterectomy.
Ref: DRN53271612But the difficulty I have  is that I think Academy made it clear  to Mr and Mrs P that there 
wouldnt be any cover  for Mrs Ps cancer (and one other medical condition). They explained 
this to them when  speaking with them in 2015. Our adjudicator has given Mr and Mrs P full 
details of the sales process and the conversations, but in particular  I see that Academy 
explained that it couldnt obtain cover for them for the cancer. So the cover with M would  
cover them for medical conditions but not for Mrs Ps cancer.
I know that Mr and Mrs P have explained that in 2016 and in 2017 Mrs Ps cancer had been 
in remission. Shed been able to travel abroad. I appreciate that they couldnt  have  known 
that in 2017 Mrs P would  be diagnosed  with metastatic cancer, where  the womb cancer had 
spread. So I do understand their complaint. But Im afraid they werent covered for Mrs Ps 
womb cancer, and this includes  a claim directly related to that cancer. M was able to turn 
down their claim because unfortunately the reason they couldnt travel  in 2017 was directly 
related to the 2015 cancer. 
my final decision
Despite my natural  sympathy for Mr and Mrs P, for the reasons Ive given my decision is that 
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5327161