K821x#15the complaint
Mr F says TSB Bank plcs IT problems had an impact on him.
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. Mr F says this meant  he was unable  
to transfer money  to a friend abroad  on one occasion. And that the IT issues then also 
caused ongoing problems with him receiving a replacement debit card. This meant that he 
was without a working  debit card for around six months, meaning he had to regularly transfer  
funds to a friend so they could withdraw cash for him to use.
Hes also told us TSBs telephone banking service  was very busy, so he spent a long time 
waiting on the phone.  And that he had to call multiple times over many  months  to try to 
resolve the issue with his card, including  one particular  call when he felt a member of staff 
was rude to him.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. He thought TSB should  pay Mr F £300 for the 
trouble and upset  caused to him. And the adjudicator also said TSB should pay £70 for the 
cost of all the phone calls Mr F had to make.
Mr F didnt  think  this was enough  compensation, given how long he had been without a 
working debit card.  So another adjudicator  looked at the complaint again. They agreed with 
the first adjudicators  findings.
TSB accepted this, Mr F didnt. He still thought a higher amount of compensation would 
better reflect the impact  these issues had on him. He was also concerned  that we hadnt  fully 
considered the poor customer service hed received from TSB. So the case has been  
passed to me to decide. 
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I agree with our adjudicators that £300 compensation and £70 for call costs  is 
a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr F has said.  And I can see that he made  many  calls 
to TSB, and was told several times that the issue with his card would be sorted  out, but 
nothing was resolved until many  months  later. And throughout this time the only way he 
could access the money  in this account was by transferring it to a friend and asking them  to 
withdraw it for him, which no doubt  caused  additional inconvenience.
Mr F says he wants fair compensation for the worry and frustration caused to him over an 
extended period  of time  and I can understand his strength of feeling. I agree the service 
Mr F received from TSB during this time wasnt as good as it should have been, and six 
months is a long time to be without a working debit card.  But Ive weighed  this up against the 
fact that Mr F has told us this was not his only bank  account, and that he was still able to 
access his money each month  albeit with a lot more hassle than this would usually require.
Ref: DRN50446582Thinking about  everything that has happened here,  I think  the £300 our adjudicator  
recommended is an appropriate amount of compensation  to recognise the day to day impact 
this issue had on Mr F.
Mr F has also mentioned charges that were  applied when  he asked his friend to withdraw 
cash for him. But if Mr F had been using his own debit card he would  still have incurred 
charges. So I dont think TSB needs  to reimburse  Mr F for this. And from the records Ive 
seen of how much time Mr F spent talking to TSB on the phone, and his mobile tariff at the 
time, I think the £70 our adjudicator recommended  for call costs  is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
putting things right
To put things right TSB should:
pay Mr F £300 for the impact the IT issues had
and pay £70 for the financial  losses  this caused
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Fs complaint.
TSB Bank plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above  if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5044658