K820x#14complaint
Mr M complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC acted unfairly and unreasonably when dealing  with 
his mortgage.  He wants matters put right.
background
Mr M wanted to remortgage  and borrow more money. He approached Lloyds and said that 
he was asked to supply all his payslips more than once  (Mr M had two jobs). The application 
was declined due to affordability  concerns connected to the second job and Mr M said he 
asked Lloyds to at least deal with a product change.  This wasnt  done and Lloyds refunded 
the extra interest hed had to pay.
Mr M complained to Lloyds. It said that Mr Ms application to borrow  more money was 
unsuccessful due to its concerns  that he couldnt afford to repay the loan due to his income. 
Lloyds also said that Mr Ms original mortgage moved onto the standard variable rate 
(SVR) as he was also trying  to borrow more money at the same time, but it refunded the 
one month  of extra interest paid as a gesture of goodwill.  Another  payment was made in 
respect of an issue not brought  to this service. 
Mr M complained to us. The adjudicators view was that Lloyds offer was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. She said that Lloyds needed to see more  payslips to check  
that the loan was affordable. The payslips provided werent consecutive and were copies. 
Mr M was asked  again for payslips, but the adjudicator didnt think this was unreasonable  or 
caused unnecessary  delay,  especially as Mr M then brought in new payslips. She also 
thought that Lloyds had the right to decline to lend more money and wasnt  unfair or 
unreasonable in applying  its lending  policies. The adjudicator thought  the refund of the extra 
interest paid when Mr Ms original mortgage moved onto the SVR was fair and reasonable 
as Mr M had refused  to discuss a new product when his application to borrow more was 
unsuccessful.
Mr M disagreed, but didnt  say why.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to focus on the core of this 
complaint, which  is about customer  service  and SVR interest being charged for one month; 
Mr M didnt  complain about Lloyds refusal to lend more money  to him. That said, lenders are 
able to refuse to lend if they apply their lending policies  fairly  and reasonably  and the 
evidence shows that Lloyds did so in Mr Ms case.
Mr Ms customer service  complaint centres on the issue of his payslips.  I dont think  that 
Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably in asking to see original consecutive payslips for both 
of Mr Ms jobs. Lenders must ensure  that loans are affordable and, even though Mr M had 
said the income shown  in the payslips he first provided was regular, it turned out that it 
wasnt and it was the second set of payslips that showed this. And I think  that no delay was 
caused as without all the payslips, Lloyds  couldnt  decide whether to lend more to Mr M.
Ref: DRN59143702Mr Ms original  mortgage product ended and he moved onto the SVR for one month. But it 
was his choice  to try to borrow  more money and Lloyds  offered him the opportunity  to apply  
to switch his product when his application  to borrow more  was unsuccessful. This is shown 
by the evidence from Lloyds. Again, it was Mr Ms choice to refuse.  I think Lloyds has acted 
fairly and reasonably throughout,  including its decision to pay compensation when it wasnt  
at fault.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject  my decision before 
26 April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5914370