K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy that TSB Bank Plc closed his current account and credit  card without 
notice. 
background
On 16 March 2018 Mr S tried to make a payment  online to a third party.  He received an error  
message stating the payment may not have been successful. Mr S was unhappy because 
he feels the message  should have clearly stated  whether the payment had been made. So 
he contacted TSB to discuss this. 
Mr S made several calls on 16 March, 21 March  and 22 March 2018.  He says he spoke to 
various members of staff and all his calls were  terminated. Mr S felt he wasnt being listened  
to and this caused him a lot of distress.
On 25 March 2018, TSB wrote to Mr S and told him his account would be closed with 
immediate effect. Mr S has said he feels TSB has targeted him as it didnt wish to deal with 
his complaints. He wants to be compensated for the trouble and upset he has experienced.
TSB has said it is satisfied it closed the account fairly and acted in line with its terms and 
conditions. Mr S remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr S complaint and she felt it should be upheld. While she 
agreed TSB was entitled to close Mr S account she felt it should have given him notice. She 
said this because there was no evidence on file to suggest Mr S had acted in a threatening 
or abusive manner.  So she suggested that TSB paid Mr S £150 for the trouble and upset it 
caused him. 
TSB disagreed. It said Mr S was being  threatening and therefore it acted in line with the 
terms and conditions. It also said it couldnt  see that Mr S used his account for day to day 
living expenses or bills, so it said he must  have  had an alternative account  elsewhere. So it 
asked for the case to be passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators findings for broadly the same reasons.
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with it. But before it closes  an account,  it must do so in a way, which  complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account.  The terms and conditions say:
We may end this agreement (or any account  or service under it):
(a)By writing to you and giving you 2 months notice; or
(b)Immediately if:
(i) You are, or we reasonably consider you may be 
3. Behaving improperly  (for example, in a threatening or abusive  manner)
Ref: DRN51572472So the matter  for me to decide is if Mr S account  should have been closed immediately or 
with two months notice.  
I appreciate that TSB has been  unable  to provide call recordings due to a system update 
which took place  in 2018. And therefore I have considered the contact notes it has provided. 
Having done so, I cant see any note which suggests that Mr S was abusive or threatening 
but I have seen a note on one occasion  which says Mr S did swear. But given  there was 
over 15 calls made by Mr S with several different agents, I think  its reasonable to suggest 
that if Mr S had demonstrated such behaviour  (to the extent that his account should  be 
closed with immediate  effect)  it would have been or should have been noted  on the system 
notes. So without that information  I cant say with any certainty that Mr S acted in that 
manner.
The contact  notes on more than one occasion indicate  that the calls were terminated  due to 
the conversation  going  around  in circles. It is not within my power to tell TSB what  it should 
or shouldnt  tolerate in regards to a customers behaviour, before they deem  termination  of a 
call to be appropriate, this is a commercial decision which  they are entitled to make. But 
again, if Mr S had been abusive or threatening I do think it would be reasonable to have told 
him that was the reason the call was being  terminated. I say this because it would have been 
an accurate reflection of what had happened  on the call and it would have given the 
customer an opportunity to rectify that behaviour and ensure it didnt continue. But I cant  
see that information was provided to Mr S on any of the calls that took place. 
So with that in mind I think it would have  been fair for TSB to have given Mr S two months  
notice that it was going to close his account. This would have limited the upset Mr S 
experienced (when clearly he was already quite distressed with the service TSB had 
provided) and allowed him an opportunity  to make alternative arrangements.
While I appreciate the point TSB has made  in relation to Mr S account  not being  used for 
day to day banking (and I have considered this in regards  to the award  I am making  for 
trouble and upset) this doesnt  depart from the fact that I dont think TSB acted fairly relying 
on the term it has for closing the account with immediate effect. And so TSB should 
compensate Mr S £150 for the trouble and upset it caused.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint and TSB Bank plc should pay Mr S £150 for 
the trouble and upset it caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Jade Rowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5157247