K821x#15complaint
Mr P is unhappy about the quality and extent  of the rectification  work  that was carried out on 
his car by U K Insurance Limited  after an accident.   
background
Mr P made a claim after his car was involved in an accident. UKIs authorised  garage  
undertook repairs, but Mr P said the repairs were inadequate, and that further damage was 
caused in the process.  
UKI originally offered  Mr P £175 compensation (for the service issues  relating to the poor 
repairs), and agreed he could have the outstanding work carried  out at his choice of garage. 
It also agreed to cover  the cost of repairing damage caused while the car was at its garage, 
including damage  to the satnav (which it has paid for). That brought  the amount being 
offered by UKI for repairs to £244.33.
Mr P himself  made  an additional payment to the body shop to blend  paintwork. He wanted 
UKI to correct that new paint/bodywork on the vehicle, which he said was mismatched, but 
UKI hadnt accepted that as part of the insurance claim and didnt think it should  pay.
As well, Mr P believed UKI should repair the headlights, which UKI said was pre-existing 
damage. Mr P subsequently also reported that a warning light had been showing on the 
dashboard, and that wasnt there  before the accident. 
The investigator noted the £175 compensation payment, and said it was also fair that UKI 
should cash settle the claim by paying the £244.33  cost of repairs already accepted  
(including for the tyre/wheel  arch liner/front grill decal). As well, however,  she believed UKI 
should pay the cost of having the issue  with the headlights/warning light rectified. That was 
because she felt it was likely to have been  caused  by the repair  work carried  out by UKIs 
repairer.  
Mr P accepted the investigators view, but the business  didnt.  
So this has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  that the complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain why. 
I consider the £175 compensation UKI offered  to Mr P for the service  issues is reasonable in 
the circumstances. It was not fair that he should  have to return the car on several  occasions  
to have repairs properly  identified and professionally dealt  with.  
I am also satisfied that the paint/bodywork carried out by Mr Ps repairer is not something for 
which UKI is reasonably  responsible, so it is not required to pay anything further for that (and 
I note Mr P did not disagree with the investigators  view on that issue). 
Ref: DRN58664642The outstanding payments for the damaged  tyre/wheel  arch liner/front grill decal  should,  
however, be made by UKI. That is because, as acknowledged by UKI, these issues  were the 
responsibility of UKIs repairer. 
The remaining  issue  is that of the headlights.  UKIs  repairer reported that there  was old glue 
on cracks in the headlights, and concluded  this damage was from before the accident. Mr P 
said that hed tried to patch up that cracking  after the accident, because  of the risk of heavy 
rain causing  further  damage. 
However, UKI indicated  that the cost of repairing the headlights would make the vehicle 
uneconomical to repair.  I understand the amount UKI offered in settlement of the car as a 
write-off was unacceptable to Mr P (and it should be noted, that particular point  has not been 
raised as part of this complaint).  So he then accepted that the damage  was pre-existing, 
apparently so that the other repairs could proceed. 
Then Mr P reported a warning light was appearing on the dashboard, saying this hadnt  been 
happening before  the accident.  UKIs repairer  noted  there was no way of knowing when that 
light had first started coming  on, but hes recorded in UKIs claim file notes as conceding it 
could be down to our garage. So UKI agreed to cover the cost of having  the headlights 
looked at again. 
The warning  light/headlight issue  was referred  to UKIs engineer.  The claim file notes record 
that the engineer checked the headlights and believed the cracking/glue  wasnt related to 
the accident. However, UKI said that an open circuit issue was also found in the course of 
the check.
UKI asserts that the open circuit has not been said to be accident related. But I havent  
seen a specific explanation or persuasive  conclusion about the warning light/open  circuit  
which addresses its relationship (if any) to the accident or subsequent work carried out by 
UKIs repairer.  
UKI has acknowledged the inadequacy  of the initial repair work to the vehicle after the 
accident. I believe that reasonably raises the likelihood that other issues  (such as the 
circuitry relating to the headlights) may have been overlooked, mishandled  or caused by 
UKIs repairers. 
Ive considered the nature of the repairs carried out, the nature and extent of the damage  to 
the headlights and the car in the accident,  and I consider it reasonable in the circumstances 
that UKI cash settle Mr P for the cost of repairing the headlights/open circuit  issue.  
If there is no current  quote available, Mr P should  obtain a reasonable quote for that work 
from an appropriately qualified repairer,  and UKI should pay him the quoted amount.   
   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold  this complaint. 
U K Insurance Limited is required  to pay Mr P:
£175 compensation for trouble and upset (if that has not already been paid) 
£244.33 for the repairs already  accepted, together  with 8% simple interest on that 
amount, calculated from the date of the loss to the date of payment
Ref: DRN58664643the cost of repairing the headlights, including the open circuit  issue, based on a 
reasonable quote to be obtained by Mr P. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Helen Moye
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5866464