K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that his Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc bond wasnt funded  after he made an initial 
deposit to it. Hes unhappy it didnt tell him that his money hadnt been transferred. And he 
also complains that when he closed his account it took longer than expected  for his money 
to be transferred to his nominated account.  
background
On 30 November 2017 Mr R applied for an online bond with Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc, 
hereafter referred to as BOI.  This bond had an interest rate of 1.36% and was for a 12 
month period.  Mr R wanted  to fund his new bond with the full balance from his existing 
online saver  account,  which had an interest  rate of 0.25%. So, he contacted BOI by 
telephone to query how he could  transfer his money. BOI told Mr R he could fund his bond 
by direct debit from his saver account.  
Mr R followed  the guidance that he had been  given. But his direct  debit transfer  wasnt  
successful and Mr Rs bond  remained unfunded  as a result.  Mr R only found  about this, 
though, when his bond matured. 
When Mr R complained to BOI about  what had happened it accepted it had made  an error 
as it had given  him the incorrect information about how to fund his account.  It also accepted 
it had made  a second error in that it didnt inform Mr R that his deposit had been 
unsuccessful. 
BOI initially offered  to resolve Mr Rs complaint by making a payment equivalent to the loss 
of one months interest. It also told him it would  compensate him in the sum of £75 to 
recognise the distress  and inconvenience  he had been caused. BOI later revised its offer to 
resolve this complaint by increasing the interest award by an additional five months. 
Being dissatisfied with BOIs response to his complaint, Mr R referred  it to our service. He 
said if he had been properly informed about how to fund his bond  he wouldve received a 
years interest on that money. So, he thought he should be reimbursed for the interest  he 
had lost. Mr R also told our service he wasnt happy with the length of time it took to receive 
his money after he decided to close his online saver  and transfer his balance  to an account  
elsewhere. And he thought the amount of time and number of calls required to resolve this 
was excessive. BOI offered to compensate Mr R £130 to resolve  this part of his complaint. 
After our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint they agreed that BOI hadnt  acted  fairly  
here. They recommended that this complaint be upheld. And they thought BOI should pay 
Mr R the full interest he had lost out on as a result of his bond  having not been correctly 
funded in addition to the £75 compensation it had agreed  to pay him at the outset. They  also 
thought the £130  compensation BOI had offered Mr R for the distress  and inconvenience  he 
had been caused by the delay in his funds crediting his nominated  account when he closed 
his BOI savings account was reasonable. But they felt Mr R should  be paid interest to reflect 
the length of time it took for his funds  to reach  his nominated account. 
Mr R accepted our investigators view.  And BOI accepted our investigators findings  save for 
their recommendation that it should  pay Mr R the interest that would have  been  payable had 
his online  bond  been correctly funded. So, it asked for this complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. 
Ref: DRN50661372my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first part of Mr Rs complaint is that his bond  wasnt funded after he made  an initial  
deposit to it and that BOI didnt tell him that his money hadnt been transferred. So, Ill focus 
on that issue first.
BOI has accepts it made two errors  here. Its first error  was that when  Mr R sought advice 
about how to fund his new account it incorrectly told him to complete his transfer of funds via 
direct debit, which he did. And its second  error  was that it didnt inform him that his initial  
deposit had been unsuccessful. 
In relation to its first error, BOI said when a customer wants to fund a new account of the 
type Mr R had opened they must do so by opting  to transfer  from an existing savings 
account at the end of their application.  It cant be done via direct  debit  because  direct debit 
payments can only be received from a customers nominated account. And a nominated 
account must be a current account that accepts  direct debits. So, it cant be a savings 
account. This explains why Mr Rs attempt to deposit funds via direct  debit was unsuccessful 
and why his money  remained  in his online saver account.  
Here, Mr R had contacted BOI to request guidance on funding  his bond and he followed the 
instructions issued to him. It wasnt his fault his funds didnt transfer across and he wasnt to 
know this would happen. So, it wouldnt be fair to criticise him for the fact that his transfer  
wasnt successful. BOI has, in any event, accepted responsibility in giving Mr R the wrong  
information about how to fund his account. 
After Mr R tried to transfer his funds  to his new bond BOI accepts it didnt tell him his deposit 
had failed. And it conceded  that it should have done.  I can see that BOI sent Mr R an email  
headed welcome to your new account. This email  thanked him for opening his one year 
online bond. It explained that it was processing  his deposit and would send confirmation by 
post once his funds had credited his account.  The email also stated if you have chosen to 
make your deposit by direct debit, please allow a minimum  of 9 business  days  for us to set-
up and process your request.
I can understand why this email, and the guidance Mr R had been  given by BOI, made him 
think his deposit  would  credit his bond account.  The email inferred that deposits via direct  
debit were possible. And I think the email suggests that his deposit was being processed in 
the way he had wanted. Im not persuaded Mr R had any reason to think that his deposit  
wasnt being transferred  in accordance  with his instructions. Given  that this didnt happen, I 
think BOI ought to have  done more to inform Mr R that his funds hadnt been  successfully 
transferred. 
BOI thinks  Mr R had opportunities within the first six months of opening his account  to check 
his balance and review his investment. It said, had he done  so, hed have discovered his 
funds hadnt been transferred to his bond.  It also thought there  were  a number of triggers 
that should have alerted Mr R to the fact that his bond hadnt  been funded. And it felt that, 
because Mr R hadnt taken reasonable steps to mitigate his loss, the offer it had already 
made to resolve  this complaint  was fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN50661373With this in mind, Ive thought carefully about whether Mr R ought to have been  aware that 
his bond remained  unfunded earlier than when  he checked his account  in October 2018. 
The bond  that Mr R had wanted  to open was intended to be self-managed online. This 
means statements  were issued to Mr R quarterly via BOIs online portal. And Ive seen 
evidence, which persuades me that each time a statement was generated Mr R received an 
email alerting him that it was ready  for him to view. 
I accept that Mr R was able to log into his account  to check  whether his deposit had credited 
his bond account. And Im also persuaded that if hed viewed  the statements that were 
generated he wouldve most likely  noticed the problems with funding  his bond. But Mr R said 
he didnt check his balance until 9 October  2018.  And BOI isnt able to provide evidence  to 
show that Mr R logged  into his account  to view his statements  before then. So, the only 
evidence Ive seen  of Mr R logging onto his account  is when  his account was due to mature.   
It could be argued that it was Mr Rs responsibility  to log into his account  to check  that the 
money he had wanted  to transfer had successfully credited his new account  particularly 
given the large  sum he had wanted to invest and the absence of an email confirming his 
deposit had reached his new account . But Mr R had followed guidance  given by BOI about 
the possibility  of transferring funds to his bond by direct debit. He was entitled  to rely on the 
advice hed been given. And as Ive already mentioned Im not persuaded Mr R had reason 
to doubt whether his instructions to transfer  money would be carried out in such  
circumstances. 
Ive also taken into account that Mr R had intended  to fund his bond account  with a one off 
deposit payment.  Even though that sum was large, he was happy to tie his money up in this 
bond for a year. This wasnt an account with deposits or withdrawals. So, I dont think  it 
would be reasonable to expect him to check it on a regular basis. Ultimately, Mr Rs money 
wasnt transferred due to errors BOI made.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair to criticise 
Mr R for not logging into his account in those circumstances.
BOI also said Mr R ought to have been  alerted that his bond hadnt been  funded  because  of 
the tax certificate  he was provided with, the monthly  interest that was crediting his account 
and the fact that his online profile wasnt showing an online bond account. But I agree with 
our investigator that BOI is shifting the responsibility  to Mr R to notice its error, which  isnt 
fair.
Im not persuaded that Mr R knew his bond hadnt  been set up correctly  before October 
2018. If he had known sooner, I believe hed have most likely queried the status  of his 
account with BOI before the point that he did. I say this because its clear  to me that the 
interest this bond  would have earned  had his money  been  properly  invested  was important 
to Mr R. He wanted that interest. This was, after all, the reason he opened the bond  in the 
first place. And once  he was aware his bond  hadnt been funded he promptly brought it to 
BOIs attention.
Overall, while  Ive carefully considered what Mr R and BOI have said, Im not persuaded its 
fair or reasonable  to deny Mr R the interest  he would have received had his funds been 
transferred correctly. So, Im directing BOI to pay him the full 12 months  interest his account  
would have accrued less any payments already made in respect of interest accrued in his 
online savings account.
Ref: DRN50661374Ill turn now to the second part of Mr Rs complaint, which concerns the length  of time it took 
for him to receive his money when he instructed BOI to close his account  and transfer  his 
money to an account  elsewhere.
Mr R instructed BOI it to close  his online saver on 10 December  2018  and he received an 
email informing him that his money  would reach  his nominated account within two business 
days. But his funds didnt credit his other  account until about 31 days  later.  Mr R said he 
made over 14 calls and spent in excess of eight hours on the telephone trying to establish  
the whereabouts of his money. And I can understand  how such  a large  sum going missing 
would have caused upset and distress. 
BOI agreed  with the recommendation our investigator made to resolve this part of Mr Rs 
complaint. Mr R has also confirmed acceptance.  As theres agreement  by both parties the 
only comment Ill make  here is that Im satisfied that the compensation our investigator 
recommended appropriately  recognises  the issues Mr R had when withdrawing  his funds 
from BOI. Its a reasonable amount, which is in line with our approach  in similar  scenarios.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc should:
pay Mr R the full interest that would have been  payable on the online bond,  had it 
been funded correctly,  less any interest accrued in the online savings account;
pay 8% simple interest for 31 days on the money Mr R transferred to his nominated 
account on closing  his account  with Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc;
pay Mr R £205 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019..
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5066137