K820x#14complaint
C, a limited company,  complains that American Express Services  Europe Limited (AESEL) 
wrongly allowed  a payment  from its charge  card account. C is represented by its director, 
who Ill refer to as Miss N. Miss N asks that the payment is refunded.
background
C has a card account with AMEX  from which it made payments to a third party.  In 
September 2018 Miss N asked AMEX to stop an upcoming US dollar payment to the third 
party. She was told payments  were blocked. However, a payment was made to the third 
party.
AMEX said it was unable  to stop the payment. It started a chargeback  claim but this was 
unsuccessful.
Miss N says if AMEX had told her it couldnt  block the payment shed have taken other  
action to stop it. She asks that AMEX  refunds the payment.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said C had 
authorised payments to the third party. While  Miss N had been  given incorrect  information by 
AMEX, given the timing  it was unlikely she could have stopped the payment anyway. The 
investigator said the £50 offered by AMEX  for the incorrect information was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
C didnt agree. Miss N said the block was requested in advance of the payment and 
confirmed by AMEXs  employee. She said C wasnt liable  for the money wrongly taken from 
its account. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
C had an agreement with a third party and payments  were  made  to the third party  from Cs 
account with AMEX. On 26 September 2018  Miss N contacted AMEX and asked it to block  
an upcoming payment  to the third party.  She was told that payments were  blocked. 
The third party requested the payment, which was made from Cs account.  Cs account 
statement shows the transaction date as 26 September and the process  date as 27 
September 2018. 
Did AMEX make an error?
Based on the available evidence, I think C had an agreement with the third party  and, in 
relation to this, authorised payments from its account with AMEX. Miss N hasnt provided 
Ref: DRN52102662evidence that Cs agreement with the third party (and related payment authorisation) had 
been cancelled  before 26 September  2018.
When Miss N contacted AMEX she wanted to stop an upcoming payment to the third party. 
AMEX told her payments  to the third party  were blocked. AMEX says this was incorrect  and 
it should have  told her it couldnt  stop the payment.  However, I dont think  the incorrect  
information changed the outcome here. 
Miss N says if AMEX had given her correct information shed have taken other action to stop 
the payment.  She hasnt explained what this action would have been. Her online chat with 
AMEX happened  at about 6pm on the same  day as the payment transaction. I think  its 
unlikely shed have  been able to stop the payment  at this point, even if she had been given 
correct information.  
AMEX started a chargeback on Cs behalf which the third party defended. Based on the 
information it received,  I think it was reasonable for AMEX to decide that taking the 
chargeback claim further was unlikely to be successful. 
what happens now?
I dont think in the circumstances its fair and reasonable  for me to require AMEX to refund 
the payment to the third party. 
I leave it to Miss N to decide  whether  to accept AMEXs offer of £50 compensation for 
providing incorrect information.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5210266