K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that the kitchen he paid for using his Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as 
Barclaycard) credit card was not of satisfactory  quality.  He wants a full refund.
background
Mr K ordered a kitchen  from a supplier,  and paid for this in part with his Barclaycard and part 
with his debit card. He says that the kitchen delivered had missing  items and was not of 
satisfactory quality. Mr K tried to contact the supplier but this did not resolve the issues.  He 
says that Barclaycard initially  agreed to refund the payment to the supplier if he got an 
independent inspection carried out. However having  got this report he says Barclaycard said 
it would  not provide the refund as he was not able to provide an invoice. Mr K says he 
provided a copy of the delivery note and confirmation that he was the end user of the items.
Barclaycard says that Mr K raised  his complaint in July 2017 and that since then it has 
requested documentation as evidence  of the purchase. It says that it attempted  a 
chargeback as Mr K had said some items were not received and some not as described but 
the supplier challenged this. As the chargeback was unsuccessful it says it reviewed  Mr Ks 
claim under s. 75 but it did not receive the information it needed. It says it asked for an 
independent inspection, which it now says it shouldnt have done at that time as the invoice 
had not been provided.  It says it has made some errors through  its investigation  and has 
refunded Mr K £12 towards postage and two lots of £50 for incorrectly  requesting the 
inspection and the length of time taken  to review.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint  in part. She thought that Mr Ks complaint was 
covered by section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act (s. 75). She said this was because the 
kitchen provided  had missing parts and so a breach of contract had occurred.  She 
recommended that Barclaycard arrange  for the missing parts be supplied to Mr K so that he 
could finish his kitchen.  
She noted that Mr K wanted a full refund but she did not agree this was fair as she said that 
a lot of the problems had been caused by how the kitchen had been fitted and that this was 
not the responsibility of Barclaycard as this was undertaken under a separate  contract. She 
did recommend that Barclaycard pay Mr K £200 for the distress and inconvenience of being 
left with an unfinished kitchen and refund the cost of the inspection  report.
Barclaycard agreed  to refund the cost of the inspection report and cover the cost of the 
missing parts (subject  to a quote  being provided). It also agreed to refund the interest on the 
payment Mr K made by credit card and pay him £200 for the distress  and inconvenience 
caused.
Mr K did not accept our investigators view. He said he wanted  a full refund for the kitchen 
due to it not being of satisfactory  quality.  He said the kitchen he ordered was not what  was 
delivered and that units  of a reduced  quality  were provided. He reiterated that there were 
issues with the design and site survey which resulted in the problems with the kitchen. Mr K 
also said that Barclaycard  had asked for an independent inspection but then withdrawn its 
offer of a full refund and had caused delay.
my provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Ref: DRN54573822Mr K paid for part of the kitchen using his personal Barclaycard and the kitchen was 
delivered to his home address. The delivery note had Mr Ks address on it and he 
has made the payment. Mr K confirmed  that he personally dealt with the design 
process with the supplier. Therefore I thought it reasonable to accept that 
Barclaycard was the creditor,  Mr K the debtor,  and the kitchen was supplied  by the 
supplier meaning it was reasonable to consider the complaint under s. 75;
That I did not have  enough evidence to say that the items ordered  were different to 
those delivered  and so I couldnt  say a misrepresentation  had occurred;
.
that there was a breach in contract  and items  were not delivered;
that the fitting of the kitchen was undertaken by a company other than the supplier 
and so issues arising from the work  of this separate company  could not be 
considered the liability  of Barclaycard;
that the underlying issue with the kitchen arose  from errors with the design, which  
was carried out by the supplier, and so I found  that Barclaycard had a responsibility  
to put things right;
that the inspection report noted  that two base units couldnt be replaced and that in 
order to resolve the issues with the kitchen it would need to be removed and refitted  
which could result in further damage and reset units would not be as sturdy.
Based on the above, I thought the only reasonable resolution was for Mr K to have his 
kitchen refitted based on a correct design.  I agreed  that Mr K should also receive, as agreed 
with Barclaycard, the refund of interest  on the amount paid on his credit  card and a refund of 
the cost of the inspection report.  
Mr K had received  some compensation (£112) for the time spent dealing with his complaint. 
Our investigator thought this should  be increased  to £200 and I agreed.
Barclaycard challenged my provisional decision in regard to the debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship. It said that the supplier had confirmed  it only dealt with trade customers and not 
directly with members of the public and that the agreement was not with Mr K but with 
another party. It also said that it did not have details of the site survey  or who carried  this 
out.
Barclaycard further  mentioned that it would not be able to arrange for the kitchen to be re-
designed and refitted and instead this would have  to be something Mr K arranged and that 
invoices would then be sent to it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under s. 75 the finance provider can be held liable in the event that there  has been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  by the supplier.  For s. 75 to be relevant there needs 
to be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier agreement (D-C-S).
Ref: DRN54573823I understand why Barclaycard has raised  this issue and I agree that the supplier is one which  
is generally set up to deal with trade  rather than the public. And I note that another party was 
also involved  in the contract regarding Mr Ks kitchen. We have tried to contact the supplier 
about this, but it was not able to give any further  information. However,  I do not think I need 
this to make  a finding on the D-C-S link.
Having looked  at the facts  of this case I think that it is reasonable to say that the D-C-S 
relationship is in place. I say this because Mr K made a payment using his own personal 
Barclaycard to the supplier for part of the total cost of the kitchen. I appreciate that there is 
reference made to another company in some of the paperwork, but as Mr K paid the supplier 
using his own Barclaycard, and the goods were  supplied  to his domestic address, I think it 
reasonable in this case to say that he himself was the creditor, Barclaycard the debtor and 
the kitchen provider the supplier. I think the other  companys  link with the supplier is what 
might have allowed  Mr K to personally  make the purchase, but that does not change  the fact 
that Mr K himself  paid the supplier using his Barclaycard.
Based on this I do think it reasonable that this case is considered  under s. 75. The issues 
with the kitchen arose primarily  from the design  process and I understand this was carried  
out by the supplier. As I set out in my provisional  decision, I think  the fair resolution  in this 
case is for the kitchen  to be refitted. As making adjustments  or just providing the missing 
items will not resolve the issues.  
I acknowledge Barclaycards comments that it would not be able to arrange  for the kitchen to 
be redesigned and refitted. Therefore Mr K should  arrange for the redesign and quote for the 
refit himself, and upon agreement with Barclaycard this work should be arranged. 
Barclaycard will then refund Mr K the costs  based on the invoices provided.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve matters, Barclays  Bank  Plc 
(trading as Barclaycard)  should:
allow Mr Ks kitchen  to be redesigned and for quotes to be provided  for the refitting -
and based on these cover the cost of the redesign and refit; 
refund  the interest charged  on his original credit card payment from the time of 
payment until when the kitchen is refitted satisfactorily;
refund  Mr K the cost of the independent inspection along with 8% interest simple 
interest from the date of payment  to the date of settlement;
pay Mr K a total of £200 compensation (I understand £112 has already been paid  
so an additional  £88 to be paid now);  and
remove any adverse information  regarding this agreement  from Mr Ks credit  file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5457382