K820x#14complaint
S, a limited  company, complains that Santander  UK Plc didnt return  a payment  in full after it 
was cancelled. S is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr S. He asks that 
Santander refunds  the money  deducted from the payment and pays compensation. 
background
In July 2018 Mr S made an online payment to an overseas business. He found out the 
account details  were wrong and called Santander later the same day to cancel the 
instruction. The payment  had already been processed so Santander  asked for the money to 
be returned. The amount returned  was about  £850  less than the £22,000  Mr S had sent. 
Santander said this was due to differences  in exchange rates  and charges applied  by an 
intermediary bank.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said the money 
had been converted to US dollars and then converted back to pounds sterling. The payees 
bank had also deducted a fee. Santander confirmed the exchange  rates used. And the 
exchange rate for the original payment would have been displayed  when Mr S confirmed the 
payment.
The adjudicator said Santander hadnt  made  an error when it processed the payment in 
accordance with Mr Ss instructions or when it retrieved the payment. So he couldnt ask it to 
do more. 
S didnt  agree. Mr S said while Santander hadnt make an error it could have made more 
effort to get a fairer exchange rate from the other banks involved or work with intermediary 
banks that offer fairer exchange  rates.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr S authorised a payment from Ss account.  The payment was to an account with an 
overseas bank. The payment was converted into US dollars. 
Mr S found  out that the account details hed used  were  for a closed account. He called 
Santander to cancel the payment but, unfortunately, the payment had already been  made.  
The payment was returned  to Ss account a couple  of days later,  less about £850. Santander 
says this is because  of the intermediary bank charges and the difference  in exchange  rates 
used to convert the money into US dollars and then back into pounds sterling. 
Santander says Mr S would have  seen the exchange rate when he made the payment 
online. I dont  know if better exchange rates would have been  available to S on that date if 
Mr S had shopped around. But Mr S authorised the payment from Ss account. I dont think  
Santander made an error when it processed  the payment in accordance with Mr Ss 
instructions or when  it accepted the money back into Ss account.  
Ref: DRN55340792I dont think I can reasonably require Santander to change or restrict the intermediary banks 
it works with or direct them to apply different charges or exchange rates. 
Santander offered  £50 compensation  for not calling Mr S when the funds were returned. It 
didnt have to do this. But it says this would  have been good  customer service. 
I understand Mr Ss frustration about the money  S lost as a result of the returned payment. 
But I dont think Santander  made  an error. In the circumstances, I dont think its reasonable 
to require Santander to pay further  compensation to S.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5534079