K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) havent disputed  his insurers 
decision to class his car a total loss.
background
Mr Ss brother  has been assisting him with this complaint  and has provided some helpful  
comments along the way. But for ease I will refer to Mr S throughout this decision.
Mr S took receipt of a used car in March 2018. He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with Black Horse.
In February 2019  the car was involved in an accident. Mr Ss insurers inspected  the vehicle 
and decided to classify it as a total loss as repairs  were uneconomical. Mr S complained to 
them as he wanted  to keep the car. So the insurers commissioned a further inspection. The 
inspector said it would cost about £10,000 to repair  it, plus VAT and Mr Ss insurers 
therefore held their position.
Mr S commissioned a report  of his own and his engineer thought  it would cost a little less to 
repair the car. So Mr S complained to his insurer and also to the finance company  about this 
issue. This decision considers his complaint  to the finance company. Mr S says they should 
have challenged  the insurers evaluation.
Black Horse  rejected his complaint. They  said they could not become involved in a dispute 
between Mr S and his insurers. They explained  that if the insurers were  prepared to fund 
repairs they would allow them but in the absence of that approval they accepted  a settlement 
figure of £8,800 from the insurer. Once  this was paid to Mr Ss account  the balance  to pay 
was about £2,500.
Mr S was dissatisfied with their approach  so he referred his complaint to this service and our 
investigator provided his opinion.  He didnt think Black Horse  had done anything wrong. He 
explained that it was the insurer who decided if the car was repairable and he thought it right 
that they should be considered the experts  in these matters. He noted  that the terms of 
Mr Ss finance agreement explained  that the insurer  would assist  with settling the claim and 
he didnt think there  was anything wrong with them sending the settlement money directly to 
Black Horse,  as this was what  the terms of the contract said they would do in these 
circumstances. He didnt  think  it was fair to suggest it was Black  Horses role to challenge  
the insurers pay out. And, whilst  he noted that Mr S had provided an engineers report to 
challenge the insurers findings,  he thought that was an issue for the insurer, and not Black 
Horse to consider.  So he didnt think  Black Horse needed to take any further action.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators findings and he therefore  asked for a final decision by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr S so please let me explain 
why.
Ref: DRN55751042Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.
The finance  agreement explains  what happens  if the car becomes  a total loss. It says:
you or the insurers must pay that money (the insurance money) to us up to the amount of 
any liability  you may have
And:
If the insurance money we receive  is less than the total repayments  we may require you 
to pay us the difference
So I think its clear that Black Horse had a contractual  right to receive money directly from 
the insurer and set that off against the balance of the account.
I dont think its fair to expect them to challenge  the insurers appraisal of the car. Its clear,  
from the contract,  that they will rely on the insurers pay out and I think  its reasonable  to 
suggest its the insurer who is the expert in these  matters.
I would not expect them to consider Mr Ss engineers report either. Thats something the 
insurer might  consider when making  a decision about whether the car is a total loss but I 
dont think its for Black  Horse  to evaluate. 
I think Black  Horse were being fair when they explained that they would rely on the insurers.  
They explained that they would allow  repairs if the insurer agreed and they tried to help Mr S 
by explaining he may be able to secure  the salvage  from them. I think  that was all that could 
be expected of them in the circumstances and Im therefore not asking them  to take any 
further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5575104