K821x#15Complaint
Mr T is unhappy  that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
declined his claim in relations  to his pets treatment and then added  exclusions to his lifetime  
pet insurance policy which he believes are excessive and unfair.  Hes also unhappy with the 
handling of his claim. 
Background
Mr T and his sister Miss T have joint ownership of a pet. Miss T pays for the pet insurance  
and Mr T is the policy holder. For ease of reading I will refer to Mr T. 
Mr T took his pet to the vets on at least four occasions between 2013  and 2018.  On each of 
these four occasions,  the vet refers  to a growth  on the pets left eyelid. Its referred to as; 
small warty growth,  wart and mebomian gland tumour in the medical notes.  There  are also 
entries in the medical notes stating that the owner  was worried  about  the growth and the 
growth was getting  bigger. However, the notes also state that the growth wasnt  causing 
issues. This was before  the policy was taken  out in 2018.  
Around seven  months  after Mr T took out the policy with Red Sands,  the vet said that they 
were concerned about the eye growth and advised  that it should be removed as soon as 
possible. The growth was removed. Mr T contacted  Red Sands and made a claim for the 
removal of the growth. Initially, Red Sands sent Mr T a communication  stating that they had 
accepted his claim. However, the following day Mr T received a further communication  
stating that his claim was still under review and asked  Mr T to disregard the previous 
correspondence. A few days  later, Mr Ts claim was declined.
Red Sands  declined Mr Ts claim stating that as the pet had been treated for a growth  on the 
eyelid prior to taking  out insurance  they would not settle the claim. Red Sands referred to 
their policy terms  and conditions. They said that they can exclude claims for; any pre-
existing conditions or claims for costs relating to an injury or illness that relates  to or results 
from an accident injury, illness or clinical signs your pet had before the commencement date. 
Red Sands  went on to say that under the policy terms and conditions;  where  the pet showed 
any clinical  signs, or had an accident,  injury or an illness; or was diagnosed with a condition  
prior to the commencement date, we reserve the right to apply an exclusion to your policy  in 
respect of the accident, injury, illness or condition. Red sands then applied the following 
exclusions to Mr Ts policy that will take effect  from the commencement date of the policy;
Excludes cover  on all claims with respect to growths and tumours and resulting  
conditions.
Excludes cover  on all claims with respect to the eyes and eyelids.
Following advice from Red Sands, Mr T paid for a histology test on the growth that had been  
removed from his pet. This confirmed that the growth was benign. However, Red Sands 
continued to decline  the claim and refused to remove the exclusions.  
Mr T was unhappy that Red Sands had declined  his claim and had added  exclusions to his 
policy. He was also unhappy with Red Sands handling of the claim,  in that they had originally 
said that they accepted his claim, before  declining  it, leading to a loss of expectation  and 
distress for Mr T. Mr T complained to Red Sands. 
Ref: DRN50653652Red Sands  didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. So, he brought a complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint. The investigator said that he agreed that the 
growth was a pre-existing condition and that Red Sands were entitled  to decline the claim for 
the removal of the growth. He also said that Red Sands handling of the claim should have 
been better.  Mr T had initially been  told, incorrectly that his claim had been accepted.  The 
investigator said that Red Sands should  pay Mr T £50 for the distress and inconvenience  
caused by the customer  service  mistakes.  The investigator didnt  think  that Red Sands had 
acted fairly  when they retrospectively added exclusions  to the policy.  
Mr T accepted the investigators comments. However,  Red Sands said that they didnt agree 
with the distress and inconvenience recommendation. And they considered that the 
exclusions were applied  correctly. As Red Sands didnt accept the investigators  
recommendations, the matter was passed  to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
There is no dispute that Mr Ts pet did have a growth on its eyelid before the policy  start 
date. At the time the policy  was taken out the growth  wasnt  causing any issue. Ive 
considered if this growth should be considered a pre-existing  condition  and whether the vet 
fees for removing the growth  should  be covered by Red Sands. 
Under the terms of the policy, the term pre-existing condition means: 
any condition, symptom or sign of a condition occurring or existing in any form and at 
any time prior to the commencement date; or
any illness, symptom or sign of an illness occurring or existing in any form during the 
first 14 days  of the commencement date.
Although the growth on the eyelid  of Mr Ts pet wasnt causing  any issue  when  the policy 
was taken out. Mr T was aware of its presence and had brought it to the vets attention  on 
several occasions. The medical  notes show that Mr T was concerned about the growth  as 
far back as 2014. Although there hadnt been a diagnosis when the policy  was taken out, I 
think Mr T was aware that the growth could likely  lead to some investigation or treatment. 
Therefore, I think that the growth  can be considered a pre-existing condition. I also think that 
it would  not be fair and reasonable to expect Red Sands to cover  the vets fees for the 
removal of the growth. I dont require Red Sands to cover the costs for the removal of the 
growth. 
However. Ive decided to uphold  the rest of Mr T complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mr T bought the super lifetime policy form Red Sands, they didnt ask him to disclose 
any pre-existing conditions. And he wasnt asked any clear direct  question about any pre-
existing conditions. If Red Sands had asked  Mr T a clear and direct question about  pre-
existing conditions and Mr T hadnt disclosed the growth then it may have been  fair and 
reasonable for Red Sands to add the exclusions  with effect from the start date of the policy,  
if thats what Red Sands would have done if it had been aware of the growth when  the policy 
was taken out.  
Ref: DRN50653653However Red Sands havent asked Mr T a clear  and direct  question about any pre-existing 
conditions. Mr T wasnt given  the opportunity to disclose the presence of the growth. Mr T 
was only asked to tick a box to say that hed read the terms and conditions and assumptions 
of the policy. One of the assumptions  is that Red Sands has the right to exclude any illness,  
injuries, symptoms or conditions it subsequently learns existed  when the policy started. In 
this case, we know that the growth on the pets eyelid was present when Mr T took out the 
policy. We also know that this growth  was in fact benign. 
The assumption allows Red Sands to apply  exclusions in a wide range  of circumstances. 
Basically, it allows Red Sands to exclude  almost everything,  diminishing  the value of the 
lifetime policy  to Mr T. In this case Red Sands have excluded; all claims with respect to 
growths, tumours and resulting conditions and all claims with respect to the eyes  and eyelids 
with effect from the start of the policy. Red Sands actions suggest that a benign  growth on 
the pets eyelid is enough to invoke  these broad exclusions. I dont think  this is fair or 
reasonable. The exclusions are far too broad and are not proportionate. 
Red Sands  should  remove  the exclusions from Mr Ts policy.  Mr Ts policy  is a lifetime  
policy, Red Sands should  not add these exclusions at some  time in the future such as at 
renewal, as Mr T has a lifetime policy and not an annual one. 
Red Sands  dont agree that Mr T should be paid any compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. I dont  agree and Ill explain why. Mr T was initially  informed by Red Sands 
that his claim was accepted. Mr T felt a sense of relief on hearing  this good news.  He says 
that he was delighted. To then be told the following  day that there  was an error and that the 
claim was still under  review, replaced the sense of relief with what  he described as 
disappointment and shock. Within days the claim went from being accepted to declined.  For 
any person, I can totally understand how this would lead to distress and inconvenience. 
Red Sands  have apologised for the mistake  and I accept that they did correct  the error within  
a few days. However, I dont think that the apology alone goes far enough to compensate 
Mr T for the loss of expectation or for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. 
Therefore, I agree  that Red Sands should  pay Mr T £50 for his material distress and 
inconvenience. 
Further, Mr T paid for a histology  test which confirmed that the growth was benign. The 
notes show that Mr T done this as he was advised  by Red Sands that the result of the 
histology could  lead to a review of Red Sands decision. The medical notes confirm that 
Mr T had no intention of having a histology  test completed prior to this. However, Mr T had 
the histology completed as he believed that a positive  result would get the exclusions 
removed from the policy.  The results of the test couldnt have been better, in that the growth  
was benign. However, Red Sands did not change their decision. Mr T cannot understand 
why Red Sands advised him to have  the histology  test completed as even though  the result 
of the test was considered positive, Red Sands havent removed the exclusions. I think that 
the exclusions shouldnt  have been  added in the first place. If Red Sands had done what  Id 
have expected them to do, then Mr T would never have asked for the Histology to be 
completed. Therefore, I think Red Sands should reimburse Mr T the cost of the histology 
test. 
Ref: DRN50653654my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  this complaint. 
I direct  Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
Remove the exclusion on all claims with respect to growths,  tumours and resulting 
conditions with effect from the start of the policy. 
Remove the exclusion on all claims with respect to the eyes  and eyelids with effect 
from the start of the policy. 
Pay Mr T £50 for his material distress and inconvenience. 
Pay Mr T £79.69 to reimburse  him the cost of the histology test. 
Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  must pay the compensation within 28 days 
from when we tell it Mr T accepts my final decision.  If it pays  later than this, it must also pay 
interest at 8% simple* a year on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 December  2019.
Anthony Coyne
Ombudsman
* If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited considers it should deduct  income  tax 
from any 8% interest element of my award  it may do so but should  give Mr T the necessary 
certificate.
Ref: DRN5065365