K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the handling of claims under their home  emergency policy 
with Royal  & Sun Alliance  Plc.
Background
Mr and Mrs G have a Corgi  HomePlan  home emergency insurance policy underwritten by 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA). They made a number  of claims after discovering  
problems with their central  heating  system  and a leak from the water  tank in their loft.
Mr and Mrs G made a complaint to RSA about  the service provided  in handling these claims.
They said there had been unnecessary delays in handling the claims.  These  included  a 
delay after the first engineers visit because they wouldnt carry out work until the electrics 
had been safety checked. 
Mr G had to pay £50 to get an inspection carried out which  certified the electrics as safe. 
Mr and Mrs G say they were left without central  heating for a time during a period of cold 
weather.
Mr G says that when RSA replaced his header tank in the loft, they failed to remove the old 
tank. He says they put the new tank in the wrong place  causing its weight to be distributed 
through a single stud wall. And they stopped their engineer from raising  the tank  which 
theyd agreed to do, at Mr Gs expense,  in order to improve  the water  pressure.
Mr G says the engineers  who attended  his property werent qualified in the relevant areas. 
He says he had a plumber commenting  on his electrics and an electrician commenting on 
structural engineering  issues.
Mr G also made a request  to see information  RSA held about him and objected to being 
charged £10 for the privilege. He believes RSA havent provided all information  hes entitled 
to see.
RSA didnt uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint, so they brought it to us. They want RSA to 
reimburse the £50 Mr G paid to have his electrics inspected and the £10 he paid for access  
to information  about him RSA held. 
They want  RSA to re-position and raise the header tank. And to acknowledge they used 
inappropriate experts and undertake not to do so again. Theyd also like appropriate 
compensation for their trouble and upset  including for the time and inconvenience when 
they removed  the old tank themselves.
Our investigator looked into it and thought RSA should compensate Mr and Mrs G for the 
delays in their claim-handling (£75) and for the inconvenience of having to remove the old 
tank themselves  (£75). But he thought otherwise RSA had done  nothing wrong.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed  and asked for a final decision  from an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN58701292My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has provided  a great deal of detail in setting out his complaint and the reasoning  
behind it. Im going to try to summarise my view on the broad areas  of the complaint,  but Id 
like to assure Mr G that Ive read and understood all the complaint points hes made. And I 
very much appreciate the detail  hes provided,  which has helped me to fully understand the 
situation.
The wiring  safety  check
I can understand Mr Gs frustration that hes carried out reasonably simple and entirely safe 
work on his electrics but has had to pay £50 to have an inspection carried  out before RSA 
would carry out repair work. That inspection confirmed what Mr G already knew   that his 
electrics were completely  safe.
However, I cant ignore  the terms of Mr and Mrs Gs policy. In the section which sets out 
policy exclusions, these  say RSA will not pay for:
any cost or expense  of any kind arising  from an event caused deliberately 
by your family or any third party interference including  any attempt to repair or modify 
anything covered under this policy which has not been  carried  out by a Corgi 
HomePlan engineer
Mr G says the work he carried out himself on the electrics was simple and safe  amounting 
to little more than shortening the wires and removing some junction  boxes. 
Whilst I can agree with him that this was not a repair of any damage, it does still in my 
opinion amount to an attempt  to modify the electrics. I cant imagine any natural use of the 
word modify which would exclude the work Mr G carried out, even if there was no 
fundamental change to the way the electrics were organised.
This may or may not help Mr and Mrs G to understand my position on this issue,  but I think  
they need to bear in mind  the service that RSA is intending to offer. This is home emergency 
cover. Its intended to get things repaired and up-and-running again for customers  quickly. 
The price  of the insurance at least in part likely reflects  the fact that the engineers can deal 
with standard   and familiar  products. Any complication caused  by customers  own 
modifications to the standard systems will likely  cause delays and/or expense.
And I believe that may be why the policy terms  and specifically the exclusion quoted  above  
 are as they are. In any case, those terms are clear, theyre not hidden in the small print 
and they arent inherently unfair.  And I cant say RSA have acted unreasonably in relying on 
those terms when they insisted on the safety  inspection being carried out and then refused 
to meet  the cost themselves.
Ref: DRN58701293The header tank
I think its important again here to bear in mind  the nature of Mr and Mrs Gs policy.  This is 
probably best summarised  in the policy terms about  whats covered under plumbing  and 
electrics (section 4). This says RSA will:
 pay for the cost of repair in order  to restore  operation to (my emphasis)  
(your) internal plumbing (or) electrical systems
Mr and Mrs G had a leak from their water tank.  That might have stopped their water running  
and it might have caused damage to their home. RSA replaced  the tank  which stopped the 
leak, prevented further damage and restored the operation of the plumbing  (kept  the water 
running).
Mr G has told RSA  and us - that before the leak occurred he was planning to raise  the tank 
to increase the water pressure in his home,  which was presumably unsatisfactory.
RSA couldnt replace  the existing cylinder tank with the same type of tank, because it 
wouldnt fit through the hatch to the loft. So, they used a coffin  tank.  This of course had the 
effect of lowering the surface of the water and so decreased the water  pressure.
If Mr and Mrs Gs water  pressure had been  satisfactory before, I think  Id be suggesting  RSA 
do something to increase  the water pressure now. They would in effect have failed  in 
carrying out the repairs  to put Mr and Mrs G back in the position they were in before  the 
leak occurred.
As it is, Mr and Mrs G were in the position  prior to the leak  that they needed to raise their 
tank  or increase the water pressure in some other way. Thats exactly the position theyre 
in now. Mr and Mrs G were going  to have to pay for the tank to be raised (or pay for other  
measures such as a pump).  And theyre going  to have  to pay for that now.
So, RSA havent  done anything to make Mr and Mrs Gs position any worse.  And they have 
replaced what Mr and Mrs G had before  i.e. running water,  albeit at an unsatisfactorily low 
pressure. And given what the policy  says RSA will do, I cant  conclude theyve acted 
unreasonably or unfairly in the way they handled the claim and carried  out these repairs.
Again, I can fully understand Mr Gs frustration that the tank will have to be moved  and re-
plumbed  twice. And I can see why it appears  bureaucratic and unhelpful  that RSA decided  
not to allow  Mr G to pay their engineer himself to raise the tank.
However, I come back again to the nature of the policy. And I can see why RSA dont wish to 
involve themselves in additional work   even if they arent carrying  the immediate cost  
given that would presumably involve them in determining, or being properly assured, that the 
proposed solution would be safe and would conform with regulations  etc. 
In short,  RSA have  delivered what the policy says they will deliver. And so it would be 
difficult for me to conclude  theyd acted unfairly towards Mr and Mrs G.
In terms of the positioning of the new tank,  I can see from the photographs  provided by Mr G 
that this sits on the same  plinth in the loft as the previous tank. I think  this may be why RSAs 
engineer told them  it was safe, although  I dont wish to put words in his mouth.
Ref: DRN58701294In any case, I can see Mr Gs point that if the tanks centre of gravity has moved, its weight 
may now predominantly bear down onto one part of that plinth   and so onto whatever sits 
beneath it. 
RSA are relying on the opinion of the engineer  who attended Mr Gs property. I dont  think 
its unreasonable for them to do that. 
I understand that Mr G thinks the engineer isnt qualified to draw  that conclusion,  but I also 
note that RSA have  promised  to look at the issue  again if Mr G can provide expert  evidence  
to suggest that there is a structural problem.
Again, I dont think thats unreasonable  of RSA. I know Mr G is concerned  about the 
expense of obtaining an expert  report.  But if the engineer  found  that Mr G was right  and 
the tank needed moving  Mr G would have  a very good case  to suggest  that RSA should 
pay for the necessary changes and meet the cost of the report.
Delays and the removal of the old tank
I dont think theres any dispute that there  were  some avoidable delays in RSAs handling of 
Mr and Mrs Gs claims.  I can see theyve  apologised to Mr G for such delays on a number  of 
occasions. 
I dont think £75 compensation  for those delays  is unreasonable.  And I bear in mind  that the 
period when Mr and Mrs G were without central heating was when the safety checks on the 
wiring were being carried out. And as I said above, I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA 
to ask for those checks to be carried out.
Theres also no dispute the old tank should have been removed. RSA have agreed  to pay a 
further £75 compensation because Mr G had to remove  it himself.  I think thats fair. 
I should say RSAs original explanation of why the tank couldnt  be broken up so it would fit 
through the loft hatch was odd to say the least. They said it would be unsafe  to saw through  
the metal  tank in the loft space given the possibility  of sparks starting a fire. I assume  RSA 
were relying  on their engineers memory  in making this argument. The tank was in fact made 
of rubber.
Mr Gs information requests
RSA have assumed  that, at the time,  they were entitled to charge Mr G £10 for access  to the 
information they held about him. 
Mr G objects to that. And he believes RSA are withholding data to which  hes entitled. The 
best and proper place for that dispute  to be resolved is the Information  Commissioners  
Office (ICO). The ICO has the responsibility for upholding individuals rights under the data 
protection legislation, which includes the right of access  to personal data.
Summary
RSA should compensate Mr and Mrs G for the delays in handling  their claims and the failure 
to remove the old tank from the loft. And for those  reasons, Im upholding this complaint in 
part.
Ref: DRN58701295In the absence of any expert evidence to suggest the header tank is positioned unsafely, I 
cant conclude that RSA have acted in any other  way unfairly  or unreasonably towards  Mr 
and Mrs G in the way their claims were  handled  or the repairs  carried  out.
Im aware that Mr G has accused RSA of abusing their position by interfering in an 
agreement he says he struck with their engineer.  And that he thinks  theyve therefore broken 
the law. 
Im also aware that he has an issue with the expertise of RSAs  engineers  - and the way 
RSA run their operation. And that he believes RSA have deliberately  misled  him and have 
failed to disclose  information which he thinks might incriminate them or at least weaken their 
position.
I have to point  out that our role is to provide an independent and informal  dispute  resolution 
service. We arent a court of law. And if Mr G wants to call RSA to account under the law, he 
would need to do so through the courts.
Nor is it our role to take action to force  RSA to change their business model or the way they 
operate. That would be for the regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), if they saw 
fit. 
Our very specific role is to take a view on whether Mr and Mrs G were treated unfairly in all 
the circumstances of this particular  case. And if so, to instruct RSA to put things right for 
Mr and Mrs G  and compensate them for any trouble and upset theyve suffered. And thats  
what Ive done  in upholding this complaint in part.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint in part.
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc must pay Mr and Mrs G £150 in compensation for their 
trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 July 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5870129