K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained that Avant Credit  of UK, LLC (trading  as Avant Credit) provided an 
unaffordable loan to him in July 2015. Hes said a lack of checks led to Avant Credit lending 
to him when  it shouldnt  have  done. 
background
Mr P approached Avant  Credit for a loan in June  2016. Mr P was provided with a loan of 
£1,500.00 and this was to be repaid over 48 monthly  instalments of £72.83.
One of our investigators  looked at what Avant Credit and Mr P said.  She thought  that it was 
unfair for Avant Credit to have provided  this loan to Mr P. Avant  Credit  didnt agree with our 
investigators assessment  and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
the regulatory framework
Avant Credit lent to Mr P while  it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA).
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  which apply to providers of consumer credit  like Avant  Credit.      
CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations  in relation to responsible lending. 
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the Office  of Fair Tradings (OFT) 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) and the rules set out in CONC 5. As is evident from 
the following  extracts, the FCAs CONC rules specifically note and refer back  to sections of 
the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account  the information  of which  
the firm is aware  at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
Ref: DRN55608772[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
Ref: DRN55608773unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are two overarching  questions I need  to consider in order to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  These questions  are:
Did Avant Credit  complete reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy  itself that Mr P 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr P wouldve been  able to do so?
Did Avant Credit  act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine that Avant Credit didnt act fairly  and reasonably in its dealings  with Mr P and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider  what  is fair compensation.
Did Avant  Credit complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy  itself that Mr P 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
The rules  and regulations in place  when Avant Credit  lent to Mr P required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mr P could afford to repay his loan in a 
sustainable manner.  This is sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment  or 
affordability check.
The affordability check had to be borrower-focused  so Avant Credit had to think  about 
whether Mr P would  be able to repay  the loan sustainably. In practice  this meant  that Avant 
Ref: DRN55608774Credit had to have enough  in order to be able to reasonably conclude that making the 
payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr P undue  difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough  for Avant Credit to simply think about  the likelihood  of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr P.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount  / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate  check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an 
extended period);  and 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve be for a given loan application  including (but not limited  to) any indications  of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive thought 
about all the relevant factors in this case.
Were Avant Credits checks  reasonable and proportionate?
Having carefully thought  about what Avant Credit has said, I dont think that its checks did go 
far enough. Id like to explain why I think  that this is the case.
As Ive set out above, CONC 5.2.4G(2) provides some guidance on the proportionality of 
assessments. And it makes it clear that the risk of credit not being sustainable directly  
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge  for credit relative to the 
customers financial situation.  
At this point, it might be helpful for me to explain  that bearing in mind Avant Credits 
regulatory obligations as well as good industry practice, a less detailed  affordability 
assessment, without the need for verification, is only really likely to be fair, reasonable and 
proportionate in circumstances where the amount to be repaid is relatively small, the 
consumers financial situation is stable and they will be indebted for a relatively short period. 
Ref: DRN55608775But, in circumstances   such  as here - where  the borrower is being expected to maintain 
payments for a longer  period of time,  the cost of the credit is high and the purpose  of the 
loan is to consolidate existing debt, I think that any affordability assessment needs to be 
more detailed and contain a greater  degree  of verification and scrutiny, in order  for it to be 
fair, reasonable and proportionate. 
I say this while especially  mindful that Avant Credits credit search flagged up a significant 
number of concerns.  It suggested that Mr P had defaulted on at least four credit  accounts 
and had also taken  a significant number  of payday  loans (and had defaulted on at least  one 
of them) in the period leading up to this application.  
Taking all of this into account,  I think that Avant  Credit needed  to get a thorough  
understanding of Mr Ps financial  position. So as well as asking Mr P about the details of his 
income and expenditure, I think that Avant Credit needed to take steps  to verify what it was 
being told by Mr P and scrutinise the information  received.  
As theres  no evidence  that Avant Credit did properly scrutinise the information  on the credit 
check or the information  it obtained  from Mr P, I dont think  it completed reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks before providing this loan.
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have indicated to Avant  Credit  that Mr P would 
have been unable to sustainably repay the loan?
As proportionate  checks werent carried out for this loan, I cant say for sure what they 
wouldve shown. So I need to decide  whether it is more likely than not that a proportionate 
check would  have told Avant Credit that it was unfair to offer this loan to Mr P. 
Mr P has provided us with evidence  of his financial circumstances  at the time he applied  for 
the loan. Of course,  I accept different checks might show  different things. And just because 
something shows up in the information  Mr P has provided, it doesnt mean it wouldve shown 
up in any checks Avant  Credit mightve  carried out. But in the absence of anything  else from 
Avant Credit showing what this information would have shown, I think  its perfectly fair and 
reasonable to place  considerable weight on it as an indication of what  Mr Ps financial 
circumstances were  likely to have  been at the time.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that, in my view,  Avant  Credit  was required 
to establish whether Mr P could sustainably make  her loan repayments   not just whether 
the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. Of 
course the loan payments being  affordable  on this could be an indication  that a consumer  
could sustainably make  the repayments.  But it doesnt automatically  follow  that this is the 
case. This is because  CONC  defines  sustainable  as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And, in my view, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  the information  Mr P has provided in light of this. 
The information Ive been provided  with shows Mr P was in significant mortgage  arrears on 
separate accounts at the time he made this application. Indeed the information Ive seen 
Ref: DRN55608776suggested that hed barely made  a mortgage  payment in the three  months leading up to this 
application. And Mr Ps bank statements also show that his committed monthly expenditure 
was more than his income.
So all of the information Ive seen shows that Mr P was already in a difficult  financial 
position. And, in these  circumstances, I think that reasonable  and proportionate checks 
would have alerted Avant Credit to the fact that Mr P was already struggling  financially and 
so he simply wasnt  able to make the payments  to this loan without experiencing financial 
difficulty and/or borrowing  further.  And so it follows that he wasnt  in any sort of financial 
position to sustainably make the repayments  to this loan.     
Did Avant  Credit act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Avant  Credit  acted unfairly or unreasonably  towards  Mr P in some  
other way.  
Overall and having carefully thought  about the two overarching  questions,  set out on page 
three of this decision,  I think that Avant Credit unfairly and unreasonably provided Mr P with 
this loan because  it failed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks and its more 
likely than not that such checks wouldve shown Avant Credit  that Mr P wouldnt be able to 
sustainably repay  the loan.  So Avant Credit shouldnt have provided the loan to Mr P. 
As Mr P ended up paying (or is being  expected to pay) interest  and charges on a loan 
proportionate checks would more likely than not have  shown hed be unable to sustainably 
repay, I think  that he lost out because of what Avant Credit did wrong. So Avant  Credit  
should put things right.
      
fair compensation  what  Avant  Credit  needs  to do to put things right  for Mr P
Ive carefully thought  about what amounts to fair compensation in this case. Avant  Credit  
should ensure  that Mr P pays back no more than the amount he was originally lent. I 
understand that the outstanding balance on Mr Ps loan was sold to a third party debt 
purchaser. So Avant Credit should either:  
buy back the debt from the third party; AND
remove all the interest  and charges applied to Mr Ps loan from the outset by either  
itself or the third party  debt purchaser.  In other  words, Avant  Credit  need to reduce 
Mr Ps starting balance to the amount that he was lent;
the payments  Mr P has already made  should then be applied to the new starting  
balance;
Avant Credit should then contact Mr P to arrange a suitable repayment plan for the 
remaining balance
OR 
make  a payment  to the third party  debt purchaser to ensure that the debt is reduced 
by the amount of all interest and charges applied to the loan from the outset.
Ref: DRN55608777Whichever method  Avant Credit chooses to use, it needs to make sure that the total Mr P 
has to pay (to it and/or  the third party debt purchaser) doesnt exceed  the £1,500.00  he was 
originally lent.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ps complaint. Avant  Credit  of UK, LLC 
(trading as Avant Credit) should pay Mr P compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5560877