K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Lloyds Bank  PLC (trading as TSB at the time) mis-sold  him payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr C applied for two credit cards with Lloyds in 1995 and bought PPI at the same time.  
Among other  things, Mr C says Lloyds didnt explain  the terms and conditions of the PPI to 
him. And he says he had good work benefits so didnt need it.
 
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Cs complaint didnt uphold it. Mr C disagrees and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds needed  to make  it clear to Mr C he had a choice about  PPI and get his agreement to 
it. Ive seen a copy  of the credit card agreement Mr C signed at the time. Its a poor copy  but 
I can see a section about PPI has been  ticked.  From  this and what we know  about how 
Lloyds sold PPI at around  this time,  I think its likely Mr C agreed to the PPI knowing he had 
a choice about it.
Lloyds has treated the sale of Mr Cs PPI as if it recommended it to him. This means  Lloyds 
needed to make sure the PPI was right for him in his circumstances. From  the policy details 
Lloyds has given me and from what Mr C says of his circumstances at the time, I think  it 
was. I say this because:
I think Mr C was eligible for the cover. And I havent seen anything to make me think  
Mr C wouldve been affected by any significant  exclusions  or limitations  the policy  
for example,  for known  medical conditions or unusual employment arrangements. So 
I dont think its likely  there wouldve  been  anything to stop him claiming the full policy 
benefit had he needed to.
Mr C says he got six months full pay then six months half pay if he was off work 
sick. Even so, I think the PPI could still have given  him a useful benefit if he couldnt 
work, since it wouldve  helped  with his card repayments  for up to 12 months for each 
successful claim  he made. And it wouldve helped in the same  way if he lost his job.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mr C couldnt afford the cover  or that its 
cost made it unsuitable for him.
As well as making sure it was right for him, Lloyds  also had to give Mr C enough  clear  
information about the PPI for him to make  an informed decision about whether to buy it. I 
think its likely Lloyds didnt make some  things as clear as it shouldve   like the true cost 
and benefits of the policy and the things it didnt  cover. But, as Ive said,  I think  its likely       
Ref: DRN56971582Mr C agreed to the cover and I havent  seen anything to make me think it wasnt  right for him 
in his circumstances. I think clearer information from Lloyds would only have confirmed this 
to Mr C and wouldnt have  made him change his decision. So I dont think  the PPI was mis-
sold.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) on Mr Cs card ending  in 2314   so it should have told Mr C about that. 
Because Lloyds  didnt  tell Mr C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  on Mr Cs card ending  2314  and I think that is fair 
in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium on his card ending 2314.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5697158