K821x#15Complaint
Miss K has complained  about  overdraft charges National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest)  
added to her Select bank  account. In essence,  shes said NatWest continued applying these 
charges when she was in financial  difficulty and without  any regard to her financial position.  
Background 
Miss K complained to NatWest in May 2019. NatWest  didnt  think it had done anything 
wrong because,  in its view, all the overdraft fees and charges  were applied in line with the 
terms and conditions of Miss Ks account. NatWest also said it provided  Miss K with the 
contact number of its Financial Difficulties team and suggested that she made contact as it 
might have been able to help her. Miss K remained dissatisfied  at this and referred her 
complaint to our service.
Miss Ks complaint was reviewed by two of our investigators. As this decision is based on 
the second investigators assessment not being  accepted, I dont propose to cover  the first 
assessment here. And all reference made to the investigator and assessment from herein is 
made with reference  to the second  investigator and the second assessment.
Our investigator issued  an assessment to NatWest in May 2020. In her assessment, our 
investigator:
set out the key relevant rules,  regulations, law and good  industry  practice applicable 
at the time;
didnt consider anything in relation to the charges added to Miss Ks account prior to 
May 2013 as Miss K accepted the first investigators assessment that shed 
complained about  this too late;
confirmed that we could look at Miss Ks complaint as we werent  considering the 
proportionality of NatWests charges but rather whether it had treated Miss K fairly 
and reasonably by allowing her to continue using her overdraft and charging her to 
do so, in circumstances where it shouldnt have;
found that NatWest  ought reasonably to have realised that Miss Ks overdraft wasnt  
being used as intended by October  2014  at the latest, as Miss K was using her 
overdraft to meet her day-to-day  living rather than for emergency  borrowing and had 
been doing so for some time. So NatWest should have stepped  in, offered assistance 
and reviewed Miss Ks overdraft  at this stage;  
found that if NatWest  had proactively  contacted Miss K at this stage, it would  have 
seen she was struggling to make  ends meet and was in no financial position  to repay 
her overdraft  within a reasonable period of time. So NatWest shouldnt have allowed 
her to continue using her overdraft in the same  way from October 2014 and adding 
interest and charges  from this date. 
NatWest didnt accept  our investigators  assessment. It said that our investigator  was 
retrospectively applying  the regulators new overdraft rules which only came  into force 
recently. As NatWest didnt agree with our investigators assessment and proved unable  to 
resolve matters informally the case was passed  to an ombudsman  as per our usual process.             
Ref: DRN58694992Our investigators assessment clearly  and in some detail  set out the key relevant rules,  
regulations, law and good industry  practice  relevant to Miss Ks complaint. But as NatWest 
clearly hasnt accepted  the basis of our investigators assessment and has questioned her 
use and referral to certain rules  and regulations, I think that it would be useful for me to start 
by setting out the regulatory standards in place  during the period Im looking at.
The regulatory framework
Regulation by the Office  of Fair Trading (up to 31 March 2014)
In May 2013, NatWest  held a standard licence from the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), which 
permitted it to carry out consumer credit  activities.
Section 25(2) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  set out the factors the OFT had to consider 
when deciding whether to grant a consumer  credit licence to a lender. It said:
(1)In determining whether an applicant for a licence  is a fit person for the purposes 
of this section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be 
relevant including (amongst other things)
(a)the applicant's  skills, knowledge and experience in relation to consumer 
credit businesses,  consumer hire businesses or ancillary credit  
businesses;
(b)such skills, knowledge and experience  of other  persons who the applicant  
proposes will participate in any business  that would be carried on by him 
under the licence;
(c)practices and procedures that the applicant proposes to implement in 
connection with any such business;
(d)evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A)
(2A) That evidence  is evidence tending to show that the applicant,  or any of the 
applicant's employees, agents or associates  (whether past or present) or, 
where the applicant is a body  corporate,  any person appearing to the OFT to 
be a controller of the body corporate or an associate of any such  person, has
(a)committed any offence  involving fraud or other  dishonesty or violence;
(b)contravened any provision made by or under
(i) this Act;
(ii) Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  so far as it 
relates to the consumer  credit jurisdiction under that Part;
(iii) any other  enactment regulating the provision of credit to individuals or 
other transactions with individuals;
(c)contravened any provision in force  in an EEA State  which  corresponds  to 
a provision of the kind mentioned in paragraph  (b);
Ref: DRN58694993(d)practised discrimination on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or 
national origins  in, or in connection with, the carrying on of any business; 
or
(e)engaged in business practices appearing to the OFT to be deceitful  
or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper (whether  unlawful or 
not) [my emphasis] .
Section 25(2B)  set out a direct example of the type of practice referred  to in Section 
25(2A(e)) and said:
For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which  the OFT may consider 
to be deceitful  or oppressive or otherwise  unfair or improper include practices in the carrying  
on of a consumer  credit business  that appear  to the OFT to involve irresponsible  lending  [my 
emphasis].
In March 2010, the OFT sought to produce  clear  guidance  on the test for irresponsible  
lending for the purposes of section 25(2B)  of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974. And so it issued 
its guidance on irresponsible  lending (ILG).
So I consider the ILG to be of central  importance in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome 
on Miss Ks complaint.
The foreword to the guidance  set out its purpose  and it said:
The primary purpose in producing this guidance is to provide greater clarity for businesses 
and consumer representatives as to the business  practices that the Office  of Fair Trading 
(OFT) considers may constitute irresponsible lending practices for the purposes  of section 
25(2B) of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974.  It indicates  types  of deceitful or oppressive or 
otherwise unfair or improper  business practices  which, if engaged in by a consumer credit  
business, could  call into consideration its fitness  to hold a consumer credit licence.
Whilst this guidance  represents the OFT's view on irresponsible lending,  it is not meant to 
represent an exhaustive  list of behaviours and practices which  might  constitute irresponsible  
lending.
Section two of the guidance  sets out the general  principles of fair business practice. 
Section 2.1 says:
In the OFT's  view there are a number of overarching principles of consumer  protection and 
fair business practice which  apply to all consumer credit lending.
Section 2.2 of the guidance  says:
In general terms, creditors should:
not use misleading or oppressive behaviour when advertising,  selling, or seeking 
to enforce a credit  agreement
Ref: DRN58694994make  a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford  to meet  
repayments in a sustainable manner
explain the key features  of the credit  agreement to enable  the borrower  to make 
an informed choice
monitor the borrower's  repayment  record during the course  of the agreement,  
offering assistance  where borrowers appear to be experiencing difficulty  and treat 
borrowers fairly and with forbearance if they experience difficulties
Section 2.3 lists other expectations  of lenders. Amongst  other  things, it says:
In addition to the above  there should be:
fair treatment of borrowers. Borrowers should not be targeted  with credit products 
that are clearly unsuitable for them, subjected to high pressure  selling, 
aggressive or oppressive behaviour or inappropriate coercion, or conduct which  
is deceitful, oppressive, unfair or improper, whether unlawful or not
Borrowers who may be particularly vulnerable  by virtue of their current indebtedness,  poor 
credit history,  or by reason of age or health, or disability, or for any other reason, should, in 
particular, not be targeted  or exploited.
Section 4 of the guidance is concerned with the assessment of affordability  that lenders  were 
required to carry out before  granting  credit. I mention this for reference because as Im not 
looking at NatWests decisions to provide  an overdraft in the first place  or increase Miss Ks 
overdraft limit, Im not considering any lending decisions in this case.
Section 6 of the ILG sets out other specific irresponsible lending  practices  relating to lender 
behaviour once credit has been  provided. Section 6.2 says it would be an unsatisfactory 
practice where a business is:
Failing to monitor a borrowers  repayment record
Section 6.2 goes  on to say:
The OFT considers  that creditors should take appropriate action, including  notifying the 
borrower of the potential  risk of an escalating debt,  and signposting the borrower  to not-for-
profit providers of free independent debt advice, when/if there  are signs of apparent/possible  
repayment difficulties   for example,  a borrower failing to make minimum required payments  
or making  a number  of consecutive small/minimum repayments or a borrower seeking to
make repayments on a credit card account  using another credit card. This is particularly 
important in the case of borrowers who it is known - or it is reasonably believed - may lack 
the mental capacity  to make financial decisions about repayments  at the time the 
repayments are due, especially under circumstances  in which  the borrower or his 
representatives have  specifically requested that this should be done.
A symptom of some conditions such as bipolar disorder is that the borrower
may engage in unusual  spending patterns.
Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (from  1 April 2014)
Ref: DRN58694995NatWest continued  to provide Miss K with her overdraft after regulation  of consumer credit 
activities had transferred from the OFT to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 1 April 
2014. NatWest was already authorised by the FCA at this time so it was subject to the FCAs 
rules in respect of credit related regulated  activities from 1 April 2014.
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  which apply to firms  specifically when carrying  out credit related 
regulated activities. CONC also replaced the requirements set out in Section 55B. Bearing in 
mind the complaint before me, I think the most  relevant sections of CONC here are CONC 1 
which sets out guidance  in relation to financial  difficulties; CONC 5 which  sets out a firms  
obligations in relation  to responsible lending; and CONC  6 which  sets out a firms obligations  
after a consumer has entered into a regulated  agreement.
CONC 1.3G provides  guidance on financial difficulty. It says:
In CONC (unless otherwise stated in or in relation to a rule), the following  matters, among 
others, of which a firm is aware  or ought  reasonably  to be aware, may indicate that 
a customer is in financial difficulties:
(1)consecutively failing  to meet minimum repayments in relation to a credit card or store  
card;
(2)adverse accurate entries on a credit file, which are not in dispute;
(3)outstanding  county court judgments for non-payment of debt;
(4)inability to meet repayments out of disposable income or at all, for example, where 
there is evidence of non-payment  of essential bills (such as, utility bills), the customer 
having to borrow  further to repay existing debts,  or the customer  only being able to 
meet repayments of debts by the disposal of assets  or security;
(5)consecutively failing  to meet repayments  when due;
(6)agreement to a debt management plan or other debt solution ;
Ref: DRN58694996(7)evidence of discussions with a firm (including  a not-for-profit debt advice  body) with a 
view to entering into a debt management  plan or other  debt solution or to 
seeking debt counselling
CONC 5 sets out the rules and guidance in relation to responsible lending, CONC 6 sets 
out the rules and guidance in relation to Post contractual  requirements;  and finally CONC 7 
sets out the rules and guidance in relation  to Arrears, default and recovery (including 
repossessions).  
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the OFTs Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance and the rules set out in CONC 5, CONC 6 and CONC 7. As is evident from the 
following extracts, the FCAs  CONC rules  specifically  note and refer back to sections  of the 
OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance  on many occasions. For the same reasons that I 
didnt set out the relevant  passages of section 4 of the ILG, I dont propose to set out the 
sections in CONC 5 which relate  to responsible  lending. Instead  Ill focus  on what I consider 
to be the relevant sections of CONC 6 and CONC 7.  
CONC 6.7.2 R states:
A firm must monitor a customer's  repayment  record and take appropriate action  where there 
are signs  of actual or possible  repayment  difficulties.
[Note: paragraph 6.2 of ILG]
CONC 6.7.3 G states:
The action referred to in CONC 6.7.2 R should generally include:
(1) notifying the customer of the risk of escalating  debt, additional interest or charges and 
of potential financial difficulties; and
[Note: paragraph 6.16 of ILG]
(2) providing contact details for not-for-profit debt advice bodies.
[Note: paragraph 6.2 (box) of ILG]
CONC also provides guidance  to lenders about how to deal with consumers in arrears, this 
time making  reference  to the Office  of Fair Trading's Debt Collection Guidance (DCG).
CONC 7.3.2G states: 
When dealing with customers in default  or in arrears difficulties a firm should  pay due regard 
to its obligations  under Principle 6 (Customers interests)  to treat its customers  fairly.
[Note: paragraphs 7.12 of ILG and 2.2 of DCG]
CONC 7.3.4R states  that: 
A firm must treat customers in default  or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration.
Ref: DRN58694997[Note: paragraphs 7.3 and 7.4 of ILG and 2.2 of DCG]
   
CONC 7.3.5G lists some  examples of forbearance  and due consideration and states:
Examples of treating  a customer with forbearance  would include the firm doing one or more 
of the following,  as may be relevant  in the circumstances:
(1)considering suspending,  reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest  or 
charges (for example,  when a customer provides evidence of financial difficulties and 
is unable to meet repayments as they fall due or is only able to make 
token repayments , where in either  case the level of debt would continue to rise if 
interest and charges  continue to be applied);
[Note: paragraph 7.4 (box) of ILG]
(2)allowing deferment  of payment of arrears:
(a)where immediate payment of arrears may increase the customer's repayments to 
an unsustainable level; or
(b)provided that doing so does not make the term for the repayments unreasonably  
excessive;
(3)accepting token  payments for a reasonable period of time in order  to allow  a customer  
to recover from an unexpected income  shock, from a customer  who demonstrates 
that meeting the customer's  existing  debts would mean not being  able to meet  
the customer's priority debts or other  essential  living expenses  (such as in relation to 
a mortgage, rent, council tax, food bills and utility  bills).
Other relevant publications
The ILG and CONC set out the regulatory framework that firms carrying out consumer credit 
activities have to adhere to. But they represent a minimum standard  for firms.  Im also 
required to take into account any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice,  and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice.
NatWest was a subscriber to the Lending Standards Boards  Lending Code (the code)  
and is a current subscriber to the Standards  of Lending Practice (the standards), which 
replaced the code  in 2016.
Section 9 of the code relates to Financial difficulties.  It starts by saying:
137. Subscribers should be sympathetic and positive when considering a customers  
financial difficulties. Although there is an onus on customers  to try to help themselves, the 
first step, when a subscriber becomes  aware  of a customers financial difficulties, should be 
to try to contact the customer  to discuss the matter.  This applies to both personal and micro-
enterprise customers.
138.  Personal  customers should be considered to be in financial difficulty  when income  is 
insufficient to cover  reasonable living expenses and meet  financial commitments  as they 
become due. This may result from a change in lifestyle, often accompanied by a fall in 
disposable income and/or increased expenditure, such as:
Ref: DRN58694998loss of employment;
disability;
serious illness;
relationship breakdown;
death of a partner;
starting a lower paid job;
parental/carer leave;
starting full-time education; and
imprisonment
139.  Financial difficulties  may become evident to a subscriber from one or more of the 
following events:
Items repeatedly being returned unpaid due to lack of available funds;
Failing to meet loan repayments or other commitments;
Discontinuation of regular credits;
Notification of some form of insolvency or court proceedings;
Regular requests for increased borrowing or repeated rescheduling of 
debts;
Making frequent cash withdrawals on a credit card at a non-promotional 
rate of interest; and
Repeatedly exceeding a credit card or overdraft limit without agreement.
 
It then goes on to talk about Proactive contact and says:
141. If, during the course of a customers account  operation, a subscriber becomes aware  
via their existing systems  that the customer  may be heading towards financial difficulties, the 
subscriber should  contact the customer to outline their approach to financial difficulties and 
to encourage  the customer to contact the subscriber if the customer  is worried about their 
position. Subscribers  should also provide signposts  to sources of free, independent money 
advice. 
In relation to the Standards, there  is a section on Money Management and paragraph 3 of 
this section says:
3. Firms should monitor customers credit card and overdraft limits to ensure that the 
customer is not exhibiting  signs of financial stress  and where  relevant, offer appropriate 
support.
There is also a section  on Financial  Difficulty. And it says:
1. Firms should have  triggers  and processes  in place  to identify customers who may be in 
financial difficulty and should  act promptly and efficiently to address the situation with the 
customer. [CONC 7] 
2. Customers identified  as being in financial difficulty should be provided with clear  
information setting  out the support available to them and should not be subject to 
harassment or undue  pressure  when  discussing their problems. [CONC 7] 
Ref: DRN586949993. Firms should demonstrate an empathetic approach to the customers situation; listening to 
and acting upon information  provided  by the customer with a view to developing an 
affordable and appropriate  solution.  
4. If an offer of repayment is made via the common financial  statement/standard  financial 
statement, this should be used as the basis for pro-rata distribution amongst creditors  
covered by the plan. [CONC 7] 
5. Firms should have appropriate policies  and procedures in place to identify  and support 
vulnerable customers  where this impacts on their ability to pay. [See also consumer 
vulnerability] 
6. Customers who are in financial difficulty will, where appropriate, be signposted  to free, 
impartial debt advice.  [CONC  7] 
7. Firms should apply an appropriate  level of forbearance, where, after having made contact 
with the customer,  it is clear that this would  be appropriate for their situation. [CONC 7] 
8. Where a customer remains engaged  with the Firm and maintains their repayment plan, 
they will not be subject  to unnecessary contact. 
9. Firms should consider  freezing  or reducing  interest and charges when a customer  is in 
financial difficulty. [CONC 7]
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Bearing in mind Miss Ks complaint and NatWests response to our investigators 
assessment, I think that theres one main  question that I need  to consider in order to fairly  
and reasonably determine Miss Ks complaint. And depending on the answer to that 
question, there may be a series  of sub-questions for me to consider too.
This main question is:
1.Did NatWest have an obligation  to review Miss Ks use of her overdraft facility?  
Should the answer to this question be yes, Id then need to consider a series of potential 
sub-questions. These would be:
 
oWhen should any review or reviews  have taken place?
oWas Miss K experiencing financial difficulty? 
oDoes any and/or all of this mean that NatWest should refund any interest  and 
charges added?  
If I determine that NatWest didnt  act fairly  and reasonably towards Miss K and that she has 
lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Ive started by considering the main  question.  
Ref: DRN586949910Did NatWest have an obligation  to review Miss Ks use of her overdraft facility?
NatWest believes that it didnt have an obligation to review Miss Ks use of her overdraft 
facility. It says the FCAs current rules arent to be applied retrospectively   indeed it 
emphasised to our investigator this meant they apply going forward  and do not apply to 
situations which occurred  in the past. It added  that its handling of the situation  should be 
judged by the rules  in place at the time and not those in force now.
Ive thought about what NatWest has said. While  it did refer our investigator to the definition 
of retrospective, which  we are perfectly  familiar with, it omitted to inform  her which  specific  
FCA rule it considered she applied erroneously. But given the dispute  before me, Im 
assuming that NatWest  is referring to the regulators rules regarding  Overdraft repeat use  
set out in section  5D of CONC and which have been  in force since 18 December 2019.
I am aware  of these  rules and what they say. But like our investigator, I dont think  that these  
rules only coming into force in December 2019 mean NatWest didnt have any obligations  in 
relation to reviewing  Miss Ks facility  prior to this. I say this because  as I set out the in 
regulatory framework section of this decision  Section  6.2 of the ILG and CONC 6.7.2R 
require a lender  to monitor and take account of a borrowers repayment record and offer 
assistance in the event  it appears they may be experiencing financial difficulty.
So Im satisfied that while the regulators  rules  at the time may not have referred  to overdraft 
repeat use specifically, as Miss Ks overdraft  facility was a consumer credit agreement, 
NatWest was, in any event, required to monitor her repayment record for any apparent signs 
of financial difficulty.  
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that NatWest  ought to have been monitoring and 
reviewing Miss Ks use of her overdraft in the way that our investigator  explained in her 
assessment.
When should NatWests  reviews have taken place?  
As Ive mentioned  in the previous section,  CONC 6.7.2 R requires a lender  such as 
NatWest here  to monitor  a customers repayment  record. So I think its perfectly fair and 
reasonable to expect  NatWest to have monitored Miss Ks repayment of her overdraft on an 
ongoing basis. And also offer assistance  where it may have been apparent Miss K may have 
been experiencing difficulty. 
NatWest has said that it normally agrees overdrafts without  a review date, so a borrower can 
use their facility without having  to worry. Im not sure why having a review date would cause 
a borrower to worry about using their overdraft. But, in any event, NatWests overdraft terms 
and conditions say that any overdraft is repayable on demand. They go on to say that 
repayment will only be demanded in circumstances where there is a valid reason for doing 
so. And an example of a valid reason is given as where we reasonably believe that you may 
have difficulty meeting your commitments.  So it seems to me that NatWests  own terms and 
conditions suggest  that the facility would be withdrawn in circumstances where Miss K 
wasnt in a position to afford it. 
Im also mindful that it has generally  been accepted across the industry that overdrafts are 
high-interest products which were designed to cover short-term borrowing needs.  This is a 
view shared by the FCA in Consultation  Paper 18/42  High-Cost  Credit  Review:  Overdrafts 
consultation paper and policy statement (CP18/42). 
Ref: DRN586949911I accept that this was published sometime after the period Im looking at. But I do think that it 
offers some insight on the current regulators perspective on how overdrafts should have 
been used. So I do consider it to be of some relevance in this case. 
Paragraph 3.35 of CP 18/42  states:
Overdrafts are intended  for short-term  or emergency borrowing, but some  consumers use 
them repeatedly over a long period  of time.  This repeat overdraft use can harm consumers 
because it can be an expensive way to borrow, and they can build up problem debt over 
time.  
Finally, its worth noting that as overdrafts are repayable on demand  and because  of the way 
they were supposed  to be used, most  of NatWests competitors, at least,  committed  to 
reviewing overdrafts on an annual  basis. So while NatWest may have agreed an overdraft 
without a review date, I consider good industry  practice meant that it to ought to have 
checked that terms and conditions  of the facility were being met (namely Miss K continued to 
be able to meet her commitments without difficulty)  and that it was meeting its regulatory  
obligations to Miss K on an, at least,  annual basis. Although for reasons Ill go on to explain, 
in the next section, I dont think this is too important in this case. 
Was Miss K experiencing financial difficulty? 
Ive already explained that given Miss K accepted the first investigators assessment on what  
we would be looking at in terms of her complaint, Ive only considered whether NatWests 
actions from May 2013 onwards were fair and reasonable. However, this decision should not 
be taken as any form of endorsement  of the first investigators position. 
As NatWest had access to them, I consider it perfectly fair and reasonable to use Miss Ks 
bank statements to form my view on whether NatWest treated Miss K fairly and reasonably 
from May 2013 onwards. I have therefore  done so and set out what  I think  Miss Ks 
statements ought reasonably to have  demonstrated to NatWest.  
Having reviewed Miss Ks statements from May 2013, I can see she used her overdraft 
regularly. Miss K received an average  salary of approximately £1,300  a month. I say 
average because  the precise amount she received  fluctuated  each month due to the nature 
of her work. This was never enough to take Miss K into a credit balance  at any stage.  Miss K 
exceeded her overdraft limit on occasions  and, in truth,  Im satisfied that this would have 
happened more  often than it did had it not been for the payday loans she was taking out.
But from March 2014 onwards, Miss Ks statements show that she began to exceed her 
overdraft limit on an almost monthly basis. In accordance with Section 9 of the Lending 
Code, this ought to have  prompted NatWest to question whether Miss K may have been  
experiencing financial difficulty. I dont  think it even required NatWest manually reviewing 
Miss Ks statements to realise this, given it must have known this was happening for it to 
have been able to charge her unarranged overdraft fees for this. 
Overall, Im satisfied that by May 2014,  Miss Ks overdraft had become demonstrably  
unsustainable for her. The fact that she hadnt  had a credit balance on her account  for the 
year Ive looked at coupled  with the sheer number of payday loans she took and her 
regularly exceeding  her overdraft persuades me there was no reasonable prospect of her 
repaying the facility  on demand or within a reasonable period of time. 
Ref: DRN586949912I accept that this might not have been immediately noticed by NatWest at the time. But Ive 
also seen that in October 2014, over £100 in charges were added to Miss Ks account before 
being refunded.  As our investigator pointed out, there wasnt  any explanation  from NatWest 
as to why these charges were refunded. And I note NatWest chose to provide nothing  further  
in relation to this in its response to the investigators assessment either. 
In any event, having carefully  considered  matters,  Im in agreement with our investigator that 
its unlikely NatWest proactively and voluntarily agreed to refund these charges. And it 
seems to me that its more likely than not this refund of charges was because Miss K got in 
contact about  them. 
So even if NatWest wasnt  aware of the position  in the year after May 2013, and Im not 
necessarily persuaded  this is fair and reasonable, Im satisfied that it was aware Miss K may 
have been experiencing  financial difficulty, given it was charging her for breaching her 
overdraft limit, by October 2014 at the very latest. 
By this point  NatWest was aware that Miss K had regularly breached her overdraft limit; was 
having payments  for bills returned (another indication  of potential financial difficulty as per 
CONC 1.3G); and Miss K had been  in contact to query the over £100 of charges added to 
her overdraft. So notwithstanding whether NatWest ought to have carried any reviews and 
didnt do so, by this point, at the absolute latest,  NatWest ought to have  got in contact  with 
Miss K to offer assistance. 
What would more  likely  than not have happened  had NatWest  got in contact with Miss K in 
October 2014?
There has been a suggestion that NatWest returning the October  2014 fees was in itself an 
attempt to offer assistance. I agree that this was a fair and reasonable starting point and it 
would have at least provided Miss K with some  breathing space. But given all the 
circumstances, I dont  think  this went far enough as the debt was unsustainable  at this point  
and NatWest ought to have  exercised forbearance  as per its obligations under CONC 7.3. 
I accept that even if NatWest had got in contact  with Miss K in October 2014, its possible 
she might  well have said she wanted to continue using her overdraft  I know this is what  
happened when  Miss K got in contact  to ask for assistance in May 2019. But bearing in mind  
Miss Ks clearly  worsening position, I think that NatWest should  have stepped  in and taken 
action notwithstanding  any potential objections. After all it ought reasonably to have realised 
that Miss K may have  had difficulty meeting  her commitments, which was the example given 
of a circumstance where it would  take action in relation to an overdraft. 
But instead  of realising this and taking  steps to help Miss K, as per its regulatory obligation 
to provide a customer  in financial difficulty with assistance, NatWest unfairly and 
unreasonably instead continued added a significant amount of interest,  fees charges to her 
balance. This meant Miss K paid NatWest high amounts of interest and charges  for the 
privilege of allowing  her to continue to hold what,  in my view, had clearly become a 
demonstrably unsustainable  debt. I dont think its fair and reasonable to continue  adding 
charges to an overdraft  a customer  clearly cant afford when theyre experiencing financial 
difficulty, simply because a consumer may wish to continue having  access to credit they 
cant afford.    
Ref: DRN586949913Taking all of this into account,  I find that NatWest didnt act fairly and reasonably towards     
Miss K. It continued to provide and charge Miss K for her overdraft facility when her account 
usage (and what she more likely than not said in October 2014) ought reasonably to have 
shown she was having difficulty meeting her commitments and her debt had become 
unsustainable in circumstances  where  she was experiencing financial difficulty. 
So I find that NatWest  didnt treat Miss K fairly  and reasonably in relation to her overdraft 
from October 2014 onwards.  
Conclusions
Having carefully considered the key question  and related sub-questions set out on pages  
nine and ten of this decision, I find that:
NatWest did have  an obligation to monitor Miss Ks use of her overdraft facility;
Any fair and reasonable monitoring of Miss Ks overdraft facility would have resulted 
in NatWest being aware Miss K was in financial difficulty (and was having difficulty  
meeting her commitments) by October 2014 at the absolute  latest.  So NatWest ought  
to have exercised  forbearance from this point onwards .
This means  that overall I find NatWest  didnt act fairly and reasonably  towards Miss K in 
relation to her overdraft.
Did Miss K lose out because NatWest  didnt act fairly and reasonably  towards her?
NatWest added high amounts  of interest, which it shouldnt have done, to a debt which was 
unsustainable when  it ought reasonably to have realised that Miss K was in financial 
difficulty by October 2014 at the latest.  So Miss K had to pay, and shes still being expected 
to pay interest and charges that shouldnt  have been added to her balance.
In these circumstances, I find that Miss K lost out because NatWest didnt treat her fairly and 
reasonably.
Fair compensation  what  NatWest  needs to do to put things  right for Miss  K
Having carefully considered everything, I find that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ks complaint for NatWest to put things right in the following way:
rework Miss Ks current  overdraft balance so that all the interest, fees and any other  
charges applied to it from November 2014 onwards are removed; 
AND
if an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made NatWest  should contact Miss K to arrange a suitable  repayment plan for 
this. It can also backdate any negative information on Miss Ks credit file to 
November 2014 should it consider it necessary to do so; 
OR (if the effect of removing all interest  fees and charges results in there  no longer 
being an outstanding balance)
Ref: DRN586949914any extra  should be treated as overpayments  and returned to Miss K. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, NatWest should  
remove all adverse  information from Miss Ks credit file.
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any overpayments  from the date they were made 
(if they were) to the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest.  NatWest  must 
give Miss K a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Miss Ks complaint. National Westminster 
Bank Plc should  put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5869499