K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Mr F, in their capacity as the directors of business S, complain about a business  
loan S took out in 2008. They  say National Westminster  Bank  Plc shouldnt  have sold the 
loan to another lender  as it was unable to provide a copy  of the original loan terms.
background
In March 2008 S took out a business  loan with NatWest. The loan was for £655,000 and was 
taken over a 25-year term. It was taken  on an interest-only basis  with the interest  due to be 
paid quarterly.
In August  2008  S took out a second business loan with NatWest. This time the loan was for 
£230,000 and was taken  over a 24-year term. It was also taken on an interest-only basis 
with the interest  due to be paid quarterly.
In November 2018 NatWest said it had sold the loans to a new lender, and the new lender 
took them over in February  2019.
In the meantime Mr G and Mr F complained that NatWest was only able to provide a copy of 
the loan agreement for the second loan. Our investigator didnt  uphold  the complaint. Mr G 
and Mr F didnt  agree with his assessment and so its been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr G and Mr F wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed the complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal 
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.  This 
service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What  this 
means is that we dont  represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or 
take directions  on how a complaint will be looked at or what questions should  be asked and 
answered.
I understand Mr G and Mr F are concerned  that as NatWest cant find a copy  of the original 
agreement for the first loan then it cant say the terms will remain unchanged with the new 
lender. Its unfortunate that NatWest cant locate a copy  of the agreement, and its also 
unfortunate that it seems S didnt keep a copy of its own loan agreement for its own records. 
Fortuitously, NatWest does hold the important  information about the loan on its internal 
system, a screen print of which weve seen. This shows  the key information such as the 
amount borrowed,  term and interest basis. It also shows  the first business loan has the same  
product code as the second  business  loan, and as they were  taken within  five months  of 
each other  Im persuaded its more likely  than not  which  is the test I have to use  that the 
loan agreements would have been  broadly the same. I cant provide copies of the internal 
screen prints to S as theyre  not for consumer use, but I can reassure them Ive reviewed 
them carefully and Im satisfied with the information they show.
Ref: DRN54363372S has been maintaining both loans for 11 years so it will know  how much it pays  (on a 
variable basis) and when. So it should be immediately apparent if the new lender alters 
those fundamental  terms. We also know when the first loan was taken  out and that it was 
taken over a 25-year term, so again it will be clear  if the new lender tries to alter the end 
date. Other  than that, Ive no reason to believe the more  generic  NatWest business loan 
terms would  be any different from those that apply to the second loan S took out just five 
months later, and S has been provided  with a copy of that loan agreement.
At that moment S hasnt told us of any changes it thinks the new lender has made, so theres 
nothing I can look at there. If, in the future, S believes the new lender has altered the terms 
(other than in the circumstances its allowed to) then thats  something S can raise  at the 
time.
Were not the regulator, nor are we a court of law. Im here to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable. I cant order NatWest to provide  something it doesnt have, and Im satisfied I 
have enough information to say NatWest was allowed  to sell the loan to the new lender, and 
what the loan terms are.
Mr G and Mr F have  said NatWest was supposed to set up the interest payment ready  for 
transfer of funds from Ss bank account  to the new lender and it failed to do this. This is a 
new issue that wasnt raised with NatWest  as part of the original complaint before it was 
referred to us. Whilst NatWest provided an explanation as part of this complaint, thats not 
the same  as a formal  complaint being  made and considered. Our rules state that a business 
must be given the opportunity to investigate  and respond to any issues first, so Mr G and 
Mr F - on behalf of S - should refer this to NatWest as a new complaint if they want  it looked 
into. They may then be able to bring that as a new complaint to this service  subject to our 
rules  if they remain unhappy with the outcome.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 March  2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5436337