K821x#15complaint
Miss S says Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) didnt complete proper
checks to make sure the loans she applied for were  affordable. She is also unhappy
with how it responded  when  she complained.
background
Miss S took out two instalment loans from Likely Loans. Loan 1 was taken  out in July 2016. 
It was for £1,250  over 12 months.  Loan 2 was taken out in September 2017. It was for £2000 
over 24 months. Miss S repaid loan 1 early  in April 2017. At the time I issued my provisional 
decision I understood loan 2 to be outstanding.  Miss S has since  told us it was settled  in 
November 2020.
Miss S said Likely Loans didnt carry out sufficient checks before lending  to her: had it
done so it would have seen she was struggling  financially. She also says she initially
complained and submitted a Subject Access Request (SAR) on 22 November 2018
and only received a final response  on 11 April 2019. Miss S says Likely Loans initially
told her it had no record of her complaint or SAR request, but later said on the day it
issued the final response letter that it had located it. It also didnt respond to her
reduced repayment proposal.
Likely Loans said for each application it asked Miss S for her income  and residential
status and carried  out a credit check.  These checks showed the loans  were  affordable
for Miss S. It says Miss S notified it she was financial difficulties in November 2018 and
once it received the necessary documentation from the debt management service, she is
working with, it accepted  the reduced  payment  plan, freezing all interest and charges.
Our adjudicator found that Likely Loans  did not lend irresponsibly to Miss S and said she
could have escalated  her complaint to this service  if she felt the business  was taking too
long to respond. Miss S disagreed saying  proper checks would have  shown the loans were
unaffordable; that she was borrowing from high cost lenders  frequently, using her £2500
overdraft every month, and only managing to sustain repayments by using further  credit.
So the complaint was passed to me. I reached a different conclusion  to the adjudicator  and 
so I issued a provisional decision (a copy is attached and forms part of this final decision). I 
asked both parties to respond with any further  comments or information  by 10 March 2021.
Both parties  responded and accepted my provisional decision and the findings in it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional  decision there is no reason for me to change the 
findings or outcome I set out. It follows I am upholding Miss Ss complaint.
Likely Loans has provided a copy of the redress calculations that we have  sent on to Miss S. 
She should contact  Likely  Loans directly to confirm  her acceptance as it has requested.  It 
has confirmed the refund payment will then be made within 14 working days.
Ref: DRN59776992In response to my provisional decision Miss S sent in the email in which  the lender 
acknowledged it hadnt responded on a timely manner  to her initial complaint. I can see it 
apologised to her for that, and accepted it was at fault explaining  it was due to an 
unforeseen technical error. She also explained  that it was in February 2020 that she had no 
response after submitting  a revised financial statement but she continued to pay as per her 
offer. Overall  Miss S says she found Likely Loans general lack of communication  frustrating, 
but as shes confirmed she is now keen to move  on I dont see any purpose in investigating 
this further with the business. Apart from the timely payment of Miss Ss refund there  is no 
further action  Likely  Loans needs  to take.
putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Miss S to repay  the capital  that she borrowed, because she
had the benefit of that money.  But she has paid interest and charges on two loans that
shouldnt have been provided to her. 
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges  on the loans and treat all the payments
Miss S made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Miss Ss loan accounts results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital  borrowed, then Likely Loans should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from the date 
the overpayments would  have arisen,  to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Miss Ss credit  file in relation  to the
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Likely Loans to deduct tax from this interest. Likely Loans should 
give Miss S a certificate showing  how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
I am upholding  Miss Ss complaint and Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN59776993copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Miss S says Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading  as Likely Loans)  didnt complete  proper
checks to make sure the loans  she applied for were affordable. She is also unhappy
with how it responded  when she complained.
background
Miss S took out two instalment loans  from Likely Loans.
Miss S repaid loan 1 early  and I understand loan 2 remains outstanding.
Miss S said Likely Loans  didnt carry out sufficient checks before lending to her: had it
done so it would have  seen she was struggling  financially. She also says she initially
complained and submitted  a Subject Access  Request (SAR)  on 22 November 2018
and only received a final response on 11 April 2019.  Miss S says Likely Loans  initially
told her it had no record of her complaint or SAR request, but later said on the day it
issued the final response letter that it had located it. It also didnt  respond to her
reduced repayment proposal.
Likely Loans said for each application it asked Miss S for her income and residential
status and carried out a credit check. These checks showed the loans were  affordable
for Miss S. It says Miss S notified it she was financial  difficulties in November 2018 and
once it received the necessary documentation from the debt management service, she is
working with, it accepted  the reduced payment plan, freezing all interest and charges.
Our adjudicator found  that Likely  Loans  did not lend irresponsibly to Miss S and said she
could have escalated her complaint to this service if she felt the business was taking too
long to respond. Miss S disagreed saying  proper checks would have shown the loans were
unaffordable; that she was borrowing from high cost lenders  frequently, using  her £2500
overdraft every month, and only managing to sustain repayments  by using further credit.
So the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach  to unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Likely Loans lent to Miss S required it to carry  out a
reasonable and proportionate  assessment  of whether  she could  afford  to repay  what she
owed in a sustainable  manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Likely Loans had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably  would  cause  any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Miss S. In other  words, it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to simply think about  the likelihood
of it getting its money back, it had to consider  the impact of the repayments on Miss S.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  - but not limited to - the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook,  and any indications of
Ref: DRN59776994vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to meet
higher repayments from a particular  level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make
repayments for an extended  period).
There may also be other factors which  could  influence  how detailed  a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application - including  (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind  when thinking about whether Likely Loans did what it needed  to before agreeing
to lend to Miss S. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when  assessing
Miss Ss loan applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loans in a
sustainable way?
- if not, what  would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Likely Loans make fair lending decisions?
- did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other  way?
I can see Likely Loans  asked for some information from Miss S before  it approved the loans.
It asked for details of her income and her residential status. It says it also checked Miss Ss
credit file. It has shared  what  it says is a high-level overview of the customers financial
status upon  application but adds that this represents just a small proportion of the data it
gathered. From what it has shared I can see it looked  at the number of accounts Miss S had,
her credit balance,  credit  score and calculated  a debt to income ratio. It has not explained
what the rest of the data was that it collected,  or what  it showed. From these  checks
combined Likely Loans  concluded Miss S had enough  monthly  disposable income  to afford
to repay both loans.
It has also provided a more detailed credit file with a search date of April 2019 (so 19 months
after the first loan application)  so Im unsure  how Likely  Loans used this data to reach  its
lending decisions.
Loan 1
For loan 1 Miss S said her annual income  was £26,532 and that she lived with her parents.
The high-level  overview from Likely Loans credit check shows that Miss S had total debts of
£3200 with eight active accounts.
It says her credit  file shows she was meeting  all her credit commitments at the time and
whilst she had old defaults  from 2014  and had used payday loans these  would not prevent a
customer being approved  as long as its lending criteria were being met. Given  the April 2019
search date of the credit file I am not clear whether Likely Loans reviewed this data at the
time of the application, or if this is retrospective analysis.
However, that aside, based on the above, I dont think Likely Loans affordability checks
were proportionate or borrower-focused. Miss S was applying for a loan over a term of 12
months and although the monthly repayments were low as a percentage of her income.
Likely Loans knew Miss S had a number of existing credit commitments shed have to
maintain but it hasnt  shown it understood the monthly cost to her. And although  Miss Ss
Ref: DRN59776995residential status was living with parents,  that shouldnt  mean  Likely Loans could
reasonably assume  shed  have  no living  costs - and Likely Loans hasnt shown it made  any
kind of estimate about what these might be. So it hasnt shown that it considered what
Miss Ss overall monthly expenditure  might have been. Given  it was deciding if Miss S could
sustainably afford to repay a loan for 12 months, I think it needed to understand this.
So, Ive looked at what I think  proportionate checks would  likely have shown. Had Likely
Loans looked to understand Miss Ss monthly costs it would have seen she was making
repayments on at least four short term loans  with three different lenders. She was also
paying £100  each month to a debt collections agency, and she was making  repayments on
three credit cards, as well as having other active high cost borrowing in the form of a line of
revolving credit. Miss S has told us she was spending around  £500 a month to meet her
existing credit  commitments.  And this was only on the basis of making minimum payments to
her credit cards and not including any amount she owed  on her overdraft. She says this ran
close to its limit of £2500 every month. What I have seen from her current account
transactions in the months prior to the loan application supports  this testimony.
Likely Loans might argue this still made loan 1 affordable  for Miss S given her income and
likely low living costs given she lived with her parents.  But to meet its regulatory  obligations it
needed to do more  than check it was affordable  on a pounds and pence basis. CONC
5.3.1(G) stated:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required a firm
should take into account  more than assessing the customer's ability  to repay  the
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required ... should include the
firm taking reasonable  steps  to assess the customer's  ability to meet repayments
under a regulated  credit  agreement  in a sustainable  manner without  the customer
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
I think  Likely  Loans ought to have  realised that giving  Miss S more credit  put her at high risk
of experiencing financial difficulty. There were signs that she was already finding  it
challenging to manage her financial position and that she was, or was close to, becoming
reliant on payday  lending and other credit to meet her ongoing financial commitments. The
credit report from April 2019 support this as it shows  Miss S had been using high-cost short
term loans frequently  (on at least  seven occasions) in the ten months prior to her application.
So Likely Loans ought to have realised it was unlikely  Miss S would be able to repay loan 1
sustainably. It follows I think if Likely Loans had carried  out proportionate checks  as a
responsible lender it would not have given Miss S loan 1.
Loan 2
For loan 2 Miss S said her annual income  was £34,800 and that she lived with her parents.
The high-level  overview from the lenders  credit check shows  that Miss S had total debts of
£9400 with nine active accounts. Likely Loans says her credit file shows she was meeting all
her credit commitments at the time - but again  it is not clear  whether it reviewed  this data at
the time of the application, or if this is retrospective analysis of her credit file.
For all the same reasons that I set out above for loan 1, I dont think  Likely Loans
affordability checks were  proportionate  or borrower-focused for loan 2. And this time Miss S
was applying for a higher  value loan over a longer  term of 24 months.  So, Ive looked at what
I think  proportionate checks would likely  have shown.
Likely Loans knew even  from its high-level  credit overview that Miss Ss indebtedness had
increased almost three-fold since she took out loan 1. Miss Ss credit file shows she had
closed one of her revolving  credit lines since she applied  for loan 1, but she had opened
three others in addition to two mail order accounts and a 36-month personal  loan. She was
Ref: DRN59776996still continuously using  her overdraft at close to its limit (another credit report  she has
provided shows she was £2274 overdrawn at the time of her application). So I can find no
evidence Miss Ss finances  were showing  any sign of either  stabilising  or improving, despite
a significant increase in income. From  what I have  seen from her current  account
transactions in the two months prior to this loan application Miss S was still spending  around
£500 a month  to meet  her existing credit  commitments. I think Likely  Loans ought  to have
realised Miss S was struggling to manage her money and was most likely  caught  in a cycle
of borrowing to repay.
Likely Loans says Miss S was proven to be a reliable  payer by this stage  and so factored
this in when evaluating  her application for loan 2. But I dont  think that is a safe conclusion.
Miss S repaid loan 1 early.  And whilst I accept early repayment  can be an indication of
improving financial stability, it can equally indicate someone is struggling to meet  their
repayments - and is most likely borrowing elsewhere to make the repayments.  I think  Likely
Loans ought to have realised from Miss Ss increased  indebtedness that it was unlikely  her
previous repayments were  made from a sustainable  source.
It follows I think if Likely Loans had carried  out proportionate checks  as a responsible  lender
it would have  made different lending  decisions for both loans.
Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably  towards Miss S in some  other way?
Miss S says Likely Loans failed to response to her complaint  in a timely manner, and hasnt
responded to her reduced repayment offer, although she continues to repay in line with the
proposal she submitted.
In the contact  history Likely Loans has provided  there is no correspondence  to Miss S in
which the lender acknowledges  it found  her initial  SAR and complaint from November 2018
in April 2019.  Likewise it does not address this point in its final response letter. I would ask
that it comments on this issue  in response to this provisional decision and submits any
related correspondence  it had with Miss S. If Miss S has retained  the relevant
correspondence it would  be helpful if she could submit that too.
If my final decision  is that I uphold  this complaint, as I am currently  planning to, I will then
have the power to also decide if Likely Loans needs to do anything else if I find it caused
avoidable trouble and upset  for Miss S.
With regards Miss Ss debt management plan, I can see Likely Loans  responded to Miss S
five days  after she notified  it she was having financial difficulties, confirming it would  wait for
details from her debt advisory service and place a hold on her account for 45 days. It seems
it then emailed confirming the temporary  arrangement  had been agreed for 12 months from
28/1/2019. Although it seems this may have been sent to an old email address. But I cant
see Miss S had responded to the lenders earlier query noting  she was emailing from a new
email and asking if she wanted her account updating.  So I cant  find any failure on the
lenders part in terms of agreeing a reduced repayment plan.
Putting things right
I think  its fair and reasonable  for Miss S to repay the capital that she borrowed, because she
had the benefit of that money.  But she has paid interest and charges  on two loans that
shouldnt have been provided to her.
It will have  to:
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss S towards  interest,  fees and
charges on loan 1, not including anything already refunded.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Miss S which  were
Ref: DRN59776997considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss S originally made the payments, to
the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any loan 2, and treat any
repayments made by Miss S as though they had been  repayments of the principal on loan 2.
If this results in Miss S having made overpayments then Likely Loans should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments,  from the date the
overpayments would have  arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.  Likely Loans should
then refund the amounts  calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should
be used to repay  any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus
then the surplus should be paid to Miss S. However if there is still an outstanding  balance
then Likely Loans should continue to support  the agreed repayment  plan or, if more
appropriate, agree a revised repayment plan with Miss S.
E) Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file relating to both loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Likely Loans to deduct tax from this interest. Likely Loans should 
give Miss S a certificate showing  how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
I am currently planning  to uphold Miss Ss complaint. If either party has anything  further to
add they must  do so before 11 March 2021.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5977699