K820x#14complaint
Ms V complains  that Aviva Insurance Limited declined her travel insurance claim and about 
its service. 
background
In 2016 Ms V was on holiday when she noticed that the rucksack she was carrying was open 
and the bag inside had been stolen. She went to the police to report the theft. She made  a 
claim through her travel insurance  with Aviva for sunglasses,  a pair of jeans, headphones,  
an iPod, cash and she told Aviva her credit  card was also inside the bag.
Aviva declined the claim as the police report only said Ms Vs bag was stolen which 
contained her credit  card.
Ms V complains  about the decline of the claim and about various aspects of Avivas service,  
in particular a phone  interview with her to discuss the claim. She said Aviva tried to avoid  
paying claims by looking  for loopholes,  employing intimidating and aggressive techniques 
including harassment.
Our investigator thought Aviva had fairly  declined the claim, treated Ms V fairly and given her 
reasonable service.
Ms V disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. In autumn 2018  she returned to the 
police station where she reported  the theft.  The police told her the report did say her bag had 
been stolen, not just her credit card. She says Aviva is wrong to say she only reported  a 
stolen credit card.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms V has told us about historical claims and problems shes  had with Aviva.  If she wishes  to 
complain about  previous  claims she would need to complain first to Aviva  and if there is still 
disagreement she can complain to us. We would need to decide if we could  look into those 
complaints depending on timescales.
This decision is just about her autumn  2016  claim for her stolen bag.
Ms V feels strongly that Aviva has treated her unfairly, but on the evidence I have I dont 
think it has. I dont uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
claim
Aviva doesnt dispute that Ms V reported a stolen bag, along with her credit card. The police 
report says her bag was stolen which contained  her named credit card. Avivas final 
response letter to Ms V says after the phone  interview with Ms V it spoke to the police 
station where she reported  the incident.  The police confirmed that the only items that you 
have reported  missing are your bag and (named)  credit card. 
Ref: DRN59117662Ms V has suggested that I listen to the call between  Aviva and the police officer as she 
believes Aviva  may have asked leading questions. I dont need  to do so because the police 
confirmed to Aviva what was in the written police report, which  the police have confirmed to 
Ms V.
The problem is the lack of information in the police  report. The policy  says Ms V has to 
report a loss or theft to the police  as soon as reasonably  possible and get a written  report. 
The police report only says the bag containing  her credit card was stolen. The items Ms V 
claimed for arent listed. 
Ms V says the police officer wasnt very interested in her situation  and didnt  ask her to detail  
the items.  Shes also said she couldnt  be completely sure of all the contents that were in her 
bag at the time and she returned home the next day. 
In the phone interview with Aviva Ms V said she had told the police officer about the other  
items, she couldnt explain why they werent in the report and said Aviva would have to 
speak to the police. When Aviva  did so the police confirmed what was in the written report.
The items Ms V has claimed for could have been in the stolen bag. But ultimately  its Ms Vs 
responsibility to prove she suffered a loss thats  insured  by the policy.  Shes claiming for 
cash and items worth  about £650  that arent  on the police report. Theres  no evidence that 
Ive seen which supports  those items  and cash were  stolen in the incident.
Aviva fairly and reasonably relied  on the police report  contents  and rejected the claim.
service
Ms V has raised many issues about  Avivas  service and Im going to focus on the main  
issues.
Ms V says during the phone interview  with Aviva about the claim she found  the tone 
and questions of Avivas representative highly  abusive and offensive. Ive listened  to 
all of the call recording. I think  Avivas representatives tone and questions were  
reasonable. Aviva understandably wanted to find out what happened during  the claim 
incident and check  Ms Vs claim history. The representative  did say it was slightly  
concerning that Ms V had made  similar  claims. She said she resented the 
accusation. But I dont think Aviva was making an accusation  it was saying it had 
concerns, which it had. 
During the call Ms V told Avivas representative that she was feeling harassed and he 
was being offensive.  He said that wasnt his intention and apologised if she felt like 
that. It was reasonable for Aviva to acknowledge Ms Vs feelings but I dont think 
Avivas representative  behaviour was abusive,  offensive or harassing.
Ms V says in the interview call Aviva  said shed made a claim in a country which  
wasnt the correct  one. She says she assumed the representative mentioned  the 
wrong country due to her name, which she considers racist behaviour. In the call 
Avivas representative  mentions a 2014 claim that took place in the other country. He 
didnt give the wrong  country for the current claim. I dont know  if the 2014  claim was 
for an incident in another or the same country  as the current claim.  But even if Aviva 
made a mistake about the 2014  claim country  theres no evidence to support that the 
mistake was racist behaviour or discrimination.
Ref: DRN59117663Ms V says Aviva  attempted to slander her reputation by contacting  the police 
without first advising her and says it shouldnt  have made  contact. But Avivas letter 
to Ms V of 3 October 2016 says:
Where you have supplied  details of third parties  who are connected to your 
claimwe may contact them to validate  the data supplied  and to assist in our 
assessment of your claim. By supplying their details you consent  to us making 
contact with these  third parties for this purpose.
Also in the interview call Ms V said Aviva  would have to contact the police for further 
information. Aviva acted fairly in contacting the police about  the claim.
Although there was a lengthy  investigation of the claim Aviva didnt cause 
unreasonable delays. Ms V notified  Aviva of the claim in September  2016. Initially it 
sent the claim form to her old email address, as well as in the post. Ms V confirmed 
she received the claim form in October  2016.  She returned the claim form in 
November 2016. It took several  months  for Aviva to get the police report,  and when 
received Aviva tried to arrange  an interview  with Ms V from February 2017. Ms V 
initially asked for a face to face interview  but for several reasons, including sadly  a 
bereavement in her family, that didnt happen. The phone  interview happened in 
November 2017. Aviva further investigated and it sent Ms V its final response letter in 
April 2018.
Ms V says Avivas  representative came to her house when she wasnt  available  and 
harassed her son. Unfortunately the representative  arrived for the face to face 
interview that had been arranged with Ms V as he hadnt  been told about  the 
cancellation due to the bereavement.  Aviva apologised for the error. I dont think  
Aviva turning up in error was harassment. I think it was mis-communication given that 
the appointment had to be cancelled a few days before. 
Ms V also says Avivas representative sent abusive texts before and on the day of 
the scheduled interview. I havent  seen those texts so I cant comment  on the tone. 
Ms V said to Aviva the tone of its text messages were inappropriate, but I dont know  
if those were the same  texts shes mentioned  to us. If Ms V wishes  to pursue that 
issue she will need to raise with Aviva and clarify what  text messages  she is referring 
to so it can respond. I make no finding on that matter.
Ms V says the USB stick Aviva sent to her with the phone  calls (at her request) didnt 
work. Aviva sent her the USB stick in April 2017  and she didnt tell Aviva it didnt work  
until September 2017. It then sent the calls by email  in September  so she would have 
the calls she wanted in time for the phone interview in November. Ms V has told us 
she couldnt listen to the calls through the email either. Theres no evidence she told 
Aviva about the issue before the phone interview. In any event, whether or not Ms V 
could listen to the calls doesnt change that Aviva could  fairly decline  the claim.
Ms V says that because of how shes been treated by Aviva shes  changed her travel 
insurance policy which  has caused her to be financially  disadvantaged. As Ive 
explained, I think Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably. Its Ms Vs personal choice if 
she wishes to change  her travel insurance.
Aviva has treated Ms V fairly and given her reasonable service.
Ref: DRN59117664my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5911766