K820x#14complaint
Miss B says Lloyds  Bank  PLC, when trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester  plc 
(C&G) mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.
background
Miss B took out a mortgage PPI policy in September 2006 at a meeting with C&G and at 
the same  time as she was taking out her mortgage.  The policy gave her protection 
against accident, sickness and unemployment  and she paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed, so the complaint was 
passed to me. She said, in summary,  she wasnt told that PPI was optional  and she didnt 
need or want PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Our general  approach  to 
complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed  it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know what was discussed at the time with C&G. Given  how long ago this was, I cant  
reasonably expect Miss B to remember everything from the time of sale either. Ive seen 
Miss Bs PPI application - she signed  it to say she wanted PPI. This was a separate 
document from her mortgage application, so I think it wouldve been clear  PPI was an 
optional and separate product and that she didnt need to have PPI to get the mortgage. I 
think it more likely that Miss B chose to take out PPI knowing  that she didnt  have to have it. 
I can understand why she may not remember it that way now.
C&G accepts it recommended the policy to Miss B. So it had to check it was right for 
her. It also had to give her information  about  the policy that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so that she could  decide for herself if she wanted  to buy it.
Ive looked carefully  at Miss Bs circumstances and I think  it was suitable. I say this 
because:
   Miss B met the policy requirements, so she was eligible for the cover;
   she was employed and said she would get at least six months  worth  of sick pay 
from her employer.  She also said she had at least  six months worth of pay in 
savings. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of her work benefits and possibly for 
longer, for up to 12 months per successful claim.  Having the cover  wouldve 
allowed her to use her work  benefits  and savings to meet her other household 
expenditure, knowing her mortgage repayments  were  protected. She couldve 
made repeated claims on the policy, providing her with long term protection.  So, 
overall, I think the PPI couldve been useful for Miss B if she was sick or lost her 
job;
   I cant see that Miss B was affected  by the main limitations or exclusions in the 
policy. So, as she couldve benefitted  from everything  the policy  offered, I dont 
Ref: DRN57093272think having better information about the things the policy didnt cover wouldve 
affected her decision to take out the policy. I think the PPI provided  her with 
valuable protection to safeguard her home;  and
  Ive seen  nothing to suggest that at the time of the sale the PPI wasnt  affordable. It 
cost her £39 per month.  She couldve cancelled the monthly paid policy  at any time 
without losing out financially.
Overall, I think the PPI was suitable  for Miss B.
As Ive said,  C&G also had to give Miss B information that was clear, fair and not misleading 
so that she could make  an informed choice  about the PPI. Its possible C&G couldve given 
her clearer  information,  particularly about  the costs of the policy. But for much the same 
reasons that I found the PPI was suitable,  I dont  think Miss B wouldve decided not to take 
out PPI if better  information had been provided.
It follows I dont  think shes lost out because  of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5709327