K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains about the way TSB Bank  plc handled his claim for a refund.
background
Mr Y purchased a bike using his TSB credit card. He only saw photos of the bike.  And when 
he received it he felt the goods had been  misrepresented. Mr Y wasnt  able to resolve the 
issue with the seller. So he asked TSB to refund his purchase costs.
TSB said itd asked the merchant to respond to Mr Ys representations. And Mr Y had been 
given a temporary refund of £895  while it was being investigated. But itd discovered that 
Mr Y had now sold the disputed goods. So it couldnt take his claim forwards.  And the 
charge would have to be put back on his account.
Mr Y wasnt  satisfied with TSBs  response.  So he contacted our service  and our investigator 
looked into the matter. She felt TSB had been  clear that the refund was temporary while the 
claim was being looked  into. And she couldnt see anything to suggest  TSB had told Mr Y 
that the case had been  resolved  and he could sell the bike. As he no longer had the goods 
she felt TSB had acted  correctly in cancelling the dispute. 
Mr Y said he never received the letter from TSB requesting further  responses.  And TSB had 
told him in a telephone call to sell the bike if the seller didnt respond  to his request  to collect 
it. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y asked TSB to recover  his payment for a purchase because he felt itd been 
misrepresented. But there  appears to have been  some confusion and Mr Y thought the 
matter had been settled in his favour. When he sold the goods he discovered the claim was 
still being investigated. And TSB said it would have  to cancel  the claim because  Mr Y no 
longer owned  the disputed goods. I can understand  Mr Ys frustration. So Ive looked 
carefully at everything  thats happened. 
TSB wrote to Mr Y in November 2017 to explain that a complete review of the claim was in 
progress. And further letters from TSB to Mr Y asked for his comments  to the merchants 
responses. So I think it shouldve been clear to Mr Y that the matter  had to be investigated. 
And a final decision  hadnt yet been  made.
TSB wrote to Mr Y again in January 2018.  Itd temporarily credited Mr Ys account with the 
amount involved.  And the merchants bank had 45 days to review the matter and provide 
information to substantiate the charge. The letter said TSB would contact Mr Y if any further 
information was received.  
I can see TSB contacted  Mr Y on 22 February  with an initial response from the merchant. It 
asked for Mr Ys response so it could consider the information. TSB wrote to Mr Y again on 
8 March to say it hadnt had a response to its letter of 22 February. And if it didnt hear from 
Mr Y within 14 days it would  close  the file. 
Ref: DRN54318542I think this may be where some confusion arose. TSB had contacted  Mr Y on 22 February 
asking for his comments on the merchants response.  Mr Y didnt reply.  When TSB wrote  to 
Mr Y on 8 March it said no reply had been  received. And if it didnt hear from Mr Y within  14 
days it would  assume  the matter had been  resolved to his satisfaction.
TSB was saying it needed a response from Mr Y. But Mr Ys letter to TSB of 19 March says 
he thought the case  had been closed because the merchant hadnt  responded. Not because 
he hadnt responded. Mr Y said he thought the matter had been resolved  when  the money 
was paid back onto his card. So he wrote to the seller to say he would sell the bike for scrap 
if it wasnt collected.
I cant be sure exactly what  has happened. But Ive looked carefully  at TSBs letters  and 
Mr Ys responses. TSB explained in each letter that an investigation was progressing.  It said 
it would  review both Mr Ys comments and those  of the seller.  And it would ask for further 
responses to anything it received from either  party. And I think  TSB was clear the repayment 
was only temporary while  the matter  was being reviewed.
Its not the role of this service to decide  upon the merits of the claim. I can only look at TSBs 
actions in response to Mr Ys request for a refund. 
I realise Mr Y says he was told by a member of TSBs staff that it hadnt heard back from the 
merchant. So he could  give the seller seven days notice to collect the bike before it was 
sold. And I dont doubt his version  of events.  But Ive not seen anything  to suggest TSB 
didnt send the letters asking for Mr Ys comments on the merchants response. And Ive not 
seen anything to confirm that Mr S was told the matter  had been  resolved in his favour  and 
he could now sell the bike.  
If the claim had been successful Mr S wouldve had to return  the goods to the seller.  And 
once TSB discovered he had sold the bike the bank explained it couldnt proceed with the 
claim. Mr S no longer had the goods  - so he couldnt  return  them if the claim was successful.  
Thats why TSB felt there was no longer a viable basis to continue  the claim.
I appreciate how upsetting this must  be for Mr Y. And I realise the sale proceeds  are less 
than the amount Mr Y originally paid for the goods.  But unfortunately TSB was unable  to 
proceed with the claim once Mr Y had sold the disputed  goods. And Ive not seen  anything  to 
suggest the bank has done  anything wrong in how it handled  Mr Ys request. So I wont  be 
asking it to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5431854