K821x#15complaint
Ms G says that Instant  Cash  Loans  Limited, trading  as Money  Shop, lent to her 
irresponsibly. She also says that the interest charges and fees she paid were extortionate.
background
I sent Ms G and Money  Shop my provisional decision on 19 June 2019. A copy is attached 
and it forms part of this final decision. I explained  why I was planning to uphold Ms Gs 
complaint and asked  both parties  to let me know if they had anything  to add. Neither Ms G 
nor Money Shop sent me anything new to consider.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has disagreed with my provisional  decision, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings. So Im upholding Ms Gs complaint, for the same  reasons as given 
in my provisional decision.
putting things right
Ms G has an outstanding balance with Money  Shop. So Money Shop must remove  all 
interest and charges from the balance of the loan and treat any payments made as if they 
were payments towards  the principal.  Money  Shop should also remove any adverse 
information it recorded about the loan from Ms Gs credit  history  although it only needs to 
do this once the loan has been repaid.  I leave it to Ms G and Money Shop to discuss  how 
the remaining  principal  balance will be repaid.
my final decision
I uphold Ms Gs complaint. Instant  Cash Loans Limited must put things  right in the way Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN53022882COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms G says that Instant  Cash Loans Limited, trading as Money Shop, lent to her irresponsibly. She 
also says that the interest charges and fees she paid were extortionate.
To be clear,  this decision  is about one pay day loan Ms G took out online in April 2016. Im aware 
Ms G has a separate complaint against Money Shop  about  loans she took out in store   these loans 
are not covered by this decision.
background
Ms G had one online  payday  loan with Money Shop in April 2016, it was for £650 with a term of five 
months. Our adjudicator considered Ms Gs complaint but she didnt think  the loan was lent 
irresponsibly. Ms G didnt  accept the adjudicators view,  so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
did Money Shop  lend to Ms G irresponsibly?
When Ms G took out the online loan Money Shop  asked  her some questions about  her income  and 
expenditure. It seems  Ms G said her income was £2,100 a month and her expenditure totalled about  
£1,470. Based on these figures, Ms Hs approximate disposable income each month appeared  to be 
£630. As the loan repayments were a little under £200 a month, Money Shop  was happy the loan was 
affordable.
Having reviewed  Ms Gs complaints against Money Shop, I am concerned that Ms G still had an 
outstanding balance with it in respect of the in store (or retail)  loans. Shed taken out a retail loan in 
July 2013, which later went  into default. The last payment Ms G made  towards that loan was in 
July 2015  some two years  after it commenced. There was still an outstanding balance of £126 at 
that time but no further payments were made.
Ms G later applied  for the online loan, about ten months after she last made  a payment towards  the 
retail loan. I asked Money Shop how information about Ms Gs online and in-store loans was shared 
within the business. It said that the online system  wouldnt have  cross-referenced the retail  system 
before a lending decision was made. It also pointed out that Ms G had a new address when she 
applied for the online loans, which wasnt linked to the address she had at the time of the retail loans. 
Ive thought about these  points, but Im not currently persuaded Money Shop  wasnt (or shouldnt  
reasonably) have been aware Ms G had an outstanding defaulted debt with it at the time she applied 
for the online loan.
Money Shops parent  company has previously told this service that it has safeguards in place  to 
ensure a customer could only have  one active loan in place with all of its brands. And that this should  
mean a customer with an active loan with one brand shouldnt be able to take out a loan with another.
I accept checks like this wont always be successful  particularly where applicants provide 
significantly different information between  loan applications.
Ref: DRN53022883But Ive noted that in Ms Gs case she provided Money Shop with the same first name, last name and 
date of birth for her retail and online loans.  And it looks like she also provided  the same mobile  
number. So Im not persuaded that providing a different address would be a real barrier to identifying 
Ms G as an existing retail  loan customer. Particularly as the retail loan was still active  albeit the 
notes for that loan suggest  Money  Shop wasnt actively pursuing repayment. I also note that 
Money Shop spoke to Ms G before the loan was approved, so the process wasnt entirely  automated 
and there  was an opportunity to look more closely at Ms Gs application.
So on balance, I think Money Shop should  reasonably have realised that Ms G had an outstanding 
defaulted retail loan with it when she applied for the online loan. In those circumstances, and in line 
with both what  I understand  to be its policy and what I consider to be responsible lending, I dont think 
Money Shop shouldve  approved the online loan. Ms G had an outstanding  balance  for a significant  
period of time  and had clearly been in financial difficulty.  Further lending, without resolving  the 
defaulted loan, would likely  impact Ms Gs financial situation adversely. It would increase  her 
indebtedness to Money Shop at a time Money Shop shouldve been seeking to reduce  it.
Im therefore  planning to uphold Ms Gs complaint  about the lending  being irresponsible.
were the interest and other fees charged extortionate?
As Im currently planning to direct Money Shop to write off the interest payable on this loan the 
amount of interest charged is likely now not of importance. But my final decision  might not be the 
same as my provisional decision, so Ill address the question  anyway.
The total amount Ms G was scheduled to repay for this loan was £971.80  meaning the interest 
payable was £321.80. This means  the interest is about half of the principal amount borrowed.
The regulator  imposes a price cap on this type of loan  the most  Money Shop could charge  in 
interest is 0.8% per day and the overall cost of the loan cant be more than 100% of the principal. 
Theres also a default fee cap of £15.
So the amount of interest (daily and total) Money Shop charged  on this loan is well within the price 
cap. And overall I dont think the amount  charged for the loan is extortionate. Ive seen no evidence  
Money Shop added any excessive fees or charges  to the loan. From  what  I have seen,  the balance  of 
the loan never exceeded  £971.80  even  after the loan went into default.  It appears that no extra  fees 
were charged after Ms G became unemployed and that Money Shop capped the interest applied at 
the original  amount Ms G wouldve owed had the loan been repaid on time.
I therefore  dont intend to uphold this aspect of Ms Gs complaint.
  
putting things  right
Ms G has an outstanding balance with Money Shop in respect of the online  loan. So I plan to tell 
Money Shop to remove all interest and charges from the balance of the loan and treat any payments 
made as if they were payments towards the principal. Money  Shop should  also remove any adverse 
information recorded about the loan from Ms Gs credit history  although  it only needs to do this once  
the loan has been repaid.
Based on the information available to me, taking  the steps set out above will still leave a balance to 
repay. I think its fair the principal balance  is repaid, as Ms G had the use of that money.
my provisional  decision
I plan to uphold Ms Gs complaint in part and to tell Instant Cash Loans Limited to put things right by 
taking the steps set out above.
Ref: DRN5302288