K822xcomplaint
Mr H has complained about RAC Insurance Limiteds handling of his European breakdown  
cover.
Reference to RAC includes their agents.
background 
Mr H was driving in a European  country with his family in September  2018 when his car 
broke down.  He called for RAC assistance.  RAC towed  him to a local garage where it was 
established that there was a serious  problem with the cars gearbox. The garage estimated a 
new replacement gearbox would cost around  6,000 euros. Another possibility was 
rebuilding the existing gearbox at a cost of 4,000 euros.
RAC said as Mr Hs car was worth  around £2,700 (which was under 4,000  euros)  it was 
beyond economical repair. That meant because the total cost of repairing the car was 
greater than the cars market value, he was excluded from benefitting from the policy.  So, 
that meant  RAC wouldnt  return the car to the UK; or pay for the cars storage costs,  to name 
just two benefits under the policy if a valid claim was made.  RAC told Mr H he could pay to 
have the car repaired himself; pay to have it returned to the UK; or RAC could arrange for it 
to be destroyed  abroad. Mr H asked if RAC could transport his car to an address in the 
country in which  it had broken down. RAC said that could be arranged  but Mr H would have 
to pay 650 euros for that to be done.
Mr H didnt think that RACs  actions were fair and he complained.  He said he got a quote to 
repair his car in the UK which was a fraction  of the cost of the estimate abroad.  I understand 
Mr H felt that because  the car could be repaired for much less in the UK RAC should not 
treat it as being  beyond economical repair. Mr H felt RAC should at least  return  his car to the 
UK.
RAC said that as they acted in accordance with the policy terms they didnt uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. Mr H didn't  think  that was fair so he brought his complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked into it. He felt that RAC hadnt  done anything wrong. 
I should say that once  our service started  looking into Mr Hs complaint he decided  to pay to 
have the overseas garage repair his car. And RAC  said they would pay for Mr Hs costs  to 
travel to the country  where his car was being kept to recover it once it was repaired. But 
while that was being considered the garage  said Mr H would have  to pay their storage costs 
first. Mr H didnt think that was fair as he felt under his breakdown  policy he wasnt 
responsible for storage  costs. So, he asked  for an ombudsman to review his entire 
complaint. As a result,  his complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr H, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr H has made a number of detailed points and Ive considered  all those  
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if RAC have  dealt with Mr H in a fair and reasonable way.
Ref: DRN58162272The breakdown policy Mr H had itemised what benefits were available  to him and in what  
circumstances. Like all insurance policies,  Mr Hs policy also had some  limitations.  The 
policy did provide  cover in some  circumstances for RAC to assist Mr H in the event of a 
breakdown abroad. The policy said RAC  would: help to have his car repaired  at the roadside 
if possible; or recover the car to a local garage  for fault diagnosis.  The policy also said RAC 
would pay for the initial fault diagnosis and contribute up to £150  towards the garage labour 
charges if the car could be repaired that same day. There were other benefits under the 
policy, such as RAC  would help Mr H purchase replacement parts if they cannot be found 
locally and pay for them  to be delivered.  But the policy  said no cover  would be provided if 
the vehicle repair costs will be more  than its market value.
Under section F4 of the policy it said: RAC  will arrange and pay for the cars return  to the 
UK in the event  the car broke  down  abroad and it couldn't be repaired before Mr Hs planned  
return to the UK. In addition to returning the car to the UK, RAC  would  either pay storage 
charges for the car whilst  awaiting  its return to the UK; or if the car is repaired in Europe 
RAC would pay Mr Hs travel and accommodation  costs  for him to collect  the car from 
abroad. But the policy made it clear that RAC wouldnt pay for any costs  if the vehicle is 
beyond economical  repair. [my emphasis]
The policy defined beyond economical repair as being where  the total cost required to 
repair the vehicle,  including  any taxes, is greater  than the market  value of the vehicle.  Ive 
seen a number  of industry accepted  car valuation guides, which  the policy says RAC should 
use. They show that at the time Mr Hs car broke  down its market  value  was under £3,000. 
And at that time that amount was below 4,000  euros. Im aware that Mr H said he got 
substantially cheaper  quotes to repair his car from garages in the UK. In other words, he 
feels that as the quotes he obtained to repair his car were  lower than the market value of his 
car, it wasnt beyond economical  repair. But Mr Hs policy says: if the vehicle has broken 
down or had a road traffic collision in Europe,  the total cost required to repair  the vehicle will 
be based on the estimate for repair provided  by the service provider in the applicable country 
in Europe where  the breakdown or road traffic  collision  has occurred. That means RAC 
were reasonable in relying on the estimate  of the overseas garage in deciding  the repair cost 
was higher than the cars market value, which meant it was uneconomical to repair. I 
therefore think RAC correctly concluded Mr Hs car was uneconomical to repair.
RACs decision therefore meant that under  the policy they werent  required  to pay any costs 
to return Mr Hs car back to the UK or to an address abroad. Likewise, RAC werent required 
to pay for Mr Hs travel and accommodation  costs for him to go to the country in which his 
car was to recover it back to the UK himself. But RAC did offer to pay those costs even 
though they didnt have  to, which I think was reasonable. And under the policy, RAC werent 
responsible for the storage costs the overseas  garage charged Mr H. Mr H said that RACs 
refusal to return his car to the UK and the time it took them to decide they would pay for his 
expenses to travel overseas to recover his car himself had a direct  impact on the storage 
costs the garage  wanted him to pay. I think Mr H meant that had RAC  returned  his car to the 
UK it wouldnt have been  in storage. And if it they had decided  to pay his travel and 
accommodation expenses  sooner,  his car would  have  been in storage for a much shorter 
period of time and the storage costs  would have been lower. But, as Ive explained earlier,  
under the policy  RAC didnt have to return Mr Hs car to the UK or pay for his travel 
expenses. I therefore think  RAC acted reasonably and in accordance with the policy terms 
and conditions.
Ref: DRN58162273my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.   
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5816227