K822xcomplaint
Miss B complains  about the trouble and upset  caused by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Plcs (RSA)  handling  of her buildings insurance claim for water damage  to her home. 
background 
At the very end of July 2017 there was an escape of water  from a pipe underneath a vanity 
unit in Miss Bs bathroom. The bathroom, kitchen below and hallway were damaged.  Miss B 
claimed under her home  insurance policy. RSA accepted the claim and appointed 
contractors to start drying out the home  and loss adjusters to handle the claim. Other 
contractors were also appointed to strip out and reinstate the house. A few days later      
Miss B, her partner  and young  child were  moved into alternative  accommodation  (AA). 
Initially it was estimated that Miss B and her family should be back in the house by the end 
of October. But the claim was badly handled  by RSA and its contractors. There  was poor 
workmanship, un-necessary delays and poor communication throughout. Miss B was put to 
considerable inconvenience.  As RSA was unable to satisfactorily resolve  the issues with its 
reinstatement of Miss Bs home, it offered  her a cash settlement in early  March 2018. Miss B 
accepted the cash  settlement and made arrangements for her own contractors to complete 
the necessary  works. These included largely stripping out the replacement  kitchen and re-
starting the fit out again. It wasnt until July 2018 that the home  was properly restored.  
Miss B complained to RSA about  the way her claim had been handled. RSA apologised for 
the level of service Miss B had experienced. It accepted  that the performance of its 
contractors had fallen  well below  the standards it expected of them.  It also accepted Miss B 
had suffered more  than most and it offered her compensation  of £500. 
Miss B was unhappy  with the amount of compensation RSA offered her so she complained 
to this service. She said she and her family had been caused  insurmountable stress and that 
her daughter  had been ill. She said she thought RSAs offer of compensation wasnt  a fair 
one for the significant amount of avoidable  disruption and inconvenience  the family  had 
been caused. Miss B felt that compensation of between £2,000 and £2,500 was fairer in the 
circumstances. 
Our adjudicator investigated Miss Bs complaint and recommended that it was upheld.  She 
thought that RSA should pay Miss B total compensation of £750 for the distress and 
inconvenience its poor service had caused  her. RSA agreed  with our adjudicator but Miss B 
didnt. She asked for her complaint to be referred  for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive only included a very brief summary  here of what happened during the handling of     
Miss Bs escape of water  claim. But Id like to reassure her that I have  read her extensive  
accounts of what  happened in full and I dont dispute that this was a very poorly handled 
claim. 
When this service looks at whether to award  compensation where consumers have 
complained about the way their insurance  claim has been handled by their insurer, we look 
at what additional,  avoidable trouble and upset the insurer has caused. All insurance claims 
Ref: DRN54781292attract a level of inconvenience, some more than others. Thats to be expected  and cant be 
avoided. But where an insurer  has made  an already stressful situation worse  by its actions 
(or inaction) that is what we look at when deciding how much  compensation to award. 
Its not disputed   even by RSA  that this was a particularly poorly handled claim. It has 
said the service it provided to Miss B was unacceptable and I agree. That being  the case, I 
have to decide what compensation it should  fairly pay to Miss B. This service isnt the 
industry regulator and the awards  we make arent meant to punish a business.  Rather  we 
look at the impact a business  actions as a whole have had on a consumer.  And I can see 
from the evidence  that the impact has been  substantial. 
I dont think that £500  is sufficient compensation  in the circumstances of this complaint. But 
nor do I think an award of £2,000 to £2,500 would be reasonable. Although I appreciate  it will 
come as disappointment  to Miss B I think that compensation  of £750 fairly and reasonably 
reflects the trouble and upset RSAs poor service caused her. If this case  had come before  
me without  any award having been made then its unlikely that I wouldve awarded more.  
In reaching my decision Ive also thought about the comments  Miss Bs made in response to 
our adjudicators view.  Unfortunately they havent persuaded me that RSA should pay her 
more than £750 in compensation. I sympathise with everything Miss B said in her email, 
however, her comments dont include any new evidence not already considered by our 
adjudicator. Unfortunately  for Miss B, theres no evidence directly linking RSAs  actions to 
her daughters ill health without which it wouldnt be reasonable for me to recommend that 
compensation be increased.  On balance I think that compensation of £750 fairly  reflects the 
trouble and upset  RSA caused Miss B and her family and is in line with awards made  by this 
service in similar circumstances. 
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc 
to pay Miss B £250  in addition to the £500  it has already offered her (making  a total payment 
of £750) for the trouble and upset  its poor handling  of the claim caused her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5478129