K821x#15complaint
Miss D says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on a store  card.
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 2000.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Miss D owed on her store card.  The policy  would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Miss D couldnt work  
because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy  also provided life cover  
as well as price and purchase  protection.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL  disagreed and so the complaint has been passed  
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Miss Ds case.
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy was taken  out in store. Both Miss D and FICL agree that FICL didnt  recommend  
the policy. So it didnt  have to check  that the policy was right for her but it did need to give 
her clear  enough information  to enable her to decide for herself if this cover  was right for 
her.
I dont think that FICL did give her clear enough information. I say this because, although the 
application form confirms  how much Miss D would pay for each pound she spent on the 
card, it doesnt explain that interest would be charged on those premiums if there was an 
outstanding balance or that she would need to keep paying the premiums during a claim. So 
I dont think its likely  Miss D would  have been aware of the true cost of the policy.
I think this would have mattered to Miss D as she has told us that she would have 
received at least six months  full pay from her employer if she had been unable  to work 
due to illness. And she has told us that she had savings and other means  which were the 
equivalent of at least six months  of her salary.
The benefit  available under the FICL policy  was relatively high  15% of the outstanding 
balance each month until she was able to return to work or until that balance  was cleared. 
But the cost was high too. And given what Miss D has told us about her employee  benefits 
and savings, I dont think she would have thought this policy  would have been good  value for 
money in her circumstances.
Ref: DRN54399542Following the adjudicators opinion, FICL  has provided notes  of a conversation it says it 
had with Miss D and referred  to the information about the amount of savings she had. It 
says it thinks its unlikely  the amount Miss D told us she had in savings that were equal to 
six months of her pay. Ive reviewed the call notes provided and I can see that Miss D 
gives some  details about her circumstances  at the time and what  her income and 
expenditure was due to these. So taking these into account,  I think its plausible that she 
couldve managed  for some time on the other  means she had available.
So, when taking  everything into consideration, I think that if she had been given clear 
information about the true costs  of the policy Miss D wouldnt  have taken it out. And I think  
she has lost out as a result of what FICL did wrong.
what the business needs  to do to put things right
FICL should put Miss D in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken  out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Miss D would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss D owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss D made a successful  claim  under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss D would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  FICL works out what Miss D would  have owed each month without  PPI  
Miss D paid more  than enough  to clear her balance, FICL should  also pay simple 
interest on the extra Miss D paid.  And it should  carry  on paying interest until the point 
when Miss D wouldve owed  FICL  something  on her card.  The interest rate should  be 
8% a year.  
D.FICL should tell Miss D what  its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Miss D a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2019.
Ref: DRN54399543Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5439954