K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unreasonably refused to provide him with 
a quote for a motor insurance policy.
background
Mr Ss wife applied to Aviva on Mr Ss behalf to get a quote  for a motor  insurance policy. 
Mr S is elderly and holds  a standard, valid DVLA licence. 
Avivas representative  went through the quote and given the type of car Mr S wanted to 
insure, he said its guidelines didnt permit him to quote Mr S for a motor policy.
Mr S complained but Aviva didnt change its mind  so he brought his complaint to us. The 
adjudicator didnt think Aviva had done  anything wrong. Mr S disagreed, so his complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
I do understand and appreciate that Mr S believes its contrary to the Equality Act for Aviva 
to have not provided him with a quote  for his car insurance. However, this service  isnt set up 
to decide issues,  which might be contrary to the Equality Act. That is solely  a matter for the 
courts.
Were merely set up to deal with consumers complaints about businesses  that provide 
financial services and various financial products, motor insurance  being one of them. Our 
remit is to see if the business did anything wrong  in its dealings with a specific  consumer.  If 
not, we explain  why. If so, we decide  what the business must do to put things right.  Were 
independent and dont favour one party over the other, and are solely  set up under statute 
as an alternative dispute  resolution service, which is totally  free for the consumer to use.
Here, Mr S asked Aviva to provide  a quote  for a motor policy. Aviva said it couldnt, as it 
doesnt wish to insure people of Mr Ss age who also wanted to insure  the class of car, Mr S 
was driving at the time. Provided this is how Aviva would treat everyone  of Mr Ss age 
driving that class  of car, then it follows  that Aviva wasnt  treating Mr S unfairly or indeed  
singling him out unreasonably. 
Aviva has shown me that this is what its underwriting guides say, so Im satisfied its entitled 
to have refused  to provide  Mr S with a quote,  as it would refuse to provide a quote  for any 
other person of Mr Ss age driving  that class  of car. I consider this is fair under the auspices 
of treating customers fairly. The issue here wasnt just Mr Ss age, as Aviva can and does  
insure people  of Mr Ss age, it was to do with the class of car Mr S wanted  to insure.
Insurers are entitled to decide  what  class of risk they wish to insure. Some motor  insurers  
dont insure a provisional driver at all, whatever their age. Some  motor insurers dont insure  
young drivers asking  to insure a certain  class of car either. Some  motor insurers  dont insure 
someone whos been unfortunate enough to have too many claims in the last set number of 
years and so it goes on. 
Ref: DRN50467812These are proper and coherent  business  reasons for each individual  insurer and provided 
they treat everyone the same, according to their individual companys underwriting criteria, 
thats not discrimination, its simply a business decision for each individual insurer.  In 
addition, its not one I would seek to interfere  with, as that would be outside my remit as an 
ombudsman in this service. This service is not the regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority  
is and its remit and powers can be found online on its website.
As Mr S discovered, there were  a selection of other  insurers more  than happy to provide him 
with a quote and with an insurance policy. Just as there are many  insurers who will insure 
provisional drivers and young drivers driving  any class of car, and drivers with too many 
claims in the last set number of years, as well.
So, whilst I can understand it was upsetting for Mr S to be refused a quote  from Aviva.  Aviva  
hasnt done anything wrong,  as thats  what its present underwriting criteria  permits it to do. 
And its entitled to decide what cover it offers as it sees fit, as regards the risks presented  to 
it. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5046781