K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that following the withdrawal of £25,000 from TSB Bank plc (TSB) he 
discovered that one of the bundles of cash didnt contain the correct  amount.  He wants  the 
shortfall paid to him.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 15 March 2019. A copy of it is attached and 
it forms part of this final decision. The full background to the complaint is set out in my 
provisional decision and as such I wont reiterate it here.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was planning on upholding the complaint and 
asking TSB to make up the shortfall  in the money  it gave Mr A  and pay him £100 
compensation for the inconvenience this caused. I asked Mr A and TSB to let me know if 
there was anything else they wanted me to consider.
TSB said it accepted the provisional  decision as it couldnt provide any further  evidence  to 
show the audit  trail of the money. And Mr A also accepted my findings.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr A nor TSB sent me anything else to consider, I see no reason to change  my 
provisional findings. Im therefore upholding Mr As complaint,  for the same  reasons given in 
my provisional decision.
my final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint  against TSB Bank  plc. TSB Bank Plc should pay Mr A the £500 
shortfall and in addition TSB should pay £100  for the distress and inconvenience this matter  
has caused him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN57622742copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr A complains that following the withdrawal  of £25,000 from TSB Bank plc (TSB) he discovered that 
one of the bundles of cash didnt contain the correct amount. He wants the shortfall paid to him.
background
In November 2017 Mr A made arrangements  to withdraw a large cash  sum from a TSB branch. The 
money was given to him in a sealed envelope. Mr A said he wasnt advised  to count  the money  and 
says it wasnt  counted  out in front of him either.
When he opened one of the sealed bundles  some days later he says it was £500 short. He contacted  
TSB to explain  what had happened. He said he still had a number of unopened bundles and wanted 
to open them in a TSB branch to ensure they were  correct.
 
TSB said that, following an audit of the branch accounts that day, no discrepancy was found   so it 
wouldnt repay  the missing  money. It also said it was Mr As responsibility to check the money  before 
he left the branch. 
Mr A didnt agree.  He said he wasnt offered the chance to check  the money or offered a   room in 
which to do that. He maintained  that the money should have been counted out to him by a cashier.  He 
wasnt happy with TSBs position so he brought the complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators  looked  into the complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld.  He said that he 
couldnt safely  conclude whether or not Mr A had been offered the opportunity to check  the cash 
when it was handed to him, but he hadnt seen anything to suggest there was a cash  discrepancy in 
the tills in the branch on the day. So he didnt think TSB was required to pay Mr A £500.
Mr A didnt agree.  He was adamant  that hed not been asked to check the money in branch  and said it 
would have been dangerous to do so because of the location of the branch. He also said we hadnt 
investigated the trail of the money  before  it got to the branch. 
He thought our investigation  was incomplete. As no resolution could be found the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
Mr A has since  confirmed that he has checked the remaining  bundles of cash  and they contained  the 
correct amounts.
For clarity this decision will only be considering Mr As complaint about  TSB.  I wont be looking at Mr 
As comments about the way his complaints been handled by this service as this has already been 
dealt with separately
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I can see Mr A feels strongly that hes been  treated unfairly by TSB 
with regards to both the missing money and also the lack of investigation he says TSB has 
undertaken to prove what happened to the money. 
TSB on the other hand says it was Mr As responsibility to check  the money before he left the branch 
and it gave him the opportunity to do that. It says there was no discrepancy  in the branch  tills around 
that time so it doesnt think theres a shortfall for it to make  up.
Although I have no reason to dispute what Mr A has said, the photographic evidence of serial 
numbers for the bundle in question which he has provided isnt enough to show the bundle of notes  
he received was short  by £500. But I can see why he wanted TSB to confirm the audit trail of the 
money to try to ascertain where any mistake  may have been made. 
Ref: DRN57622743So Ive asked  TSB to explain how the money was originally counted and to show clearly that the tills 
balanced at the end of that day  and for the following  day. But Im not satisfied that TSB has been 
able to do this and I havent seen enough evidence from it to show the branch accounts did balance.  
The evidence  it has provided  is a checklist of questions that Mr A was asked about  around his 
circumstances and a cash control sheet, which  appears to be a record of cash  in and out of the till. 
TSB says that if the till didnt balance  then it would  be recorded on this sheet. And I can see this sheet  
shows that £25,000 was received from other tills and £25,000 was issued  to other tills, but I dont 
think this is enough to show the money handed to Mr A was correct.  
As I understand it, the money was prepared in advance of Mr As arrival  and placed in a sealed 
envelope, so I wouldnt  expect the cash control sheet  to show a discrepancy. So I dont think this 
document on its own is enough to show there wasnt a discrepancy in the money that was given to Mr 
A. 
I have noted TSBs confirmation that the cashier involved is of good standing and hasnt had any 
previous significant cash errors. But Ive gone on to think about  TSBs internal instructions  on how 
staff should process a withdrawal at the counter. It says that  for withdrawals over £10,000,  the cash 
must be prepared in the secure  area with 2 partners checking the bundles.  The cash  must be brought  
from the secure area in the envelope, and then hand the cash over to the customer. In this respect,  
Ive not seen  enough evidence  to show this process was followed for Mr As withdrawal. Indeed  the 
cashier recollected that she wasnt sure if the money was double checked. So I cant safely say TSB 
adhered to its own process in this case. I note the cashier did say that the cash was in sealed  bags. 
And the money was already  sealed in bundles  in the safe.  But TSB hasnt given any explanation or 
details of the audit trail of those bundles.
 
TSB has said that Mr A should have checked the money himself and that it offered  him the facility to 
do so. Mr A says he wasnt  offered such a facility  and in any case the branch security and location 
made it difficult to do that. TSB has told us that it no longer has the CCTV footage for the date of Mr 
As visit to the branch. So other than the individual parties very different testimonies, there isnt any 
other evidence for me to safely conclude whether  or not Mr A was offered  the chance to count  the 
money before leaving the branch. And I accept that Mr A says he wasnt offered the chance to count 
the money, and that he had concerns  about  the security of counting  out the cash  in an open area. But 
I do think TSB should have a clear audit trail of how the money came  to be in the safe, and whether  it 
was checked before  it was given to Mr A. And Im not satisfied  based  on what Ive seen, that TSB 
has sufficiently demonstrated that trail. 
So, on balance,  because TSB has been  unable  to satisfy of an audit trail for the money before it was 
paid to Mr A, Im minded  to uphold this complaint. However, if TSB is able to provide further 
documentary evidence  such as specific evidence that the cash  was checked by two staff members 
and an audit  trail of where the sealed  envelopes came from  I will consider the matter further.
I note TSB said it considered it unusual that Mr A waited  several weeks to open the first bundle   and 
that when he complained  Mr A hadnt  opened any of the other bundles.  But 
Mr A has said he assumed  that the bundles were correct and he wanted the money to buy a car, 
therefore didnt need to open the sealed bundles  before he purchased the vehicle. Its not for me to 
say how soon  Mr A should have opened his money but I dont  think that has any bearing  on the merits 
of Mr As complaint that some money was missing when he did open the bundle.  But I now 
understand that all the other bundles contained  the correct amount of cash when they were checked 
by Mr A.
my provisional  decision
Based on the information available at present,  Im minded to uphold Mr As complaint against TSB 
Bank plc.
TSB Bank  Plc should  pay Mr A the £500 shortfall.
Ref: DRN57622744In addition TSB should pay Mr A £100  for the distress  and inconvenience this matter has caused him. 
I think  the loss of £500  would have caused Mr A a significant amount of worry in the circumstances. 
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5762274