K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) unfairly  applied  a late payment 
fee to his credit card account. He believes Tescos  mobile banking app displayed  incorrect  
information leading  him to make an insufficient  payment  to his account and thus triggering a 
late payment fee. He wants Tesco  to refund the fees and remove  from his credit  file any 
marker. He also wants to receive  compensation for the inconvenience he has suffered.
background
Mr R held a credit card account with Tesco. His limit was £3,400. Tesco  issued paper 
statements to him on the 25th of each month.  On the 25 August 2018  his statement showed 
that his balance was £3,478.84 and the minimum payment was £115.86 was due by the 
14 September. Payment  was not made by that date and so a late payment fee of £12 was 
applied to the account.
On 25 September  another statement was produced  and sent to Mr R. This showed that his 
balance was £3,533.92 and the minimum payment was £250.02 due by the 20 October. 
Mr R made  a payment  of £134.16 on the 3 October but as this was less than that due for the 
combined total of the August and September statements, he failed to meet the minimum 
payment for the September statement and incurred another £12 late payment fee. Mr R also 
made a payment of £100 on the 26 October. 
In his complaint,  Mr R said that he made  payment of £234.16 based on what  he had seen on 
his mobile banking app. He feels it is unfair to penalise him for a late payment fee when he 
complied with the request for the minimum payment on the mobile app.
Tesco say that there  are known issues with the mobile app but nevertheless  they sent Mr R 
monthly paper statements  in the post and his mobile  app also had the facility for him to view 
his statements in pdf format. As it was part of the Terms and Conditions of his account that 
he made regular  monthly payments to his account, and as he had not, Tesco said they had 
applied the late payment  fees correctly. Tesco didnt accept they had acted unfairly  and said 
the statements  they sent Mr R clearly  set out what he had to pay.
Mr R was unhappy with Tescos response  and so an adjudicator from this service  looked into 
the complaint  but didnt think Tesco had done  anything wrong. Mr R disagreed with that view 
and so the matter  has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All bank  customers naturally have a responsibility to manage their own accounts. I am 
satisfied from the evidence here that monthly statements were  sent to Mr R. I appreciate he 
said he never asked  for them and that if he does receive them he puts them  immediately in 
the bin. But I am satisfied  they were actually sent to him. It is also clear from his 
correspondence that he knew he was getting them.  So I am satisfied that if Mr R wished to 
read his statements he had the opportunity to do so. I am further satisfied that within  the 
mobile banking  app Mr R has the ability to locate  his statements if he wishes.  
Mr R would certainly be aware that he had missed his August statement payment, since he 
paid nothing. In line with the terms and conditions the £12 fee was applied, and I think that is 
Ref: DRN51966102fair. When the September statement arrived it showed that £250.02 was due for that 
statement period.  Mr R did not see that, and that is not the fault of Tesco. But the mobile app 
showed a different figure to that on the paper  statement. I accept that it would have been  
prudent for Mr R to look at his paper statement but I also think it is reasonable for him to rely 
upon the figure the mobile app set out as being due. I dont think  it reasonable to expect a 
customer to check numerous  sources  and then contact the bank should a discrepancy  be 
discovered, unless  that customer  was on notice that there may be a problem with the app. I 
have seen no evidence  that Mr R was put on such notice.
Tesco accept that they had known  issues with their mobile app, although  I am unaware  of 
the full nature or extent  of them. So, it is seemingly accepted that there is a problem of some  
description. It seems likely therefore that when Mr R viewed his mobile app he did in fact see 
a different figure  to that set out on the paper statement.  
I have checked  Mr Rs paper statement and it shows he did not in fact pay £234.16 in one 
lump sum. £100 of that sum was paid on the 26 October which  is after the minimum 
payment was due on the 20 October. So on Mr Rs own account he did not meet the time 
limit for making the minimum payment for the September statement period either.
What I need to decide is whether Tesco acted fairly and reasonably  in applying the late 
payment fees to Mr Rs account. He very clearly missed the payment for the August 
statement period,  and he did not make  the minimum payment for the September statement 
period either, either by reference to the figure  he obtained from the mobile app or the paper  
statement. So I find as a fact that he missed the minimum payment  for the September  
statement period.
So I cant say that Tesco has done  anything wrong  in applying the late payment fees,  since 
they have acted in line with their terms and conditions. Im not therefore going to ask it to do 
anything further  as Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Tesco  Personal  Finance 
PLC. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5196610