K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS), trading as Intelligent Finance, mis-sold  him 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In July 2001, Mr D applied for a loan from BoS over the internet. His application was 
successful and he was initially given free PPI cover on the loan by BoS. This free cover  
period lasted until September 2001. It would have protected Mr Ds repayments on the loan 
for up to twelve months if he couldnt work because of an accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. 
BoS says that Mr D agreed  to pay for the PPI cover  to continue during a phone  call some 
months after his loan had commenced.  The monthly cost of the PPI policy  was £12 a month.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr D says that he felt pressurised into agreeing  to take out the PPI and was given the 
impression he had to have it to get his loan approved. 
Unfortunately, BoS doesnt have a record of the telephone call during which  it says Mr D 
agreed to buy PPI. And it doesnt still have copies  of the letter and other  documents it says 
Mr D would have received at the time.  But this isnt that surprising given how long ago this 
sale took place.  Businesses arent required to keep such records  for these  periods  of time.
However, BoS has provided this service with sample copies of these letters and documents 
and has explained  the sales process which would have been  followed at that time. And Im 
satisfied from what Ive seen that Mr D would have needed to agree to take the policy  during 
the sales call, and to complete a separate direct  debit mandate to pay the premiums, for the 
PPI cover to be continued.  If he hadnt done  this, then I think  the PPI cover  would have 
automatically come to an end when  the free period finished.
Ive though carefully about what Mr D says about  feeling pressurised into taking  the PPI. But 
I have to bear in mind  that this sale took place a long time ago. And without other supporting  
evidence, I dont think his memory of the sales call is sufficiently vivid for me fairly to 
conclude that this is most likely to have been  the case. And as he appears  to have agreed to 
buy the policy some months after hed already  received  his loan, I dont think  he would  have 
felt then that he had to take out the policy to get his loan, even though  he now think  he did.
Ref: DRN50183782So from what Ive seen,  I think its most likely that Mr D actively decided to take the PPI 
knowing he had a choice  and without undue pressure being placed upon  him. But I can 
understand why he may not be able to remember this now.
BoS says it recommended the PPI policy to Mr D. And Ive taken this to be the case, 
because this means that it needed to ensure that the policy  was suitable for him. I dont 
know what it did to ensure this was the case but, from what  I know  of his circumstances at 
the time,  I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say this because:
He appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Mr D says he didnt need  the cover  because he would  have  received  generous  sick pay 
from his employer. But this policy would have paid out in addition to any other  means he 
had available  at the time and covered him for accidents, sickness  and unemployment.  
So I think he would have  still valued  the extra cover that this policy gave him if things 
went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr D. And as the premiums  were 
paid monthly, he could have cancelled the policy if it no longer met his needs.
BoS also needed to give Mr D enough  information  about the PPI policy  for him to decide if 
he wanted to take it. I think  its possible that BoS could have provided better information than 
it did. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy  was unsuitable for him, I 
dont think that better  information would have changed his mind about  taking it. I think  hed 
still have thought it gave him useful cover at an affordable price.
So from what Ive seen,  I dont think that Mr D has lost out by anything that BoS may have 
done wrong when it sold him this PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5018378