K820x#14complaint
Mr H says American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX)  mis-sold  him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr H bought the policy in 2001 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. This was done 
via a postal application. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why. 
AMEX shouldve made Mr H aware he had a choice in buying the PPI. It has provided a 
copy of Mr Hs credit card application form. On the copy  of the form it asks applicants to tick 
if they want to take the policy. On Mr Hs form, this box has been ticked. 
So I think AMEX gave  Mr H a choice  in taking PPI and he chose to take it.
Mr H says AMEX  advised  him to take the policy. As this policy  was taken out via a postal 
application with no interaction with a AMEX representative I think its unlikely AMEX  
recommend the PPI to Mr H. So it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for him. But it did 
have to make sure he got the information he needed  to decide if it was right for him. 
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  AMEX gave Mr H about  
the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen  of his 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. 
Mr H says he wouldve received employee benefits of six months full sick pay followed by 
six months half. But the policy would have paid out alongside this benefit and for 
considerably longer.  The policy wouldve also covered  him if he was made  unemployed. 
Ive noted Mr Hs comments that he had another policy which  covered him for accident or 
sickness. But from what hes said, this policy covered another  outgoing. And it doesnt  look 
like Mr H had any sick pay or other means   such as savings   to make his repayments. So I 
think it would  have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Taking all of this into account,  I dont  think Mr H has lost out from anything AMEX  mightve  
done wrong. 
Ref: DRN51269862But AMEX  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
AMEX got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  AMEX didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, AMEX has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American  Express Services Europe Limited does  not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But American Express Services  Europe  Limited  does have to pay back to Mr H any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5126986