K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in February 
2000 on a credit card. Mrs K says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ks case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling  the PPI to Mrs K, HSBC had to make  it clear the policy  was optional. It also 
had to get Mrs Ks agreement to take it out. Mrs K says the credit card and PPI were taken 
out by post and she had no idea she had it. 
We dont have the actual application Mrs K completed to take out the credit card.  This is 
unfortunate, but not particularly unusual given how long ago the sale was. But HSBC has 
provided a copy of a sample application  from around  the time Mrs K took out her credit card. 
On this there  is separate section  called  Cardholder Repayment Protector which 
recommends the applicant take out the PPI. It seems Mrs K wouldve had to sign this box 
separately to take out the PPI. And it also couldve been left blank if Mrs K didnt want  the 
cover. 
I think this form is probably the same  or similar  to the one Mrs K wouldve completed.  So I 
think its more likely  HSBC made it clear that Mrs K had a choice about taking the PPI, and I 
think she chose to take it knowing she didnt have to.
I dont think HSBC recommended  the PPI to Mrs K so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs K got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mrs K about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  And Mrs K didnt have  
any other means of covering the card repayments  if she was unwell  or lost her job. 
So it looks  like the PPI would have been  useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mrs K and her representatives have said, including their 
comments that she couldve relied  on her partner or family for help if she needed it. I dont 
doubt that it would have  been the intention  of Mrs Ks partner or family  to help. But 
circumstances can change and theres  no guarantee that assistance would have been 
available to Mrs K as and when  she needed it. So this hasnt changed my mind  about not 
upholding her complaint.
Ref: DRN54490522my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5449052