K821x#15complaint
Ms P complains  that a central  heating boiler she purchased on finance  supplied by Hitachi  
Capital (UK) Plc was not of satisfactory quality. She wants to cancel  the agreement, get her 
payments refunded and be compensated for damage caused  by a leak from the boiler.
background
Ms P tells us in July 2018 she bought a new central  heating boiler from a retailer Ill refer to
as S. This was partly  financed through a fixed sum loan from Hitachi  linked to the purchase
and installation of the boiler. A few days after the boiler had been installed Ms P says she
reported various items of damage to her property. In September she noticed a leak to her
bathroom tap and called  her property management company to repair it. She said it sent a
Gas Safe engineer  who reported there may be problems with the wiring to the boiler and so
she called  S. She says S sent an engineer on 3 October 2018,  who reported the boiler was
not earthed,  and repaired that issue. But following this, Ms P says she noticed a leak from
the boiler on 4 October 2018.  She said S refused  to fix this further problem so she arranged
with the manufacturers  to send an engineer on 12 October.  In the interim period the leak
seemed to deteriorate  and on 7 October  Ms P reports water gushing  out of the boiler - even
though it wasnt  on. She says this has led to her having to replace some carpeting in the
area around  the boiler.
After a further inspection by the Gas Safe Register,  in October, Ms P says it identified  
several faults with the boiler  and fittings. And it had written to S required various defects to 
be repaired  by 9 November. It had also issued a danger - do not use warning notice. Ms P 
said she contacted  S but did not receive  s satisfactory reply.  As she had been left without 
hot water  she had the boiler replaced on 9 November.
Hitachi told us there  had been  no issues with the boiler until Ms P had appointed other  
contractors to install a shower. It said S had sent an electrician  who had found a fuse had 
been pushed inside  - and the boiler  would not have worked if this had occurred on 
installation. It said S had also replaced  wiring the other contractors  work  had affected.  It said 
Ms P had later refused  to allow  S access to her property to repair  the leak.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 April 2019 in which I said it was 
intention to uphold  the complaint. Since then both parties have replied. Hitachi has accepted 
my provisional decision. Ms P replied  clarifying some background issues.
I thank the parties  for their responses and given no additional evidence  has been provided  I  
see no reason to alter my provisional view.  I shall largely repeat  this in my final decision 
which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Ms P has experienced  so much inconvenience over the installation  of a new boiler. 
Ive no doubt she felt this should  be a relatively  straightforward matter  - but unfortunately this 
has proved not to be the case.
Ref: DRN53714352In trying to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell us, and we look to 
documentary and other evidence to help us reach a decision. This is in line with our fair and 
reasonable remit. And where evidence is incomplete or unclear - as some  of it is here - Im 
required to make my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Relevant legislation here includes Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. And the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015. In summary,  if theres been breach of contract  a consumer will 
have a like claim against the provider of finance  as they would against the supplier  of the 
goods and/or services  where a fixed sum loan has been used to finance  the transaction.  
This is subject to a number of conditions which seem to be met in this case. And there  will 
be a breach of contract if goods  supplied  are not of satisfactory quality or services are not 
performed with reasonable  care and skill.
I should also emphasise that Ms Ps complaint  is about how Hitachi dealt with her claim - so
Im not looking directly at the underlying merits of any claim  she might have against S.
Its not in dispute  that various faults  were found with the boiler and its installation. The 
argument in this case surrounds who bears responsibility for these faults. Hitachi says the 
boiler wouldnt have  worked for the first couple  of months if it had not been installed properly. 
Ms P points to reports from two Gas Safe engineers  who have detailed  various  faults with 
the boiler and the way it was installed.
The first report  in September  by G, a Gas Safe registered engineer,  identified  electrical  faults 
with the boiler  not switching on and off properly. Following this, S sent out an electrician  who 
reported a fuse had been pushed inside the boiler.  Ive also seen a comprehensive report 
compiled on behalf  of Gas Safe Register - which followed an inspection on 12 October 2018.
This report details several faults and caused the engineer to declare the boiler  was a danger 
and unsafe to use. Amongst the more  serious defects noted were:
 Whilst the boiler was operating satisfactorily  the chimney flue was of the wrong length. It 
was reported as exceeding the manufacturers design maximum by two metres;
 Flue supports  incorrectly fitted under stress,  top bracket securing screw missing;
 Condensate pipe installed incorrectly, not fully supported - causing movement;
 Electrics unsupported  and touching gas pipework;
 Chimney / flue terminal appears to be closer  than 1500mm to ridge  tile vent;
 The temporary filling loop had been  left connected.  The Water Regulations 1999 (England  
and Wales) requires that the filling loop should be disconnected after use;
 Whilst carrying out the inspection a number of issues were identified  and listed  within the 
defect section of this report. As a result  of these issues the natural gas condensing 
combination boiler  was classified as At Risk in accordance with the current Gas Industry 
Unsafe Situations  Procedure. Permission  to turn off the gas supply was declined.  A Danger 
Safety Warning  Do Not Use label was attached to the appliance  and a Danger  Do not Use 
Warning Notice issued.
The customer was advised  to contact a competent electrician for the following reasons;
Ref: DRN53714353 The electrical cable supplying the gas boiler is not supported;
 There  is no electrical certificate for the electrical  connections made during the installation of 
the gas boiler.
Ive seen no persuasive evidence to show the above  faults arose due to actions by any third 
party. The evidence points overwhelmingly to the faults occurring at the original installation 
which - based on the Gas Safe register report - was performed to well below acceptable  
standards.
Theres a conflict in the evidence about if and why it became necessary for Ms P to have the 
boiler replaced rather than let S rectify the work in accordance with the Gas Safe Register 
instructions. 
The evidence as to why the faults  were not repaired by S is contradictory. S told Hitachi  Ms 
P refused to permit access to her property - something Ms P denies. And Ms P has provided 
an email from 6 November in which she voices her frustration at the lack of urgency in 
Hitachi dealing with her complaint.  It pointed out shed been without heating for five weeks 
and that she intended to replace the boiler the following day. Given  Hitachis acceptance of 
my provisional view I dont need  to comment further on this point of difference.
Hitachi was aware of the complaint on 4 October  2018. And it was entitled to take up to eight 
weeks to respond to Ms Ps complaint - as thats  the time allowed by the Dispute  Resolution  
Rules (DISP) issued by the Financial Conduct  Authority.  But I think Hitachi should have 
realised that leaving  Ms P without heating and/or hot water would be unacceptable  at any 
time. And at the particular time of year it was even more urgent that the issue  needed to be 
addressed promptly. 
I think in all the circumstances  Ms P acted reasonably in having her boiler replaced. The 
original boiler had been declared unfit to use and there was no immediate sign of works 
being done. And given  the poor quality of the original installation  - and especially the 
numerous defects  directly affecting  the safety of the boilers operation - I think  Ms P would 
have every justification to doubt Ss ability to rectify  the issues.
So Im upholding  her complaint  and I think she should be entitled  to reject the boiler and end 
the finance agreement.
Ms P is also seeking compensation for consequential losses  she says she incurred. This 
includes damage to her property and the costs of oil radiators she purchased  to provide 
temporary heating.
For consequential loss to be recoverable it has to relate directly to any breach of contract 
and it must  also be a foreseeable event. I think that damage caused to carpets from the leak 
meets this criteria.
I am not inclined to award the cost of the radiators or other items of clothing and
accessories. Ms P retains the use of the radiators. And personalised items once used - such
as clothing and bedding - do not retain any significant monetary value.
Ref: DRN53714354I accept Ms P has suffered a significant degree  of distress and inconvenience. But this 
largely results from events before Hitachi became aware of the complaint. And - as Im 
dealing only with the way Hitachi dealt with Ms Ps complaint - I can only make an award for 
this aspect based on any failings I attribute to Hitachi alone.
I think if Hitachi had accepted earlier that the boiler  was of unsatisfactory  quality - as the 
evidence shows - this would have been significantly reduced the inconvenience  caused  to 
Ms P. A replacement boiler  could  have been  obtained more  quickly and that would have  
lessened the discomfort experienced  by Ms P.
In summary,  I think Ms P should  be able to recover her deposit and a proportion  of the 
payments she made, together  with the consequential losses  Ive outlined above.  And in 
addition she should  receive an award of compensation for distress an inconvenience  but 
based only on that which I think resulted from Hitachis actions.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I uphold this complaint.
In order to settle the complaint I now require  Hitachi Capital  (UK) Plc to:
1.End the agreement and refund  the deposit of £1228.50;
2.Refund any payments  made which were due for any period after 26 September  2018;
3.Subject to proof of payment - refund the cost of replacement carpet (£980) and 
disposal cost of old carpet (£95);
4.Pay £150 for distress  and inconvenience  caused;
5.   Arrange  to have  details of the agreement removed from Ms Ps credit file.
Simple interests at the rate of 8% per year should  be added to items 1 and 2 above from
date of payment  to date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5371435