K821x#15complaint
Miss A feels that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited has treated her unfairly  
regarding a hire agreement for a car which has since been returned.
background
Miss A signed a hire agreement with Volkswagen for a car in November 2016.  Miss A has 
said that during  the two-year agreement everything worked as it should.  However  in 2018 
towards the end of the agreement she got in touch with Volkswagen  to discuss what  her 
options were at the end of the agreement.
From the latter part of 2018  to the cars return in September 2019 there was regular contact 
between Miss A and Volkswagen. Both parties  have  provided detailed  time lines of what  
happened. 
In summary,  from the original hire agreement documentation it is clear  Miss A was supplied 
a new car in 2016 for which she paid £250 per month. Around the end of the original 
agreement term an informal agreement was agreed  (October 2018) to run until February 
2019. During this time Miss A paid the monthly payments and had the car. She also suffered 
some serious health issues during this time (and she continues to suffer serious health 
issues). In February 2019 Volkswagen quoted a further extension at £199.99 per month, to 
which Miss A has said in her original  complaint to this service that she was happy to pay.
Although there had been some issues between  the parties in their correspondence before 
this time, from February 2019 there was a significant increase in contact between the parties  
and I think it fair to say an increased level of frustration felt by Miss A as to how matters were 
conducted.
In February 2019  Miss A spoke to Volkswagen and she explained  her circumstances. An 
informal extension for a month is agreed  and it is also agreed that Volkswagen  will generate 
and send a quote and relevant paperwork for a six-month  extension  starting in March 2019.  
Volkswagen says this was sent but Miss A says she didnt receive it. There is then further 
back and forth between  the parties. A third party who collects cars also contacts  Miss A 
during this time after being in contact  with Volkswagen. In March Miss A explains to 
Volkswagen shes  not received the paperwork, but this doesnt lead to her getting the 
paperwork. In April Volkswagen email  Miss A chasing her for the signed  paperwork but also 
stating that the quote discussed in February is no longer valid. Miss A responds explaining 
shed like to agree the extension and will do what is necessary  to do so.
At this time Volkswagen  use a different  email  for Miss A. She becomes  aware  of this and 
says its not hers. She takes this matter to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
Volkswagen confirm its followed its procedures regarding this erroneous  email address. 
Miss A has since provided evidence  that the ICO has upheld her complaint about  the use of 
this email address.
There were also later quotes which would have been more costly to Miss A. So she 
complained to Volkswagen.
In its response of July 2019 Volkswagen agreed  to honour the February  quote  and waive  
one month  of payments as gesture of goodwill regarding the inconvenience caused.  It 
explained that during the call in February  2019 Miss A was assured the one-month manual  
Ref: DRN50011832extension had been processed along with the new end of contract details. It also said it 
would not debit any payments from her account  until it received her signed documentation 
regarding the extension.
This letter of July 2019 also advised  Miss A she would have to pay the remaining four 
months of the extension  quoted in February (it waived  one months  instalment in recognition  
of the inconvenience suffered). But Volkswagen didnt get the car back  until September,  
meaning that Miss A had the car for six months  but hadnt paid for it during this time. Miss A 
accepts she didnt pay during this period.
Miss A feels that she shouldnt have to pay these outstanding payments because of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to her. She has provided significant evidence  of her 
medical conditions  during  this time.  She has also pointed to Volkswagens legal team  and 
third-party car collection agents contacting  her to take possession  of the car. She also points 
to Volkswagen making mistakes with her data. So she complained  here.
Our investigator felt that Volkswagens offer hadnt done quite enough. The investigator  felt 
that although the solutions around the car and its finance were appropriate (repay six 
months instalments  - (£1199.94)  the distress and inconvenience suffered hadnt been 
considered sufficiently. The investigator  took the view that Volkswagen  should  pay £250 in 
distress and inconvenience to Miss A and to ensure no adverse reporting was logged  on 
Miss As credit file. Miss A does not think the investigators position is fair and has provided 
further medical evidence.  Volkswagen chose not to contend this position  on receipt of the 
Investigators views  or on receipt of further correspondence from this service. So this 
complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not propose to detail  every piece of correspondence between the two parties over the 
years that these issues have continued. This is because the key events are largely agreed 
between the parties  and it is accepted  that Volkswagen could have  done  things somewhat 
better. So I will pick out the key issues as I see them in order  to reach  a fair conclusion on 
this matter.
During a call in April 2019 it is agreed  that Volkswagen will post a new agreement to Miss A, 
but Ive seen no persuasive  evidence that this was sent. I can understand Miss As 
frustration. Soon after this Volkswagens legal team contact Miss A about collecting the car. 
As Im not persuaded the new agreement was sent,  I can understand why Miss A didnt 
complete it and is frustrated by what happened. Then in May Volkswagen generate another  
quote -at a substantially  higher cost to Miss A. So she complains.
In July 2019 Volkswagen respond to the complaint accepting that it will honour the quote of 
February and waive  one months  payment.  Around this time a third party (on behalf of 
Volkswagen) contact  Miss A about  collecting the car. Im persuaded that Miss A repeatedly 
tried to fix the matter  with Volkswagen and latterly did so during a bout of particular  ill health.
Having considered Volkswagens position  I think it is broadly fair in terms of honouring the 
February 2019 quote of £199.99  per month.  Later quotes are significantly more expensive  
and as there were  failings  in its correspondence with Miss A it would seem this is a fair quote  
Ref: DRN50011833to honour. It is also clear  that Miss A had possession  and use of the car throughout and 
didnt pay any monthly instalments over a six-month period. I think as she had use of the car, 
she should pay for it. I think Volkswagens waiving one month of payments  partly  offsets the 
mistakes it made. And Volkswagen hasnt  disagreed  with this position having had 
opportunity to do so.
Miss A points to her health conditions and also family health issues. I do not doubt all these 
matters are/were serious. Nevertheless had the relationship  with Volkswagen  worked 
properly shed still have  had the car and had to make the payments. So I think she should  
still make  the payments  as that is fair as she had use of the car she wanted  and that had a 
cost which  she should pay.
Distress and inconvenience
But Volkswagen did make mistakes over a significant period. And it is clear to me from what  
Miss A says that she had little faith in Volkswagen for much of her dealings with it. And she 
shouldnt have had to repeatedly chase Volkswagen or deal with other parts  of the business  
or parties.  But the impact of the failings of Volkswagen  was not substantial in my view.  
Miss A suffered ill health and Ive considered this carefully. But I can also see Miss A didnt 
pay for the car for some months knowing that she wanted to agree to paying for the cars  
hire at the amount discussed in February 2019. Im not persuaded she took sufficient action 
to pay during this period as she should  have. And I think had she paid throughout, matters 
wouldnt have got to the stage of the car being returned contrary to her wishes. 
I appreciate Miss A had serious health  issues to deal with. But the payment of £250  for 
distress and inconvenience for the correspondence failings and the email  issue is fair in the 
circumstances in my opinion. 
So I direct Volkswagen (once it is on notice that Miss A has accepted  this decision) to:
Arrange with Miss A a suitable repayment  plan for the amount outstanding 
(£1199.94). If Miss A refuses to pay an appropriate  plan, Volkswagen  can pursue her 
for the outstanding amount as it sees fit.
If Miss A agrees and fulfils a repayment plan Volkswagen  should  ensure no adverse 
reporting on Miss As credit file. I think this is fair considering what has happened 
generally and regarding the collection of payments here.
To pay Miss A £250 for distress and inconvenience for the reasons given.
If Miss A doesnt accept this decision (as she is entitled) then Volkswagen isnt bound  by it 
and it can proceed as it sees fit.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint about  
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  and direct it resolve  the matter  as I have 
explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss A to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  29 July 2020.
Ref: DRN50011834Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5001183