K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold them  a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy  (when  Lloyds  was trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester). 
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1999. The policy  was taken out in 
Mr Ts name  only and provided him with cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs T didnt 
agree saying, in summary, that:
Not taking  the PPI wasnt really an option  because they thought  it would have a negative 
influence on their mortgage application. Nothing was said to make it clear  that mortgage 
approval wasnt dependent on whether they took the policy.  They  were told they needed 
to protect  their mortgage  repayments.
They  were led to believe  their right to the mortgage would be called into question  if they 
cancelled the PPI at any point during the mortgage term.
A recent communication from Lloyds about PPI on a credit  card clearly describes the 
PPI as optional. The bank now considers it necessary to describe  PPI as optional,  but 
this wasnt mentioned when the mortgage PPI was sold and the policy wasnt  described  
as optional in the paperwork.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ts complaint  for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs T say they thought they had to have the PPI for their mortgage application to be 
successful and that it was never made  clear  that the policy was optional. They clearly feel 
strongly about this and Ive carefully  considered all that theyve said.
The bank advised Mr and Mrs T to take out the policy because it had concluded they had a 
need for the policy.  I dont find it follows that, because they were  told they had a need  for the 
policy, that they thought that meant they had to have it.
Ive considered the paperwork that was completed at the time. The mortgage application 
included a separate section about  insurance  and included equally clear options  to accept or 
decline the PPI. The Yes box has been ticked, showing that Mr and Mrs T had confirmed 
they wanted it. A separate  application  form and direct debit mandate  was then completed 
and signed by both of them. So I think Lloyds made it clear the PPI was a separate  product. 
Ref: DRN57537842And I havent seen  anything in the paperwork to persuade  me that Lloyds didnt present the 
policy as optional. Overall, I think it more likely than not that Lloyds made Mr and Mrs T 
aware that the PPI was optional and that they chose to take it.
Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs T have said about Lloyds describing PPI as 
optional in a recent communication about a policy attached to a credit  card.  But Ive 
considered the evidence  available from 1999,  along  with Mr and Mrs Ts recollections, and 
Ive explained  why I think Lloyds did enough to make it clear the policy was optional. What  
the bank includes  in its paperwork today doesnt change  my conclusion.
The bank advised Mr and Mrs T to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
The policy was taken out in Mr Ts name only. He was eligible  for the policy given his 
circumstances and the terms and conditions.
Mr T told us he wouldve received six months  full pay followed by six months  half pay 
from his employer if he couldnt  work due to sickness or an accident. But the mortgage  
was a significant long term financial commitment and Mr and Mrs Ts home was at risk if 
they didnt keep up with the repayments. The PPI would have paid out for up to 12 
months in the event of a successful claim for accident  or sickness. So I think the PPI 
couldve been  a useful  benefit,  in addition to Mr and Mrs Ts existing arrangements.
Ive taken  into account that Mr T says he also took out life and critical illness  cover. But 
this policy didnt replicate the benefits  of the PPI policy,  so this doesnt change my 
conclusion.
Mr T wasnt affected by any of the conditions  limiting  the policys main benefits such  as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he couldve  benefitted from the full extent of the cover  I think  it unlikely he needed  better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
I cant  see that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated  to Mr and Mrs T before  
they agreed to purchase it. I dont think they were  told it would cost £38.95  each month 
until after the mortgage  had started. For this reason I have considered whether clearer 
information about  the cost would have affected Mr and Mrs Ts decision to purchase the 
policy. They had chosen to take out the policy, knowing they would have to pay 
something for it. The policy was competitively priced and apparently  affordable. So 
I think it unlikely they would  have made a different decision if better information about 
the cost had been  provided.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mr and Mrs T about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Lloyds recommendation 
was unsuitable  and I dont think Mr and Mrs T would have made a different decision about  
taking out the policy  if better information had been provided to them   overall,  I think  they 
would still have taken  out the policy.
Ref: DRN57537843my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5753784