K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains Barclays Bank UK Plc wouldnt  take payment from him to clear arrears on 
his credit card accounts. Its now placed two defaults on his credit record.
background
Mr S had a problem with his direct debits with another bank and he missed payments on his 
two Barclays credit cards. He spoke to Barclays in December 2017 and his account was put 
on hold for 30 days. Arrears built up on his accounts. Then in March  and April 2018 he 
phoned the bank and tried to make some  payments to clear the arrears. But it wouldnt take 
them 
Barclays says it agreed  to put Mr Ss account  on hold for 30 days  in December 2017. The 
next record it has of any contact from Mr S is a phone call at the end of March 2018. But the 
amount Mr S needed  to pay to clear  the arrears was higher than he expected. He said he 
thought the account was still on hold. At the end of April 2018 Mr S called again to try and 
clear the arrears. But he told the bank if he paid the full amount outstanding he wouldnt be 
able to pay other important monthly commitments. So it wouldnt take his payment.
Our investigator set out Mr Ss position  in a full and detailed timeline. In summary his 
conclusion was that Barclays had acted reasonably in not accepting the payment from him in 
light of the information Mr S had given it at the time. Itd made regular contact with him by 
letter explaining  the situation.  And it hadnt  made any error in registering the defaults.
Mr S wasnt  happy with his opinion. He said that Barclays had now accepted four bank 
transfer payments.  And if itd done that at the time this situation wouldnt have arisen.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for very similar reasons.
In the phone call Mr S had with Barclays in December  2017 the bank  told him it would place 
his accounts on hold for 30 days.  It sent him a letter  explaining the implications of the 30 day 
hold. So I think Barclays did all it could to make  Mr S aware  that the hold on his accounts  
was only for 30 days.
Barclays wrote to him in February 2018 explaining about the implications  to his credit file of 
the missed payments on his card accounts.  It wrote again saying that because he hadnt 
made any payments  and it hadnt  heard from him it was cancelling his credit cards. 
Mr S phoned  Barclays in March 2018 and his account was put on hold for 30 days. Barclays 
sent him an income and expenditure form to complete  so it could assess his financial 
circumstances. And as a gesture of goodwill it refunded  Mr S a total of £1,113.58. When 
theres an indication  that a customer  is in financial difficulties  a bank has an obligation to act 
positively and sympathetically. It seems to me that Barclays was doing  that.
Mr S phoned  again in April 2018.  During  the April phone  call Mr S was trying to find a way to 
make a payment  to sort out the arrears  on his accounts. But he explained to the operator 
Ref: DRN53770502that by making  full payment to clear the arrears he wouldnt  be able to make  other  important 
commitments he had to pay that month. 
He wanted to clear  the arrears on his two credit cards so he could have access to the credit 
on them.  And he said that meant he could use the credit to pay other important bills. But the 
supervisor who took over the call explained there  was no guarantee Barclays would 
reactivate the two card accounts. And he explained the bank couldnt  accept payment 
because it would be putting Mr S into a worse  financial position if it did so. And as a 
responsible lender he said that was not something the bank  could do. 
I appreciate that Mr S was having a difficult time financially but I think  Barclays  did what  it 
could to help him. The bank wasnt happy  about the arrangements he wanted to make  to pay 
off the arrears on his two credit card accounts.  It assessed from the information Mr S gave it 
that by doing so he would be in a worse position financially. So I cant  fairly find it was wrong 
not to accept his offer of payment in those circumstances. 
When the situation hadnt been resolved for six months Barclays  defaulted  Mr Ss accounts 
and those defaults are now on his credit  file. I cant see that Barclays  has made any error  in 
defaulting his accounts. And the bank  has a responsibility for reporting accurate information  
to the credit  reference  agencies. So I cant make it remove those defaults.
Mr S says Barclays  has now accepted  four bank transfers hes made and if itd had allowed 
him to do that at the time he wouldnt be in this situation. He says Barclays shouldve  
explained he couldve made a bank transfer into the account even  though it wouldnt accept 
a payment from him over the phone.  But as Ive said, Barclays  wouldnt take payment in 
April 2018 knowing that if itd taken the payment  he wouldnt have been able to meet 
important financial commitments  that month.  So I cant  find that it was wrong not to tell him it 
couldnt stop him making a bank  transfer.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5377050