K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about not being given access codes  by Go Car Credit Limited, trading as 
GCC Servicing (GCC), with whom he has a finance agreement.  He also says they failed to 
inspect the car to ensure  the starter interrupter was working and that they didnt provide him 
with a copy of the installation  agreement. 
background
Mr P took receipt of a used car in August 2014.  He financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with GCC and also signed  an agreement  for installation of a payment 
reminder system; which Ill call the device. If payments were not made to schedule this 
device enabled  GCC to disable the car by not issuing a pass  code for it.
Mr P complains that since the end of 2016 GCC have failed to provide him with automatic 
passcodes. He says this may have prevented him being able to MOT the car and would  
have meant  he had broken the law. He says that, regardless of the arrears on his account, 
GCC should have  taken a more lenient approach. In particular he suggests  they should  have 
taken account  of the payments hed made  towards  his agreement and provided  pro-rata  
usage and that they should have taken  into account  the money hed spent having the car 
repaired. He says they also failed  to check the device was working and hes unhappy not to 
have received a copy of the agreement for installation of the device.
GCC said that as payments werent  received they didnt have to provide automatic  codes.  
They said that it was often their procedure to issue manual codes when consumers  were  in a 
payment plan and they noted that they hadnt  done this in May and June 2017. In respect of 
that they offered Mr P £50 compensation. But other  than that they didnt support his 
complaint.
Mr P therefore referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided his view.  
He understood  that Mr P claimed not to have received the device installation  agreement but 
he noted that he had signed it and had initialled the boxes  in which the key elements of the 
agreement were mentioned. One of those explained that:
I understand and agree that if a scheduled  payment is not received  by the lender the vehicle 
will be disabled  and will not restart until a payment is received
He noted that since  the end of 2016 Mr P hadnt kept up with payments and as payments 
hadnt been made to the schedule  he didnt  think GCC  had been in breach of the contract by 
not issuing automatic passcodes. He also noted  that some  manual codes had been  released 
by GCC in 2017 and 2018.
He said that whilst Mr P suggested  GCC had prevented him obtaining MOTs,  those MOTs 
had been completed on time and he explained  that he could  not ask the business  to take 
action about things that may have happened but hadnt.
He said that repair costs were not related to passcode generation and he didnt think GCC 
had been unreasonable  when not considering those costs. He said they were a separate  
issue. So overall,  he didnt think there  was evidence  that GCC had been unfair and he didnt 
think they needed to take any further  action.
Ref: DRN59167962Mr P disagreed with the investigators opinion.  He said GCC had restricted  his use of the car 
by 621 days and that they hadnt  inspected the device at the start of the agreement when 
theyd promised they would do so. He said the investigator hadnt considered his point about  
the agreement  lacking clarity. He explained  that the agreement didnt explain what would 
happen during any period when the agreement was in a payment arrangement. He therefore 
asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr P so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The device installation agreement  explains that if a scheduled payment is not received by 
the lender the vehicle will be disabled. Mr P signed that agreement so I think its likely he 
understood the purpose of the device and, even  if he didnt receive the document  and have 
time to absorb  the detail,  I can see that in the business welcome letter  to him they also 
explained:
It is important  that you understand that you will need a new code each month to keep 
your car running. This is provided only when you make payments on time
So I think there is evidence that demonstrates  Mr P had been made aware that if payments 
werent made on time,  he would not be able to use the car. I dont agree with Mr P that the 
agreement was unclear.  The impact of not making  scheduled payments was clear and if the 
business allowed  use when payments  werent  made to schedule that was for them to decide.
Mr P didnt keep up with payments and the business  stopped providing automatic 
passcodes. I think  the terms of the agreement allowed  them to do so and I dont think  they 
had to take into account the part payments they received; although I can see that on 
occasion they did allow some usage.
I also dont think they needed to take into account  any money Mr P had outlaid on repairs  to 
the car. GCC had a responsibility to provide a car that was of acceptable quality at the point 
of supply and they would  be responsible for repair costs if the problems with the car were 
present at that point. But thereafter repair costs  would  be Mr Ps responsibility and their 
costs were independent of any payment  or pass code issues.
Ref: DRN59167963The investigator has explained that theres  no evidence of MOT  dates being  missed so I 
dont think it would be fair to suggest  there  is evidence GCC have prevented  Mr P from 
carrying out his duty to get the car tested.
I dont think theres sufficient evidence to suggest the fitting  of the device  was not completed 
satisfactorily. Ive seen a document, signed by a manager, which explains that the payment 
reminder system is coded and fitted. 
Overall, Im afraid I dont  think GCC have been  unreasonable and I wont  be asking them  to 
take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5916796