K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that she was mis-sold a Privilege  Account (PA) and a Privilege Premier 
Account (PPA) by The Co-operative Bank  Plc (Co-op Bank). 
background
Miss C took out a fee free bank account with Co-op Bank in March  2005.
Miss C took out a PA May 2006  for a monthly  fee of £7.50; and she took out a PPA in 
February 2012 for a monthly fee of £13.
Miss C says Co-op Bank  recommended she take out the PA and the PPA,  but they werent 
right for her.
Miss C says she was a student  between 2006  and 20009  and had a student account with 
Co-op Bank  through  that period.
Our adjudicator looked into Miss Cs complaint and decided that Co-op  Bank didnt do 
anything wrong  in selling the PA or the PPA. Miss C disagrees so the complaint has come to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Miss Cs complaint.
In looking at Miss Cs complaint about the PA and PPA sales  I need firstly to consider two 
things; whether she knew she had a choice  between taking out a fee free account  or the 
accounts she bought; and whether Co-op Bank  advised her to buy the accounts or not. 
Miss C says that she wasnt told that a fee free account was available  and that she thought 
she had to take the accounts to obtain an overdraft, loan, or mortgage. 
In my view, I think her memory is mistaken  because  she had previously held a fee free 
account with Co-op  bank  so I think she knew that fee free accounts were  widely  available 
from the Co-op and other financial institutions.  And she subsequently made  very limited use 
of overdraft, loan or mortgage facilities in relation to these accounts.
So I think when Miss C took out the PA and the PPA she knew she had a choice and chose 
to take them  out. I will go on later to consider whether she was able to make  an informed 
choice each time. And I will consider later the issues Miss C has raised about her student 
account.
Miss C says she talked to Co-op  Bank  and it recommended  that she open the PA in 2006 
and the PPA in 2012. Co-op Bank says that these  were  non-advised sales,  by which it 
means that it didnt  recommend them to Miss C personally or advise  her to take them  out. 
I dont know what was said during the sales, but Ive not seen anything such as records of 
discussions about Miss Cs needs  and circumstances  on each occasion or suitability checks  
Ref: DRN56898712to show me clearly that it did make personal recommendations to her. I accept its possible 
that in providing  information to Miss C and explaining the benefits of the PA and the PPA,  
the Co-op Bank may have  said or implied  that it was a good idea to take them out. But this 
isnt the same as making personal recommendations. And based  on this services 
knowledge of Co-op Banks sales practices at the time of each sale,  I think  its more  likely 
than not that Co-op Bank sold the PA and PPA to Miss C on an information only basis on 
both occasions.  
This means  Co-op Bank did not have to ensure that either the PA or the PPA was suitable  for 
Miss C, but it did have to provide Miss C with good enough information about both so she 
could make an informed  decision  about whether to have them or not.
I dont know what information Co-op Bank gave to Miss C. But Co-op Bank was trying to sell 
her the PA and PPA so I think  its more likely  than not that it gave  a substantial verbal 
explanation of the products and then followed this up with detailed  documentation.
The PA benefits  included worldwide travel insurance and preferential rates on overdrafts. The 
PA later also included  mobile phone insurance and other travel benefits. The PPA in 2012 had 
the additional benefit of car breakdown cover. 
At the time of the PA sale Miss C says she was travelling up to 3 times a year,  and her 
finances were limited. So I can see how the PAs benefits would have been of interest  to her. 
After she took out the PPA she made  use of the car breakdown cover. So, I think  its more 
likely than not that she was aware of enough  of the PA and the PPAs benefits for her to 
decide to take them  out.
So in my view even  if Co-op Bank didnt provide Miss C with all the information  about the PA 
and the PPA I think its more likely than not Miss C wouldve chosen to take them out anyway. 
As this was an information  only sale, it was then up to Miss C if, and how, she used  the 
benefits.
For completeness I will now address two points  that Miss C has raised in her complaint and 
in her response to our adjudicators view.
Firstly Miss C says that she was a student from 2006 to 2009 and she took out a student 
account with Co-op  Bank in 2006.  She says that when this account was closed she was then 
told she had to take out a PA. 
Although I dont doubt her honest  recollections,  I think her memory  about the closure  of the 
student account is mistaken on this point. I say this because Co-op Bank has provided 
evidence that her PA was open from 2006  all the way through to 2012 when she upgraded 
to a PPA. So she had her student account at the same time as her PA. 
On the student  account Miss C did run up a large overdraft, but Co-ops records show  that 
she paid that overdraft off in 2008 and reduced the balance to zero.  That happened 
independently of her PA which continued alongside throughout. So there was no sale of a 
packaged bank  account to her in 2008/09. And as the PA had been sold to her in 2006 on 
an information only basis, it was for her to decide  whether  to close the PA or continue it 
while the student account was open.  I hope  that clarifies the situation  for Miss C, and my 
conclusion is that the bank didnt  do anything wrong  in this period.
Ref: DRN56898713Miss C has also mentioned that she had asthma  in and from 2006 so the travel insurance 
wouldnt have covered her. But the policy only required her to notify  the insurer  if she had a 
pre-existing medical condition, it didnt exclude  her condition. And I think its more  likely than 
not that if she had notified  the policy provider, she wouldve been able to use the policy  
either for free or with a small  additional premium for her condition consistent  with other 
insurers in the market. So Miss C would still have  made the main saving on her travel 
insurance and not lost out because of her condition.
So overall I think its more  likely  than not that Co-op  Bank provided Miss C with sufficient 
information to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the PA and the PPA, and 
Miss C chose to take them out.  And  there wasnt anything that Co-op Bank didnt  tell her 
that wouldve  caused her not to do so. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2019.
Richard Hill
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5689871