K821x#15Complaint
Miss V complains  that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited unfairly recorded a claim under 
her home insurance policy.
Background
In September  2018, Miss V emailed Admiral to see if her home insurance policy covered a 
faulty patio door. Admiral  told Miss V she needed  to call to discuss  the matter further.
Miss V called Admiral  and spoke to a member of its claims  team. Miss V says the claims 
handler didnt  confirm if the patio door would  be covered. Following the call, Admiral  
arranged for a loss adjuster to visit Miss Vs property  and inspect  the damage. The loss 
adjuster didnt validate the claim. Admiral recorded the loss adjusters fee and incident as a 
claim on Miss Vs record.
Admiral then wrote to Miss V to explain that as the claim happened close  to the renewal of 
her policy,  it had readjusted her renewal premium to take into account  the claim.  Miss Vs 
new premium  was higher  than her original quote.
Miss V complained to Admiral. She said she was only calling to check  if her door was 
covered, and if she had known  the impact this would have  on her premiums,  she wouldnt 
have agreed to the loss adjuster coming  to visit the property.
Admiral didnt uphold  Miss Vs complaint. It said it had clearly told Miss V it would record a 
claim and managed her expectations.
Unhappy with Admirals  response,  Miss V complained to our service. Our investigator  looked 
at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. She found Admiral hadnt taken 
any information from Miss V to show which insured  event had occurred. She thought  that if it 
had, then it wouldnt have  sent out a loss adjuster, as it would have been clear  the claim 
would not be covered.  Our investigator  found that by logging a claim, Admiral had increased 
Miss Vs premiums  to reflect the additional risk. To put things  right, she said Admiral should  
treat Miss Vs call as an enquiry, amend its internal  and external records  to reflect  this, and 
refund the difference in premiums applied because of the claim.
Miss V accepted  our investigators findings.  Admiral disagreed.  It said it told Miss V there 
would need to be a claim logged in order to send out a loss adjuster. It said Miss V had 
agreed to the statement on the call that explained  the impact of logging a claim. And it said 
Miss V clearly  had intentions to pursue a claim. Admiral added Miss V had no obligation to 
accept its renewal quote but did so anyway.
Admiral asked for an ombudsmans decision,  so the complaint has been  passed to me to 
decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ill be upholding this 
complaint, and for broadly  the same reasons as our investigator.  Ill explain why below.
Ref: DRN57914772In order to determine a fair and reasonable outcome here, Ive considered what  Ive seen  
about Miss Vs intentions  when she contacted Admiral. Ive also considered if Admiral gave 
Miss V enough information for her to make  an informed decision.
Ive seen Miss Vs initial email to Admiral asking  whether a faulty patio door is covered on 
her insurance policy. Ive also seen Miss Vs follow up email where she asks if it is possible 
to answer her query  by email  Miss V writes,  Do I really need to discuss this? This already 
suggests to me Miss V was making an enquiry and not looking specifically to claim on the 
policy.
Ive next listened to the call Miss V made  to Admiral. The customer  service adviser who 
transfers Miss V to the claims team says,  She needs to check  if its covered before  she 
proceeds with the claim. She was just enquiring about it. So it is clear  to me that at this 
point Miss V was making an enquiry and not looking to claim.
Miss V then speaks to the claims adviser  and says, Out of curiosity  Im just seeing if it would 
be covered by my house insurance.  Further into the call, the claims adviser asks Miss V 
some questions about whats happened to the patio door. Miss V says the door itself is fine, 
and the adviser  confirms,  Nothings happened to the door, nothings hit it. 
The adviser then summarises what isnt covered by the policy.  This includes poor 
workmanship, or a gradually operating cause. But the adviser  says she cannot confirm  cover 
over the phone  she adds that cover cannot  be confirmed until the door is assessed but it 
sounds like a gradually operating cause. The adviser goes on to say that if Miss V wants 
someone to come out and asses the door she can do this. 
Miss V agreed for a loss adjuster  to visit the property. But shes  told us that she only did this 
and logged a claim because she understood she would only get an answer  to her enquiry if 
someone came to look at the door. Miss Vs also told us she has made  one claim in the 
previous 17 years and is not in the habit of claiming  on her insurance.  I am persuaded by 
Miss Vs testimony on both counts.
I can see the claims adviser took Miss V through the claims statement that explained the 
impact a claim would  have on her records, and Miss V agreed to it. But this section of the 
call sounded  rushed  and I am persuaded that by this stage Miss V was agreeing to it in 
order to get someone  to come and look at the door and give her an answer. So I dont think 
Miss V should be penalised for this.
I appreciate the intentions  of the claims adviser  here in not wanting  to rule out cover from 
what Miss V told her alone. But in this call the adviser moved straight to the exclusions of the 
policy, without first asking which insurable event Miss V was looking to claim for. I think  this 
is important because in any claim it is down to the policyholder in the first instance to show 
an insurable (usually one-off) event  has taken place. And from what  Ive heard in the call Im 
not persuaded Miss V did this. So in this case,  I think Admiral should  have done more to find 
out which insured  event  Miss V was looking to claim under, before deciding  to send out a 
loss adjuster.
I think that had Admiral done  more on the call to find out what  insured event Miss V was 
trying to claim under, it would have realised that it wasnt  a valid claim  and wouldnt have 
needed to send out a loss adjuster. So I think Admiral needs to put Miss V back  into a 
position in which her enquiry was treated as just that, and not logged  as a claim.
Ref: DRN57914773Miss V has asked for a refund of the £90 Admiral paid the loss adjuster  but as it was paid 
directly by Admiral I wont require it to do this. But if Admiral  must absorb the loss adjusters 
costs in order to amend  Miss Vs records to show an enquiry, then it must do so.
Admiral has provided evidence to our service that shows Miss Vs premium was impacted  by 
the claim logged. It hasnt shown us the impact on her premium of logging an enquiry 
instead. But in any case Im not persuaded an enquiry would have the same impact  as a 
claim to Miss Vs premiums. So I require Admiral to honour its original renewal quote to 
Miss V, and reimburse the difference in premium. It should also add 8% simple  interest from 
the date Miss V renewed her policy, to the date of settlement to cover  the time she has been 
without the funds.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to:
-Amend Miss Vs records, both internally  and any which  it reports externally to show 
the incident as an enquiry and not a claim;
-Reimburse Miss V the difference between what she paid to renew  the policy,  and the 
original quoted renewal price;
-Add 8% simple interest to this sum, from the date Miss V paid for her renewal, to the 
date of settlement  .
 Income tax may be payable on any interest  paid.  If Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
deducts income tax from the interest it should tell Miss V how much has been taken off. 
Admiral Insurance  (Gibraltar) Limited  should give Miss V a tax deduction certificate if she 
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2020
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5791477