K820x#14complaint
Mr C says he was mis-sold a regular premium  mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy by Bank of Scotland plc (BOS).
background
Mr C took out a mortgage with BOS. At or around the same time in March 2002 he took out 
a regular premium PPI policy to cover  his repayments if he was unable to work  due to 
accident or sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld because  he didnt think there
was enough information to show that the policy wasnt presented  as optional and thought
that the policy provided a suitable benefit to Mr C.  
Mr C disagrees.  He says he didnt even know he had PPI. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint.
The sale took place  over 15 years ago so unsurprisingly  there  is very little information
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis  of what  information
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
BOS needed to make it clear to Mr C that he had a choice  in taking the policy.  
Mr C hasnt provided any specific detail  about when he took out his mortgage and cant 
remember anything about the sale of PPI which is understandable considering  the amount of 
time that has passed. And BOS  havent given us any of the documents from the time of the 
sale. So I dont know exactly what was discussed about PPI or how it was presented.
But Ive seen a copy of internal notes on BOSs system which record in March  2002 that a 
PPI application  was received over a branch counter and sent for processing. So as a 
separate application was completed, I think its likely that Mr C wouldve understood it wasnt  
part and of the mortgage, was optional and Mr C chose to take it. 
Ive not seen enough to say that he wasnt  given  a choice or that he didnt agree to buy it.
BOS is treating the sale as if it advised  Mr C to take the policy   this puts him in the best 
position. What  this means is that BOS not only had to provide information  about PPI in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr C could make  an informed choice about buying  
PPI. It also had to make  sure that if it was to recommend PPI that the policy was suitable for 
Mr Cs needs and circumstances.
I dont know if BOS  did take all the steps  it shouldve. But I think  the policy  was a suitable
Ref: DRN57221402recommendation for Mr C for the following  reasons:
He was eligible  for the policy  and it doesnt  look like he wouldve been caught by
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve
made it difficult to make  a successful claim.
Mr C says he was entitled to a good level of sick pay, had savings and his parents 
wouldve helped make his repayments  if he couldnt work. But there is no guarantee 
his parents would  be able to help and the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work 
benefits and savings and for potentially longer, covering him for up to 12 months if he 
was unable to work  due to accident or sickness or if he lost his job.
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr C in his circumstances 
especially considering  he was taking on a significant  and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if he was unable to meet his repayments  I think  
Mr C wouldve been interested in protecting  them.
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr C at the time. 
And if he decided he no longer  wanted the policy  he could cancel it.
I also need to consider  whether BOS  gave Mr C information in a way which  was clear,  fair 
and not misleading so that he could make  a proper choice about whether or not he wanted 
to take the policy  out. 
I dont know if BOS  did give all the information as it shouldve. But for the same  reasons  that 
the policy was suitable and based on what Mr C has told us about his circumstances at the 
time, I think he wouldve  still taken out the PPI policy if hed been  given all the proper 
information.
This means  that BOS hasnt done anything wrong and I wont  be upholding Mr Cs 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint against  Bank  of Scotland 
plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5722140