K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains about repairs to his car which he paid for using his MBNA Limited credit 
card. He says the work he paid for didnt  fix the problem, so he wants his money back. He 
brings his claim under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
Mr Y says a MOT  on his car identified some work that needed undertaking. He took his car 
to Firm A so that an oil leak could  be investigated  and repaired  it replaced the injectors  and 
dealt with the oil leak  but he says the work was substandard because the leak wasnt  fixed. 
Mr Y says he returned to A on two more  occasions because his car was still leaking oil, but 
As only suggestion was for him to pay to have some more work done  on his car, thereby 
spending more  money with A. Mr Y says he had to take his car to another  garage  to have 
the work  rectified  and it replaced the rocker cover  gasket.
Mr Y says he brought a claim for £1,423  under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
But he says MBNA rejected his claim because it couldnt see that the work that A had done 
was of a poor standard  even though hed provided  evidence  that the work was 
substandard, and hed needed to have remedial  work undertaken by another  garage (B).
Mr Y also complains that MBNA provided  his personal details to an unauthorised third party 
and he says it wont fulfil or discuss a data subject access request (DSAR) that he lodged  
with it.
MBNA rejected this complaint.  It says it completed  a full investigation and concluded  that no 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  had occurred. MBNA says it found no evidence  of 
poor workmanship when  A repaired the oil leak by removing  and refitting the injectors and 
replacing the oil seals and leak off rail. And it says the fact that another  garage undertook 
different work  replacing a rocker cover gasket  doesnt prove that As work was incorrect 
or of poor quality.  It concluded that A had only charged Mr Y for the work it had undertaken 
and the parts it had replaced   so it rejected Mr Ys claim.
MBNA acknowledged that it couldve  handled Mr Ys claim in a better  way, and it apologised  
for the service hed been given. It credited his account with £400  in recognition of what  had 
happened, and it explained that if Mr Y remained  unhappy with this aspect of his complaint, 
he would  need  to refer it to the Information Commissioners Office.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld 
because she thought MBNA had dealt with it fairly. She explained that she thought  the 
original repair work  had been carried  out with reasonable  care and skill, and that the work 
Mr Y paid for had been carried out. She told Mr Y that the invoice indicated A had been 
contracted to replace the injectors  and to investigate the oil leak  it had done this and there 
was no evidence that the work was substandard. She accepted Mr Ys testimony that hed 
continued to experience oil leakage but pointed out that the cause of this remained 
unknown.
Our investigator looked at the service  MBNA  had given Mr Y and acknowledged thered 
been errors. But she thought the £400 MBNA  had offered Mr Y was reasonable in the 
circumstances and she wasnt minded to ask it to pay Mr Y any more compensation.
Ref: DRN59249072Finally, she explained  that Mr Ys complaint  about  his data privacy and his DSAR  isnt 
something that this Service can look at. And she provided him with contact details for the 
Information Commissioners Office  in the event that he wished to escalate this aspect of his 
complaint.
Mr Y disagrees so the complaint  comes to me to decide. He says A didnt carry out the 
repair work with skill  his car had been seen by A on three occasions, and the issue  wasnt  
fixed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I hope that Mr Y wont  take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint. Our rules allow  me to do that. Mr Y should note, however, that although  I may not 
address each individual point that hes raised,  I have given careful consideration to all of his 
submissions before arriving at my decision.
Section 75 provides that, under a very specific set of circumstances, a consumer  may seek  
to recover money paid under a contract  with a supplier from his or her credit card provider. 
This means  that the credit  card provider can, in some circumstances, be held equally liable 
with the supplier for a breach of contract  or misrepresentation.
To be able to uphold  Mr Ys section 75 complaint about MBNA, Id need  to find that A told 
Mr Y something that wasnt  true which he relied  on (a misrepresentation), and that as a 
result of that he agreed to pay for the repair. Or that Mr Y had paid for work that wasnt done 
at all or wasnt done with a reasonable level of care and skill (a breach of contract).
Having considered all the evidence, Im afraid  I have  to tell Mr Y that I think  the investigator 
has reached entirely the right outcome here.  To be honest, theres very little I can add to 
what shes already  said,  and I think shes set out the position  very clearly in her view.
I think its clear  from what Ive seen that Mr Y took his car to A to fix an ongoing problem, but 
Ive seen no evidence  that the contract  between A and Mr Y was for the problem to be 
identified and permanently fixed through the work that A agreed to undertake.
A says it replaced the injectors and seals as these were considered to be the most  likely 
cause of the leak. And As invoice from July 2018 states Remove and refit injectors. 
Replace oil seals and leak off rail recode new injectors box up and road test.  Thats  what  
Mr Y paid for, and Ive found  nothing to suggest  that A didnt do this work or that it didnt do 
this with reasonable care. Ive also seen no evidence to suggest  that either party, Mr Y or A, 
believed that the oil leakage problem hadnt  been fully rectified at this time.
More than three months and nearly  2,500  miles later, Mr Y took his car back  to A because  of 
an oil leak.  The invoice  for this appointment states, Apply  diagnostic  equipment  and spend  
1 hour investigating  fault. Check for leaks/clean  and road test. Oil leak from main oil seals  on 
rocker cover.  Remove fuel injectors and rocker  seals  and replace. Clean/road  test and 
check, all Ok. Again, Ive seen nothing that suggests A didnt  do this work  or that it didnt do 
this with reasonable care. And although A invoiced Mr Y £133.40 for this work, it refunded 
this amount to him when it identified it had charged  him this amount in error.
Ref: DRN59249073Ive seen a further  invoice   with zero value   which shows  the work  undertaken by A when 
Mr Y visited  it again in November 2018. The invoice indicates that A didnt charge Mr Y for 
the work  it undertook on this occasion   Apply diagnostic equipment and spend  1 hour 
investigating fault. We have removed then reseated the injectors and multiple road tests  all 
ok at this time.
So, taking all this into account,  I dont think that Mr Y has shown there was a breach  of 
contract. I say this because even setting aside  the work that A undertook  on Mr Ys car 
without charge, Im satisfied that A completed all the work Mr Y paid for and Ive found 
nothing to indicate that A did this without  reasonable care and skill. I say this because the 
contemporaneous documentation  the invoices  indicate that testing was undertaken and 
everything was ok. 
Ive gone on to consider whether A told Mr Y something that wasnt  true which he relied on 
(a misrepresentation), and that as a result  of that he agreed  to pay for the repair. But faults 
with cars are not easy  to pinpoint and I dont  think its likely that A misrepresented  to Mr Y 
that the work  it was proposing to do would be certain to fix the oil leak.
Although another garage, B, completed different work to deal with the oil leak  it replaced 
the rocker cover gasket   it saw the car some time after A had completed its work.  And I 
dont think its surprising  that B didnt see the need  to replace the parts  that had already 
been replaced by A. It may well be that B would  have  tried something different to fix the car 
first of all  but that doesnt mean its solution  would have worked. And consequently, I cant 
conclude that A misrepresented the position to Mr Y.
Taking everything into account,  I do not uphold this complaint. I appreciate  Mr Y will be 
disappointed with this, but I dont  think theres compelling evidence  of a breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation. This means I cant fairly require MBNA Limited  to pay Mr Y 
compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5924907