K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Barclays Bank  UK PLC wrongly advised them to invest  too 
much of their capital in a product  which  offered no guaranteed returns, in 2007,  particularly  
given the potential returns were little more  than they could have been guaranteed  via fixed-
rate bonds.
background
Mr and Mrs G were in their mid-50s, enjoyed a reasonable  joint income and had around  
£48,000 in their savings account,  which they had accumulated  over time. They  had very 
limited investment experience and were recorded  as being prepared  to take a cautious risk 
with their savings. Barclays recommended a product where their capital was safe, if they 
retained the investment for five years, but any returns were based on stock market  returns  
(calculated by a formula).
Mr and Mrs Gs representative complained that:
Barclays claimed  that the risks of the product were clearly  explained in the brochure. 
This is not true
The statement headed, How does this plan compare to a deposit account is 
misleading; stating  that a deposit account has no potential  for growth, making a 
semantic difference  between the words  growth and interest, and ignoring that 
compounded interest does deliver growth
It also highlighted  other alleged misleading references
The documentation did not offer a fair comparison  between this products  basis for returns  
and that of a deposit account  or other  risk-free  products  such  as fixed-rate bonds
Customers were  not forfeiting any opportunities by putting their money  in a high-
interest account; rather they were forfeiting a high guaranteed return of up to 6.52% 
interest a year via five-year bonds in return for a maximum  of 7.75% with the risk of 
getting no return at all via this product 
Other statements talked up the potential appeal of this product while  only listing  the 
negative aspects  of a risk-free  account
All this meant Mr and Mrs G were  not in a fully informed position to decide  whether this 
recommendation was what  they wanted
Barclays upheld their complaint, saying  it should  only have advised investing half of the 
recommended £40,000,  and offered compensation on the basis that the other  half should 
have been kept in interest-guaranteeing accounts. 
Mr and Mrs G did not accept this offer, arguing  they should not have been advised  to put any 
of their money in this product  given the guaranteed  returns  available  at the time, something  
which the advisor should have made  them aware of.
An adjudicator at this service  agreed, saying he felt that if Mr and Mrs G had been made 
aware that there were fixed-rate bonds  which offered a guaranteed rate of over 6.5%, only 
around 1% less than the maximum they could have got via this product, they would not have 
risked getting no return via this investment. The lack of discussion of this alternative,  in his 
view, led to the advice being unsuitable. Barclays should therefore pay compensation  on the 
entire £40,000 invested. 
Ref: DRN59176622Barclays did not agree, and said:
Mr and Mrs G had significant  reserves, a healthy surplus income  and were not nearing 
retirement. As such  they were in a position to take a cautious risk with their money  i.e. to 
risk only getting back their capital
The documentation recorded that they wanted  a capital  guarantee but were  prepared to 
risk getting no return in the hope of a higher  return than savings rates  at the time; this is 
what the recommended product  offered
Any returns were  also tax-advantageous as they were treated as capital gains rather  
than income; this adds  to their comparative  appeal  over savings  accounts
Its not aware  of any savings products which guaranteed  a 7% return per year for five 
years at the time of advice; its research suggests  the maximum available was probably 
4% with higher rates only available  for more shorter terms
It could have  offered  NSP savings plans but a five-year product was not available at 
the time
It cannot confirm what fixed-rate bonds  were offered by other businesses  at the time but 
its advisor could not have recommended  other products
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the adjudicator 
and for broadly the same reasons.
From what  Ive read, Mr and Mrs G had no investment experience beyond a recent MAXI 
ISA and therefore it was crucial for the advisor and the accompanying documentation  to fully 
set out, in a fair and balanced  way, the risks posed by this structured product.  I note that the 
advisor refers to them as cautious investors,  wanting a capital guarantee but prepared to risk 
getting no return on their money; this describing  the nature of the proposed product.
But I think it is unlikely that Mr and Mrs G would  have  proactively spelt out that this nuanced 
position the attitude they took to their savings. Instead, I think it is more likely  that theyd 
have only previously been aware  of two broad options: keeping  their money safe (via, say, a 
bank account) and risk it falling in value through an investment. So, I think it is more likely 
than not that the advisor initiated the conversation which arrived at this version of a 
cautious risk outlook,  and thus the suitability of this product.
Given this, I think one cannot set too much store by his record stating that Mr and Mrs G 
were actively  looking  for a product like this. Although they appeared to be open to other 
options beyond  keeping their money in a savings account, this does not mean they 
necessarily were looking either for a capital guarantee or were happy to risk getting  no 
return on their money over a lengthy period.
In this context, I dont think this was an unreasonable recommendation, in principle, if the 
advisor had offered a full and fair comparison of the relative risks and benefits of this product 
set against a completely risk-free  alternative.  But I am not persuaded that he did do this.
He regularly refers  to them being disappointed  with their existing returns (Mrs Gs savings 
account earning 4% a year in interest),  which suggests returns  were understandably of some 
importance to them. But he fails to point out the very real risks of this product delivering  no 
return, something which would lead to far greater  disappointment. 
Ref: DRN59176623Crucially, he did not spell out the potential impact on the real value of their money if they got 
no return at all after five years; depending on inflation, this could have been  as much (or 
even more)  than a 25% fall in its real value. As a financial advisor  he would have been fully 
aware of this potential  drawback while Mr and Mrs G may well not have thought  this thought  
without his assistance. So, I dont think they were in a fully informed position to decide to go 
ahead with this recommendation.
I also share Mr and Mrs Gs representatives concerns about aspects of the brochure  which, 
again, in my view,  put the onus on the advisor to offer a fair comparison of the drawbacks 
with this product.  Crucially, the maximum return after five years  was capped at 40%,  around  
7.75 % a year, so Mr and Mrs G would only benefit to a very limited degree  from potential 
stock market rises (unlike some other capital-protected products). And while there may be 
some uncertainty about the best five-year fixed rate bond rates at the time, the evidence 
suggests the gap between these  and the 7% figure  as not massive. So Mr and Mrs G were 
gambling on getting no return in the hope  of a modest improvement on what was available 
via fixed-rate bonds. All this needed to be clearly outlined  and explained, in my view,  if 
Mr and Mrs G were to be put in a fully informed position to invest  in this structured product.
Finally, Ive seen no evidence that Mr and Mrs G had any knowledge of the stock market to the 
extent of being able to take an informed decision about the likelihood  of it having risen at the 
end of five years. For example,  theres no evidence to indicate  that the advisor pointed out that 
it had fallen steadily  in recent  history and so if they had invested in this product on most dates 
between 1995  and 2001, they would not have got any return  at the end of five years.
I am satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that if the advisor had fully set out such  a fair 
comparison of the above considerations then Mr and Mrs G would not have chosen to take 
such a risk with any of their money.
Barclays must compare the amount they received when this product  matured  with what  they 
would have got if theyd kept their money in a risk-free environment,  and by using the returns  
as shown by the Bank of Englands fixed-rate bond of 12 to 17 months maturity as the 
comparator. If this shows a loss it must  pay this sum and add 8% simple interest per annum 
to this figure from the date of maturity to the date of settlement of this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay compensation as 
outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5917662