K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that a car he has on finance  from Close Brothers Limited  (Close Brothers)  
is of unsatisfactory  quality.
background
Mr M took receipt of a used car in March 2014.  He financed the deal through a conditional 
sale agreement with Close Brothers.  At the point of supply  the car had already completed  
14,300 miles and was about three  years  old.
The car ran well until September 2018  when the timing chain broke. At this point  the car had 
covered an additional 29,700 miles. Mr M was disappointed and he complained  to Close  
Brothers suggesting they were responsible for repairs.
But Close Brothers  disagreed. They noted that Mr M had the car for over four years  before 
the issue arose and they thought it likely  that this was an unfortunate failing relating to wear 
and tear, rather than an issue with the car at the point of supply.
But Mr M disagreed and he referred  his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator noted that 
the car had performed well until September 2018  and he thought  it was most likely that if 
there had been  a fault when supplied, Mr M would have noticed  some problems earlier. 
Whilst he accepted  that a timing belt wouldnt usually fail at this mileage he wasnt 
persuaded there was evidence it was failing  at inception  and he therefore didnt think Close  
Brothers needed to take any further action.
But Mr M was still dissatisfied and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M but I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
was the car faulty at the point of supply?
Mr M acquired his car under a conditional  sale agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers  is 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. And the relevant 
legislation also tells us that, when we consider  satisfactory  quality, we should consider 
whether the vehicle has proven to be suitably durable. 
Ref: DRN59476042Im not persuaded that there is evidence the car had faults at the point of supply or that a 
fault with the timing  chain was developing at that point. I say that because  Mr M has 
experienced about 29,000 miles of apparently  trouble free driving. I think its likely that he 
would have been aware of a fault much earlier if it was present  when  he took receipt  of the 
vehicle. Mr M has explained that the car has been well serviced during his ownership  and I 
also think its likely any timing chain issues would have been  evident during those 
inspections. 
was the car durable?
Mr M has suggested that a timing  chain should  last a cars lifetime  but I dont think the 
manufacturers guarantee the chain for that long and whilst I accept that it would be hoped a 
chain would last longer  than Mr Ms did, it seems to me that the failure has happened at the 
low end of normal usage rather  than at a point  at which a reasonable person  would  question  
the cars  durability. 
Mr M hasnt  provided any independent engineering  expert evidence to support his claim that 
this component failed  far too early.  So Ive thought about what seems  reasonable and I think,  
as the car was seven years old at the point of failure  and had completed about  44,000  miles,  
that doesnt seem especially early  for such a replacement.
So I dont  think it would  be fair to ask Close Brothers  to take any further action here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5947604