K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) started  to 
deal with a claim on Mrs Ds motor  insurance  policy in error, to their detriment. 
background
Mr D says he called LV on 23 February  2019 to report an incident  where  someone  driving  a 
van for firm O damaged the rear corner of Mrs Ds car. It was unattended at the time, but 
the other driver left his name and firm Os contact details. Mr D says he intended to settle the 
incident directly with firm O, as it accepted full blame  for the accident. But LV treated his 
report as a claim. It wrote the car off and put a total loss marker against  it. 
Mr D said LV had no reason to think hed made a claim. He also argued strongly that the car 
shouldnt have been written-off,  as it only cost £90 to repair  it. He said if LVs engineer  had 
inspected the car he wouldnt have made that decision. Mr D also said the marker on the car 
meant firm O couldnt settle  the matter for weeks. During that time, Mrs D had to walk to 
work. And in Mr Ds opinion, LVs actions amounted to a scam against the other insurer.   
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ds complaint. She didnt think Mr D had made  it 
clear that he was only reporting the accident,  rather  than making a claim. She thought it was 
fair for the engineer to assess the damage  by looking at photos  of it. She noted that LVs 
estimate to repair the damage was much higher  than Mr D expected,  as it was based on 
using new replacement parts that carried a guarantee. In her view, had Mr D supplied a 
quote for the £90 repair to the old bumper, LV might have authorised  it. She noted LV had 
paid Mr D £90 for any delays or errors,  which she thought was reasonable.  
Mr D said he had a quote for the £90 repair, but LV didnt ask for it. He said LV had justified  
the total loss by claiming damage to the car that didnt exist. He also said it had prevented  
firm O from settling the matter with him by refusing to remove  the total loss marker.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
reporting the incident / making a claim
In the first call Mr D made to LV about  the accident,  he didnt say he was only calling to 
inform LV about  it, or that he intended  to settle  the matter  with firm O. Nor did he tell the 
advisor that firm O had accepted liability for the accident. Mr D didnt query the advisors 
request for details  that wouldnt have been needed if LV wasnt  going to be involved in the 
matter. For example, he agreed to provide photos of the damage for LVs engineer  to review. 
And Mr D didnt seem perturbed when the advisor  said LV was likely to write the car off - 
although he did say a friend  who worked  in a garage  was going to look at the damage.  
In further calls to LV, Mr D discussed the quotes he was getting for a second-hand bumper. 
He said hed been to a body shop where  hed been  asked why he was using  his insurer  
when the body shop could  easily have  dealt with the damage directly. I think that comment 
would have given  LV further reason to believe that Mr D was making a claim on the policy.
Ref: DRN55586972The call recordings LV has supplied,  plus its file notes, show that Mr D accepted a total loss 
payment of £870  from LV on 1 March 2019. Taking  all this into account,  I dont think it was 
unreasonable for LV to conclude that Mr D had made a claim.  I dont think it had reason to 
conclude that he wasnt happy for it to proceed with the claims process until a few weeks 
after he first contacted it. The file notes show that Mr D only said LV should never have 
logged a claim on 14 March 2019.  
the damage / write-off
On 4 March 2019 Mr D queried why LV hadnt  agreed to repair the car. In various calls about 
this issue I think Mr D made it clear that he disagreed with LVs practice  of engineers  not 
always inspecting vehicles on site. But it isnt uncommon for insurers  engineers  to carry out 
reviews based on images, and I dont think it was unreasonable for that to happen in this 
case. Mr D thinks this is the reason LV didnt realise the old bumper could be repaired by 
simply being pushed  back into shape by a panel beater. Even if thats  the case, LV did offer 
to inspect the car on this date, given Mr Ds concerns. He declined the offer, as hed already 
had some of the work done. 
As Mr D didnt  realise initially that the damage  could be repaired easily, he looked for a 
second-hand bumper to replace the original one. He said later that LV had based  the write-
off on damage to the car that didnt exist. But when he first reported the claim, Mr D told LV 
that the bumper  was damaged, the rear light cluster was broken and that there was damage  
to the bodywork / paintwork around  the light cluster.  LVs initial  view was based on the 
details Mr D provided, which I think was reasonable. It also took into account that the car 
was 18 years old. And I think the photo Mr D sent to LV seemed to confirm that there  was 
moderate damage to the car, as hed described.  
Mr D hasnt disputed that the car was worth around  £870. Insurers dont usually repair a car 
if the damage to it is over 60% of its value. Mr D had initially  quoted  £400  for a second-hand 
bumper alone.  LV would  have replaced  the bumper and any other  part with new ones, which  
would have been more expensive, and paid labour costs. So I dont  think  LVs initial view  
that the car was an economic write-off for it as an insurer   was unreasonable.  Mr D says 
the car wasnt a write-off  if it was repairable. But LV classified it as a category N total loss, 
which means it was repairable, as opposed to the sort of total loss vehicle that can never be 
returned to the road. Its usual for insurers in these circumstances to offer a consumer a 
cars market  value. The consumer can then retain the car if they wish and repair  it without 
the insurer being involved in providing any guarantees  for the parts  and labour. 
Mr D later told LV that the light only needed  a plastic cover  costing  £20, that the body work 
needed no attention and that it cost £90 to repair the bumper. In one of the calls, LVs 
advisor asked Mr D to send in a copy of a report from the garage that carried  out the repairs  
for LVs engineer to consider. So at that point it was still possible  that LV could have agreed 
to cover the repairs. Mr D said the repairer  had said it was a small job, so it could  be paid for 
in cash. From this the advisor  concluded  that Mr D wasnt  given a formal price for the job. 
Weve checked  with LV and it says Mr D didnt send  it a report  on the repairs. Although  Mr D 
says he would have  done so if asked,  I think the call shows  that he was asked. In these 
circumstances, I dont  think  it was unreasonable for LV not to change its stance. 
total loss marker            
Ref: DRN55586973On 14 March 2019 Mr D told LV that didnt want to proceed with the claim and would be 
shredding the cheque  LV had sent him for the cars pre-accident  market value. He said he 
wanted the total loss marker  against  the car removed.  
LV told him it had ensured  that the marker had withdrawn against it that day, but it wasnt 
until four days later that it was removed. From  the file notes, it seems LV thought  the marker 
was deleted on 15 March  2019 on the Motor Insurance Anti-Fraud  and Theft Register 
(MIAFTR). I think its unclear whether  part of the short delay in removing the marker was 
LVs fault.  But from the file it looks as though it chased the matter  with external agencies, so 
I think it took reasonable steps to have  the matter dealt with promptly.   
compensation
LV offered  Mr D £90 compensation for any error or delay on its part, which is a modest sum.  
But although  I understand why Mr and Mrs D were  upset by what  happened,  taking 
everything into account, I think that offer was reasonable. I dont think LV should be required 
to pay further compensation, as in my opinion that isnt justified by its actions.
I dont think LV acted  unreasonably in starting the claims process.  I think it did all it could  to 
explain to Mr D why it was reasonable for the engineer to write the car off without seeing it in 
person. And I think it has shown that it was prepared  to reconsider its decision later on. I 
dont think Mr and Mrs D have been  able to show that LV caused deliberate delays in 
removing the total loss marker  or that it tried to scam firm O / the other insurer.  LV 
wouldnt have benefited from writing off the car and then reclaiming its outlay, as the sum 
being claimed would have  been paid to Mrs D already. And the other insurer  certainly  
wouldnt have co-operated  with LV had it not thought the requested  sum was reasonable.
In terms of other detriment, I note that Mr D said he didnt like the attitude  of some of LVs 
advisors. But from listening  to the numerous  call recordings LV provided,  although  many  
issues were strongly disputed, I think they acted reasonably and courteously. 
If Mr and Mrs D are concerned about  LVs standard practices, or the general way it operates,  
thats a matter for the industry regulator  (the Financial Conduct Authority).   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr and Mrs D to accept or reject it before 3 August 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5558697