K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mrs C bought a regular premium PPI policy  in October 1999 alongside a mortgage.  The 
policy and mortgage  ended in 2003  when the mortgage was redeemed.
Mrs C thinks HSBC mis-sold the policy to her. She says she did not feel like she had a 
choice when it was sold to her. She says she was made to feel she had to have it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Cs complaint.  As Mrs C doesnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold         
Mrs Cs complaint for the following  reasons:
The PPI was taken  out a long time ago and so it has been difficult to gather 
information on the sale and what happened between HSBC  and Mrs C. I cant be 
sure how the policy was presented during the meeting and Mrs C has not been able 
to recall the sale in any detail.  This though is understandable due to the amount of 
time that has passed. So its been  difficult for me to consider whether Mrs C was 
given a choice  or not as to whether she should  have  the PPI policy  (or whether as 
she says, she was told she had to have it).
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way HSBC sold these policies around 
this time. I have not been able to read anything that would persuade me the advisor 
did anything other than offer Mrs C a choice to have PPI. I say this because  I have a 
copy of a separate MPPI application  form HSBC has provided. This is called 
Mortgage Repayment Protector Application  Form.  On this form I can see the PPI 
policy was presented as optional, and can also see that Mrs C has signed for it. So I 
think it is more likely  than not that the policy was provided as an optional  requirement 
for this reason  and because I havent been  able to see enough evidence to conclude 
otherwise.
Moving on, HSBC  says it recommended  the PPI to Mrs C during the meeting. So as 
it did recommend the policy to them,  it had additional responsibilities during the sale 
to make sure the policy  was suitable for Mrs Cs needs. But it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs C 
had 6 months full and 6 months  half sick pay and around £3000  of savings at the 
time but the policys  benefits would have  been  of use to her during a difficult  time. I 
Ref: DRN52796232can see no other issues that would have made the policy unsuitable for Mrs C such 
as a limitation or significant term that would have affected her ability to claim benefit.
HSBC has provided some information  about the costs relating to the PPI policy  that 
Mrs C took out. But I cant see on the sales documentation that it was disclosed to 
her in a clear way. That said,  even  if they were disclosed clearly I dont think Mrs C 
would have done anything different for the reasons  that I have already given.
Its possible HSBC didnt point  out the main things the policy  didnt cover or give clear 
information on the significant terms. But its unlikely Mrs C wouldve been affected by 
any of these due to her circumstances at the time.
I understand this will come as a disappointment  but in conclusion  I do not uphold Mrs Cs 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5279623