K820x#14complaint
M, a limited company, complains that Bank  of Scotland  plc wrongly declined its request to 
refund direct  debit  payments taken  from its business  account.
background
Mr M says direct  debit payments have been taken from Ms business account by a third 
party for some years. He recently  discovered the mandate hadnt been  signed by a director  
or authorised signatory.  Mr M says the money was taken from Ms account without 
authorisation. He says Bank of Scotland  wrongly refused to refund the money and hasnt 
abided by its direct debit guarantee.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld,  saying:
the direct  debit was set up by a third party business which provided a service  to M over 
about four years. 
The third party set up the payments under the automated direct debit instruction service 
(sometimes referred  to as AUDDIS). This meant  the third party  retained  the signed  
instruction and sent electronic details  to Bank  of Scotland  to set up the payments. 
Bank of Scotland contacted the third party  business and it confirmed the services were 
provided and it issued monthly  invoices. 
the direct  debit guarantee covers direct debit payments. Its not intended to address 
contractual disputes between the customer and the billing organisation. 
M had been sent invoices by the third party business and statements by Bank of 
Scotland. Payments  were  made for nearly  four years and. M hadnt previously raised 
concerns. 
M didnt agree and so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Based on the available evidence, it appears  that the direct debit mandate  was signed on 
behalf of M by someone that wasnt a director or an authorised  signatory  for Ms account 
with Bank  of Scotland. However, I dont think this makes it fair and reasonable to require 
Bank of Scotland to compensate M for the payments  taken under the direct debit. Ive 
explained why below.
Bank of Scotland received details electronically  from the third party  business  to set up the 
direct debit. Bank of Scotland  didnt process  the direct debit mandate  itself  or even receive  
a copy. This wasnt an error by Bank of Scotland. This was due to the type of direct debit 
Ref: DRN58914862(AUDDIS) used. Bank  of Scotland couldnt  have known the mandate  hadnt been signed by 
an account signatory.
Payments were taken from Ms account on a monthly basis from May 2014.  Amounts varied  
but in some months the payment was up to £1,400.  Id expect Ms directors  to be aware of 
the payments.  M didnt raise any concerns about  the payments  with Bank of Scotland.  
When Mr M raised concerns  in 2018  Bank of Scotland investigated the matter.  It asked the 
third party to return the funds. The third party  declined, saying the services had been 
provided and it sent invoices  to M on a regular  basis. 
If Ms directors didnt  intend to buy services  from and make direct debit payments to the 
supplier Id have  expected  them to raised  concerns soon after the payments started, not four 
years later. Mr M hasnt  provided an explanation that I find reasonable for this not being 
raised sooner.  
Based on the available evidence, I think its likely  Ms request for the direct debit payments 
to be refunded relates to a dispute with the supplier. The direct debit guarantee isnt 
intended to deal with contractual disputes between a provider and customer.  
I dont think Bank of Scotland made an error  when  it declined  to compensate M for the 
payments to the supplier.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5891486