K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Mrs D says 
Lloyds Bank  PLC, trading  as TSB,  mis-sold her the PPI.
The evidence available shows the PPI was taken out at some  point between 1996, when 
Mrs D opened her credit card account,  and 2000, when the earliest date statements are 
available showing PPI being charged.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.  Having  done  so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
Lloyds has very limited information still available about this PPI sale. But thats  not 
particularly surprising as businesses arent  required to keep such records over these very 
long time periods. Mrs D says the policy was added  without her knowledge or consent.  But 
she doesnt seem to have  a particularly good memory of the sale,  which  is also quite 
understandable. 
Lloyds hasnt been able to give me a copy of the credit card application  Mrs D signed at the 
time. This means I dont know much about how the policy was sold or how PPI was 
presented to her. Lloyds have sent us an example of an application form that they say would 
have been used at around the time of the sale. But I cant safely conclude that this was the 
type of application form Mrs D would have filled in, so Ive not relied  on it.
However, this service has seen quite  a number of complaints  within the period of time when 
Mrs D must have  bought  her policy. This means weve been able to develop  a relatively 
good understanding of Lloyds usual sales processes then.  And were generally  satisfied that 
Lloyds made  the optional  nature of the PPI clear  and sought  its customers consent  before 
adding it to their accounts.  
The PPI premiums also appeared on Mrs Ds credit  card statements. And had she not 
agreed to take the PPI, I would have  expected  her to have questioned  why she was being 
charged these premiums. 
So on balance, and on the basis of the very limited information available, I think its more 
likely than not that Lloyds made it clear to Mrs D she didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
actively chose to. 
Ref: DRN51437942Although Lloyds cant say whether it advised  Mrs D to take out PPI, Ive assumed this to be 
the case. This is because it means that Lloyds had to ensure that the policy was suitable for 
her. I dont  know how it did this, but from what I know of her circumstances at the time, I 
cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable:
Mrs D appears  to have been  eligible for the policy and not affected  by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. 
Mrs D says she would have received sick pay from her employer. But the PPI would 
have paid out for up to twelve months and in addition to any other means she might  have  
had at the time. So I still think  she would have valued the extra  security the policy gave 
her.
Ive no reason to think that the policy was unaffordable  for Mrs D. And as the premiums 
were paid monthly, she could have  cancelled it if it no longer met her needs.
Lloyds also needed  to give Mrs D enough  information about the PPI for her to decide if she 
wanted it. I think Lloyds  could have given her better  information than it did. But for much the 
same reasons that I dont think the policy was unsuitable for Mrs D, I dont think  better 
information would have changed her mind about taking it. I still think  she would have  thought 
it gave her useful cover  at an affordable price.
So I dont  think that Mrs D has lost out by anything  that Lloyds may have done  wrong  when it 
sold her this PPI policy.
Ive thought carefully about the points Mrs D has made in responding to the adjudicators 
view. But Im afraid these  dont change my mind about not upholding her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5143794