K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unreasonably failed to consider his 
claim under his travel policy following injuries sustained when on holiday in Europe.
Mr G is represented by his mother Mrs G. References to UKI include all its agents.
background
Mr G, some  members of his family and some friends went away  together  for a holiday in 
Europe. On the day they arrived, Mr G went missing from the bar where  the party had 
gathered and was later found in a nearby  enclosed  compound with significant injuries. 
He was taken  to hospital and put into an induced coma. He eventually  returned home to 
continue his recovery. 
UKI was contacted  shortly after Mr G was found,  and it was suggested  he had been 
assaulted. So it then began to investigate  whether  cover would be provided. UKI said the 
initial medical evidence  talked of Mr Gs injuries  being caused by a fall. Consequently, it said 
it needed the police report before it could confirm if it would provide cover. The medical 
evidence also showed Mr G had alcohol, cocaine, opiates  and benzodiazepines in his 
system.
The police report took some months  to be obtained  by UKI. It concluded that Mr G hadnt 
been assaulted.
On this basis, UKI refused to provide cover due to its exclusion of being under the influence 
of drink and drugs.
Mrs G complained and then brought Mr Gs complaint to us. The investigator  didnt think  UKI 
had done anything wrong. Mrs G disagreed and so Mr Gs complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
My role and the role of this service  is to assess whether UKIs decision to refuse  cover  for 
Mr G was fair and reasonable taking into account  the evidence  presented  to it and that it was 
in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Mr G was very seriously injured. His injuries  included a brain  injury,  multiple  facial  fractures, 
a lung injury and a leg injury.  He was at a bar with all his party, went to the toilet  and never 
returned. One of his friends received a phone call from his phone from an unknown person 
telling him Mr G had been injured  and where  he was. Mr G himself understandably has no 
memory of what happened. However,  he was found  in a closed off compound on the ground. 
It would appear the only way into this compound was over a high fence.
The evidence, which UKI obtained, included medical  evidence and the police report.  The 
medical evidence  clearly showed Mr G had 216mg/DL in his system. The limit for driving in 
Ref: DRN58937452the UK is 80mg/DL. He also tested positive  for cocaine, opiates, and benzodiazepines. On 
this basis alone,  I consider  UKI did nothing wrong in wanting the police report. Thats 
because Mr Gs policy excludes cover  for deliberate acts where someone was under the 
influence or effect  of alcohol  or drugs (other than drugs taken under medical  supervision  and 
not for the treatment of drug addiction). Whilst the policy term doesnt expect anyone  to 
avoid alcohol,  there  is no cover  where  you have drunk so much alcohol that your judgement 
is seriously affected. I understand Mr G was prescribed some benzodiazepines.
Very unfortunately  UKI didnt receive the police report for several months. This was because  
of the rules in the country where Mr G had travelled to and was not the fault of UKI. The 
police report concluded  it was unlikely Mr G had been assaulted. This is because there were  
no other footprints  and no evidence of a struggle or fight. And no one saw anyone  else at the 
time Mr G was found. Bushes with broken branches were  found just behind  the fence. The 
police forensics indicated it was more likely Mr G was injured due to falling rather than an 
assault. The police report also said one of Mr Gs friends  said off the record  that they had 
been taking cocaine.
Therefore, on the basis of this evidence, I consider UKI has shown on the balance of 
probability that its more  likely Mr G fell somehow. Given the extent of the alcohol in his 
system along with the positive drugs tests, I dont consider  it unreasonable for UKI to 
conclude Mr Gs judgement was seriously  affected at the time of his injury. And that the 
terms of its exclusion were  consequently met, meaning that UKI can turn down the claim in 
line with the policy terms. I dont consider that was unreasonable,  given this evidence.
Mrs G said the local police didnt  interview any of the other  members  of the party.  However, I 
cant consider that, as this is solely a complaint against UKI. She also said many  of the 
members of the party were contacted by locals, who said Mr G was assaulted.  But I havent 
seen any evidence of that. Theres also no evidence on UKIs  files that this information was 
passed to UKI for its consideration.
I understand that Mr G is now making  a good recovery from what  were  extremely  serious 
injuries. I also appreciate  both Mr G and Mrs G will be understandably very disappointed 
with my decision. However, on the basis of the evidence, I consider  UKI didnt do anything  
wrong in refusing to consider Mr Gs claim given the exclusion in the policy.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5893745