K820x#14complaint
Mr S complained that Insurance  Factory Ltd sold him car insurance policies which  didnt 
meet his needs.  
background 
Mr S said that Insurance Factory, a broker, didnt give him the policy cover he asked for, and 
then didnt deal with his complaint properly. So he didnt want to pay their cancellation fees 
and he wanted  compensation  for his time and effort in resolving the matter. He also felt 
theyd sold him legal expenses cover  he didnt  need and wanted our Service to stop them 
doing that in future. 
He said that Insurance Factory gave him the wrong cover at first and when he phoned to 
change it, they gave him another  policy which he felt didnt  meet his needs  either.  He 
cancelled the second policy because hed lost trust in them and found the cover he needed 
elsewhere, but he was unhappy that Insurance Factory pursued him for the policy  
cancellation fees. 
He said as follows. When he first phoned  Insurance Factory for a quote, hed told them that 
he was going  to give his car to repairers,  and hed asked Insurance  Factory for a policy  
which covered his car while  it was in a garage. But they failed  to give him that cover. Then,  
although he wanted a policy that would cover his car while it was on the road and while  it 
was being repaired  in a garage, they cancelled the first policy  and gave him a second  policy  
which didnt do that either,  but only covered his car while it was off road during repairs and 
not for driving.  
The adjudicator didnt recommend that his complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought that 
Insurance Factory  hadnt acted unfairly  and didnt ask them  to do any more. Mr S didnt 
agree and so Ive been asked to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive listened to the recording of the call when Mr S first asked  for his policy. He asked the 
agent for a quote and the agent provided that for a comprehensive policy,  to which Mr S 
agreed. Mr S then said that he was going  to put his car in for repairs  and asked if the policy  
would cover his car while it was in a garage. He said that he had other cars which  had been 
in the garage  for painting and his other  insurance had covered that. The agent  explained  
that while with a garage it should be covered by the garages insurance  but also by the 
policy. 
But Mr S didnt tell the agent that he wanted to restore his car or that it was not roadworthy 
at the time, and he didnt ask for a laid up policy to cover his car. Insurance  Factorys  agent 
ran through all the cancellation fees and Mr S agreed.
Mr S says that once  he got the policy documents,  he felt that it didnt cover  his car during 
repairs, as he said hed wanted, and he queried  that with Insurance  Factory  in an exchange  
of emails. Insurance Factory reassured him that the first policy would cover garage repairs  if 
the garage was also insured. Car insurance  policies generally do cover a car going to 
Ref: DRN59807642garage for incidental repairs.  Mr S said Insurance Factory referred him to the underwriter 
who, he said, told him that under the first policy they wouldnt insure his car when it was in 
the garage, in case his car went on fire and damaged another  car. Ive not seen any other 
evidence of this call with the underwriter, and so I dont  know  what was discussed, but its 
possible that Mr S said something  different to the underwriter than what he told Insurance  
Factorys first agent. He may then have explained  that in fact his car wasnt  roadworthy, and 
he wanted to put it in for restoration,  but Im satisfied he didnt say that to Insurance  
Factorys first agent.
Insurance Factory  asked  Mr S to phone them for a requote, and he did that, telling the 
second agent that the first policy wasnt what he had wanted. I've listened to the recording of 
that call too, which was about 14 days after he took out the first policy. In it he did explain to 
the second agent that his car was not roadworthy, and he wanted  cover while  it was with a 
garage for restoration.  She suggested a laid-up policy and explained that would be for laid 
up cover  only and would exclude driving on the road. Mr S agreed with that. He did ask if 
Insurance Factory  did a policy  which  covered both road use and laid up, but the agent 
explained that they didnt  and if he wanted to be able to drive the car on the road, hed need 
to take out another  policy when the car was restored. He agreed to that and asked if he 
might be able to put a different car on the laid-up policy later. Insurance Factory set up the 
second policy and the second  agent explained  the cancellation fees for that policy.
The agent  said Insurance Factory would listen back to the first call to check what  Mr S had 
asked for, but in the meantime, she would  cancel the first policy,  but she didnt say that Mr S 
wouldnt have to pay anything for the policy cancellation. When Insurance Factory  did listen  
back to the first call, they didnt agree with his complaint, and so they pursued  him for the 
cancellation fees.
I see that Mr S is disappointed because he felt he didnt get the cover  hed asked for at first; 
a policy  which would  cover the car being on and off the road for restoration, as this was 
cover hed got before for other cars. But that doesnt  mean  that Insurance Factory  are 
required to provide that type of cover. And in any event, Im satisfied that Mr S did not ask 
Insurance Factorys  first agent for that when  he bought the first policy.  That may well have 
been what he wanted then, but he didnt communicate that to Insurance Factory.  He gave 
the impression  that he wanted a comprehensive  driving policy which  would cover him while  
his car was incidentally in a garage. The first agent offered that and Mr S agreed to buy that. 
Insurance Factory  confirmed when he queried  it that the policy  would cover  garage repairs if 
the garage also did, and I havent seen any evidence from Insurance  Factory  or the insurer  
to suggest that his car would never be covered if it was in a garage. Im also satisfied that 
when Mr S took out the second policy with the second agent, that the agent clearly explained 
that it covered  the car being laid up only and did not cover  driving  it. Mr S accepted this. In 
both calls the agents told him about the cancellation  fees and referred to the policy  
documents and, as I dont think that the charges are unreasonable,  Insurance Factory are 
entitled to charge for those. 
Mr S also complained that Insurance Factorys first agent mis-sold him legal expense 
insurance (LEI). I note that Insurance Factory offered this, and Mr S did at first decline it 
because he said he already had that cover. 
However, the agent then offered Mr S a discount if he took the LEI and Mr S agreed  to that. 
The LEI cover was optional, and Mr S didnt have  to take it but chose  to do so, so I dont 
think that Insurance Factory have done anything wrong there. And as the adjudicator  has 
Ref: DRN59807643explained, its not this Services role to regulate  a businesss  processes, but it is something 
that Mr S could take up with the Financial  Conduct Authority if he wished. 
I think that Insurance Factory gave Mr S the policy he asked for at first, and that they gave 
him enough information for him to make an informed  decision. Mr S also thought that 
Insurance Factory  took too long to deal with his concerns about  the first policy. But I see that 
they did reply to him in various emails and dealt with his concerns, before suggesting that he 
call them for a requote and then cancelled the first policy within  about  fourteen  days, so I 
dont think that was an unreasonable time. 
Mr S also felt that Insurance Factory  did not investigate his complaint fairly  and that their 
response bore no resemblance to his complaint. But Insurance Factory responded on about 
5 February to his complaint of about  30 January, so I dont think there was any unnecessary 
delay there,  and I think that they did set out and deal with the elements of Mr Ss complaint 
adequately. So, in all the circumstances, I dont  think that Insurance Factory  have acted 
unreasonably, and I dont require them to do anything  else.
my final decision
For the reasons,  Ive given above  its my final decision that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5980764