K820x#14complaint
Mrs D says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) when she took out a 
store card in February 1996.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint.
background
In February 1996  Mrs D applied for a store card by completing an application form while  she 
was shopping.  At the same time she was sold a PPI policy to protect  her card payments.
The policy cost was no more than £1.00 per £100  Mrs D owed on her store  card. The policy 
wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month  if Mrs D couldnt work  
because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy  also provided life cover  
as well as price and purchase  protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Ds complaint.  Mrs D disagreed so the complaint has been 
passed to me for final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. And having done  so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Ive looked at the copy of the agreement Mrs D signed and I can see that theres a tick next 
to the statement that reads Yes, I would like to protect my account with Account  Cover. 
Please debit my account with the relevant monthly premium until further notice  so Im 
happy it was optional and that Mrs D chose  to take it out. If she hadnt  wanted to take out the 
PPI, I think  Mrs D couldve chosen not to sign the agreement. And Ive noted that she didnt 
take out two other optional features - card protection and an additional card holder. So I think  
Mrs D knew the policy was optional  and chose to take it. And as this was a monthly policy, 
Mrs D couldve  cancelled it at any time if she didnt want it.
Theres limited  information available to me about  what happened at the time of sale.  So I 
dont know what may or may not have been  said. Given  the information I do have, Ive not 
seen enough to make me think FICL advised  Mrs D to take out the PPI. This means FICL 
didnt have to make sure the policy was suitable  for Mrs Ds circumstances.  But it still had to 
provide her with clear  information about  the policy so she could decide if she wanted  to take 
it out - I cant say that FICL did this.
I dont know exactly what information  Mrs D received  about  the policy at the time of sale. But 
even if I were to accept that Mrs D wasnt given  clear  enough  information  about the policy,  I 
dont think this wouldve  affected her decision to take out the PPI for the reasons explained 
below.
Mrs D was eligible for the policy and doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of the 
exclusions or limitations which may have made  it difficult  for her to make a claim  she told 
us she was employed and in good health.  Mrs D says she wouldve received some sick pay 
Ref: DRN53272292from her employer if she was away from work  due to illness  -  but the policy  would have paid 
out in addition to her employment benefits so couldve proved useful to Mrs D if she had an 
accident, became  ill or lost her job. She could also have benefitted from life cover and price 
and purchase protection.
Im not satisfied that FICL  made the cost of the policy clear enough for Mrs D to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But taking everything into account, I think  if 
Mrs D had properly understood the cost and benefit  provided she wouldve thought the 
policy potentially useful.  The policy would pay a 15% monthly benefit until the outstanding 
balance was cleared and the monthly cost doesnt  seem to be unaffordable.
Overall, I dont  think FICL did everything  it needed  to when it sold the policy  to Mrs D. But I 
think she knew she had a choice about  taking the PPI and I think  she would still have taken 
out the cover if shed  been properly informed about it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5327229