K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mrs R bought the policy in 2001 sometime after she took out a store  card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Rs complaint because:
 The PPI was sold during a phone  call sometime  after Mrs R took out the store  card. 
Based on what we know about  how FICL sold PPI, I think  FICL most  likely made Mrs R 
aware that she had a choice about  buying  the PPI, and that she chose to take it.
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs R doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. So I dont  think  better information 
wouldve stopped  her buying  it. While Mrs R was entitled to some sick pay the PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of this and lasted for longer. And the support of friends  and 
family wouldnt be guaranteed, as that would depend on their circumstances at the 
time she needed help.
Ive taken into account Mrs Rs comments,  including what shes said about  not being  aware  
of having the policy  until recently. But these points dont change  my conclusion. The sale 
was a long time ago and it may be that she has simply forgotten that she agreed to the 
policy. In light of all the information available to me, I think  thats more  likely  than FICL 
having added the PPI without her consent. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5385303