K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  him overdraft Payment Protection  Insurance  
(PPI).
background
Briefly:
Due to the passage of time, Lloyds records about the sale of PPI are not complete. But 
according to Lloyds, Mr H opened a bank  account  with an overdraft facility  in 1992. At the 
same time he also took out PPI. Lloyds has assumed that things  happened  during a branch 
meeting, which  I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
The policy was designed to provide a fixed monthly  benefit to help make payments towards 
Mr Hs overdraft facility (the benefit  was payable regardless  of whether Mr H was actually 
using his overdraft  facility at the time of claim) in the event he couldnt work because  of 
accident or sickness. The benefit was payable for 24 months for each claim. The policy  also 
provided life cover, which wouldve paid a fixed lump sum benefit upon  death.
Due to the passage of time its not clear  what Mr Hs actual policy  benefit was (it appears the 
benefit amounts  were  in units of £25 chosen by the customer  and/or presumably the adviser  
when giving their advice).  But Lloyds says the monthly cost was £1.10 a month.
At the time Mr H has told us he was self-employed; he wasnt entitled  to any sick pay; he 
didnt have any savings  he couldve  used  to pay towards his overdraft  facility;  and he was in 
good health at the time.
Lloyds records show the account ended in 1997.
I issued my provisional decision of August 2020,  in which I said I was likely  to disagree with 
the adjudicator  and not uphold the complaint. Both parties were given the opportunity  to 
reply with anything  they thought was relevant  Lloyds didnt reply and Mr Hs representative 
said they had nothing to add.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant  
here in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party has given me anything new to consider, Ive decided 
not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.  My reasons are set out below.
did Mr H have a choice about PPI?  
did he agree to take it out?
Lloyds had to make it clear that PPI was optional.  Mr H says he didnt know  he was paying  
for PPI.
Ref: DRN57612872I said above that Lloyds records of this sale are not complete  it also doesnt have any 
paperwork from the time of the sale. And this isnt surprising given how long-ago things 
happened. Businesses dont have to keep records indefinitely  and its been more  than 20 
years since  the account closed. Its also the case that Mr H hasnt given much detail about 
what happened.
So, given the limited evidence about an event which happened many  years ago I dont think 
I can fairly say that Lloyds, more likely than not, misrepresented the policy as not being 
optional or that Mr H didnt agree to take it out.
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Both parties  agree that this was an advised  sale. This means Lloyds had to ensure the PPI 
was suitable or right for Mr H based on his needs  and circumstances at the time. It also had 
to provide him with enough clear  and timely information about  the recommended cover so 
Mr H could make an informed  decision about  it.
the advice
I dont know what steps, if any Lloyds took to assess the suitability of PPI for Mr H. Its likely 
the adviser had some  limited financial and other information about Mr H from the bank  
account and/or overdraft  application he likely had to complete. But there  isnt sufficient 
evidence to show that Lloyds considered whether Mr H was affected by the significant 
exclusions and/or  limits  to the cover  for example whether Mr H had any existing medical 
conditions. So the available evidence doesnt persuade  me that Lloyds advised with 
appropriate care and skill.
But I do think that based on what Ive seen of Mr Hs circumstances at the time, PPI was 
nevertheless ultimately suitable for him. For example, he was eligible for the cover;  he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover such as those for 
existing medical conditions; and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.
Mr H was self-employed, so he didnt  have access to sick pay entitlement.  And Mr H told us 
he didnt have any savings at his disposal,  which he couldve used to reduce any overdraft 
balance at the time, or to prevent him from exceeding his overdraft limit, if he found himself 
unable to work because of accident or sickness. It therefore seems the cover wouldve been  
useful to him at what would likely  be a difficult time. 
I therefore dont  think it was wrong  for Lloyds to have recommended  the cover  to Mr H.
the information   
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr H 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  For example, I dont know whether 
Lloyds drew Mr Hs attention to the significant exclusions/limitations of cover. And In 
particular I cant safely conclude that Lloyds told Mr H that he would continue  to pay for PPI 
whether his account was overdrawn or not  an important piece of information.
But, Im not persuaded that Mr H wouldve likely acted  differently had Lloyds made things 
clearer. 
Ref: DRN57612873Ive thought very carefully about the likely poor cost disclosure and if things had been 
clearer, whether this wouldve affected  Mr Hs decision to buy. I accept that for some 
customers in slightly different circumstances this information mightve given them  pause for 
thought and they might have decided not to proceed  for example perhaps they werent 
intending to regularly use their overdraft facility,  or it was an in case of need  facility.
But Mr H was self-employed, so this was a business  and not a personal account. Because  
this was a business account  and given the specific nature of Mr Hs job, I think it is likely 
Mr Hs income  fluctuated and hed need to use his requested facility on a regular basis. I find 
it unlikely that Mr H in his circumstances requested an overdraft facility simply in case of 
need and with no intention of regularly  using it.
Indeed, Im mindful  that in completing  Lloyds own PPI questionnaire when it started its 
investigation into Mr Hs complaint, Mr H told Lloyds that the facility was a business loan 
and went on to indicate that it was for the purchase of a vehicle.  And I can see from Lloyds 
transactions records, that whilst not complete, they show that in less than two weeks from 
the assumed overdraft  and PPI start date Mr H had slightly exceeded his overdraft limit. So I 
think this evidence supports what Mr H has said - it seems Mr H intended to draw  on and to 
make full use of the facility immediately.
Given the extent  to which Mr H quickly utilised his facility and based on what he said the 
purpose of the borrowing was for, I think its likely Mr H intended to regularly use his 
overdraft facility  this was not a very short-term facility  so he had a balance to protect  and 
would likely  do so for a reasonable period of time. And whilst Im mindful  of not placing great  
weight on evidence from after the event in question, Lloyds transaction records show  that Mr 
H did maintain a regular overdrawn balance - the last record  in February 1994 shows Mr H 
was at or very close  to his overdraft  limit.
So taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that Mr H wouldve acted differently 
and declined  the recommended cover had he been  told more  clearly that he would continue 
to make PPI payments on a monthly  basis regardless of whether he was using  his overdraft 
facility or not. 
In terms of the other likely  information  failings  Ive concluded above that the policy  wasnt 
inappropriate for Mr H. He wasn't affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the 
cover  Mr H was in good health for example. So it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong.  At £1.10 a month it also looks  like it was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put Mr H off taking out the cover.  
conclusion
While I accept Lloyds might  not have done everything it should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done when it sold Mr H PPI, I think the policy was ultimately  suitable  for him. Because  of this 
and in light of his particular circumstances at the time, I don't think better information about 
the policy, including the cost information, would've  likely  put him off taking it out.
This means  I dont  think Mr H has lost out as a result  of having PPI, so Lloyds doesn't  have 
to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN57612874my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint  and I make  
no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2020.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5761287