K820x#14complaint
Mrs R has complained about the compensation she has been offered by Financial Insurance 
Company Limited  (FICL) for the mis-sale  of a store card.  
background
I issued my provisional decision on 21 November 2018. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I think  the 
way FICL has calculated Mrs Rs compensation was fair. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R replied. While  she was disappointed  with my provisional  decision,  she accepted it as 
she didn't have any further  information for me to take into account.
FICL didn't respond. 
As neither party has replied with anything further  for me to consider  I confirm  the findings in 
my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN53973022copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs R has complained about  the compensation she has been offered  by Financial  Insurance  
Company Limited (FICL) for the mis-sale of a store card. 
background
Mrs R took out a store  card in 1997. She complained to FICL that the card has been mis-sold to her. 
FICL agreed and offered  compensation of £411.37.
FICL didn't have the full statements for when  the card was in use. It had actual statements  of account  
from August 2005. For the period before that, it did know the amounts charged for the PPI, interest 
and total spending. So it used those amounts and averaged the total figures  from the account  opening 
date up until August  2005.
Mrs R wasnt  happy with the offer.  She had monthly statements of her account from September 1998 
through to April 2001 and thought they would be a better reflection of how she used her card.  
Our adjudicator sent the statements onto FICL asking it to recalculate  its offer incorporating the 
known data Mrs R had provided.  FICL said it couldnt do this as its method  of calculation  would need 
either three consecutive statements from the account opening  date or statements  from the three 
months before the account  closing date. 
As the complaint remains  unresolved it has been passed to me to decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
As FICL has already offered compensation for the PPI I will not be looking at how it was sold. Ill only 
be considering the compensation it has offered  and whether I think  it is fair. 
Because of how long ago the account was opened, FICL doesnt  have statement  data before August 
2005. I dont find this surprising  bearing  in mind how long ago the store card was taken. And 
businesses arent under  any obligation to keep records of account indefinitely.
For the period where FICL  doesnt have copies of Mrs Rs statements it doesnt know what happened 
on the store card. So it has used  the information it does have to make assumptions to work out the 
impact the PPI had on Mrs Rs account during this time to calculate  how much it owes Mrs R in 
compensation. That is the offer it has put to Mrs R.
But Mrs R has been able to provide some  statements  of her account and would  like FICL  to use the 
actual data where it is known. Ive considered this point as I agree  that if possible  known data should  
be used when  it is available.
However, the way that FICL  has made its assumptions is that the store card always had a growing  
balance while the PPI was active. So this attracted an annual percentage rate of interest which takes 
into account  all charges and not just interest on the amount that has been spent. 
If FICL  was to use the statements, it can be seen from them that at times,  the card was more or less 
cleared, so this would  stop the interest compounding and Mrs R would get simple interest instead.  
The compound interest would work out to be more than the simple interest so this is an advantage for 
Mrs R. 
Ref: DRN53973023What FICL  has done  will inevitably not perfectly reflect how Mrs R used her store  card in the periods 
for when it doesnt have  statements. But in the absence of full data from the time,  there is no way 
FICL could do this. So it has come  to a way of working  out how much Mrs R is likely to have used her 
store card during that time and what the PPI would have cost. 
What it has worked  out may be more  or less than the actual cost. But overall, I think  the assumptions 
FICL has made when it doesnt  know what  happened are fair, and favour Mrs R. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I currently dont intend to uphold Mrs Rs complaint and wont be 
asking Financial Insurance Company Limited to recalculate its offer. 
If either Mrs R of Financial  Insurance  Company Limited have  anything further to add, they should do 
so by 21 December 2018. Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Ref: DRN5397302