K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  (trading  at the time as Portman Building 
Society) mis-sold  Mr S payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2004. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint should  be upheld. Nationwide disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me.
When I looked at the case, I reached a different conclusion  to that of the adjudicator,  and 
said I didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. So I sent out a provisional  decision and 
asked for comments and new evidence. This is what I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general 
approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this case.
The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago and none of the original documents 
from the sale are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall  in detail 
everything that happened about 15 years ago when the PPI started.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As 
with all cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened,  based on 
what evidence there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest  
outcome can be difficult.
The adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld. This was mainly  because there 
was not enough evidence:
to suggest Mr S was given the opportunity to actively confirm he wanted to 
take the policy.
to show the PPI was presented as a separate policy.  
But, at this stage,  Ive reached  a different view. I will explain why. 
I dont think its unreasonable that Nationwide doesnt now have the original 
paperwork, given  the mortgage and policy were cancelled in 2006. 
Mr S has said the PPI was sold during a meeting, and that by the end of the meeting 
he felt obliged to take PPI, even though  he felt he didnt  need it. However he hasnt 
been able to recall  any details of what it was that made him feel obliged. This isnt 
surprising given that it happened so long ago, but by itself it isnt strong evidence that 
Nationwide acted wrongly by putting  unfair  pressure on him. It isnt necessarily wrong 
to strongly advise someone to buy an insurance policy,  even if the adviser is partly 
motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth  
recommending. The closer it gets to making  someone feel they have no real sensible 
alternative to taking the policy,  the less acceptable  it is. But I cant  be sure exactly  
Ref: DRN51364412what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say Nationwide did something wrong  unless 
I had stronger evidence  of this.
Nationwide says it cant now tell how the PPI was sold.  But, Mr S says it was sold 
during a meeting. And Nationwide  has supplied a copy of a mortgage application 
form used at the time, and this does present the PPI as a choice which you make by 
either ticking yes or no. So I think its likely that, at least in the documents,  
Nationwide made  clear that PPI was something separate, and which you didnt  have 
to take. 
 
Ive looked at other ways in which the PPI might have been  mis-sold. But my current 
view is that these dont  apply:
I dont think Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr S, as being particularly 
suited to his individual needs.  This means it didnt have to check  if the PPI fitted 
his circumstances.  It would have been  for Mr S to decide whether it was suitable.  
But even  if it had made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been 
an appropriate one in his circumstances at the time. Not being  able to pay a 
mortgage can cause  significant difficulties, and the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any employer sickness and redundancy benefits,  and possibly for 
longer. It would have  put off the time when Mr S would have to fall back on any 
savings or other resources needed  to pay his mortgage and other living  expense. 
And Ive not been told anything to suggest  he couldnt afford the PPI when he 
took it out. So it would have been potentially useful.  
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained  the costs  and benefits  of the 
policy. But I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  
have affected  whether  Mr S took the PPI.
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt  
cover. But its unlikely Mr S would  have been affected by any of these. Its likely 
he was eligible for the policy,  and hed be paying for it monthly, so he could 
cancel it at any time without further  cost if his situation changed.
In response, Mr S sent in a number of documents related to insurance, including  PPI, from 
2004 and 2006. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the documents Mr S has sent to me. But these dont tell me more about Mr Ss 
central point of complaint  that he was made to feel obliged to take the PPI. There  isnt 
anything in the documents that shows the PPI was presented as something Mr S had to 
have, or could reasonably be said to put pressure on him to take PPI. 
So, for the reasons given in my provisional decision, Ive decided to confirm  my view that the 
PPI wasnt mis-sold. 
Ref: DRN51364413my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5136441