K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that hes lost out financially because he was given incorrect information a 
number times by Scottish Widows Limited about  the date used to calculate his pension 
transfer value.  
background
Mr P spoke to Scottish Widows in September,  October and early  November 2018 about his 
pension benefits.  He planned to transfer his benefits  to a different retirement account with 
Scottish Widows, so that he could take a tax free cash lump sum.  He couldnt take the tax 
free cash  lump sum from his existing pension policy.
During these calls Scottish Widows accepts that Mr P was led to believe that the transfer 
value would be calculated  using the value of the assets calculated  at the end of the previous 
working day.
On 19 November 2018, Mr P spoke  again to Scottish Widows and provided Scottish Widows 
with his authority  to transfer his pension  benefits. He says he was told during that call that 
his benefits would be disinvested the next day (20 November 2018) so the asset valuations 
would be based  on prices from 19 November 2018.
But, Mr P says, the letter sent to him on Monday 19 November told him the value of his 
policy on 16 November 2018,  so he expected to receive this. His policy  was valued at 
£181,397.32 on 16 November 2018.
When Scottish Widows  transferred the funds it calculated the policy value using the prices  
from 20 November 2018. The total amount that was transferred was £178,049.54.  Twenty  
five percent of this was then paid to Mr P as tax free cash.
Mr P complained to Scottish Widows. It accepted that it had made an error in the information 
it gave him and the date used to value  his policy. It said it shouldve  used  the value on 19 
November 2018  to calculate the value of his policy.
Scottish Widows  recalculated the transfer using the 19 November as the date of calculation.  
It paid him an additional  £88.10 into his new Retirement Account, an extra  £22.10 in tax free 
cash, plus interest. It paid Mr P £250 in total for the inconvenience caused by its actions.
Mr P brought his complaint to our service.  One of our investigators looked  into it, and 
concluded that Scottish Widows offer to resolve his complaint  was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. He said that as Scottish  Widows had now put Mr P back  in the position  he 
wouldve been but for its error, and he couldnt see that Mr P wouldve acted differently if 
given the correct information,  he didnt  consider  that Mr P had lost out financially as a result 
of Scottish  Widows  failings.
He acknowledged  that it must have been frustrating for Mr P to be given incorrect  
information on more  than one occasion, but felt Scottish Widows offer of £250 to 
compensate him for this, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr P didnt accept our adjudicators view and asked for his complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN57747112He said he felt Scottish Widows should honour what its staff told him, having misinformed 
him more  than once,  and in writing as well, all with the same message. He considers  that 
£250 is not a fair amount  of compensation as he is down on what  he was led to believe he 
would get.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. Having  done so, I cant reasonably  
require Scottish Widows  to use 16 November 2018  as the date for calculating  the value of 
his policy. 
I fully accept that Mr P was given incorrect information by Scottish Widows about the 
valuation date, and that this happened  a number of times. But, I also note that Mr P said he 
didnt specifically choose 19  November  as the date to transfer. He said this was the earliest 
convenient date he was offered by Scottish  Widows. He said he was frustrated at having to 
wait two weeks to disinvest his own money, and wouldve preferred to disinvest during the 
week commencing 5 November. As I understand it, a follow up call was booked for 
19 November with Scottish Widows, and thats  why this came  to be the date he instructed 
Scottish Widows  to transfer his pension.
Scottish Widows  initially  calculated the value of Mr Ps fund as at 20 November, because it 
processed his application  after 5pm on 19 November. But, it later reviewed this decision,  as 
it said it had all the information it needed  prior to 5pm,  so it shouldve calculated  the value as 
at 19 November. This resulted in his transfer  value increasing.
I can understand why Mr P feels hes lost out financially. But, I cant  see that he has, based  
on the terms and conditions that applied.  His transfer value couldve been  more or less 
depending on when  Scottish Widows received his instructions to proceed  with the transfer. 
The value wasnt guaranteed. There was no significance in the day selected (19 November) 
from Mr Ps perspective, this was simply the first follow up date Scottish Widows offered him. 
So, like our investigator, I think Mr P wouldve gone ahead  with the transfer  on 
19 November, even  if he had been given correct  information about  the date being  used for 
valuation purposes.  It seems,  he had already decided on the course  of action he wanted to 
take. So, I cannot reasonably order Scottish  Widows to pay Mr P more  than he was entitled  
to get. We look to put customers back into the position that they wouldve been but for the 
error or omission. I think what Scottish Widows has done to try and settle this complaint is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I agree  that Scottish Widows ought reasonably to pay Mr P £250 compensation to recognise 
the trouble and upset its caused him by its actions. It has already paid him this, so I make 
no further award.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I think Scottish Widows Limiteds offer of redress is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances and so I make no further award.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Ref: DRN57747113Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5774711