K820x#14Complaint
J, a limited company,  complains that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly  declined  its claim for a 
damaged air conditioning (AC) unit under its commercial buildings  insurance policy.
J is represented in this complaint by Mr H, so Ill refer to him directly in my decision.
All references to Allianz include their agents.
Background
Mr H made  a claim to Allianz on behalf  of J in April 2018. He said an AC unit had fallen 
through its housing  and damaged some  equipment  below and the floor beneath. Js claim 
was for a replacement AC unit as well as the damaged equipment and floor.
Allianz reviewed Js claim and appointed a loss adjuster  to manage it. The loss adjuster 
accepted the claim for the damaged  equipment and floor under the accidental  damage 
section of Js policy. But it didnt  know what caused  the AC unit to fail, so it appointed a third 
party expert to assess  the unit.
The expert said the fan motor in the AC unit had overheated. This caused  it to melt through  
the fixings, drop from the housing, and break through its outer casing to land on the floor 
below. The expert said the unit was beyond  economical repair  and had failed due to general  
wear and tear. It recommended  rejecting the claim as wear and tear was excluded on Js 
policy.
Mr H on behalf of J disagreed with Allianzs  decision to reject the AC unit claim and referred 
Js complaint to our service. Mr H didnt think Allianz had inspected the AC unit properly.  He 
also said he was unhappy at the time Allianz  took to decline Js claim.
Mr H provided  an independent report from a different third party expert, who installed this 
type of AC unit. This report  also said the fan motor in the AC unit had overheated, but didnt 
think it was a common fault for this unit. It concluded  that wear  and tear did not contribute  to 
the motor failure.
Our investigator showed Allianz Mr Hs independent  report and it reassessed the claim. It 
rejected the claim  again and referred  to two exclusions under  Js policy  relating to accidental  
damage and fire. Allianz also provided a timeline of events in response  to Js complaint 
about the delays.
Our investigator then looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  
She thought  Allianz had fairly relied on the exclusions in Js policy  to decline the 
replacement AC unit. And she didnt think the additional investigations carried  out by Allianz 
caused any avoidable delays in the claim.  So she didnt think it needed to pay any 
compensation to J.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators  findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN52685172My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint, and for broadly  the same reasons as our investigator.  Ill explain why below.
J holds a perils based commercial buildings insurance policy  with Allianz. This means  that in 
the event of a claim, the onus is on J to show that it falls under one of the perils covered by 
the policy. And Allianz can rely on any policy exclusions if it wishes to decline the claim, if it 
can sufficiently show an exclusion applies to the circumstances. 
Ive checked the terms of Js policy, which  Allianz  has relied on to decline the AC unit claim. 
Under the exclusions for accidental damage, it states b. Damage  caused by or consisting  of 
inherent vice, latent defect, gradual  deterioration,  wear and tear, frost, its own faulty or 
defective design or materials is not covered under the policy.  And under the exclusions 
for the Fire peril it states c. by its own spontaneous fermentation or heating and d. to any 
particular piece of electrical apparatus of fitting  which has caused a fire due toover 
running,self-heating  are not covered.
Part of the term Allianz relied on to decline the claim refers to damage caused  by or 
consisting of inherent  vice. Or, in other  words,  this means a quality in the item that causes  it 
to damage or destroy itself. Both of the expert  reports indicate it was the overheating of the 
fan motor that led to the failure of the other components of the AC unit. I am satisfied this 
can be classified as an inherent vice because without the overheating, the other components  
of the fan wouldnt have  failed. So I am persuaded by the reports  and I think  it is fair for 
Allianz to decline  the claim under this exclusion.
Ive considered both expert reports to see if Allianz  has excluded  this claim fairly. The report  
provided by the loss adjusters expert says the motor failed due to wear and tear. But the 
report provided by Mr Hs expert says it didnt.  However, both reports  agree that the fan 
motor overheated,  causing the unit to fail and fall through the ceiling. And as Ive mentioned 
above, I think this is the key point in determining this complaint - and not whether the motor 
failed due to wear and tear. 
I also think it was fair for Allianz to decline the claim under its Fire peril exclusion. Again, 
both expert  reports agree  that the fan motor  overheated which  caused  it to melt through  its 
fixings. So Im satisfied  this could be considered as self-heating and meets the exclusion as 
set out above.  
Ive checked the remaining policy terms and I cant see that the failure of the AC unit falls 
under any other insurable event. So Im not going to require Allianz to do anything further in 
regards to the claim for the AC unit.
Ive next considered whether J is entitled to any compensation for the delays caused in the 
claim. Mr H says if hed known sooner that Allianz  intended to decline the claim he couldve 
arranged the repair of the AC unit and minimised the inconvenience to his staff. But Allianz  
did say in their first email  to Mr H that the claim may or may not be covered depending on 
what it found. So I think Mr H had an opportunity to mitigate  any loss to J from this point.
Ive looked at the timeline of events  and can see it took around  two months for Allianz to 
communicate their decision to Mr H to decline the claim. I havent seen any evidence of 
avoidable delays  here by Allianz, as further  investigations were  required in order to 
Ref: DRN52685173determine what caused the AC unit to fail. And I think  it was reasonable for Allianz to 
complete these investigations before making  their decision to decline the claim. So I dont 
think Allianz needs to pay any compensation to J.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H, on behalf  of 
J, to accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2019.
Dan Prevett
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5268517