K820x#14Complaint
Mrs R complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc mismanaged her loan.
Background
In early 2017 Mrs R bought a bathroom from a company I will call B. This was funded by a 
loan from Hitachi. A number of changes were made  which resulted in amendments  to the 
sum payable. Mrs R believes  that errors were made by Hitachi and by B in dealing with 
these alterations.
The initial order was made in late 2016 and a redesign took place in January 2017.  
Subsequent amendments were made  in the following months. The new bathroom was 
funded by a fixed term loan of £6,000  taken  out in January 2017. Mrs R has suppled  detailed 
information regarding  the order and later alterations. It is worth noting that the project  
involved over 40 separate  items and installation costs were  broken down into 37 elements 
according to an early invoice. 
Mrs R had frequent exchanges  with B and latterly Hitachi regarding the accuracy of the sum 
payable for the bathroom. The alterations  to the original invoice involved numerous  changes 
and substitutions which led to errors in the sum payable. 
I have read the submissions and evidence of both parties and I trust they will understand 
that I have  decided it unnecessary to set out in detail each disputed  sum in my decision. Mrs 
R has set that out in her comprehensive letter to this service of 5 September  2018 and the 
many attachments. 
Mrs R was unhappy that the Hitachi  and B hadnt identified  all the errors  or quantified them  
correctly. That said, B had examined  18 disputed items and many of these were  resolved 
before the matter  was brought to this service. Having been unable  to resolve the matter  to 
her satisfaction Mrs R made a complaint to this service. It was considered  by one of our 
investigators who recommended  it be upheld. 
He asked Mrs R for a concise list of the items/refunds still unresolved.  She gave details and 
summarised the total refunds outstanding as being £60.36 plus £41/£90 cost difference  for 
the shower. She also said she had incurred £200 dealing with the errors. B had offered her 
£360 and Hitachi  £150 for the distress  and inconvenience she had suffered. 
Our investigator put this to Hitachi and it, in turn sought assistance  from B. Having 
considered all the information our investigator  
He noted a refund of £54.64 in February 2017  for a cancelled bath screen hadnt been 
included in the invoice and B had supplied an alternative screen  free of charge.
As for the shower  which had been  changed  he noted Hitachi had charged  her for the Sport 
Max Airboost shower. However, it agreed  to amend the sum due if she could provide 
evidence that an alternative model  was installed. He thought  this was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances, as he would only expect Hitachi to charge for what  it had been  told had 
been fitted. He recognised Mrs R had some concerns regarding notes she has been 
provided with about the shower,  but he thought this matter was one for B.
Ref: DRN50632502He referred to the charge  made for a vanity basin/cabinet, including  a refund for a plinth.  
There was some uncertainty  about what this covered, but Hitachi said the £34 charge for the 
plinth was refunded  twice,  along  with a pack  of floor tiles. It added that a new basin was 
provided free of charge.  The investigator wasnt persuaded that Hitachi  had made  an error in 
its charges for the vanity basin/cabinet.
Next he turned to Mrs Rs concerns about  charge made for a plinth, wall tiles and floor tiles 
and the subsequent refund. Hitachi explained that £589 worth of products had been 
provided free of charge.  Our investigator  concluded  that while the final statement may not be 
completely accurate, overall he thought the amount  being charged was fair. He didnt think  
Mrs R had suffered a financial loss. 
He agreed Mrs R had suffered distress and inconvenience, but he considered the £510  
offered by both B and Hitachi was fair and reasonable. Mrs R didnt agree. She took issue  
with many aspects which were the responsibility  of B. She said Hitachi didnt administer her 
loan properly and relied on B for information  when it knew Bs systems were  inadequate.  It 
should have acted to protect her position.  She said Hitachis  final response letter failed to 
represent the important problems she was dealing with. 
Mrs R said she felt she had been  talked into taking a more  expensive shower. She disputed 
the refund  for the plinth and suggested  she was owed a further £20. Furthermore she didnt 
agree the vanity  basin/cabinet had been  resolved and challenged the claim that she had 
received £589  worth  of free items.
Our investigator explained that while B acted as a credit broker in arranging  the loan with 
Hitachi its role in supplying goods was not a regulated activity and so was outside our remit. 
He said that the matter  would be referred to an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service  is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award  redress where  appropriate.  I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have  the power to make rules for financial businesses  or 
to punish them.
The finance  agreement, that is the fixed term loan, in this case is a regulated consumer  
credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. As our 
investigator has explained my power does not extend to the activities  of B in its role as a 
supplier of the bathroom. This complaint is against Hitachi and I am only concerned  with its 
actions. 
I appreciate Mrs Rs frustration with the matter in its entirety and I can see that mistakes  
have been made. She and Hitachi have supplied a wealth  of detail and I fear this may have 
made it difficult to get to the bottom of each separate issue. A variety  of methods were  used  
by B to offset  incorrect  charges  and if a simple refund had been made for each item not 
supplied or returned then it would have been easier  to track what has happened.
I consider the key to this complaint is that I should be satisfied that Mrs R should not be 
required to pay for more than she received and that she be compensated for any distress  
Ref: DRN50632503and inconvenience  caused by Hitachi. To that end I will concentrate my decision on the two 
items for which Mrs R considers she is entitled  to a refund. 
She says she was persuaded to take a more expensive shower. That may be the case, but I 
cannot say that Hitachi  can be regarded as being responsible for that. It was Mrs Rs 
decision as to which shower to accept and if a better or more  expensive one was fitted I 
consider it only right that she be charged for it.
As for the £60.36 claimed by Mrs R I see that this comes from a refund made  in May 2018 of 
£149. She says this included a refund of the initial deposit she made which  shouldnt  have 
been offset against her loan and this left only £99 to offset an outstanding refund due of 
£159.36. I must admit that given the multitude of alterations and refunds I cannot say with 
any certainty that Mrs R is due a further  refund. I asked Hitachi  if it would consider refunding 
a further £60.36 as a gesture of goodwill, but it felt that the compensation  it had offered was 
sufficient. 
If I were  to accept that Mrs R is correct I have to take into account the items provide free of 
charge. Although Mrs R disputed the items B said it had provided free of charge I am 
satisfied that she did benefit from some  if not all of these. Overall,  I have not been  
persuaded that Mrs R has been overcharged. I recognise the strength of feeling  she has 
shown and I appreciate she will be disappointed with my decision, but I believe Hitachi has 
endeavoured to address her concerns and has offered reasonable compensation. 
While I appreciate Mrs R preferred to address all her concerns in detail I dont think  it 
unreasonable for Hitachi to have responded with a three page final response letter.  I 
consider its approach to the matter  was appropriate  and I am satisfied it has sought to work  
with Mrs R to achieve  an amicable resolution. 
My final decision
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Hitachi should  pay 
£150, if it has not already done so. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs R to accept or reject  my decision before 21 February  2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5063250