K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP lent to her in an irresponsible  manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
December 2019.  An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold part of the complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Uncle Buck  has 
confirmed it received my provisional decision but hasnt provided anything further. Miss M, 
and the firm of solicitors that is representing  her, also havent responded with anything  
further.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that neither party has provided 
me with any new evidence or further comments I see no reason  to alter the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional  decision.
I think that, when Miss M asked for loan 6, there  were sufficient signs of her dependency on 
Uncle Bucks loans  that the lender  should  have stopped providing lending  to her. Uncle  Buck 
has previously offered to pay compensation to Miss M in relation to loans 6 to 9. That fits 
with my assessment of Miss Ms situation  and so that is what I am directing Uncle Buck  to do 
to put things right.
putting things right
I dont think Uncle Buck should  have agreed to lend to Miss M after, and including, the loan 
that she took on 28 August 2014  (loan 6). So for each of those loans Uncle Buck should;
Refund any interest and charges applied to the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
The number of loans  taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded  about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  6 to 9 should be removed from Miss Ms 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN54704432my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Miss Ms complaint and direct Uncle Buck  
Finance LLP to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN54704433EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss M complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
background
Miss M was given nine loans  by Uncle Buck between January and December 2014. All of her loans 
have been fully repaid.  A summary of her borrowing  from Uncle  Buck is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing Date Repayment  DateLoan 
Amount 
1 20/01/2014 27/01/2014 £   125
2 27/01/2014 27/02/2014 £   175
3 01/03/2014 27/03/2014 £   250
4 13/07/2014 25/07/2014 £   225
5 26/07/2014 27/08/2014 £   200
6 28/08/2014 26/09/2014 £   225
7 07/10/2014 27/10/2014 £   225
8 28/10/2014 27/11/2014 £   250
9 01/12/2014 22/12/2014 £   300
 
When Miss M made  her complaint to Uncle Buck it agreed that it shouldnt have given the last three 
loans to her and offered her some compensation. Miss M didnt accept  that offer and brought her 
complaint to this Service.
Miss Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think  Uncle Buck  had 
been wrong  to give loans 2 to 4 to Miss M. But he didnt think any of the remaining loans  should have 
been agreed.  He asked Uncle Buck to pay Miss M some compensation.  Uncle  Buck didnt agree  with 
that assessment but did increase its earlier offer to now include loan 6 as well. 
As before  Miss M didnt  accept  Uncle  Bucks offer. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Uncle Buck needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Miss M could repay  the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN54704434But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Uncle  Buck was required to establish whether 
Miss M could sustainably repay her loans   not just whether the loan payments  were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Office  of Fair Trading guidance on Irresponsible Lending,  and later the Consumer Credit  
Sourcebook (CONC),  define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular 
the customer  should  be able to make  repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.
Uncle Buck did some checks before it lent to Miss M. It asked her for details  of her income, and 
before the later loans her normal expenditure - for the earlier loans it estimated Miss Ms expenditure 
based on statistical  information.  And it checked Miss Ms credit file before agreeing some the loans.  
Ive seen a summary of those credit  checks and can see that Miss M had previously  faced some 
problems managing  her money. But those problems seem  to have been at least  a year before she 
borrowed from Uncle  Buck. On balance  I dont think these problems alone  would  have been a reason  
for Uncle Buck to decline her loan applications.
Uncle Buck has shown  us the expenditure information returned by its statistical  model for the first 
loan. That estimated  expenditure  is greater than Miss Ms declared  income. So that would suggest  the 
first loan was unaffordable, and on that basis our adjudicator said the loan shouldnt  have been given. 
But Uncle Buck says that it was aware at the time that the data being  provided by its statistical 
modelling was incorrect. And I think that explanation is plausible  it is unlikely that Uncle Buck  would 
have given this loan to Miss M if it thought her expenditure was such that she couldnt  afford it.
The repayments that Miss M needed to make on her first two loans were relatively  modest compared  
to the income shed declared  to the lender. So given  these repayment amounts, what was apparent 
about Miss Ms circumstances at the time,  and her borrowing history with the lender,  I dont think it 
wouldve been  proportionate for Uncle  Buck to ask her for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing these  loans.
Ref: DRN54704435I think  that, when Miss M asked for her third and fourth loans it would have been proportionate for 
Uncle Buck to do some additional checks. I think Uncle  Buck should have asked Miss M about  any 
other short  term lending she was already committed to repaying. But having looked at the other 
lending Miss M had outstanding at the time she took those loans I dont think  better checks  would  
have led Uncle Buck to conclude it shouldnt  give these loans to Miss M.
At this point it would be worth noting that Uncle  Buck  has said there was a significant  break in 
Miss Ms borrowing between loans 3 and 4. Miss M wasnt given  the fourth  loan until around four 
months after she had repaid  loan 3. But I have also seen that during that break  in lending Uncle Buck 
declined 18 borrowing applications from Miss M. So whilst that might show that at that time Uncle 
Buck was robust in its lending decisions, it certainly  wouldnt suggest that Miss M had got her 
finances back  on track  during that time.
I think  that Uncle Buck  should also have  done  further checks when  Miss M asked for her fifth loan. 
This would be the fifth loan that Miss M had been given  by Uncle Buck over a period of around six 
months. And Miss M asked for this loan on the day after shed repaid loan 4. I think  by now 
Uncle Buck should have concluded that it couldnt  safely rely on the information Miss M was providing 
about her finances and taken steps to independently  verify her true financial position.
Ive looked at copies of Miss Ms bank statements from that time to see what better  checks would 
have shown Uncle Buck. But having done so I havent seen  enough to make me conclude  that 
Uncle Buck should have decided that Miss Ms finances were under  so much pressure that this loan 
wouldnt be sustainably affordable. So I havent seen enough to allow me to conclude that loan 5 
shouldnt have been given to Miss M.
I note that our adjudicator concluded that the pattern  of Miss Ms borrowing  to this point should  have 
led Uncle Buck to decide  that she was most likely having problems managing  her money. Whilst 
I agree that her borrowing  history should have started causing  concerns to Uncle  Buck,  and therefore 
led it to undertake the thorough checks  Ive noted above,  I dont think these  concerns would have 
been such that it shouldnt have lent at all.
But I do think  that, when Miss M asked for loan 6, there were  sufficient signs of her dependency on 
Uncle Bucks  loans that the lender should have stopped providing lending to her. Uncle Buck  has 
already offered to pay compensation to Miss M in relation to loans 6 to 9. That fits with my 
assessment of Miss Ms situation and so that is what  I am intending to direct Uncle  Buck to do to put 
things right.
Ref: DRN5470443