K823xsummary of complaint
Mr W complains that Questa Financial Services Ltd wrongly advised him to invest directly in 
shares in highly risky companies and a property-based unregulated collective investment 
scheme (UCIS) and an individual property.
 
background to complaint
An adjudicator at this service  felt the evidence  indicated that Questa was not responsible  for 
the alleged advice, and therefore we could not look into Mr Ws complaint.
He felt the evidence supported Questas claim that the advisor in question wasnt  acting on 
its behalf in relation to the property  purchase. As such, it was not responsible for this advice. 
Also, unfortunately, the person in question was not an FCA-regulated  advisor in a personal 
capacity.
He also felt the evidence indicated that Questa had facilitated the share transactions  on an 
execution-only basis and that it had not advised Mr W or received  any fees or commission.  
So it was also not responsible for Mr Ws decision  to make these purchases.
Mr W did not agree, and said:
In 2008 the advisor in question assessed his attitude to risk re his pension  and an 
ISA
He is not, and was not, an experienced or sophisticated investor  yet Questa 
assessed him as an aggressive investor
In 2009 the advisor recommended he transfer his pension  and top up his ISA; and in 
2011 it recommended a switch of provider and further ISA funding.  Individual  shares 
were purchased within the ISA
Questa recognises that it offered further  advice about a portfolio transfer in 2013  but 
claims the two further share purchases  were non-advised
Questa also claims  that it only made  the 2014  share purchases on a non-advised 
basis and that his advisor was not aware of these  transactions
He made  further share purchases in 2014  and 2016 and the advisor met him for 
regular reviews at these times but recorded  that his ISA portfolio was being run on a 
semi-quasi execution-only  basis
This is, at best confusing, as its unclear what the advisor  was offering suitability 
advice about or why he was charged 0.5% per annum for no advice
Surely if Questa was transacting these purchases,  in some cases without the 
advisors knowledge, it should have  processes  in place to assess  the suitability of 
these for its clients
The email the advisor  received on 13 February 2014 was clearly designed so he 
would reach out to clients in his capacity as a Questa advisor. The advisor  then 
emailed him, suggesting this was an attractive proposition
He understandably assumed this was a recommendation from Questa  and suitable 
for him
The advisor had often used a mix of work and private emails  when  communicating  as 
a Questa advisor
Why didnt Questa  have controls  in place to monitor  any instances of advisors  going  
into partnerships with clients, at least to ensure there were no conflicts of interest?
Also, why would  it allow advisors to market UCISs to their normal retail  clients,  who 
should not be recommended such risky products according  to the FCA?
Ref: DRN50425192From  the outset there  was no real clarity as to whether  he was receiving an advised, 
no-advised or personal service
Contrary to Questas  assertion, the advisor  has never been  a personal friend but was 
simply introduced to him by the business
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whether this is a 
complaint we can consider. 
In this case I agree with the investigator  that there is no evidence to indicate  that the advisor 
was acting on behalf of Questa in relation to the UCIS and other property  dealings.  I fully 
understand Mr Ws concerns about  the advisor appearing to act for Questa on some  matters 
and on his own behalf on other  occasions. I believe this is something  it should look into and 
consider whether it has sufficient procedures in place to ensure this doesnt lead to 
confusion or misunderstandings in future.
But in this case, I think the evidence  does suggest, on balance,  that Mr W ought reasonably 
to have been aware of when the advisor was acting  as a representative of Questa and when 
he was acting in a personal capacity;  and that the UCIS property advice was not provided by 
Questa. Overall, I am satisfied  it was not responsible for the UCIS/property advice regulatory 
perspective.
I also agree  with the investigator that there  is no persuasive evidence  to indicate that Questa 
recommended the individual shares  which Mr W bought through  its transaction  process  and I 
am satisfied  these were  rightly deemed execution-only sales. From what  Ive read, Mr W 
appears to accept this though he feels Questa should still have considered  whether these 
were suitable for him.
However, crucially, none of this means that Mr Ws complaint about the shares sales  is out 
of jurisdiction according to the relevant FCA rules. Mr W raises  the question  of whether 
Questa provided any advice and whether it ought  to have done. This is something  we are 
entitled to consider.
I have therefore  considered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide what is fair 
and reasonable when  assessing this issue. And, as I have said, I am satisfied  Questa merely 
acquired the shares on an execution-only basis in line with Mr Ws instructions.
In this respect Questa  was not required to consider whether the proposed  shares were 
suitable for Mr Ws situation or likely  attitude  to risk; in fact, I am not convinced  it would have 
been entitled to do so as he did not seek advice in relation to these purchases.
Having read the various annual suitability/advice  letters in relation to Mr Ws overall portfolio 
I am satisfied the advisor makes clear  that he had not and was not recommending  many of 
the share decisions Mr W had made  or planned  to make. Further, I think the advisor offered 
repeated warnings about the overall risk of his portfolio, containing these  individual  shares, 
and spelt out the implications  of being  an aggressive risk taker.  I think he was right to 
question whether Mr Ws portfolio was over-exposed to risk given his circumstances but it 
was Mr Ws right to ignore this advice,  which he appeared to do. 
So even though I have some concerns about  the advisors reference to managing  his 
portfolio on a semi-execution-only basis  and the potentially problematic implications of this, 
Ref: DRN50425193I am satisfied that, overall, the advisors approach was driven by Mr Ws determination to 
make his own investment  decisions  - and that the advisor warned him of the risks of this.
Finally, I note that there have been a variety of charges and commission  relating to Mr Ws 
diverse and changing portfolio over the years. I am satisfied that these were all clearly  set 
out and that Mr W was in a fully informed position  to decide whether to continue  engaging 
Questas services. 
my decision
My decision  is that were unable to consider  the merits of the UCIS/property-related part of 
Mr Ws complaint,  this being out of jurisdiction. I am satisfied that we can consider the merits 
of his complaint  about the share purchases, I do not uphold  it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5042519