K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement supplied  by 
First Response Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory  quality. He wants  the vehicle to be 
repaired at no cost to himself.
background
Mr O tells us he acquired the vehicle  in September 2018 from a dealer Ill refer to as P. He 
says that the vehicle  suffered from numerous faults from the outset.  These have included 
faults with the torque  converter; knocking  noise from engine; faulty exhaust camshaft and 
worn rockers. Mr O says the faults remained even after repairs. And that hes provided the 
results of a diagnostic test which show this. He says that FRF has made an offer to 
contribute towards repairs but he doesnt think he should be required to pay anything as the 
vehicle was faulty from the start.
FRF told us that the vehicle had been repaired by P but that Mr O had reported further 
issues in February 2019. It said P had recommended the engine be stripped back but that 
Mr O hadnt agreed to pay for this. FRF said it had offered Mr O a three  way split of repair 
costs, also involving P, but that Mr O had declined this. So itd arranged an independent  
inspection of the vehicle, by a company Ill refer to as S. FRF told us that S report  had 
identified a number  of faults with the vehicle. These included engine noise from right bank  of 
the engine; brake discs;  scrubbed tyres and wheel alignment. It said the engineer  thought 
the engine noise could be down to over-revving,  component  failure or lack of maintenance. 
And that the current  problems werent  related to the earlier repairs.  It said that S had 
concluded the most probable cause  of the current issues related to a fuel injector  and 
general wear and tear.
FRF said that Mr O had then provided  an inspection report from a company Ill call D. It 
said this had identified  similar issues to S - but it (D) hadnt been  able to say from when the 
faults had been present. FRF said it then offered Mr O an interest free loan to assist with the 
cost of the repairs. And that it had further offered 50 % payment of that cost.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said that P had 
repaired the vehicle  and she was satisfied that after repairs in November  2018  the vehicle 
had been restored to being  of satisfactory  quality. She said that S report had concluded that 
the faults it identified werent  due to unsuccessful repairs. But were  probably related to the 
fuel injector and general wear and tear. She didnt  think the vehicle wouldve been able to 
cover over 5,900 miles since supply if these  issues had been present at the time Mr O 
acquired the vehicle.  She noted that FRF had offered to help with the repairs by suggesting 
a three  way split of costs but that Mr O had rejected this offer.  And that it had also later 
offered an interest  free loan and 50 % of the repair costs. She felt both these offers had 
been fair. And she wouldnt  be asking FRF to do anything else. 
Mr O didnt accept this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint  an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN54396272Im sorry  that Mr O has experienced  problems with this vehicle. Unfortunately, with older, 
high mileage vehicles  the risk of something going wrong is increased. I note that the vehicle 
here was around  12 years  old with an odometer reading of 108,000 miles, or thereabouts, 
when acquired  by Mr O.
Mr Os hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. FRF supplied the vehicle and its therefore  
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act 
2015 (CRA). This states that in order to conform to contract goods have to be of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. And satisfactory  quality is defined  as being what  a reasonable 
person would consider to be satisfactory  having regard to factors which  can include - but are 
not limited to - the age of the goods and previous use.
Where information is unclear or incomplete - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance  of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely  to have happened in light of 
the available  evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Ive been provided  with a substantial amount of information by the parties. And if I dont refer 
to an item individually its not because I havent taken it on board. Its just that I dont think 
that I need to refer to it separately  in giving the reasons  for my decision.
In her view letter, our adjudicator gave  a detailed chronology of events and this included  the 
repair history of the vehicle and the findings of various inspection reports. I dont propose to 
repeat this information in full as both parties  have seen it.
In summary,  the vehicle  experienced faults within a few weeks of supply. Ive seen an 
invoice, from October  2018, which shows a torque  converter was replaced. And in 
November, P reported that it replaced  the exhaust  camshaft and rockers. After  Mr O had 
reported further issues in February  2019 I can see the vehicle was inspected on 5 March  by 
S. At the time of this inspection the odometer  reading was recorded as 113,928  miles.
S reported that the engine  displayed abnormal  noise  and black  smoke emitted from the 
exhaust. It said the most probable cause  was a fuel injector issue and this had no bearing  on 
earlier repairs. The engineer concluded that whilst  fuel injector failure can result  from a 
multitude of issues the normal cause is in-service age related general wear and tear. 
Ive also seen a diagnostic report prepared by D and dated 15 March 2019. This is, broadly 
speaking, consistent  with the findings reported  by S. But Ds report doesnt give any opinion  
about if these  issues wouldve  been present at the point of supply. Or if they related to earlier 
repairs.
Ive also seen that D provided  an estimate for the repairs  it said were needed. This came  to 
in excess of £11,000. As the cash price of the vehicle when supplied to Mr O was £6,795 it 
may be that the vehicle is beyond economic repair.
The information with which  Ive been  supplied confirms the vehicle experienced faults shortly 
after supply. Those  faults  were repaired  and the vehicle was able to cover  over 5,900 miles 
in the period between supply and S inspection. This is at least average use - if not above  - 
for that period of time. And its unlikely the vehicle couldve achieved this if it hadnt been of 
satisfactory quality.
Ref: DRN54396273I find on a balance of probabilities that the existing faults with this vehicle are due to issues  
of wear and tear which is consistent with a vehicle of this age and mileage. And that they 
dont arise from matters related to earlier repairs. In those circumstances Im unable to say 
the vehicle wasnt  of satisfactory quality when supplied to Mr O. Accordingly,  Im not 
upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5439627