K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC applied a new interest  rate product to 
their mortgage even though theyd changed their minds  meaning they had to pay an early 
repayment charge  (ERC)  when they moved  to another lender.
background
Mr and Mrs T used  to have a mortgage  with Barclays. It was reverting to the standard  
variable rate (SVR) so they applied online for a new fixed  interest  rate on 6 March 2018. 
Barclays issued a rate switch offer the same day. 
Barclays says Mr and Mrs T returned their acceptance of the rate switch offer the same  day, 
and it was implemented  on 7 March. Mr and Mrs T say this didnt happen. Either way, 
Barclays did in fact apply  the new interest  rate to their mortgage, and so it became subject to 
an ERC.
Mr and Mrs T decided  to move their mortgage  to another lender,  in the process  borrowing 
more money to consolidate some other  borrowing. They asked a broker  to make the 
application on their behalf.
Mr T contacted Barclays to cancel the rate switch application, so that they wouldnt have to 
pay an ERC when they moved. Mr T says he was told by mortgage advice staff and by a 
complaints handler  that the rate could  be cancelled, and then was told that it hadnt in fact 
ever been  implemented  meaning  he could move his mortgage without an ERC.  There 
were several calls about this in late March.
Mr T says he relied on this information, and  believing he wasnt  subject to a fixed  rate and 
wouldnt have to pay an ERC  instructed his broker to go ahead with the application to the 
other lender.
In April, Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage payments changed. Mr T got back  in touch with Barclays, 
and it told him that the product switch hadnt been cancelled and had in fact gone through  on 
7 March. He was told there was no cancellation  or cooling  off period, so the rate couldnt be 
cancelled or removed unless Mr and Mrs T paid the ERC. Barclays accepted  it had told Mr 
and Mrs T otherwise, and shouldnt have done, so it paid them £100 compensation and 
offered a further  £100. It offered to pay any costs  theyd lost in applying to the other lender if 
they withdrew. But it wouldnt agree to waive the ERC. Barclays confirmed all this in writing  
on 3 May.
Mr and Mrs T proceeded with their mortgage application to the other  lender,  which  issued 
them with an offer on 3 May. The offer completed  and the Barclays  mortgage was 
redeemed, with Mr and Mrs T paying an ERC, on 8 August.
Mr and Mrs T complained. Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so 
they asked for an ombudsman to review it. In summary, Mr and Mrs T didnt think  it was fair 
for Barclays to charge  the ERC when theyd asked  to cancel the fixed  rate and had been told 
that could be done  and had gone ahead  with the other lender relying on that.
Ref: DRN51852012my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully  at what happened  here, and I think Mr and Mrs T did accept the rate 
switch application  on 6 March. Mr Ts said he didnt, and doesnt believe Barclays could have 
sent out and received back a letter so quickly.  But thats not what happened.  This was an 
online application, so the documents were  generated  straightaway.  
I think the rate switch  offer and acceptance  document were clear that the rate would  be 
implemented once  accepted  and couldnt  be cancelled or withdrawn  after that without 
paying the ERC.
Theres no cooling off period, and nothing in the rules of mortgage regulation  requires there 
to be one for a rate switch. Nor do the rules say that there has to be a reflection period or 
that a switch can be unwound  once  accepted.  And the law relating to online sales, which 
says there  has to be a 14 day cooling off period,  doesnt apply  to mortgages either.
So theres no legal or regulatory requirement  for there to be a cooling  off period or a chance 
to withdraw after acceptance.  Nothing  in the paperwork said there was one either.
I think Mr and Mrs T did accept the product switch offer online. Once theyd  done  so, they 
were bound by it  and could  only come  out of the rate if they paid an ERC.
Later that month, they decided  to move their mortgage elsewhere instead. They asked  
Barclays if the rate could  be cancelled  and Barclays said it could. That was wrong,  and 
Barclays shouldnt have  said that.
Relying on what they were told, Mr and Mrs T went ahead  with the application to the other  
lender. 
In early May,  once  the true position   that Mr and Mrs T were  tied in to the new rate  was 
made clear, Barclays offered to refund any costs theyd incurred if they pulled out of the 
application to the new lender.
I think that was a fair offer.  When things go wrong,  we try to put them  right by putting the 
borrowers back in the position they would have  been in had nothing gone wrong.
Applying that to this case, had nothing  gone wrong,  Mr and Mrs T would never  have been 
told they could  cancel the fixed  rate or that it hadnt been implemented. They  would have 
been told that the rate was in place and they would have to pay an ERC to move their 
mortgage.
If theyd known that, they might not have  carried on with the other lender. So once they 
learned the correct  position, if they then pulled  out of the application with the other lender its 
only fair that Barclays refunds the costs  of an application they wouldnt have  gone  ahead 
with had they known.
But thats not in fact what happened. Mr and Mrs T knew the true position on 3 May  and 
still decided to go ahead with the other lender. They werent committed  to the other lender by 
Ref: DRN51852013that point, and could have  withdrawn, stayed with Barclays, and not paid the ERC.  But they 
decided to go ahead with the other lender knowing they would pay the ERC.
I dont think it would  be fair to ask Barclays to refund the ERC.  Once  they accepted the rate 
switch on 6 March  and it was implemented the next day, Mr and Mrs T were  tied in and 
subject to the ERC. Barclays  mistake was to tell them otherwise  but if it hadnt made that 
mistake, they still would have been  subject  to the ERC.
I think the reason  Mr and Mrs T ended up paying  the ERC was because they applied for a 
rate with Barclays and accepted it  but then they changed their minds and decided to go to 
a new lender. It was too late to do that. Once theyd accepted  the rate, the ERC  was 
chargeable. And before they were committed to the new lender, Mr and Mrs T knew  that  
but decided to go ahead anyway, knowing theyd have to pay the ERC.
Barclays offered them  £200 compensation for the incorrect information it gave them at the 
end of March, corrected in early  May.  In all the circumstances, I think thats fair. I know 
theyre upset at having to pay the ERC. But as Ive explained, the reason they have to pay 
the ERC  is because they took a rate from Barclays and then changed their minds. The 
incorrect information delayed them  becoming aware  of that  but didnt change the overall 
outcome. So I dont think it would be fair to ask Barclays to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I think  Barclays Bank UK PLC has done 
enough to put matters  right, and so I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5185201