K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that Daimler Insurance Services UK Limited  (Daimler) mis-sold him 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  alongside  a hire purchase agreement  he took out for a 
car.
 
background
Mr M bought  the policy in 2005 at the same time as entering into a hire purchase  agreement.  
He took out the hire purchase and PPI policy during a meeting.
Our investigator considered Mr Ms complaint and thought it should be upheld. Daimler didnt 
respond so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Mr Ms case
Im upholding this complaint and I will explain why.
From the information provided including an example of a fact find document provided by 
Daimler, I think  Daimler  advised Mr M to take the policy, so it had to make  sure the policy  
was right for him.
At the time Mr M took the policy he was a director of his own business. He has told us he 
held substantial savings  at the time he took the policy and had other  insurance  in place that 
covered him for accident, sickness and unemployment.
The policy provided  cover  for life, accident,  sickness, unemployment, insolvency and 
bankruptcy  subject  to its exclusions and limitations.
Ive looked at the policy terms  that applied to Mr Ms policy when it was sold, and I think it 
wouldve been more  difficult for Mr M to make a claim for unemployment than he wouldve 
expected. His business wouldve had to have been  wound up (or be in the process  of being 
wound up) before he could make a claim. I think Daimler shouldve highlighted this term to 
Mr M  and Ive not seen  anything to suggest  it did.
If Mr M was aware of the limitations  of the policy, I think its unlikely he would have taken it.
So, I think Mr M has lost out as a result  of what Daimler did wrong  and so it needs to put 
things right.
putting things right
Daimler should put Mr M in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI, it should:
Pay Mr M the amount  he paid each month  for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment, from when he paid it until he gets it back. 
The rate of interest is 8% a year.
Ref: DRN56027182If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Daimler can take off what  he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Daimler to take off tax from this interest. Daimler must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Daimler  Insurance Services UK Limited to put things right 
by doing what  Ive explained  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2021.
 
Terry Woodham 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5602718