K821x#15complaint
Mr B says that Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Sunny approved 11 instalment loans  for Mr B between  January 2016  and June 2017. Mr B 
said that he was in financial difficulty and the lending made his difficulties worse.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that Sunny  shouldnt have continued to 
lend to Mr B from loan 5 onwards as he was reliant  on this type of credit  and essentially using 
the loans to supplement his income.  The adjudicator  thought  that by this point Sunny should 
have realised that further borrowing wasnt sustainable. Our adjudicator  recommended  that 
Sunny put things  right for Mr B by refunding all interest and charges incurred on loans 5 to 11. 
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion  and in particular said that Mr B was 
required to repay only a small amount of his declared income towards  his repayments. The 
fact that there were a number of loans open was because of the nature of the product and 
the flexibility it provided for consumers. It did agree that it should have asked further 
questions after providing loan 8 and agreed  to refund all interest and charges on loans 9-11 
and remove them from Mr Bs credit  file.
Mr B didnt accept that offer and the complaint was passed to me. After the complaint was 
passed to me Sunny  reviewed its response and offered to refund interest and charges 
incurred on loans 8 to 11 to reflect that it should  have asked further questions. Mr B didnt 
accept this offer either.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ref: DRN57630442the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr B could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. 
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr B. It asked Mr B for details of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks  on Mr Bs credit  file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Sunny to give Mr B loans 1 to 4 on the 
basis of the information he gave about  his income  and outgoings.  It was early in the lending  
relationship and so I think  the checks were enough  for Sunny to agree to lend. As Mr B 
hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans one to 
four, I dont think that I need to say more about  them.
At the point of loan 5 I agree with the adjudicator that Mr Bs borrowing pattern was a cause  
for concern. Mr B had taken out 5 loans in 8 months.  Loans  2 and 3 totaling £450  were 
outstanding and Mr B was asking for a further  £100  only 6 weeks  later. Taking  out this many  
loans within  such a short time frame should  have prompted Sunny to consider whether this 
lending was sustainable for Mr B. His pattern of borrowing suggested that he was reliant on 
short term credit  and not managing his money responsibly. I think that Sunny shouldnt have 
given Mr B loan 5.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Bs lending with Sunny  to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend more 
money to Mr B.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I agree with the conclusions  of the 
adjudicator and I think that this point was reached  by loan six. I say this because:
when Mr B took out loan six, shed been  borrowing almost continually and wasnt 
making any inroads  in to the amount that he owed. The loans  were  instalment loans, 
Ref: DRN57630443each with six month terms. But Mr B took overlapping loans. I think  this pattern of 
lending shouldve alerted Sunny to the likelihood that Mr B was having  problems 
managing his money. 
I think that Mr B lost out because Sunny continued  to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards. This is because:
the number of loans  that Mr B had taken from Sunny was likely to have  had negative  
implications on his ability  to access mainstream  credit.  This kept Mr B in the market  for 
these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mr Bs complaint about  loans 5 to 11.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund all interest  and charges that Mr B paid on loans 5 to 11;
add simple  interest  at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information about loan 5 from Mr Bs credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan six onwards means any information recorded  
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 to 11 should  be removed from 
Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and direct  Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my 
decision before  28 June 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5763044