K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that U K Insurance Limited  cancelled his motor insurance policy.  He wants  
UKI punished.
background
Mr B said he had a letter  from UKI on 18 January 2019 saying his policy was cancelled  from 
14 January 2019.  UKI said it cancelled his policy as it didnt receive its November payment. 
Mr B said he didnt  know what happened to the payment as he was abroad.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  UKI had 
reasonably warned Mr B to make  funds available and then notified  him of the cancellation 
due to non-payment. He thought this was done according to the policy terms and conditions. 
So he couldnt say UKI had done anything wrong. 
Mr B replied  that he could  have  had an accident  or been stopped  by the police  whilst  driving  
uninsured. He said he hadnt  received UKIs letters. He said it could have emailed or called 
him or sent the letters  by registered delivery. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr B is adamant that he would never  drive whilst uninsured. I can understand 
his frustration with UKIs  decision. He said this has affected his No Claims Discount as he 
didnt complete a year.  Mr B told us that he already has cover  elsewhere. 
Mr B has raised concerns about  what might  have happened whilst  he said he was 
unknowingly driving whilst uninsured.  But I can only consider actual rather than potential  
events. So I wont consider these possible events any further. But I will consider Mr Bs 
concern that his policy was cancelled unfairly. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Ive looked at Mr Bs policys  terms and conditions. I think its clearly stated that if a payment  
is missed and not brought up to date,  then this could lead to the policy being cancelled.  The 
terms say that notice of cancellation would be sent in writing to the last notified  address. It 
says that 14 days  notice would be given.
Mr B said UKI should have emailed or phoned  him. He thought it should have sent its letters  
by registered post. We think insurers should  take reasonable steps to ensure  that policy 
holders are told that their policy has been  cancelled  as this will have serious consequences for 
them and expose them to possible court action. But I think its for UKI to decide what  these 
steps are and I can see that its set out clearly  in the policy that this would be done  by letter.  
I can see that this was the second  time a payment had been missed.  The previous month, 
Mr B had later made funds available and the policy then continued. But when a further  
payment was missed  due to insufficient  funds,  then I think UKI reasonably  alerted Mr B to 
this and gave  him time to make  the payment. 
Ref: DRN51474502When payment wasnt then provided, UKI sent Mr B notice of cancellation in writing,  
according to the policy terms. Mr B didnt respond, so UKI then cancelled  the policy  after 14 
days notice, again  according to the policy terms. 
Mr B said he didnt  receive the warning or notification  letters.  But I can see that UKI has his 
address. Mr B received the cancellation  letter, albeit he said five days after it was dated. I 
cant reasonably  hold UKI responsible  for the postal service. So I think  theres evidence that 
UKI sent Mr B the letters it said it did. I cant say why Mr B didnt receive them.
Mr B said he didnt  know what had happened to the December payment as he was away.  He 
said people  on holiday didnt think about direct debits. But Mr B had had the same  
experience just the previous month.  So I think he should reasonably have made sure his 
funds were available to ensure his policy continued. 
So I think UKI cancelled  Mr Bs policy fairly and reasonably and according to the policy  terms 
and conditions. So I cant say it did anything wrong.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5147450