K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained about short-term loans granted  to him by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as QuickQuid. Mr W says he couldnt  afford these loans and that QuickQuid didnt 
take appropriate steps to check whether he could afford them when he took them out.
background
QuickQuid agreed two short-term loans for Mr W, the first in May 2016,  and the second in 
May 2018. On loan 2, Mr W took out a top-up. This is where he took out further borrowing 
under the same agreement, before paying back the initial amount borrowed.
Ive set out a summary of lending below:
loan no. applicationprincipal  amount 
(£)no. of repayments  
duehighest monthly 
repayment  due (£)
1 03/05/2016 50 1 66
2 01/05/2018 300 2 374
2a (top-up) 11/05/2018 100 2 499
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Ws complaint already and recommended the 
complaint be upheld in part. He felt the checks QuickQuid carried  out on loans  1 and 2 were 
proportionate, but that the checks carried out on loan 2a werent. However,  while he thought  
the checks on loan 1 were  proportionate,  he still thinks the business  failed  to lend 
responsibly, based on what those checks revealed. 
The adjudicator also concluded that as hed received only limited information  from Mr Ws 
representative, regarding  his financial circumstances  at the time of taking out loan 2a, he 
had insufficient  information to conclude  what proportionate checks  wouldve shown. So he 
couldnt say that the business  was wrong  in agreeing  to lend to Mr W at this time. 
Mr W raised no objections to the initial view. QuickQuid responded further,  disagreeing with 
the assessment.  So the case has come to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.  
Our adjudicator, having looked  at everything, found  that QuickQuid didnt carry out 
proportionate checks for Mr Ws application for the top up on his second loan. But due to 
insufficient evidence  provided, he couldnt  conclude that QuickQuid was wrong in agreeing 
to lend to Mr W at this stage. 
He also thought that while proportionate checks were carried  out on loan 1, these checks 
revealed enough information  to show that loan 1 would not have been sustainably affordable 
for Mr W, and that it therefore  should  not have  approved loan 1.These findings were set out 
in some detail in a view letter to the lender. 
Ref: DRN54231802QuickQuid initially said it carried out appropriate and proportionate affordability assessments, 
including validation of Mr Ws income and expenses before funding all these loans. Its said it 
started implementing changes to affordability assessments in June  2014  and all the changes  
were completed by 28 February 2015.
It said that starting 1 March 2015, before Mr W borrowed her first loan, it had implemented  
an affordability review that was consistent  with the FCA (Financial  Conduct  Authority)  
Handbook and was in place at the time it received authorisation  by the FCA. And that its 
assessment was conducted properly and individually  for each of these applications.
QuickQuid raised this argument, in both its initial submissions, and in response  to the 
adjudicators assessment.  But my role, as an ombudsman,  is to look not only into the rules 
and regulations set by the regulator at the time of borrowing but also the law, good  industry  
practice and all the available evidence and arguments to help me decide whether I think 
what the business has done  is right or not. And in this case I don't  think  it was right to 
approve Mr Ws first loan application.
This service has responded to QuickQuid on the above generic argument through  earlier  
final decisions. So Im not going to expand on this point any further here, though  I have 
considered it alongside  everything  else in making my decision. 
I would remind QuickQuid  at this point of the FCA guidance in how complaints are to be 
dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] 
which says that businesses procedures for complaint handling should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
So my decision will focus on the specifics of Mr Ws complaint and what  both parties have 
said about this.
The FCA was the regulator at the time Mr W borrowed the loans in question.  Bearing in mind 
the rules and guidance set out in its Principles for Business  (PRIN) and its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), I would expect  a lenders affordability assessment to vary with 
circumstance. (I am not quoting the specific regulations here because,  as before, I would 
expect QuickQuid to be conversant with these through previous ombudsman decisions,  
particularly recent decisions, which set these  out in detail.)  
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance by carrying out more  detailed checks
-the higher the loan amount,
Ref: DRN54231803-the lower the consumers income;  or
-the longer  the lending relationship
Looking at the specifics of Mr Ws complaint, as loan 2 no longer seems to be in dispute, my 
decision will focus on the remaining loan  loan 1, as well as the top-up on loan 2, listed as 
loan 2a.
The first loan Mr W took out was for £50, which was due to be repaid in one instalment of 
£66. QuickQuid has told us that it asked Mr W about  his monthly  income and expenditure, 
which it recorded as £600 and £525  respectively. So this seems to have left Mr W with 
around £75 a month in disposable  income. 
While I consider that for the first loan, the level of questions  QuickQuid  initially  asked were 
enough, these  questions identified that Mr W had a very low disposable income at the time 
he applied  for his first loan.
The consumer credit sourcebook (CONC), part of which  sets out the requirements  for 
lenders when assessing the credit worthiness of a customer, and that were  applicable at the 
time of Mr Ws loan applications states that:
1.In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account  more than assessing the customer's ability  
to repay  the credit . [Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
2.The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) 
should include the firm taking  reasonable steps  to assess  the customer's ability  to 
meet repayments under a regulated credit  agreement  in a sustainable manner 
without the customer  incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse  
consequences.
The business has argued, that as Mr W wouldve received two lots of monthly income by the 
time his repayment was due, that he would  have been able to save  money from the first 
months disposable income, to meet the repayment that fell due when he received his 
second months pay. But even if I was to conclude that it was acceptable for QuickQuid to 
assess Mr Ws case in this way, the level of disposable income he would have been left with 
would still have been relatively low, at around £150.
So while its possible  Mr W may have had a small sum of money left over after repaying the 
credit  Im not persuaded that the amount  Ive identified  was sufficient for him to be able to 
repay this loan in a sustainable manner. So it follows  that I dont think QuickQuid  shouldve  
approved loan 1 for Mr W, based  on the information it received from the affordability 
assessment it carried out. 
Around two years had passed before Mr W returned  to take out a further loan, so there 
appears to be a clear  break in his chain  of borrowing with QuickQuid. And when  he returned 
to borrow his second loan, he borrowed £300 This was due to be repaid over two months, 
with a highest monthly repayment of around  £374. 
Loan 2 itself is no longer in dispute, but its this loan that was subsequently  topped up just 
ten days after it was taken out. And at this time Mr W was reportedly earning  around  £1,600  
a month, and his monthly outgoings remained around £525. This left him with a disposable 
income of around  £1,075.
Ref: DRN54231804When Mr W topped up loan 2 on 11 May 2018,  he increased the capital balance outstanding  
on this loan to £400. And while it was still due to be repaid over two months,  the highest 
monthly repayment due had now increased  to almost £500. Given  the increase in both the 
amount borrowed,  and the amount needing to be repaid, I think at this point, QuickQuid; as 
well as asking about Mr Ws regular monthly  income  and outgoings (including things such  as 
his monthly living  costs and regular credit  commitments),  shouldve  also looked  specifically 
into whether he owed any monies to any other  short-term lenders at this time.
Since the case was passed to me for a decision, Mr Ws representative has sent in further  
evidence covering some of the period leading up to Mr W taking  out this top-up. So Ive 
looked at this, to see what  I think proportionate checks wouldve shown QuickQuid, had they 
been carried out at the time.
Having done so, I can see that the bank statements Mr Ws representative has provided,  
cover only some of the days in the months  leading up to this loan. So I cant  be certain  
whether or not Mr W may have had other  short-term loans outstanding at this point, as the 
evidence is inconclusive. 
But from what I have seen, it doesnt appear  that Mr W owed any monies  to any other 
short-term lenders at the point of taking  out the top-up on loan 2a, and Im satisfied that 
Mr Ws representative was given ample opportunity to provide this additional information  
prior to this final decision being  reached, but has not done so. So I think  its fair to assess the 
case based on the information  I have  at this point.
And as I cant see that Mr W seemed to have any other outstanding short-term debt at the 
time he applied  for loan 2a, I think it was reasonable for QuickQuid to have based its 
affordability assessment  on the information that Mr W provided when he applied.  And as this 
information suggested he had a disposable  monthly  income of around  £1,075,  I dont think it 
was unreasonable for QuickQuid to have  concluded that loan 2a (with a highest monthly 
repayment of £499),  wouldve been affordable for him. So therefore I dont think  it was wrong  
in approving this application. 
In summary,  I think QuickQuid shouldve realised  that loan 1 would not have been 
sustainably affordable for Mr W, and as a result, should not have  approved this application.
what QuickQuid  should  do to put things right
For the reasons  outlined  above, I think QuickQuid shouldnt have agreed to loan 1 for Mr W.  
So it needs  to refund all of the interest and charges Mr W paid towards this loan.
Specifically, it should:
refund the interest and charges paid for the loan it agreed  in May 2016
pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
remove any adverse  information about this loan from Mr Ws credit  file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
Ref: DRN54231805For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part.
And I require  CashEuroNet UK LLC trading  as QuickQuid to put things right as described  
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019
Brad Mcilquham 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5423180