K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that a sofa he ordered with the assistance of credit from Shop Direct 
Finance Company Limited was not the correct colour and of poor quality.
background
Mr T used  his credit account  with Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited who provide credit  
for Very to order a black sofa on 24 February 2018. As Mr T was a new customer he was 
offered 20% discount on this purchase.  
The original  sofa was delayed and then not delivered as it was damaged in transit.  On 13 
March 2018 Mr T was told that a replacement would arrive  on 17 March. When the sofa did 
not arrive  on 17 March  Mr T called Very and a full refund was applied for the sofa. At the 
same time a replacement was ordered but Very ordered this in grey. This was delivered to 
Mr T on or around  20 March. Mr T said he was forced to keep this sofa because  he had 
guests in his holiday let. He complains that he had to pay £400  compensation because his 
guests had nothing  to sit on for the first part of their stay. When  he called Very about this an 
offer was made  to discount  the grey sofa by a further 20% if he wanted to keep it to reflect  
the inconvenience. Mr T wasnt happy  with this.
Mr T then tried to arrange to have the grey sofa collected and simultaneously replaced with a 
black sofa but Very explained that he would need  to return the grey sofa and order  a black  
sofa. Mr T wasnt  willing to do this and take the risk of having no sofa. Mr T says that Very 
have chased him for payment and added interest  and charges  despite delivering the wrong 
sofa late. He says the grey sofa is of poor quality. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint was upheld.  She thought that Shop 
Direct had done  enough  to compensate Mr T for the problems with the sofa. She thought  
that Shop Directs offer to discount the second sofa and to pay Mr T £55 compensation was 
fair and reasonable and more than we would ask it to do in the circumstances. She thought 
that the interest and charges had been  fairly applied to Mr Ts account as he had been using 
the sofa for months  without making any payments.
Mr T didnt  agree with the investigator  and replied to say in summary that the sofa that was 
eventually delivered  was the wrong  colour and of poor quality and he shouldnt  be expected 
to pay for that. Mr T said he would keep the grey sofa if Very would pay the compensation 
offered and write off all the interest and charges incurred on the account.
Very didnt accept  that offer and so the complaint has been passed  to me, an ombudsman to 
decide. This is the last stage in our process. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate why Mr T is unhappy  with what has happened with his sofa and the 
difficulties he has had in putting things right. Shop Direct has agreed that Mr T didnt get the 
right level of customer service and has offered him £55 to reflect the issues  with the delay 
and the wrong  sofa being delivered. It has also agreed to stand by the original offer made  in 
Ref: DRN554300922018 to apply a further discount of 20% to Mr Ts account if he was to keep the grey sofa. Mr 
T thinks  that isnt enough. 
I can understand why Mr T didnt  want to send back the grey sofa when it eventually  arrived  
and why he wanted a swap. However,  it was explained to him that he would have to return  
the grey sofa and order a black one. I can see from the chat transcript I have that Mr T didnt 
request this until 31 August 2018 which is some  months after the wrong  sofa was delivered.
I appreciate that Mr T wanted the sofa for his holiday let. But the terms and conditions for his 
Very account  are clear  that products are sold on the basis that they are for personal, 
domestic use only so I dont think it is fair that Shop Direct should compensate Mr T for his 
business losses or that they are responsible for his decision to keep the wrong sofa for as 
long as he did. If he did not want the grey sofa,  he had the option  to either refuse to take 
delivery or to return the sofa. Mr T has had the use of the sofa and so I think it is only fair 
that he should pay for it. Shop Direct agreed  to apply the original introductory discount to the 
grey sofa and offered a further discount  of 20% which I think is fair and reasonable. Mr T 
hasnt been charged any more for the grey sofa. 
Mr T said that they grey sofa was of poor quality and is falling apart.  Shop Direct  offered to 
inspect the sofa but Mr T has refused. Without any more evidence about this I cant  say that 
the sofa is of poor quality or that Mr T should be allowed to return  it.
Mr T hasnt  made any payments to his credit  account because of the issues with the sofa. 
Shop Direct has added interest and charges in line with the terms and conditions. I cant  say 
that this is unfair. Mr T had taken delivery  of the sofa and was using it so I think  that the 
interest and charges are fair.
I agree  with the investigator that the customer service was poor, particularly at the time of 
ordering and delivery, but that the compensation of £55 is fair and reasonable to reflect that 
poor service. Shop Direct has agreed to maintain the offer of a 20% discount to reflect  that 
the wrong colour sofa was delivered  and apply it to Mr Ts overdue account.  I will leave it to 
him to decide whether he wants to accept  that offer.
So for all these reasons  I think  that the offer made by Shop Direct  is fair and reasonable and 
I cant ask it to do any more.
  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5543009