K822xComplaint
Mr H complains Startline Motor Finance  Limited  (Startline) treated him unfairly.
Background 
Mr H entered a regulated hire purchase  agreement with Startline in January 2017, for a used  
car. Under  the agreement Mr H was expected to make an initial  repayment  of £447.84 
followed by 58 monthly repayments of £272.84 and a final repayment also of £447.84.
The agreement operated uneventfully  until July 2017, when Mr Hs direct debit was returned. 
He made  his payment by card a few days later. This then happened again  in October 2017, 
with Mr H calling on 1 November 2017 to make  up the payment, which  included  an additional 
£25 fee.
Mr H was due to make a payment on 25 February 2018, but this bounced. On 5 March 2018 
he asked Startline to tell him how much needed to pay to settle his agreement  early. He 
received a letter dated 5 March 2018  which said he needed to pay £10,290.64 but this would 
only be valid up until 23 March 2018.  Mr H took the figure to a motor  trader  he was intending 
to sell the car to. The motor traders payment  to settle the account was received by Startline 
on 29 March 2018 in the form of a cheque. The cheque cleared into the account  on 
4 April 2018.
Mr H says he learned that a debt collector  working on behalf of Startline had knocked on the 
door of the address on the agreement 3 April 2018  and spoken to someone else who lived 
there, who had felt intimidated.  He also began receiving a lot of communications  from 
Startline saying he still owed money, which he didnt agree with as the amount on the letter  
had been paid. He emailed Startline  on 6 April 2018  to complain that he was being  harassed 
for money  he didnt  owe.
Startline replied to the complaint on 12 April 2018.  It said Mr Hs account  was in arrears by 
£322.84 because  one of the payments hed made  had been charged back  by his bank. It 
described its process when people  were behind on their repayments, which included 
sending emails, letters, text messages, and making  phone calls. It said that because  it hadnt 
been able to reach Mr H it had asked a collections company on 20 March  2018 to try to get 
hold of him. This company had tried ringing Mr H, and then visited the address  on the 
agreement on 29 March  2018 and 3 April 2018,  and it had left letters  for him. Startline said 
that when it received the cheque from the motor trader, it had delayed in telling the 
collections company,  and it apologised for this. It said Mr H still owed the £322.84 and it 
couldnt mark the agreement as settled  on his credit file until he paid it.
Mr H was unhappy with this response, so he brought  his case  to this service for an 
independent assessment. One of our case handlers looked into the complaint.  He concluded 
Mr H actually owed two missed payments to Startline  one which  had been paid in 
November and charged back (£297.84, including a £25 charge), and one which he had 
missed in February 2018 (£272.84 plus £50 in charges). He agreed  that Startlines 
communications could  have been  better. However, Startline had offered to waive the larger  
of the two missed  payments and associated  charges, meaning Mr H would only need to pay 
£297.84. Startline  would  also make sure it didnt put any negative information  on Mr Hs 
credit file. Our investigator thought this was a fair outcome.
Ref: DRN57673072Mr H said that our investigator hadnt  properly considered the harassment he had 
experienced from Startline and asked  for an ombudsman to review his case. Our investigator 
agreed to forward the case  on to an ombudsman, but commented that he didnt think  
Startline or their agents had acted in a way which was unreasonable  when trying to collect 
the debt. 
The case  has now been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made a large number of points in his communications  with us. Ive read all of these  
however I have chosen to focus  on those  things which I think are most relevant to the 
complaint. I mean Mr H no discourtesy by this.
There are a couple of main questions which I think are relevant in this case. Firstly, how was 
it that Mr H still owed  money to Startline  after he arranged for the settlement figure  to be 
paid, and was Startlines communication around  this issue  good enough? Secondly, did 
Startline act unreasonably or unfairly,  or make mistakes, in the way it pursued Mr H for the 
amounts it believed he owed?
I will deal with these points in turn.
The origin of the outstanding balance
Startlines payment processor wrote  to Startline on 15 January  2018 to explain the payment 
of £297.84 on 1 November 2017 had been  queried  by the cardholder. The letter  said the 
cardholder (Mr H  but his name didnt appear on the letter)  had asked for more information 
about the transaction because he didnt recognise  it. It went on to say that if Startline didnt 
reply by 29 January  2018 then arrangements would be made to take the money back  (this is 
the process known  as a chargeback).
Startline didnt respond to the payment processor and so the money was taken back. Mr H 
had actually been refunded much earlier, on 16 November 2017.  Sometimes  a bank will 
refund the money while it waits for the outcome of the chargeback, and it looks like this is 
what happened here. According to Mr Hs bank,  he had queried the transaction on 
2 November 2017, the day after hed made  it. 
Ref: DRN57673073There are a few things here which are unclear, for example  its not clear why Startlines 
payment processor seems to have taken two months  to notify it of Mr Hs queries, or why 
Startline then failed  to act on the notification for a further two months.  These delays have 
caused a considerable  amount of confusion. Its also not clear why Mr H didnt recognise a 
transaction he had made a day earlier. The name which appeared next to the transaction  on 
his statement didnt  say Startline, unlike his usual direct debits. It was also for a different 
amount as it included an additional charge. So its possible Mr H was mistaken.
In any case, whats  important is that Mr H got the money back,  and Startline didnt realise 
this had happened until 12 March 2018. Ill come on to the significance  of this shortly.
Mr H is right to say that the settlement letter  he received  from Startline said he needed to 
pay a specific amount to settle the account.  However, the letter contained  some  other  
important information.  It said the figure had to be paid by 23 March 2018 or it would change  
and Mr H would need to contact Startline to get a new figure.  It also said the figure assumed 
all rentals  due and payable up to23/03/2018have been paid in full and warned that 
Mr H shouldnt cancel his direct debit before that date because  he would still be responsible  
for any outstanding  amounts  in addition to the Settlement Figure. The letter  was dated 
5 March 2018. 
Because Startline  hadnt yet realised the £297.84  payment  had been  charged back, the 
settlement figure on the letter didnt take this into account. The letter  also didnt take into 
account the fact Mr Hs 25 February 2018  payment had bounced. Startline attempted to take 
this payment again on 9 March 2018 but it bounced again, so it was still outstanding (along 
with associated charges)  at the point  Startline received the cheque  to settle the account. Im 
satisfied Mr H owed this money, totalling £322.84,  as well.
While I think Mr H legitimately owes both payments in question, this is a situation  which  
could have been avoided with better communication from Startline. As Ive outlined  above, 
Startline took two months to notice the chargeback,  meaning the balance  was incorrect 
when it quoted the early settlement figure.
Additionally, although I accept Startlines  early settlement letter  said the figures quoted 
assumed Mr Hs payments were  up to date, it was already aware his most  recent  payment 
had bounced eight days earlier. I think it could have been clearer  with him that this meant he 
would need to pay more than the amount quoted on the settlement letter. But on the other 
hand, I also think Mr H ought to have been  aware  when he requested  the settlement figure, 
that his most recent payment had bounced  and he would therefore have more  to pay. Ive 
seen a copy of Mr Hs bank statement and this clearly shows  his payment bouncing. I 
appreciate people may not check their bank  account every day, but as there was more  than 
a week between the payment bouncing and Mr H requesting the settlement figure, I think  its 
reasonable to expect  Mr H to have realised what had happened  by then.
Startlines actions to collect  the debt
In general, if someone  is behind on their repayments on a loan or other type of credit 
agreement, then a business is entitled  to take reasonable and proportionate  steps  to collect  
the money. This would normally include getting  in contact  with the person who owes  the 
money to ask them to pay, or find out why payments have been late. Mr H says Startline 
behaved unreasonably, sending debt collectors who intimidated  another  person living at the 
Ref: DRN57673074address hed given on the application. It also appears he received a lot of phone  calls and 
other forms of contact from Startline.
Ive thought about whether it was reasonable of Startline to instruct  the debt collectors when 
it did. Technically, when the chargeback  was debited  from Mr Hs account, the 
November 2017  payment  it related  to would have looked like it was several months late. 
Mr Hs most  recent payment had also been  returned,  meaning the account  was two months 
of payments in arrears.  I can understand why Startline may have been concerned enough by 
the situation to send  people to Mr Hs given address. Mr H had said he was selling  the car, 
but he had missed at least  one payment  and the settlement date of 23 March 2018 had 
passed without  any money being  received. Startline owned the vehicle financed by the 
agreement and may have been concerned about  it being sold without the agreement being  
settled. Thats not what had happened, but in the circumstances I dont think it was 
disproportionate or unreasonable of it to send people to the address on Mr Hs account  to 
investigate and to request  payment.
Startline has already accepted that when it received  the cheque to settle the agreement,  it 
didnt call off its debt collectors as soon  as it should have. The debt collectors say they 
attempted to visit Mr H on the day Startline received the cheque, but werent able to speak to 
anyone at the address. When they returned and spoke to someone, this was after Startline 
had received the cheque  and should  have  recalled its debt collectors. So I think this visit 
happened due to Startlines error. 
When considering  the impact this visit had, Im limited  to considering the effect it had on 
Mr H. This is because  he is Startlines customer and the complainant  in this case. Mr H has 
said the person  at the address who spoke to the debt collectors felt intimidated, and Im 
unable to consider  the effect  the visit had on this person. However, just because Mr H wasnt 
at the address at the time doesnt  mean  there was no impact on him. Having reviewed 
Mr Hs communications with us and with Startline, I think hes experienced some annoyance, 
frustration and embarrassment as a result  of the debt collection visit.
Is Startlines offer fair?
Mr H did not pay a total of £620.68  towards  his hire purchase agreement. These amounts 
were legitimately owed. But Startline handled  the account poorly, giving incorrect  information  
to Mr H about how much he owed when he came  to settle the agreement. In particular, 
Startline failed to act on a notification that one of Mr Hs repayments  had been charged back  
for a couple  of months,  meaning this was not taken into account when it gave Mr H his 
settlement figure. 
Startline also failed  to recall its debt collectors  once it had received Mr Hs settlement 
cheque, resulting in a visit being  made  to the address on his agreement when it shouldnt 
have. 
Startline has offered to reduce the amount Mr H owes by £322.84 to £297.84, and not put 
any negative information on his credit file. Like our investigator, I think  the amount on offer is 
fair in the circumstances. This is because Mr H does owe £620.68, and while Startline has 
made errors which have  had an impact on Mr H, reducing the amount he owes  by more than 
half goes far enough  in my opinion to put things right.
Ref: DRN57673075My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint  in part. I direct Startline  Motor  Finance Limited  to limit the amount 
Mr H owes on his agreement to £297.84,  and ensure it does  not report  negative information 
about the account on his credit file. If Mr H has since paid more  than this, the 
overpayment(s) must be refunded to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5767307