K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold him a credit card payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy in 1999.
background
I recently issued my provisional  decision on this complaint, which  included  the following:
Mr G took out a PPI policy to protect his credit card payments in the event of disability or 
unemployment. The parties agree this was a postal application. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld on the grounds that Mr G was 
restricted in claiming on the policy because he was suffering from a pre-existing medical 
condition at the time of the sale. She felt the relevant policy exclusion clause hadnt been 
made clear to him and that, otherwise,  he wouldnt have taken the policy. 
Barclays didnt agree with the adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to review  afresh.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Gs case. 
Having done so, I dont intend  to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays needed to make it clear to Mr G that he had a choice about taking out PPI and get 
his agreement before adding  it. Ive seen a copy of Mr Gs signed  credit card application 
form and note that, under the section  headed Payment Protection, theres  tick to indicate 
he wanted PPI. The box to tick to decline PPI was left blank. 
Overall, I think Barclays made it clear to Mr G that he had a choice about taking out PPI and 
that he chose  to take it. 
Ive gone on to look for any other  reasons why I should uphold  Mr Gs complaint but I dont 
think there are. Barclays says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr G. He believes it did, 
although I think thats unlikely given the sale took place by post and without, as far as I can 
tell, any direct contact with a Barclays adviser. 
That said,  Barclays still ought to have provided  Mr G with clear,  fair and not misleading  
information about the PPI so that he could decide  for himself if it was suitable.  I cant say for 
sure whether  Barclays did that. And I dont  have a copy  of the specific policy terms from the 
time. But, from what I know  of Mr Gs circumstances and experience of what the main 
features of the policy are likely to have been,  I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking it. I say that because:
It seems  Mr G would  have been eligible for the cover. And I dont believe hed have 
decided against  the PPI because  of its exclusions and restrictions. I accept that Mr G 
had a health condition which may have affected his ability to claim on the policy.  But, 
Ref: DRN59111712from what hes told us, it was controlled  by medication and hadnt significantly 
impacted on his ability to work or his daily activities.
Mr G says hed have  got some sick and redundancy pay from his employer  and that 
he could have relied on savings to keep  up with his payments if he wasnt  working. 
But the PPI would have paid out on top of his sick pay and savings, leaving him free 
to use those other means to cover his other  living costs  if he was off work. The PPI 
benefits would have paid out for a considerable time, at up to 12 months per claim. 
So I think Mr G would  have considered it provided him with useful extra  security.  
Theres nothing to suggest Mr G couldnt  afford the PPI. And it was flexible enough 
that Mr G could  have  cancelled it at any time at no extra cost if he decided it was no 
longer suitable  for him.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr Gs lost out because of how Barclays  sold 
him the PPI.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not minded  to uphold this complaint. 
I asked both parties to provide any further evidence or comments before I considered the 
complaint again.
We havent received  a response from Mr G. Barclays confirmed it had no further information 
to provide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Gs case. 
Since neither partys provided  me with any new evidence or comments  to consider  since  I 
issued my provisional decision, I see no reason  to reach a different final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5911171