K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the actions of their mortgage lender,  Santander  UK Plc. 
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that Santander  wont give them a written  reassurance that it will 
follow mortgage regulation if they were to make  an application to port their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs W ask that Santander provide them  with written undertaking that it wont  ask 
for details  of their income and expenditure, or reassess their plans  to repay their interest only 
mortgage at the end of the term, as long as they dont  want  to borrow  more money when 
they move  house.  Theyd also like compensation for the way Santander has handled their 
request.
Mr W has managed  the complaint throughout.
background
Mr and Mrs W have  an interest only mortgage  with Santander. The mortgage  is for around 
£767,000 and is due to expire in around  six years.
In late 2017 Mr and Mrs W were  exploring  porting their mortgage, currently  on a fixed 
interest rate of 1.99%  until 2022,  to another property. Mr W contacted Santander to ask it to 
confirm that it wouldnt  apply an affordability assessment to their request to port, or look into 
how theyd be repaying the mortgage at the end of its term. He understood this wouldnt be 
needed under current  mortgage  regulation  because they werent planning to borrow  any 
further funds and they didnt want to extend  the mortgage term.
Santander wouldnt do this. In summary, in its final response dated  11 January 2018, it said 
any porting application would be subject  to its lending criteria  and a full mortgage  
application. It also said the ability to port is not guaranteed.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with Santanders response and brought their complaint to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint,  but she didnt think  that Santander  had 
acted unfairly. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with our investigators findings, and replied to say in 
summary:
-Santander is imposing and applying an unfair application process;
-This process is the misconduct that Mr W is complaining about;
-Santander is wantonly oblivious of the MMR transitional arrangements;
-It is clear to Mr W that there  is no reasonable basis whatsoever  on which Santander  
can require us to complete  an Affordability Assessment or a Reassessment  of our 
Repayment Strategy. 
-Mr and Mrs W asked  that an ombudsman reach a final decision. This complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were set up as an informal alternative  to the courts, and our role is distinct  to that of the 
regulator. Its my role as an ombudsman  to take into account  relevant legislation  and 
regulation when looking at complaints brought to us. However, Im not constrained by this in 
Ref: DRN57870482reaching my decision. Im able to make  my decision based on the specific circumstances  of 
a complaint brought to us and determining whats fair and reasonable in each case. 
Mr W says Santander has a process which he considers doesnt comply  with mortgage 
regulation. Its not for me to tell Santander how it should operate,  or to make a finding about 
whether its internal processes  comply with mortgage regulation. That would be a matter  for 
the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
My role is to look at the specific circumstances of whats  happened  to Mr and Mrs W and the 
way Santander  has treated  them  in the handling of their mortgage. Ive considered  whether 
Mr and Mrs W have  been treated unfairly  by Santander in regard to their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs W complain that Santander wont give a written undertaking that it wont 
complete an affordability  assessment, or reassess how they plan to repay their mortgage  at 
the end of the term as part of a future porting application. I note that no porting application 
has been made yet. But Mr W would like this written undertaking as a next step. 
In particular Mr W has said that he feels Santander is not complying with the transitional 
arrangements and MCOB 11.7 by asking for a full application and asking questions  about 
affordability. I fully appreciate the arguments  that Mr W is making about his interpretation of 
mortgage regulation and I dont underestimate  his strength of feeling about  this. 
There are regulations that have flowed from the Financial  Conduct Authoritys Mortgage 
Market Review (MMR). This has led to a series of major changes, effective  since 2014, in 
the way residential  mortgages are regulated. Its these regulations that Mr W has directly  
referred to and Im familiar with the application of these rules. Its clear  that Mr W has a good 
awareness of these rules  too.
MMR regulations have  brought  about stricter lending assessments, aimed to protect 
consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more responsibly. The transitional 
arrangements are an important part of this regulation. Theyre  intended to make sure that 
existing mortgage  customers, whose mortgages were taken out before the new rules  were 
introduced in 2014, dont  get treated unfairly  as an unintended consequence of this stricter 
regulation. 
Ive thought carefully about these rules,  and everything that Mr W has said about  their 
specific situation, including what theyve asked Santander to agree to. Ive also considered 
whether Santander  acted  unfairly by saying  it would ask for an exploration  of affordability as 
part of its porting assessment.  
Santander has said that it would require Mr and Mrs W to complete  a new mortgage  
application before  it would agree to port their existing mortgage product to a different 
property. Obviously there are other risks involved in a porting transaction. Santander  will 
want to look at changes  to the risk profile of the mortgage loan, such as a different loan to 
value of the current property, and what this might be after Mr and Mrs W move. Santander 
will also want to be comfortable with a new property as its security. As Ive said,  there hasnt 
been a particular application  (or property) proposed as yet and Santander hasnt declined 
any porting application. 
As a wider  overarching principle, I dont think it would be unreasonable for Santander  to be 
asking questions about a proposed transaction, or to explore whether the risks of the new 
transaction were  acceptable to it and were  in Mr and Mrs Ws best interests. 
Ref: DRN57870483My interpretation of the regulations is that Santander is able to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
complete an affordability  assessment under the current regulation. However, the regulations 
say it doesnt  have to do so unless  theres  going  to be a change material to affordability. And 
if there is a material change, the transitional arrangements allow  Santander to proceed  with 
a porting request, even if an application  doesnt pass an affordability assessment, if it thinks  
the transaction would  otherwise be in the best interests of Mr and Mrs W. Nothing  in the 
rules says Santander must not ask about affordability;  rather the rules allow it to set aside 
affordability in certain circumstances. But until an application is actually  made, and 
considered, it cant be known whether it would qualify. 
As it is, Santander hasnt  declined  a porting request  because it was unaffordable to 
Mr and Mrs W. It also hasnt declined to port because it is unhappy with Mr and Mrs Ws 
strategy to repay the mortgage at the end of the term. Mr and Mrs W have  yet to make  an 
application. 
At this stage, Santander has only said that if Mr and Mrs W were  to ask to port their 
mortgage to a new property, it would ask Mr and Mrs W to complete a porting application. As 
part of this it will be asking questions about their situation including  income and expenditure 
details. I think it is reasonable that its asking to do this as part of its risk assessment and to 
establish Mr and Mrs Ws wider circumstances and what might be in their best interests. 
Communication with Mr W.
However, I do think Santander could have given  Mr W more  information, and sooner, to 
reassure him that it would take into account the protections  under mortgage  regulations.  I 
accept that the initial  call handler  that spoke to Mr W in the call recordings shared with us 
might not have known  about mortgage  regulation and the transitional arrangements. By his 
own admission, he said he wasnt an expert. But it didnt seem  that the manager at 
Santander that he referred  the query to, or the complaint handler who issued the final 
response, looked to provide any reassurance to Mr W on this point  either.
I can see why Mr and Mrs W are looking for reassurance from Santander of future fair 
treatment before they embark on a potential new property purchase. And, as Ive said, I 
consider that Santander could have done  more to reassure Mr W that it would comply with 
the transitional arrangements. However,  while Santander could  have handled its 
communication with Mr W better, this isnt enough  to change the outcome of this complaint. 
Im satisfied that even  if Santander had handled this communication  better  with Mr W, I still 
think this would have  led to a complaint.
I consider that, at the heart of this complaint, is Mr Ws interpretation  of the regulations  and 
his belief that his mortgage  lender cant ask questions about affordability  and how the loan 
will be repaid at the end of the term. As Ive explained, my interpretation  of these rules is 
different. I dont think Santander has acted unfairly  or unreasonably in asking for information 
about Mr and Mrs Ws financial situation  to give a porting request fair consideration. 
Should Mr and Mrs W make a porting  request, and if Santander  was to refuse this on the 
grounds of it being  unaffordable for Mr and Mrs W, or because  it was unhappy with their 
repayment strategy,  then that would  be a separate matter for Mr and Mrs W to consider 
complaining about at that time.
Ref: DRN57870484my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN5787048