K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr E complain  that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined a claim under 
their home insurance policy.
background
Mrs and Mr E have  a home  insurance  policy with Admiral which  covers  buildings and 
contents.
In 2015, Mrs and Mr E made a claim relating to an escape of water at their home.  They 
made an earlier complaint  to us about the handling  of that claim,  but it's not for me to go into 
those issues again now.
In 2018, Mrs and Mr E discovered dry rot in their home. In short, they believe this was 
caused by damp conditions  created by the escape of water in 2015  and by subsequent leaks  
after the first attempt at the necessary repairs. And so they believe  Admiral should cover the 
damage caused by the dry rot.
Admiral declined Mrs and Mr E's claim because on the balance of probability they believe 
the dry rot wasn't  caused by the incident  in 2015.
Mrs and Mr E were  unhappy with this and complained to Admiral. When  Admiral's  position  
didn't change, Mrs and Mr E complained to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought Admiral should accept the claim. He was 
persuaded by the fact that following an expert  report - commissioned by Admiral   the expert  
said, when asked directly,  that the escape  of water in 2015  was the cause of the dry rot 
attack discovered in 2018.
Admiral disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Because I disagreed with our investigators view, I issued a provisional decision before 
making my final decision. This allowed both parties to comment on my thinking  before I 
make my final decision  which is the Financial  Ombudsman Services last word  on the 
case.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs and Mr E's policy includes a general  exclusion which says that Admiral  will not 
cover:
"Any loss or damage caused  by anything that happens gradually including... 
wet and dry rot..."
Mrs and Mr E's claim was for damage  caused  by dry rot, so on the face of it, given a 
strict interpretation of the policy  terms, it is excluded from the cover  provided.
Ref: DRN59278392However, Mrs and Mr E's argument is that the dry rot was in turn caused by an 
insured event - the escape of water in 2015 - which is covered  under the policy terms.
I also think it's unfair - as our investigator  said when he gave  his view - for an insurer 
to rely on an exclusion  clause about gradually operating causes if the consumer 
couldn't reasonably have been expected  to be aware that the damage was 
happening.
So, there are two fundamental questions I need  to address.
One, is the current damage the result of the previous  escape  of water? If so, the 
claim shouldn't be declined on the basis Admiral  suggest. The damage  may have 
taken some time to manifest itself, but is a consequence of the sudden  event - the 
escape of water - in 2015.
And two, whatever  the cause  of the current dry rot attack, could Mrs and Mr E 
reasonably be expected  to have known that the damage was occurring? If not, again, 
the claim shouldn't  be declined.
So, if either of the answers to those questions  goes in Mrs and Mr E's favour, I think 
Admiral should accept the claim.
However in fact I don't think either answer  works in Mrs and Mr E's favour.  I think it's 
likely the dry rot wasn't caused by the 2015  escape of water. And I think  Mrs and 
Mr E might reasonably have been expected to be aware of the damage to their 
property as it was occurring. I'll explain  why.
The cause of the current outbreak of dry rot
There are two main pieces of evidence  to support Mrs and Mr E's assertion that the 
dry rot was caused by the 2015  escape  of water.
They've sent us copies of an expert report on the neighbouring property, which  also 
has a dry rot problem.  This report says it's "plausible" the dry rot in the neighbour's 
house is caused by the escape of water  in 2015 affecting the party wall and the sub-
floor area in the neighbour's house.  This,  the report says, "could have created 
enough water to allow the fungus to develop".
As mentioned above, Mrs and Mr E are also aware of an email exchange between 
Admiral and the company they instructed to provide  an expert report after they 
reported the dry rot in their home.  In this email the expert says "/ do feel the dry rot 
attack has been caused by the escape of water in 2015".
I'm not convinced  the expert report about  the issue next door is persuasive in terms of 
what caused the dry rot in Mrs and Mr E's home. There are factors  which  may have  
caused damp conditions in Mrs and Mr E's home which may not be present next 
door. I'll come to these in more detail below.
To put it bluntly, that report isn't about Mrs and Mr E's house.  And its evidential  value 
in terms of diagnosing the causes of the dry rot in Mrs and Mr E's house is therefore 
limited. In any case, the 2015 escape of water is only cited in the report  as a 
Ref: DRN59278393"plausible" explanation of the problem, which "could" have created the conditions  for 
the dry rot to occur.
The email  to Admiral from the expert they appointed is, in itself,  more convincing. 
However, it does appear to contradict  the findings  contained in the report  itself.
The report  said:
"It is difficult to know the exact cause  of the dry rot attack.... There  is certainly 
not enough sub-floor ventilation which has not helped the problem."
The report  also states that one sub-floor vent has been covered entirely with the floor 
to a new extension. And it refers to high damp  meter readings  due to rising damp.
This echoes what Admiral's contractors found  when they were  carrying out repairs  
after the escape of water in 2015. At that time, the loss adjusters were unable  to 
issue a certificate to confirm that drying out had been fully completed.
They say this was because they found rising damp on the walls  and historic  damp  
issues. And they reported pre-existing  maintenance  issues which  the consumer(s) 
should have addressed in order to avoid damage to their property.
I'm also aware of an email message sent to Mrs E by one of the project  managers  
working on site, which  advised  her the builders had discovered "rot / wood  worm" on 
the floor joists. The email  said this would not be covered  by Mrs and Mr E's insurance  
policy and offered to obtain quotes  in case  they wished to ask the builders to 
undertake the required  works.
Taking all of that into account,  it would appear very likely the property had serious  
damp issues before the escape  of water in 2015.  And these were  at least  in part due 
to inadequate  sub-floor ventilation. In that context, I don't think it's unreasonable  for 
Admiral to suggest that on the balance of probabilities the dry rot was not caused by 
the escape of water  in 2015.
Should Mrs and Mr E reasonably have known the damage was occurring?
From the evidence we currently have,  I can't see any suggestion  that Mrs and Mr E 
carried out any remedial  works in 2015  to address the issues identified  by the 
contractors and loss adjuster  when they were  dealing  with the 2015 incident. If they 
did - and they have  evidence  to show that - they should provide that information  / 
evidence in response to this provisional decision.
I've already  referred  to the email from the project manager  which alerted Mrs and 
Mr E to the problems with their house. And I know Mrs E was aware there had been  
no comprehensive drying out certificate  issued. She told the expert who provided the 
report in 2018  that this was the case. It seems Mrs and Mr E were given the reasons 
for the full certificate not being issued 2015.
Bearing all of this in mind, I don't think it's unreasonable to suggest  Mrs and Mr E 
would have - or should have - known  that damage  was almost certainly occurring in 
their house.  And that at the very least, they should have taken it upon themselves to 
check for any signs of problems associated with damp.
Ref: DRN59278394Finally, although  I don't  think  it's crucial  to the reasoning I've set out above, I do note 
that Mrs and Mr E's policy (at general condition 3) does require them  to:
"... maintain your property  in a good state of repair and take care to prevent 
any... loss, damage  or injury."
Unless there is further information or evidence I currently  don't have, it seems  to me 
that this alone might  justify Admiral's decision to decline the claim. The information 
Mrs and Mr E were  given in 2015 appears  to me to suggest that there are issues  at 
the property which needed to be addressed if further damage or loss was to be 
avoided.
On that basis, my provisional  decision was that Mrs and Mr Es complaint should not be 
upheld.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Admiral didnt respond to my provisional decision with any further comment  or evidence.  I 
assume this is because they broadly  agreed  with it.
Mrs and Mr E did respond.  They put forward a number of reasons for disagreeing with my 
provisional decision. Ill try to summarise these.
They say there were no indications of a significant problem with damp in their home  before 
the escape of water  in 2015.  
They had a survey  carried out before they bought  the house in 2014. This identified an issue 
with damp  in their kitchen,  but in a place distant from where the dry rot has now manifested 
itself.
They say when the house was stripped  back in 2015   after the escape of water - there was 
no evidence of any problem with dry rot. They say the builders identified inactive woodworm 
in the kitchen floor joists,  but that problem had to be rectified before the works  carried out by 
the insurers builder  were allowed to continue.
Mrs and Mr E say the dry rot has manifested  itself now in the exact  area where the leaks  
continued after the initial repair work  was completed (unsatisfactorily)  which indicates the 
escape of water (finally  fixed many  months after the initial incident in 2015) caused  the dry 
rot.
They say that although the expert  report provided  in 2018 said it was difficult  to say what  had 
caused the dry rot outbreak, the expert later clarified  his position and said the escape of 
water was definitely the cause.
They say the high damp readings to which the 2018  expert report  referred  were  not in the 
same area where the dry rot has now manifested itself. And the causes of that damp have 
now been dealt  with.
They agree inadequate ventilation has been identified  as a problem with their home, but say 
Admiral havent  and cant   prove  that it was this that cause the dry rot outbreak.
Ref: DRN59278395They say theyve maintained their home  well since they bought it. And theyve given a 
number of examples  of work theyve had carried out  including the addition  of more  air 
vents under  the house after the 2018  expert report.
Mrs and Mr E question  why Admiral carried out the repair works in 2015  at considerable 
cost  if they felt there were underlying damp issues which  had not been resolved. And they 
say Admiral have no evidence they made Mrs and Mr E aware of any remaining issues with 
their house   other than the email  about inactive woodworm.
They say further  tests carried out at the home after 2015 show  there wasnt  a problem with 
rising damp. And that all issues were  or should  have been  dealt with in 2015  by the 
builder for the insurer, except the issue with ventilation later identified by the expert in 2018.
Finally, Mrs and Mr E have explained  the dire impact it will have  on them  and their young 
family if Admiral dont pay the claim,  given that their housing will be at risk.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again the conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision. Having done 
so, I havent changed my mind. Ill explain why.
First of all, I should say I understand the situation in which Mrs and Mr Es find themselves. 
The problems theyve  had with their house are very unfortunate  and Im sure this has been a 
nightmare for them from start to finish. I also understand  the significance  of Admiral not 
paying the claim in terms of what happens from here on in.
But its my obligation  to remain impartial and to make a decision about whats fair and 
reasonable in light of the circumstances of the case.  No matter what  the implications might 
be, I cant decide the case in Mrs and Mr Es favour unless thats justified by the facts.
This is a very difficult case. The main reason being that I dont think  anyone  can be 
absolutely certain  what  has caused  the dry rot outbreak in Mrs and Mr Es home.  I have to 
make judgements based on the evidence I have  in front of me  and my decision will be 
based on what is most likely to be the cause of the dry rot outbreak.  
In my view, its also very likely that there  is more  than one contributory cause of the dry rot 
outbreak and I have  to try to work  out which of those causes is likely to be most  significant.
Mrs and Mr Es comments are sensible,  measured  and have  made me think again about the 
logic underlying  my provisional decision.  As I say, I havent in the end changed my mind 
about the outcome. But Mrs and Mr E deserve a full explanation of my current  thinking and 
my responses to the points theyve made. Ill try to set these out below. As far as possible,  Ill 
avoid repeating what I said in my provisional decision.
In their response to my decision,  Mrs and Mr E are understandably keen to suggest that their 
house had little or no issue with damp  except  for that caused by the escape of water in 2015  
 and through the next few years after the initial repairs proved unsatisfactory.
Ref: DRN59278396That version of events appears  to me to be slightly optimistic. Theres a significant amount of 
evidence to suggest that theres an underlying problem  with damp which  wasnt caused by 
the escape of water.  
One  it seems theres no dispute that the house  had inadequate sub-floor ventilation until at 
least 2018. One vent has been completely covered over by an extension  to the house. One 
of the reasons houses need  ventilation is because otherwise they are likely to encounter 
problems with damp.
Two  before  the repair  work was carried out in 2015, the contractors were unable  to issue  a 
comprehensive drying out certificate. This was due to on-going  damp, which they decided  
was caused by the level of water in the ground  underneath the building.  The works  
proceeded on the basis this was unlikely to change. Mrs and Mr E were told there  could be 
no comprehensive drying out certificate   and it seems they were told why.
Three  in connection with the above  point, in 2015 the contractors noted an on-going 
problem with damp at the property. They referred to this as rising  damp.  I believe Mrs and 
Mr E say later tests  showed this wasnt rising damp as such. However, its clear the 
contractors felt there was an on-going damp problem.
Four  in 2015, one of the surveyors undertaking work at the home emailed Mrs and Mr E to 
say there  were a number  of issues with their home  that they might  wish to resolve before the 
insured works continued. These  included  rot / woodworm in the kitchen floor joists.  Mrs and 
Mr E have referred only to inactive woodworm   which they say they addressed. The most 
natural reading  of the email would  suggest there were problems with both rot and 
woodworm. Its very unlikely the rot would have  been caused so quickly  by the escape of 
water in 2015.
Five  Mrs and Mr E say their 2014 survey  prior to purchase of the house showed  no 
significant damp. In fact, theyve admitted the survey  did pick up a problem with damp  in the 
kitchen. Mrs and Mr E say this is in a different area to the current  dry rot outbreak, but it 
would still indicate  underlying issues with damp  at the property.
Six  the expert report in 2018 identified an on-going damp  issue in the home. It mentions 
rising damp  with a high  level of salts.  It notes the inadequate ventilation   and 
recommends a remedy for that. And it suggests a new damp  proof course. Its difficult to see 
how the latter in particular would be necessary if there was a fully-functioning damp proof  
course already  in place and no issues with damp in the property.  
As I understand it, dry rot needs  two things to grow  and flourish.  One is wet timber.  The 
other is poor ventilation.
The on-going damp  issues  in the house would  suggest that the escape  of water in 2015 
wasnt the only possible cause of the timber  being  wet. And it certainly  didnt cause the 
inadequate ventilation.
Admiral are effectively saying the poor ventilation was the primary or dominant cause of the 
dry rot outbreak.  And the policy doesnt include this as an insured peril.  Just to be clear, that 
being the case, the onus is on Mrs and Mr E to demonstrate they have a claim and not  as 
Mrs and Mr E seem  to think  on Admiral  to prove  the opposite.
Ref: DRN59278397In cases like this, where  theres a dispute  about  the cause of damage (and whether that is 
insured), we look for the primary, dominant or operating cause. As an example,  if a storm 
takes off a roof, but only because the roofing timbers are rotten from years of neglect, wed 
tend to say the storm simply  highlighted the underlying, primary cause  of the problem   the 
rotten timbers.
In this case, identifying the primary cause is more difficult. And thats mainly because  dry rot 
requires both water or dampness and poor ventilation.  The timbers being  wet would alone be 
very unlikely  to lead to an outbreak  of dry rot unless there was poor ventilation. And poor 
ventilation alone  wouldnt lead to an outbreak unless there was wet timber.
As I say, its not unreasonable for Admiral to conclude that the poor ventilation  (one 
candidate for primary cause of the damage) is not an insured  peril. And its not 
unreasonable for them to conclude  on the basis of the evidence  from the various experts 
whove inspected the property  that the water  which dry rot also needs to flourish (the other 
candidate for primary cause of the damage) wasnt solely or mainly  a result of the insured 
2015 escape of water.
So, I still think Admiral arent being  unreasonable or unfair when they conclude  that the 
cause of the dry rot outbreak is most likely not an insured  peril.  On balance,  their position 
seems to be backed by the expert  views on the case. 
In saying that, I do bear in mind that the expert who inspected the property in 2018 has 
provided two completely  contradictory views on the cause of the outbreak.  Having thought  
about it in light of Mrs and Mr Es comments,  I think his confusion  may simply reflect the fact 
that there  isnt one single  cause of the dry rot outbreak. How the various contributory causes 
interact is difficult to unravel.
I have to ask Mrs and Mr E to understand  that its not my role to determine the outcome of 
their claim. In other  words, Im not acting as an alternative claims handler.  The question  for 
me is whether Admiral have acted fairly and reasonably. And because theyve based their 
decision on the expert evidence available in this case, I cant say theyve been unfair or 
unreasonable.
I do understand though that deciding on the primary cause of the dry rot outbreak  in this 
case is a very fine judgement. There are potentially two primary operating  causes of the 
damage. One (the poor ventilation)  certainly  isnt caused by the escape of water.  Its 
arguable that the other one (the moisture in the timber) is, even if I think  on balance that 
other factors (underlying dampness in the house) may have played an equally or more  
significant part.
However, even if we were  to allow that the cause of the current  problem is an insured peril, I 
think Admiral could  reasonably and fairly  rely on the exclusion relating to gradually  operating  
causes. Ill explain why.
I said in my provisional decision that if the escape  of water in 2015 was the cause of the dry 
rot outbreak  Admiral probably shouldnt decline the claim  (all else being equal). In that case, 
the cause of the damage would be an insured peril (an escape of water)  and it wouldnt be 
fair to call that escape of water event a gradual cause of the damage.
Ref: DRN59278398Im satisfied though   on balance  that the outbreak of dry rot has two underlying  causes 
which were necessary for it to occur. One is the wetness in the timber  and the other is the 
poor ventilation. 
Even if we allow  that the wetness was due solely  to the escape of water  in 2015, the 
outbreak still required the underlying poor ventilation conditions to allow  the dry rot to 
emerge over time. And I think this means  it is reasonable to think that the gradual cause 
exclusion comes into play.
To try to put it more simply,  dry rot doesnt  emerge  overnight after an escape  of water. Its 
absolutely necessary for there to be poor ventilation to create  the conditions  in which  the 
fungus can thrive. Dry rot is, by its very nature, a gradual cause  of damage.  And we cant  pin 
its emergence back to a single underlying cause - the 2015 escape of water.
So, even if we were  to accept that the escape of water in 2015 was the sole cause of 
wetness in the timbers at Mrs and Mr Es home,  Im satisfied it would be reasonable for 
Admiral to ask whether  Mrs and Mr E should  have spotted the gradual damage occurring 
and done something about  it.
I believe Mrs and Mr E when they say they were not in fact aware that the damage was 
occurring. I cant see what would have  motivated  them to ignore it if they knew  their home 
was at risk.
But often  the key question for us when we look at exclusions for gradually operating causes 
is whether the policyholder should  have been aware  of the problem and should  therefore 
have taken steps to prevent it.
I know Mrs and Mr E will disagree, but I think they should have been aware that damage 
was occurring and/or was extremely  likely  to be occurring in their home. 
I come  back  again to the list given above  of evidence that there was a damp issue  in the 
home. Its my view that at the latest by the time the work was completed after the escape  of 
water in 2015, Mrs and Mr E should  at the very least have been vigilant about  damp.  
They knew  at that point that: the survey carried out when they bought  the house had 
identified damp  in the kitchen. They knew the contractors believed there was an issue with 
rising damp (or similar). They knew there the drying out process hadnt been thoroughly 
completed or signed off  and why. And they knew about the historical  issues  with rot / 
woodworm.
If they had investigated this further  at the time,  they would likely  have  identified  the 
ventilation issue which theyve now put right  following  the expert inspection in 2018.
Mrs and Mr E have  asked why Admiral carried on with the repair  works  in 2015 if they were 
aware of the underlying problems. Thats a perfectly valid question, although Im not sure 
Mrs and Mr E would have been  happy  if Admiral had refused to carry on with the work at the 
time. 
Admirals responsibilities under the insurance contract are primarily to rectify  any damage 
which occurs as the result of an insured  event. They arent  required to carry out work which  
prevents any possibility of future damage. To put it bluntly, thats the responsibility  of the 
homeowner.
Ref: DRN59278399Of course,  we wouldnt expect an insurer to rectify damage  at considerable cost  knowing 
it was very likely thered  be further damage  in future. That wouldnt be in their own interests. 
Often they will carry out works which mitigate  future risk, if thats incidental to the repair 
works. But ultimately preventative measures arent usually  the responsibility  of the insurer  in 
most policies   and they certainly arent in Mrs and Mr Es policy.
It would be reasonable of course for an insurer who was aware  of a potential on-gong 
problem to make the policyholder aware  of it. Im afraid I cant  agree with Mrs and Mr E that 
Admiral didnt make them  aware of the situation. 
Its clear from the evidence that Admiral and their contractors believed there was an 
underlying issue  with damp at the home. They said so directly   although Mrs and Mr E 
didnt accept it was rising damp. And they were clear they werent issuing a comprehensive 
drying out certificate because the level of water in the ground was high and likely to remain  
so. 
In summary,  I cant say its unfair or unreasonable for Admiral to decline this claim on the 
basis that the damage wasnt  caused by an insured peril. 
The causation of the dry rot outbreak is complex  and difficult to identify definitively.  But its 
clear that one necessary condition for it was poor ventilation  which is not an insured peril.
The other necessary  condition   wetness in the timber  is in my view unlikely to have been  
caused solely by the escape of water in 2015,  given the underlying damp  issues  at the 
property.
And even  if we assume that the escape  of water was the main  cause  of wetness in the 
timber and the primary operating cause for the outbreak, I dont think  it would be 
unreasonable to apply  the exclusion for gradually operating causes.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 May 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5927839