K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained to Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) about an old Halifax  Building Society 
passbook relating to an account she held jointly with her late husband, Mr C.
Mrs C has recently  found the passbook  which  shows  a credit balance from the 1980s and 
wants to know whats happened to the money.  Shes unhappy  with the response provided 
by BoS.
background
Mrs C and her late husband are represented  by their daughter in dealing with the complaint.
BoS (trading as Halifax)  said that the account  was closed in 1985  and it appears  the account  
balance of £858.12 was transferred to another account.  It could not confirm the exact details  
as the full statements and records no longer exist given the time which  has passed.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  and recommended it should not be upheld.   
In summary,  he said that he didnt  think Halifax  had acted  unfairly.   He said that he was 
satisfied the account had been closed in 1985  and its likely  the funds were  transferred to 
another account.
The investigator thought it was reasonable that detailed records  could not now be provided, 
given how long ago the events took place, and felt there were  a number of reasons why the 
passbook might not have  been updated.
Mrs C disagreed and her daughter asked for the complaint to be reviewed afresh  by an 
ombudsman.  No further comments were made by either party.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, and for much the same reasons.
In order for me to uphold the complaint and ask BoS to do something and put things  right, I 
must be persuaded that it has acted unfairly  or done something wrong.  The  challenge in 
cases such as this is the limited amount of information now available.
Due to the fact that BoS says over 30 years have passed since the account  was closed, I 
cant say it has done anything wrong by not being able to provide specific details from the 
time.  But in situations  where information  is missing  or incomplete I have to decide  what  I 
think to be most likely on balance.  
I understand its confusing  that a passbook still exists which shows  an account in credit, and 
why its important for Mrs C to find out what happened to those funds.  But  it not uncommon 
for a passbook to be outdated or stop having been used. There are a number of reasons 
why this may have  been the case  for example the passbook could have been misplaced at 
the time,  or not been in possession when a request to close the account was made.
Ref: DRN58634492Provided a customer  can be correctly identified, it is not necessary for the passbook to have 
been used for individual transactions and could be updated later.  If that passbook was 
never subsequently  presented to Halifax then it would not have been updated and cancelled.
So the key issue  for me to decide is whether  I think  the account  was closed and the credit 
funds transferred to another account.  On balance I think  this is likely to have been the case 
and Ill explain why.
Whilst BoS has been unable to provide full details of statements and the account 
which funds were  transferred to, it has been able to provide a relevant account 
statement. This clearly shows the balance of £858.12 was transferred on 2 May 1985 
and left the closing balance on the account as £0.00.
The transfer and closure was over 30 years ago, and so its quite  possible  it did take 
place but Mrs C no longer recollects  it.
There is an entry written in the front of the passbook stating E/O.  This is likely to 
mean either/or and that authorisation was only needed from Mr C or Mrs C 
individually to carry out a transaction.  So its possible Mr C could  have requested the 
transfer.
Had the account remained open with funds in the account, its reasonable to assume  
there would  have been communication  with Halifax about the funds at some  point 
over the last 30 years.  But there has not been.
I realise the situation has been frustrating for Mrs C, and acknowledge that shes likely to be 
disappointed with the outcome of my decision.  But as Ive not seen anything to persuade  
me that Halifax has done anything wrong,  it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to uphold 
the complaint  or ask it to do anything else now.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  the complaint made 
against Bank of Scotland plc on behalf of Mrs C and the estate  of her husband.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5863449