K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) gave him loans 
irresponsibly.
background
This complaint is about 12 payday  loans  that Quick Quid provided to Mr F between 
November 2014  and April 2017.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Fs complaint and thought that the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been  provided to him.
Quick Quid disagreed with our adjudicators  view.  As this is the case and the parties  havent  
been able to resolve the complaint informally, its been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr F 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Quick 
Quid should fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish  that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Quick Quid  was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN56582272Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case.  This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
Before lending to Mr F, Quick Quid asked him for details of his income, and his normal 
monthly expenditure. It then used this information, together with data it gathered  from other 
sources such as his credit file, to calculate  what it termed  his estimated disposable  income 
(EDI). This was the amount that Quick Quid thought Mr F could afford to spend  each month  
repaying his borrowing.
loans one to three
Mr F declared that his net monthly income was £1,200 and his expenditure was between 
£375 and £625 per month.
I think, given the amount of the loans and Mr Fs stated  income  and expenditure, the checks 
made by Quick Quid were  proportionate.  I dont think Quick Quid had any reason to think 
these loans werent affordable and so I dont  think it was wrong to give the first three loans to 
Mr F.
loans four to twelve
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids  lending  history with Mr F, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Quick Quid should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, so that it ought to have  realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Fs case,  I think that this point was reached  by loan 
four. I say this because:
by this time, Mr F had been borrowing from Quick Quid  for more than seven months  
without a significant break;
from the first loan onwards Mr F was provided  with new loans shortly  after having repaid  
previous ones. And, loan two was topped-up twice.  I think  that Quick Quid ought to have 
realised it was more likely  than not that Mr F was having to borrow further to cover  holes 
in his finances left by the repayment of his previous  loans;
I think that the pattern of lending shouldve  alerted Quick  Quid  to the likelihood  that Mr F 
was having problems managing his money. So I think that it should have been 
concerned that he wouldnt be able to repay  the loans sustainably;
Ref: DRN56582273the loans provided  by Quick Quid were intended for short term use. But Mr F didnt make 
any real inroads into the amount  he owed  it. He took out loan 12 in April 2017  and by this 
time hed been borrowing for well over two years without a substantive break.  And the 
amounts he borrowed  didnt materially reduce. I dont think  this borrowing was 
sustainable.
So, given these  circumstances, Im partially  upholding  this complaint.
putting things right
To put things right, Quick  Quid should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr F paid on loans  four to twelve;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
the period  of time Mr F owed  Quick Quid money  means that any information recorded  on 
his credit file in relation to loans four to twelve is adverse. So all such  entries  should  be 
removed from Mr Fs credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick  Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr F a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out my final decision  is that I partially uphold this complaint  and I instruct 
CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid)  to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5658227