K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Santander  UK Plc didnt act fairly or reasonably when dealing 
with their application for a new mortgage product. They  want compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs J had a mortgage  product with Santander which  was due to end in June 2018. 
They said that they called Santander in March and agreed to go onto a new fixed interest 
rate product.  Mr J said that hed also asked for their correspondence address to be updated  
in the same call. Santander sent the paperwork for the new product to a wrong address and 
the new product  didnt  start as the documents werent returned. Mr and Mrs J only realised  
this in August.
Santander credited  money to the mortgage account to cover most of the extra interest  paid 
for July and August, but not June  it said this reflected the fact that both parties had 
responsibility for what happened. It also paid £200 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by its error and to cover the cost of two years  membership  of a fraud prevention  
service. Santander accepted that it did send the paperwork  to the wrong  address,  but said 
that Mr and Mrs J knew  that they had to sign and return the documents  to take out the new 
product from what they were told and previous experience. It said that they shouldve 
contacted Santander earlier when they didnt receive the new product  documents.
Mr and Mrs J complained  to us, saying that they thought  Santander should  compensate 
them for the extra interest paid in June and the future extra interest  for the next two years. 
The investigators view was that Santanders offer was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. She said that Mr J was told on the phone that he needed to return  the 
paperwork being sent to him to start the new product,  and this reminder  was repeated  by 
text and email. The investigator thought that Mr and Mrs J shouldve contacted Santander 
sooner about  the lack of paperwork, particularly as the monthly mortgage payment increased 
and this should also have prompted an earlier  call. The investigator said Santander couldnt 
offer a product no longer available in August and the compensation paid was within 
guidelines.
Mr and Mrs J disagreed.  They said the paperwork hadnt even been sent to the property 
address and the £200 compensation was for the data breach. Mr and Mrs J also said that 
they didnt contact Santander  when  the first increased monthly mortgage payment was taken 
as they thought it mightve been  a mistake or an irregular payment. The investigator  didnt 
change her view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Santander made a mistake  and sent the new product paperwork to a 
wrong address.  And theres no dispute that it hasnt fully compensated Mr and Mrs J for the 
extra interest theyve  paid between June and August  2018   Santander says this is because  
it feels both parties are responsible.
Ref: DRN55204292My role isnt to punish businesses for making  mistakes but to ensure consumers are put 
back into the position that they shouldve been in all along, and that the position  is a fair and 
reasonable one. While Santander made a mistake  in sending the paperwork to the wrong 
address, its fair and reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs J to have noticed much earlier that 
they hadnt received the paperwork. They were told on the phone,  by email and by text that 
the paperwork had to be returned to start the new product to show that they accepted the 
terms and conditions. Theyd previously taken  out products and had to return  this paperwork. 
So I agree that both parties have a responsibility  and the compensation should reflect this.
And Mr and Mrs J accept  that they noticed  the increased monthly mortgage payment and 
didnt contact Santander. Its fair and reasonable to expect consumers to contact lenders if 
the monthly payment changes unexpectedly. And I dont think its fair or reasonable to 
expect lenders to give consumers  products  that are no longer available.
Taking everything into account,  I think Santanders offer to refund much, but not all, of the 
extra interest between  June and August 2018 is fair and reasonable. And I also think  the 
£200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its mistake (including the money to 
be used for the fraud prevention service)  is fair and reasonable. Breaches of data protection  
legislation is a matter  for the Information  Commissioners Office, not this service   we look at 
whether a business has acted fairly  and reasonably,  and whether the redress  offered is fair 
and reasonable.  I accept  Mr and Mrs J were  upset about the paperwork being sent to the 
wrong address,  but money never  truly compensates for trouble and upset and Ive also 
found that they shouldve  contacted Santander  earlier.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to accept or reject my decision 
before 24 April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5520429