K820x#14Complaint
Ms Cs complaint is about the quality of a sofa she acquired through  a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc.   
Background
In July 2017, Ms C entered  into a fixed sum loan agreement to acquire  a sofa. 
Ms C contacted Hitachi Capital in September 2018, because there had been accidental  
damage to her sofa causing a pink stain.  She said she had acquired a warranty when she 
acquired the sofa but when she tried to contact the warranty  company it didnt recognise her. 
Following discussions with Hitachi Capital,  Ms C said that repairs  were  carried out but not all 
the issues had been addressed and that during the repair process further  damage  was 
caused. She said she was told by the repairing company that the sofa leather was faulty. 
Hitachi Capital said it credited Ms C with the £115 she paid for the warranty  (which it found  
had been cancelled by the retailer) and arranged for the sofa to be inspected.  The damage 
was confirmed and repairs  undertaken at no cost to Ms C. Ms C then contacted  Hitachi  
Capital again  to say the leg was not straight and there was another stain. Further  repairs  
were undertaken. It said that the damage  wasnt due to a fault but accidental  damage and it 
had acted in line with what would have happened  had the warranty been in place.
Ms C didnt agree that the sofa was of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply due to the 
issues raised regarding  the leather.  
After investigating,  our investigator  concluded  the complaint should  not be upheld.
Ms C didnt agree. She reiterated  that she was told the leather wasnt of the required standard.
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should  not be upheld for these reasons: 
Under the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015  (CRA 2015) Hitachi  Capital could be held liable  in 
certain circumstances if the sofa provided to Ms C wasnt  of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.  I note Ms Cs comments about the quality  of the leather but the 
inspection report  doesnt  raise any issues regarding the quality of the leather. 
The issues raised in regard to the sofa were  caused by accidental  damage (note of a 
decoration causing  damage and a possible food stain).  There was also an issue  raised 
with the sofa leg and the inspection report records that the foot wasnt level with the 
floor. Overall, based on the evidence provided,  I do not find that I have enough evidence  
to say the sofa was faulty  or wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply.
Ref: DRN58373042Hitachi Capital can be held liable  if the information provided to Ms C by the retailer  at the 
point of supply  was misleading.  In this case Ms C was told she would receive a warranty. 
This appears  to have  happened at the outset. However the warranty seems to have  then 
been cancelled  by the retailer. I cannot hold Hitachi Capital responsible for the actions of 
the retailer  after the finance  agreement  was set up. However  as Ms C acquired the sofa 
believing she had a warranty in place for a certain  period and this wasnt fulfilled, I find it 
reasonable that Hitachi Capital refunded Ms C the £115 warranty  cost.
The issue with the warranty meant  Ms C wasnt covered when there was damage to her 
sofa. However, as a gesture of goodwill, Hitachi Capital took the actions  I would have 
expected to have happened  under  a warranty. That is, having inspections and repairs 
carried out at no cost to Ms C. 
Ms C says that the actions taken by the repairing company caused further damage. I 
can see that a further inspection  took place and repairs  were  undertaken due to this 
concern. In this case, I find Hitachi Capital has acted fairly and I do not hold it 
responsible for any issues that were caused  by the repairing  company.
Ms C has had use of the sofa and as I do not find that I have enough  to say the sofa 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply  so I do not require Hitachi Capital to 
take any further action.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5837304