K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) sent letters  to them  
threatening the closure of their business  current account if they did not complete an account 
review before a deadline. They feel the threat has caused them  stress  and concern.
background 
Mr and Mrs S hold a joint business  current account with HSBC. 
HSBC sent Mr S a letter explaining that as HSBC have a commitment  to fight fraud  and 
financial crime they needed to conduct an account overview, called a Safeguard review. The 
letter explained the reasons for the review were so that HSBC could make sure they hold the 
right information about Mr and Mrs S and their business which  would help HSBC to detect 
and deter  fraudulent transactions,  money  laundering and tax evasion.
Mrs S phoned HSBC to say that they wouldnt be able to complete the review online as they 
werent good with technology. HSBC looked into this, and phoned  Mrs S back  and said that 
they could do the review  over the phone. So HSBC arranged to contact Mr S to do the 
review. Mr S says HSBC didnt call him when they had said they would. HSBC said they 
called but got no response.
HSBC continued  to send letters to Mr and Mrs S about needing to do the review  or they 
might have to close their account.  Mr and Mrs S complained about the letters  saying they 
were threatening. HSBC  looked into their complaint and said theyd done nothing  wrong. 
HSBC also said that the review  still needed to be done. HSBC  continued  to send letters  to 
say they might close the account. Mr and Mrs S were  unhappy  with HSBCs response and 
complained to us.
An investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and partly upheld  it. She thought that 
HSBC hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably  carrying out their review, but that HSBC had 
called the wrong  number  on the day they were meant to phone  Mr S, causing  inconvenience 
to Mr and Mrs S that should  have been avoided.  HSBC  accepted,  having  reviewed  the 
evidence, that theyd called the wrong  number and that this had caused distress  and 
inconvenience to Mr and Mrs S. HSBC agreed  with the investigator that a payment of £50 
should be paid to Mr and Mrs S for this distress  and inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree with the investigators  findings as they thought HSBCs letters  
were threatening. So the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to partially 
uphold the complaint. I will explain why.
In 2017 HSBC started to write to 1.9 million  customers as part of their Safeguard review 
asking them for information so that HSBC could comply with, amongst other things, anti-
money laundering requirements. The letters HSBC has sent refer to money laundering and 
fraud, and also the possibility of accounts being  closed down.
Ref: DRN58398872I can understand why Mr and Mrs S found  the letters they received  from HSBC threatening 
and intimidating.  However, I agree with our investigator that HSBC didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably when it decided to review  their account. So had nothing  gone wrong during the 
review, I wouldnt have  said anything  went wrong  here. HSBC now accepts, however, that it 
phoned Mrs S on the day it was meant  to phone  Mr S. Thats despite Mrs S having given 
HSBC the number it needed to call.
HSBCs error meant that the review carried on for longer than it needed to. That also meant 
that Mr and Mrs S received further letters, causing  them additional stress and concern, that 
they shouldnt  have done. I agree with our investigator that £50 fairly compensates 
Mr and Mrs S for this additional stress  and concern.  So thats the award Im going  to make.
Mrs S told HSBC  that theyre not good with technology. I can also see that Mr S doesnt  like 
the way banking is done these days,  mentioning in particular how difficult it is to talk to a 
bank manager.  This can be a problem for some  customers, as banks use more and more 
technology to deliver  their services. So I can understand  how they feel. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint. So HSBC UK Bank Plc should  pay Mr and Mrs S £50 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience they have  experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 December 2019.
Adrian Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5839887