K820x#14complaint
Mr N says Lloyds Bank  PLC (trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold him 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr N took out a PPI policy in 2003 with a further  advance on his mortgage. He paid a 
monthly amount  for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ns case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ns complaint because:
Having considered all of the evidence,  including copies  of some of the paperwork 
completed at the time of sale, I think that its more likely than not that the PPI was 
presented as optional and Mr N chose to take it out. 
I say this because:
oMr N had previously taken borrowing including the initial mortgage and further 
advances afterwards  without taking PPI. So I think that he would reasonably  
have been aware that he could have this further borrowing without taking PPI.
oOn a copy of Mr Ns mortgage application  form, on the last page, there are 
two options for PPI. Theres  an I wish to apply. option and an I do not wish 
to receive a quotation.. Ive noted that neither has been selected.  This 
document was signed and dated by Mr N on 30 July 2003.
oA separate PPI Proposal form has been completed. So I think that its more 
likely than not that some discussion took place about PPI and Mr N chose to 
take it out. Mr N has also signed  this form as well as a direct debit mandate 
for the PPI on 17 August  2003.
oThe mortgage (further  advance)  offer dated  19 August 2003 doesnt  make  
any reference to PPI being a condition of the further borrowing.
 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr N, and it seems to have been right for him based on 
what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time alongside the nearest relevant policy 
document. In particular  Ive carefully considered Mr Ns employment circumstances. 
Mr N met the eligibility criteria for this policy, including the need to be in employment. 
The policy defines  employment as: Permanent, gainful employment, including self-
employment and employment on a fixed-term  contract,  for at least  16 hours a week.  
Ref: DRN51234572To make an unemployment claim, broadly speaking, Mr N had to have been  
unemployed for 60 consecutive days,  registered as unemployed and actively  seeking 
employment. The policy definition  for unemployment  doesnt differentiate between     
self-employed consumers  and permanently employed consumers. 
In the exclusions  for this policy, specifically for self-employed consumers, it states  benefit  
wont be paid for Unemployment resulting from..voluntary liquidation of Your  company 
if self-employed. In my opinion, this exclusion isnt too unusual and doesnt mean that 
the policy wasnt right for Mr N. I say this as, in my opinion,  this term means that Mr N 
couldnt just decide to stop working  and liquidate his business  to make an unemployment 
claim.  
So therefore, I dont  think that it would have  been very difficult for Mr N to make an 
unemployment claim on this policy.
I still think that the recommendation to take PPI was suitable and the policy  was right for 
him.
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even  if it 
had, I think Mr N would still have bought it. 
I say this because  Mr N hasnt told us about any existing means he had for making his 
mortgage repayments if he was unable to work.  So I dont think  that better information 
about the cost,  or the other policy information would  have  changed  his decision about 
taking out the PPI, particularly as Mr N was taking on a significant financial commitment 
and given the potential consequences if he was unable  to keep up with his repayments, I 
think that he could  have found the policy useful if he ever needed to claim on it. 
The policy also seems to have been  affordable for Mr N.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But Mr N 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ns comments,  including what his representative  has said about it 
being harder for him to make  a claim as Mr N would have to wind down the business to be 
able to register as unemployed.. But I still think that Mr N would  have been  able to register  
as unemployed  without  voluntary liquidating  his business  allowing him to claim on the PPI 
providing he met the other  criteria such as actively seeking employment and these points 
dont change my decision.
I know that this wont  be the outcome that Mr N wanted, but I wish him all the best with his 
future.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Ref: DRN51234573Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5123457