K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that Oakam Ltd mis-sold loans to her. Miss B is represented through  a 
third party. She has asked for the outstanding balances to be written  off as part of the 
redress.
background
Loan and 
termDate Amount (net 
of fees)Fees included in 
capital Repayment terms 
(rounded figures)Repaid
1
18 months20 July 2016 £1,000 £85 £158 at first then £125 
x 17 months27 May 2017
£802.68 refinanced to 
Loan 2
2 
18 months27 May 2017 £1,102.68 of 
which £300 to 
Miss B and 
balance to 
repay Loan 1.£45 £141 first then 
£125 x 17 months£821.40 refinanced to 
Loan 3
3
18 months25 March  
2018£1,071.40 of 
which £250 to 
Miss B and 
balance to 
repay Loan 2£37.50 £151 first then 
£128 x 17 monthsDue to be 
repaid 1 Oct 
2019
4 
New loan
6 months30 August 
2018£150 £0 £26 first then £49 for 5 
months3 December 
2018
I am aware  that several of these loans are over 12 months in length and so may not fall 
within the formal  definition of high-cost short term credit. But still these are loans with high 
levels of cost attached to them and, as Oakam has demonstrated in its submissions to us, 
the irresponsible lending guidelines remain applicable.  
Oakam has explained  the application  process, including the interviews carried out with 
Miss B for Loans 1 and 4. It said that it validated  the income and expenditure by looking at 
Miss Bs bank statements on 20 July 2016  and 27 May 2017 (Loans  1 and 2). It said that full 
credit checks were  carried out before each loan was approved.  
Miss B complained to Oakam in late January 2019 and at the time that Oakam responded 
with its final response letter in March 2019,  the outstanding balance on Loan  3 was about  
£896. It has said that it froze the sum due on that loan at that amount.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and he thought that Oakam  should put 
things right for Loans 3 and 4. 
Oakam responded with its summary of lending and underwriting  practices. It sent an earlier 
adjudicators view from 2016 for a totally different complaint and made comparisons with that 
and this adjudicators opinion  for Miss Bs complaint. 
Oakam referred to the relevant Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) Consumer Credit Source 
book (CONC) rules  which  were  applicable when Miss B applied.  It asked several  questions  
and two are:
Ref: DRN54968582Is it the FOS current position that recent  rulings  supersede rules  and guidance issued at the 
relevant times when  lending decisions were made?
Does the FOS currently make any distinction between products issued to borrowers  when 
assessing sustainability?
A second adjudicator sent a second  opinion upholding Loans 3 and 4, so it was the same 
outcome, but in his words for different reasons. That second opinion did not address the 
points raised by Oakam following the first adjudicators view. 
Oakam has come back to us with additional questions about the first adjudicators opinion 
and has asked whether the second  adjudicators opinion means that he disagrees  with the 
first adjudicators reasoning. 
Miss Bs representative has not responded to either view.
The complaint remains unresolved and has been  passed to me for a decision. 
answering some of Oakams  questions/points raised 
I answer here some of Oakams points. I am being  brief.
 
we consider all complaints individually. Citing and cross-referencing  a 2016  earlier  
adjudication is not relevant to Miss Bs complaint; 
decisions by this service do not supersede rules made by the FCA;
we do consider which type of consumer credit agreement it is and the nature of the 
product; 
it is unfortunate that the two adjudicators opinions are not entirely in line with each 
other and that the second does not address Oakams queries raised after the first, 
but they were  opinions. As the complaint remains unresolved  I have made this 
decision which is a review  of the disputed loans  and as such, if accepted  by Miss B, 
is final.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what I consider  to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general 
approach to complaints about  high cost credit - including all the relevant rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Oakam should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include: 
where a customers income  is particularly  low; where the repayments are particularly high;  
and/or where  the frequency of the loans and the length of time over which  a customer  has 
been given loans need to be looked  at: repeated refinancing could signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable.
Ref: DRN54968583There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Oakam was required to establish whether 
Miss B could sustainably  repay her loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because CONC defines sustainable as being the ability  to repay  without undue  
difficulties. In particular  the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time, while  
meeting other reasonable commitments,  and without having to borrow to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
realise, that a borrower will not be able to make  their repayments  sustainably if they need to 
borrow further in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments,  evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
As Loans 1 and 2 appear to be undisputed  I make  no findings on those and have not 
reviewed them. 
I have looked  at the overall pattern of Oakams  lending history with Miss B, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Oakam should  reasonably have seen that further lending  
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Oakam should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the circumstances of Miss Bs case, I think that this point was reached by Loan 3. 
I say this for several reasons, many of which interlink with each other. Miss B had been  
refinancing her loans  into the next each  time and Loan 3 was no exception. In March  2018 
Miss B still owed Oakam over £800 from when she first borrowed from it in July 2016. It was 
repetitive and unreasonable for Oakam to provide further lending  on loans 3 and 4. The 
refinancing had led to the compounding of charges and the pervious loans balances  and 
extended her indebtedness. 
Loan 4 was a standalone new loan but ran alongside the outstanding Loan 3. And so, 
Miss Bs repayments for six months increased.  The Oakams Current pricing  status had 
reduced for Miss B from Silver on Loan  2 to Bronze when she applied  for loan 3 which 
I take to mean a lower grade level and indicates  there may have been some  concerns. 
The affordability figure on Loan  4 was £73.98. Miss B had declared in the application other  
repayments on loans as £128  which likely referred  to Loan 3. The outstanding balance  on 
Loan 3 when Miss B applied for Loan  4 was around  £1,015. Oakams credit  search  gauge  
score (which appears to have been  an internal Oakam  scoring  system) was much lower at 
134 as opposed to 556 for Loan  3, and 506 for Loan  2. If that was a significant score  for 
evaluation by Oakam, its large reduction  for Loan 4 must have been relevant to it.  
£176.86 each  month  was the new price for Loans 3 and 4 combined  but Oakams  
affordability figure for Miss B was £73.98 when she applied for Loan 4. Even  if I assume that 
the affordability figure accounted for the £128  payable on Loan 3, as Miss B had declared  it 
as part of her application  income and expenditure figures, still at £49 per month for 5 months  
during the life of Loan 4, it would have left her very little. And she wouldve struggled  to 
manage any unforeseen expenditures  over this time. 
Ref: DRN54968584I think that Miss B lost out because  Oakam  continued to provide  borrowing from Loan 3 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Bs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit over an extended period;
its own assessments reveal  that it did not seem  to think she could afford these  loans 
easily; 
the number  of loans and refinancing was likely to have had negative implications on 
Miss Bs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
So, I am upholding the complaint about  Loans 3 and 4 and Oakam  should put things right.
Miss B has asked for any outstanding balances to be written off. But after the redress  
calculations have been done then it may result  in a greatly reduced amount Miss B still has 
to repay  to Oakam. And if Miss B was asking for any of the principal sums to be written off, 
then I have considered  it. But there are no reasons that I have seen which lead me to 
conclude that Oakam needs to write off any outstanding principal  amounts. Miss B would 
have received the benefit of those  principal sums  and so its only fair that those are repaid.  
putting things right
Oakam shouldnt have  given  Miss B loans 3 & 4. If Oakam has sold the outstanding debts 
Oakam should buy these  back  if able to do so and then take the following steps. If Oakam is 
not able to buy the debts  back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below.
A) Oakam should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss B towards interest,  
fees and charges on all loans  without  an outstanding balance, not including anything  Oakam  
have already refunded.
B) Oakam should calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual  payments made by Miss B 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date she originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Oakam  should  remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance  on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Miss B as though  they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Miss B having made 
overpayments then Oakam should refund these overpayments with 8% simple  interest*  
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Oakam should  then refund  the amounts calculated  in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding. If this results  in a surplus,  then that 
should be paid to Miss B. However,  if there  is still an outstanding balance  then Oakam 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss B. Oakam shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made  up of principal Oakam have already  written-off.  
E) The overall pattern  of Miss Bs borrowing  for loans 3 & 4 means  any information recorded 
about them  is adverse, so Oakam  should remove these loans entirely from Miss Bs credit 
Ref: DRN54968585file. Oakam do not have to remove loan 3 from Miss Bs credit  file until these have been 
repaid, but Oakam should  still remove any adverse  payment information recorded about  
these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakam to deduct tax from this interest.  It should  give 
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax Oakam has deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint in part, as have both adjudicators.  And 
I direct  that Oakam Ltd does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5496858