K822xcomplaint
Mrs H disputes the refurbishment charges she was asked to pay by Volkswagen Financial  
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS),  trading as Audi Financial Services,  when she handed a car 
back she had been financing through them. She also complains that shes received poor 
service.
background 
Mrs H took receipt of a used car in October 2015. She financed the deal through  a four year 
hire purchase agreement with VWFS  and voluntarily terminated the agreement in February  
2018.
VWFS s appointed representatives  inspected the car in February but Mrs H contested  their 
findings and as some time had passed a further  inspection was arranged  in early April 2018.  
That inspection highlighted the following charges  that VWFS  said would need to be paid by 
Mrs H to return the car to the condition stated in the contract. The charges were  as follows:
1.scratched front bumper £55.20
2.scratched rear bumper £110.40
3.dent to left hand front door £138.00
4.paint chips on right hand front door £21.00
5.dent on left hand rear quarter panel  £138.00
6.cut in roof lining £60.00
7.burn in seat back cover £263.81
8.sill damage £439.04
9.scratches to three alloy wheels  3 x £36.00
Mrs H complained to VWFS about  these charges and they agreed that the photographs in 
the inspectors  report did not evidence damage to points 3, 4 and to one of the alloy wheels 
in 9. But they did think the other damage  was evidenced and chargeable.
But Mrs H was dissatisfied she said:
the damages  highlighted  in the two inspections  were  different and she questioned 
how this could  have  been the case as the car was not driven  in the interim  period;
the charge  for the burn in the seat was unreasonable and shed been quoted less by 
the manufacturer;
shed received poor customer service for a number of reasons including:
othe inspector had insisted on inspecting the car when he arrived a few hours 
before the scheduled inspection  time; 
othe inspection company failed to log their initial complaint and this led to 
delays in organising  collection of the car
othe company pressed  for a collection  date despite Mrs H being in hospital 
giving birth to her baby
So she referred  her complaint to this service and our adjudicator provided his opinion. He 
reviewed the inspection photographs that had been taken of each area of damage, against 
the industry guidelines  on fair wear and tear provided by the British Vehicle  Rental  and 
Leasing Association  (BVRLA). He thought most  of the damage  was evidenced and beyond 
the limits  in the standard but he didnt think there was evidence of a dent to the left hand  rear 
quarter panel  and he therefore thought this charge should be waived. 
Ref: DRN51565642He went on to consider  the service Mrs H had received and he accepted that it hadnt  been 
satisfactory. He thought, in the circumstances, that VWFS should  pay Mrs H £50 
compensation.
VWFS accepted the adjudicators opinion  but Mrs H didnt. She said that the charge VWFS 
were making for the burn to the seat was excessive and she was confused  why there  would 
be so much difference between the first and second inspections.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs H acquired  her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
the charge for damages
Ive reviewed each  of the outstanding charges that were  highlighted  in the most recent,  April 
inspection but Ive not reviewed the damage to the three items VWFS agreed to remove  
from their invoice as its agreed these  are not evidenced.
The adjudicator has provided a detailed  response on each area of contested damage and I 
wont repeat  that here. But I do agree that theres  no evidence  of a dent to the rear quarter  
panel and that all other damages are apparent, beyond the BVRLA fair wear and tear 
standard and therefore chargeable.
Im also persuaded  that the charges Ive seen made  are in line with other similar charges Ive 
seen for similar  damages on other  vehicles  during  the course investigations into other 
complaints. I dont think theyre excessive. 
Ive considered the charge for the burnt  seat cover and can understand that damage of this 
kind may not always be repairable. I think thats been the case  here and I can therefore 
understand the charge  thats been made and again  I dont think  its excessive.
service issues
I think its clear  the service that Mrs H received was not as good as it could have been. In 
particular it appears  that the inspector could have been more flexible on timings and the 
business could  have given more leeway  to Mrs H when arranging  a collection date. Taking 
Ref: DRN51565643all the issues into account I would agree that it would be fair for VWFS  to provide 
compensation of £50 in respect  of the distress  and inconvenience thats been caused.
the two reports
Mrs H is disappointed that the two inspection  reports showed different issues. I think its 
clear that the report that matters is the last report as this shows  damages  that were  apparent  
when the vehicle was handed  back.
However, I have reviewed the findings  in both reports. The first report highlighted missing  
keys and a missing parcel shelf and these problems were clearly  rectified  and not identified 
or charged  for in the second report.
The second  report  costings seem in line with those  in the first report.  The same charges are 
applied for the alloy damage;  paint  chips; door and quarter panel dents, for instance. 
But the second report does highlight some  additional  issues. It identifies the cut roof lining; 
burnt seat and damage to the sill. Whilst these werent identified  in the original report it 
would not be fair for me to say that on that basis they arent  chargeable. They were clearly  
and demonstrably  present on collection of the car. I therefore dont agree with Mrs H that 
theres evidence  anything is wrong with the inspections.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in party  and tell Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to:
waive the charge  they have made of £138  for the dented rear quarter panel
pay Mrs H £50 compensation for the poor service shes received.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5156564