K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Elderbridge Limited  should not have  registered a county court judgement  
against him. Mr E would like to be compensated for the loss he has suffered  as a result.
background
Mr E had a secured  loan with another lender I shall call Firm A. Firm A got a county court  
judgement against  Mr E on 4 September 2013  as result of the arrears on the account. Mr Es 
account transferred  to Elderbridge in January  2016. It seems that before the court  hearing  
on 3 September  2013, Mr E cleared the arrears on the account and so it would seem  that 
Firm A shouldnt have gone ahead and got the order.  Elderbridge says that when it became 
aware of the situation it applied to set the court order aside.
Mr E says that as a county court judgement was entered against  him, which  shouldnt  have 
been done, his credit has been damaged and hes had difficulty getting  work. Our 
investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld  as she felt that as the 
judgement was entered by Firm A, Elderbridge wouldnt be at fault. Mr E asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that as Elderbidge took over this account  from Firm A and then applied to set the 
judgement aside, why Mr E would consider that Elderbridge was at fault for entering this 
judgement. But our investigation  revealed  that it was in fact Firm A that entered the 
judgement. As that is the action that Mr E complains about I cant fairly hold Elderbridge 
responsible for the actions of another  firm. I know this will be disappointing for Mr E but for 
that reason I cant fairly uphold this complaint against Elderbridge.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5159017