K822xcomplaint
Ms P complains  that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  refused  to change the interest 
rate of her mortgages, leaving her paying the higher standard  variable rate (SVR).
background 
Ms P had two mortgages with Halifax. Both were residential mortgages. On one of them  she 
had consent to let the property out, and she lived in the other property. Although  technically 
both were regulated  residential mortgages,  for ease Ill refer to the one on the property she 
lives in as the residential mortgage and the other as the CTL (consent to let) mortgage.
Ms P says that in 2014 she applied for term extensions and new interest  rates on her 
mortgages. She says she applied  in her local branch and was told she couldnt have either 
because of her age and affordability.  Halifax has no record of this application.
In 2015, Ms P asked again about new interest rates.  This time theres a record of a phone  call in 
Halifaxs contact notes.  But the note simply says her call was transferred to another department  
and theres no record  of what happened after that. Ms P says that again she was refused.
In late 2016 Ms P rang Halifax  again.  By this time she had moved  the CTL mortgage  to 
another lender, converting it to a buy to let mortgage. There  was just under two years left on 
the residential mortgage  its interest  only, and she wanted to extend the term for five years  
and take a new five-year fixed rate. Halifax refused to extend the term and told her that a 
five-year fixed rate would go beyond the term. 
In 2017, Ms P spoke to Halifax  again.  The advisor she spoke to agreed to go through  a term 
extension application  with her. But Halifax then explained that according to its policy she 
wasnt eligible for an extension. 
The term expired  in November 2018. Since  then Ms P has been  in discussion with Halifax  
about options for repaying the mortgage. Shes made some  overpayments  and is exploring 
other options. This complaint  isnt about the end of the term; its about the interest  rate Ms P 
has been charged since her last fixed rate expired in 2014. Halifax didnt  think  it had done 
anything wrong  in respect of the interest rate, though it offered £400 compensation for 
misleading information Ms P had been  given in 2017 about the possibility of a term extension.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding it, so Ms P has asked for an ombudsman to 
consider her complaint. I took a different view, which I set out in a provisional  decision. I said:
As I said above, theres no surviving record in Halifaxs  files of Ms P asking for a new 
rate in 2014.  The first record it has is for late 2015.  However, Halifax  has explained 
that it wouldnt have  kept the evidence for all this time. Ive considered  what  Ms P has 
said about what happened. I think her recollection of having  asked  to extend her term 
and change her interest rate is credible. Shes clearly concerned about her mortgage 
and has kept on top of things and spoken to Halifax regularly  since 2015. I have no 
reason to doubt that she would have  been aware  of the end of her previous interest 
rate in 2014   and would  have wanted  to take a new one. 
Ref: DRN59518272Halifaxs internal  complaint handling  notes show  and its my experience of other 
complaints  that Halifax was applying an affordability and interest only repayment  strategy  
assessment as a condition of offering a new rate on interest only mortgages in 2014,  even 
though there  was no obligation on it to do so under the rules of mortgage  regulation.  
So Ms P has given a credible account  of what she remembers having  happened in 
2014. Theres no record of it in Halifaxs files  but there wouldnt be. What she 
remembers is consistent with Halifaxs practice  at the time.  On balance, Im satisfied 
Ms P did ask for a term extension and a new interest rate when her old one expired  in 
2014  and both applications were refused.
The term of the mortgage has now expired, and Ms P is in discussion with Halifax 
about how it can be repaid. This complaint isnt about that, though Ms P is entitled to 
complain if shes unhappy with the outcome of those discussions. 
This complaint is about the interest rate. Ms Ps previous rate expired in November 
2014. I see no good reason why Halifax couldnt have offered her a new interest rate 
to follow  on from the old one, even if it didnt grant the term extension application at the 
same time. There was still four years left to run on the mortgage, so there would have 
been two- and three-year fixed interest  rates available to Ms P, as well as tracker 
rates. And under the rules of mortgage regulation, a simple variation  such as a 
product switch  can be carried  out without reference to affordability or interest only 
repayment strategy if doing so would be in the borrowers best interests.  Im satisfied 
reducing the amount Ms P would have to pay would have been  in her best interests.
So I think Halifax should fairly have allowed Ms P to take a new interest rate product to 
follow on from the one that expired. If it had offered her a two-year  rate, that would 
have taken her to November 2016   at which point a further two-year rate would have 
taken her to the end of the mortgage  term in November 2018. To put things right,  
Halifax should re-calculate the mortgage as if it had offered her the best fee-free two-
year fixed  rates it had available  at those times, taking into account her loan to value. 
This will mean Ms P has made overpayments,  and she should be given the option  of 
having those overpayments  refunded, or used  to reduce the mortgage  balance.
Once the mortgage was out of term and discussions about how to repay it were 
underway, Ms P would  no longer be eligible  for a new interest rate on the residential 
mortgage. Its therefore fair that it remains on the SVR from that point onwards. And 
even in 2014, Ms P was never eligible for a new interest rate on the CTL mortgage.  
Halifax doesnt offer new rates on CTL mortgages.  Since a residential  mortgage is 
designed for a property  the borrower  lives in, and a consent to let is a temporary 
solution until the borrower moves back in, sells or re-mortgages to a proper buy to let 
mortgage, thats not unfair. So Halifax need only offer back-dated  rates on the 
residential mortgage, not the CTL.
Finally, I think  Halifaxs  failure to offer Ms P a fair interest rate on her mortgage 
between 2014  and 2018, meaning she had to find higher  payments each month, has 
caused her trouble and upset. I think further  compensation of £350 is fair in all the 
circumstances. 
Halifax accepted  my provisional decision.  Ms P asked me to confirm that my decision only 
applied to the residential mortgage, not the consent to let mortgage.  And she said she would 
like Halifax  to extend the term of her mortgage and give her a further interest rate.
Ref: DRN59518273my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased to note that Halifax  has accepted  my proposed resolution  of this complaint. Its 
agreed to adjust the usual product lengths  that would have applied slightly,  to allow the 
redress to be applied  without possibility of an early repayment charge. I think thats  fair.
I do think Halifax only needs  to apply a backdated  rate to the residential  mortgage, not the 
consent to let one. Ms P was never  eligible for products on the CTL mortgage, since  Halifax 
has no products available for mortgages with consent to let. But it does have products for 
residential mortgages  and it should have given her one of those in 2014. Thats  why I said 
redress was only appropriate on one mortgage, not both.
I havent dealt  with whats happened  now the term has come to an end here, as thats not 
part of this complaint.  If Ms P now wants to extend the term, she will need to contact  Halifax  
directly to discuss her options.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I direct Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax to:
Apply to Ms Ps mortgage  the following backdated interest rate products:
oThe best available fee-free two-year fixed rate running from the expiry of the 
previous rate in 2014 to 2016;
oThe best available fee-free two-year fixed rate running from the expiry of the 
above rate to the end of the mortgage  term in 2018;
Re-calculate the mortgage  based on those products;
In doing so, give Ms P the option of either:
oHaving the overpayments she made each month  refunded to her, adding simple  
annual interest of 8%* running  from the date of each monthly payment to the date 
of the refund;  or
oUsing  each months overpayment to reduce the mortgage balance.
Pay Ms P a further £350  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 October  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
* If Ms P elects this option,  Halifax may deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my award, 
if it considers it should  do so. If she asks for it, it should give Ms P the necessary  paperwork so she 
can reclaim the tax from HMRC if shes entitled to do so.
Ref: DRN5951827