K821x#15complaint
Mr Cs complaint is that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) has failed to refund him for 
an ATM  withdrawal  where his cash wasnt dispensed.
background
On 14 September  2018, Mr H tried to withdraw  £40 from an ATM. When  the cash  wasnt 
dispensed, he said he waited a couple of minutes and then left. He said he presumed  that 
the money wouldnt debit his account. But that when  he checked his online banking  later that 
month he saw it had. So he called Nationwide seeking a refund.
Nationwide contacted the ATM owner,  and it provided evidence  of its investigation. It said 
that the journal  roll for the day in question showed that in the morning the ATM balanced. It 
also provided data of the transactions before  and after Mr Hs attempt, as well as Mr Hs 
withdrawal.
Nationwide didnt think there was evidence to suggest the cash  wasnt  dispensed,  so it 
didnt uphold  the complaint. It sent Mr H a final response letter,  which unfortunately he didnt 
receive. 
Mr H brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered all the evidence available, and asked the parties for more.  He 
then concluded  that there  wasnt enough  evidence from the ATM  owner to prove, on 
balance, that the cash  was dispensed  to Mr H. On that basis,  the complaint was upheld.
Nationwide didnt agree.  It felt the evidence it had provided was enough. So it asked for an 
ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our adjudicator  that this complaint should be upheld  
and that Mr H should receive back the money that was debited  from his account.
I appreciate Nationwide wont agree with me. It feels that the evidence  its given  us is 
enough to show  the cash must have been dispensed. So Id like to explain  why I dont agree.
In cash-not-dispensed cases there  are basic pieces of documentary  evidence we look to, as 
well as relevant witness  testimony and circumstantial  factors. In this case, we didnt get to 
see everything we expected. 
There is a partial journal roll, which shows that the £40 was requested at the ATM, and that it 
shows this was dispensed. But what we dont know is whether the £40 went into the purge 
bin, or whether  there may have been a technical  problem that could cast doubt  on what  the 
journal roll shows.
Nationwide has also said that the ATM balanced on the morning of 14 September 2018  
meaning there was neither too much nor too little cash  left inside. But Mr H visited the ATM 
Ref: DRN51774202later on 14 September,  so this evidence only tells me what  the position  was before his 
withdrawal attempt.
So the documentary  evidence submitted by Nationwide is unfortunately incomplete. Which  is 
a factor  I have to take into account  when deciding what  I think is most likely to have 
happened here.
On the other hand, the anecdotal and circumstantial evidence from Mr H aligns. Again, this 
is something I must take into account, as his credibility is a relevant factor.
My role is to reach a decision that I think is fair to both parties, based on all the evidence I 
have seen, and in this case also what Id expect  to have seen but have not.
On the basis of what I think is more likely than not to have happened, there isnt enough 
evidence to persuade me that the £40 cash was dispensed to Mr H on 14 September  2018.
For these reasons, I uphold this part of Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H was also unhappy that he didnt receive Nationwides first final response letter. While 
its unfortunate he didnt,  Ive seen evidence that it was sent. So I wont  uphold this element 
of the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint  in respect  of the principal issue. To 
resolve matters, Im asking  Nationwide  Building  Society to refund  Mr H with £40 plus 8% 
from 14 September 2018 until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5177420