K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K) Limited  (referred to from 
now on as Sun Life) mis-sold him a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contributions  
(FSAVC) plan as hes not eligible for the loyalty bonus from it until he turns 60 years  old but 
he always intended to retire at age 55. 
background
Mr H met a Sun Life adviser in March 1994 to discuss how to increase his benefits  at 
retirement. At this time, a Confidential Financial Planning Profile  (fact find) was completed  
which recorded that he was employed  and a member of his employers occupational pension 
scheme (OPS). It also noted that Mr H was considering an AVC plan with his employer and 
would be addressing this in the next few days.  It was recorded that this plan would run until 
age 63. In the end, Mr H took out an FSAVC plan. 
The normal  retirement  date for the FSAVC plan was set as Mr Hs 55th birthday  in April 2018. 
The advisers notes  on the fact find explain Mr H decided to contribute  into a FSAVC 
because, in summary:
his employers scheme didnt  take into account his regular  overtime payments;
the normal retirement age for the OPS was 63, but he could retire  from the age of 53 
onwards, and he would like to retire at 55; and 
affordability, as Mr H and his wife were  looking  to buy a new home and would have  a 
higher mortgage  in the future.
The fact find also noted Mr Hs spouse had a personal pension plan. It was recorded  that 
this plan was set up with a different company in 1993. 
At the time of sale, Mr H wouldve been given a copy  of the product particulars. The plans 
terms and conditions wouldve been  issued to him shortly after the plan started,  along  with 
his cancellation  rights. The product particulars say a loyalty bonus would be added  to the 
plan on retirement provided  certain conditions were met. 
Section 14(a) of the terms and conditions explains:
Subject to this Condition  the Annuity Fund will be increased by the Loyalty Bonus on 
the retirement of the Member provided he has then attained his 60th birthday or such 
other age as the Company may determine for this purpose.  
Section 14(b) sets out how the loyalty bonus  would be calculated.  And Section 14(c)  details 
the requirement that appropriate contributions be made in each of the five policy years 
before retirement  starts. 
Mr H was also given an illustration showing the benefits he might  get at his normal 
retirement date. It explained  the benefits  were  projections based on the then regulators 
prescribed assumptions and were not guaranteed.
Mr H met with the adviser again in 1997.  He was advised to increase his FSAVC  plan 
contributions by £50 per month. 
Ref: DRN56879512The Summary of Advice report that wouldve  been  provided to Mr H explained the advice 
was appropriate  because:
This plan allows  you to build up a fund in a tax efficient way that will provide you with 
an income in retirement in addition to your current company  pension  scheme.  I have 
advised you to discuss in house  AVCs  with your employer. We fully discussed the 
generic differences between AVCs and FSAVCs and, as you particularly want  to 
maintain privacy with respect to your additional arrangements  an FSAVC will allow you 
to contribute without  your employer having knowledge of this.
He was given  another  illustration showing the potential benefits that just this additional 
amount could provide at his normal retirement age. It also explained that the figures  
provided were only examples and were not guaranteed.
In March 2018 Mr H contacted  Sun Life to check when he would receive  his loyalty bonus.  
Sun Life told him he would be able to receive it once  he turns 60, but he only has to pay 
premiums until age 55, his normal retirement date. 
Mr H then complained  to Sun Life that the plan had been mis-sold as he thought he would 
get the bonus at his normal retirement  date and hadnt been told otherwise. 
As part of its investigation  into his complaint Sun Life asked Mr H to complete a 
questionnaire about the sale of the FSAVC. In his response,  Mr H explained he took out the 
FSAVC plan to add to his company pension  and that he did not want  all [his] eggs in the 
same basket so chose not to take [his] company AVC.
Sun Life didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said he was given the terms and conditions  when  
the plan started. These explained the loyalty bonus  applied at age 60 for his plan. And he 
was sent a cancellation notice. This let him know he had the right to change  his mind and 
cancel the plan within a short period after it started  if he wasnt happy  with any aspect of it.
Mr H asked Sun Life to reconsider.  He said he couldnt recall having  a conversation about 
needing to reach age 60 before getting  the bonus  when he bought the policy. And if this had 
been pointed out to him then he would not have  chosen this product as [he] had every  
intention to be retiring now [age 55].
Sun Life wasnt persuaded  and confirmed its original decision.  So Mr H brought his 
complaint to this service  for an independent  review. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and thought it shouldnt be upheld. She 
didnt think the advice to start the FSAVC  plan was unsuitable just because  the age the 
loyalty bonus would be paid wasnt when he intended to retire.  
In summary,  she reasoned:
Mr H wanted  to invest additional  funds  to increase his income in retirement.
But he wanted  to keep his funds separate from his employers plan and make 
additional contributions  without his employer knowing.
The FSAVC plan offered a tax efficient way to do this and at the time it was sold, was 
the only pension arrangement  available  that would allow him to meet both of these 
objectives. 
Mr H wanted  to retire at age 55, which was allowed  under the plan. 
The loyalty bonus  wasnt  the main  reason  for taking the FSAVC plan.
Ref: DRN56879513Mr H didnt agree. In response he said he was given a projection  at the time he took out the 
plan which  showed  the loyalty bonus included. He said this was the reason he decided to 
proceed with the plan.  Mr H also said his wife had a similar plan and got her loyalty bonus 
already. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our investigator, and broadly for the same reasons.
The crux of Mr Hs complaint is that he wasnt told he wouldnt get the loyalty bonus at age 
55. Mr H says, if hed been told this, he would  have  chosen a different  product or indeed a 
different provider.  
I wasnt there and so I dont know what was said when the FSAVC plan was sold or when he 
increased his contributions to the plan.  That means  I have to base my decision on what I 
think is more likely  to have happened  based on the balance  of probabilities. 
At the time of advice,  an OPS member could make additional provision  for retirement  
through either an in-house AVC or FSAVC plan.  The regulatory  requirements at this time 
said that in advising  on an FSAVC, a life assurance company representative should have in 
the first instance:
pointed out that an AVC was available; 
explained  that AVCs  were likely to provide better  value for money; and
recommended  considering the AVC.  
The fact find for the 1994 sale indicates  that Mr H was considering contributing  to an AVC,  
but ultimately decided  not to. I dont know what changed his mind. But Im satisfied he knew  
an AVC was an option, considered this option,  and opted for the FSAVC.  
It may be that Sun Life didnt explain that the AVC was likely to provide better value for 
money, but the 1997 fact find is clear  that Mr H wanted to maintain privacy with respect to 
his additional  retirement provision. And during  Sun Lifes investigation of this complaint  Mr H 
reaffirmed his desire to keep his additional contributions separate from his employers 
scheme - he said he did not want all [his] eggs in the same basket so chose not to take [his] 
company AVC. Mr H told our investigator much the same. So I dont think Mr H wouldve 
opted for the AVC even if this was explained. 
And I dont  think Mr H chose the FSAVC  plan because of the loyalty bonus. I say this 
because if this had been the case,  I wouldve expected to see this recorded  somewhere in 
the fact find or referred to in the advisers  recommendation. But there is no mention of the 
bonus as a reason for taking out the FSAVC plan in any of the documentation completed at 
the time of sale in 1994 or in 1997.  
Ref: DRN56879514I note Mr H told our investigator that he received projections at the time of sale that included 
the bonus. But he hasnt provided us with any illustrations. And the illustrations from 1994 
and 1997 that I have  been provided  are projections of what  he might  get at age 55, his 
normal retirement age under the plan. If the bonus featured  in either  illustration, I would 
expect to see this clearly explained  and for the benefits to be from age 60 (when  the bonus 
kicked in). Bu this isnt the case.  
I appreciate Mr H said his wife received the bonus  from her plan already. But her plan was 
started at a different time and with a different provider, so I cant see this is relevant to 
Mr Hs current  complaint.  
Mr H doesnt dispute that he wanted  to keep his funds separate from his employers plan 
and make additional contributions without his employer knowing. An FSAVC plan was the 
only pension  arrangement available to make  additional retirement provision outside of his 
employers plan. Ive not seen evidence  of other  FSAVC plans available  to him, if any, at the 
time he took out the plan with Sun Life. So Im unable to conclude he wouldve taken out a 
FSAVC plan with another  provider. 
I agree  Mr H always intended to retire  at age 55. Under the terms of the plan, Mr H can retire  
when planned.  But as explained  in the plans terms and conditions,  he has to wait until age 
60 if he wants the loyalty bonus. I understand Mr H will be disappointed, but having reviewed 
everything thats been provided, Im not persuaded the FSAVC plan was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Jennifer Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5687951