K822xcomplaint
Mrs B complains she was mis-sold life cover by Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Limited  
(the business). 
 
Shes unhappy about the premium increases and the poor communication  from the 
business. She says if she knew  in 2018 what she knows  now,  shed have cancelled her 
policy then.  
background 
In 2001, Mrs B was sold a reviewable whole of life policy with critical illness cover. In 2011, 
the business failed to review the policy. In 2012  the policy was reviewed and the premium 
increased from £204.87 to £251.68 a month. 
In 2016, Mrs B says she was assured  by the business that 2017 would be the year of the 
last review. The business later clarified  that indexation would continue to be applied   but 
the email correspondence is likely to have been sent to the wrong email address. 
The business accepts  that it shouldve been clearer in its communication  with Mrs B, and 
explained that she could still experience reviews that would affect  her premiums.  It said 
age reviews take place every  five years, but thered be no reviews after 70, so the last 
review would be when  she was aged 65. 
It seems  2017 was supposed  to be the last age review but this was delayed  to 2018. This is 
when the premium increased from £281.58 to £746.86 that led Mrs B to initially  make her 
complaint. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The business accepts  that it gave Mrs B inaccurate information.  It also accepts that 
the policy review shouldve taken place in 2011  and 2016  rather  than 2012 and 2018 
respectively. 
Just because Mrs B was given the incorrect information in 2017  doesnt  mean  the 
policy was mis-sold in 2001.   
The business isnt obliged to honour the policy at the lower premium prior to the 2018 
premium increase.  
Calculations show that Mrs B benefitted  from having  to pay a lower premium for a 
year. In other words she benefitted from the delayed  review  and the business failure 
to administer the policy correctly hasnt caused Mrs B a financial loss. 
The policy is now where  it shouldve  been but for mistake by the business.  
Although Mrs B feels she was told shed  only be subject to indexation until 2022, the 
2012 letter  also said:
oPlease note that the total cost is a guide only. Because your premium  is 
reviewable we may change it over the term of your policy  as well as increase 
it in line with rising prices. 
In relation to the direct  debit payments  the business made clear itd be two 
separate payments. 
These issues aside, the question of any compensation for trouble and upset should 
be considered  separately. The ongoing confusion  and lack of clarity wouldve caused 
Mrs B trouble and upset  and taken some time to resolve. 
Ref: DRN54157522The business should pay Mrs B £250  compensation   less any payment already 
made - for the trouble and upset caused.    
Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators conclusion. She still thinks the policy  was probably  
mis-sold and that the business ought to provide the same  cover at the lower premium  as per 
its letter of July 2012. That said, if she knew in 2018,  what  she knows  now,  she wouldve 
cancelled the policy, albeit reluctantly, in 2018.  She feels the business  should  refund the 
premiums shes  paid since  2018,  when she reserved the right to cancel the policy.  She feels 
it is disingenuous for the business to say that she benefitted considerably.  
The business doesnt think its fair to refund the last eight premiums   a sum of £5,974.88  
because its been  on risk for this period and in the event  of a valid claim wouldve paid out. 
It says it never agreed to Mrs B continuing with the policy on the basis that it would refund 
the premiums if she later changed  her mind. It doesnt agree to refund the premiums from 
October 2018 and says Mrs B still has a choice whether or not to continue  with the policy.   
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for substantially the same 
reasons. Im going  to partially uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think the adjudicators recommendation to 
pay £250 compensation for the trouble  and upset is broadly fair and reasonable.  
For the record Im not satisfied that the reviewable  whole of life policy was mis-sold, or that 
the business is obliged to refund the higher premiums Mrs B paid since 2018  before deciding 
to cancel her policy. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mrs Bs strength of feeling about  this matter. 
She has provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  she wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mrs B and the business, and reach  what  I think  is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
It may be worth explaining  that the type of policy Mrs B is complaining  about  is known  as a 
reviewable whole of life policy. Its not set up for a specific term, but is instead designed to 
pay out on death whenever  it occurs.  At the start,  the amount of cover and monthly premium 
Ref: DRN54157523are based  on assumptions  about  a number of different factors,  including  the future cost of 
life cover and investment  performance, that arent known at the start.
In simple terms, each premium paid into the policy is split two ways.  The first part is used to 
pay for the cost of cover in that month.  The remainder is invested into a fund or funds. The 
cost of the cover is not fixed and actually increases with age. The hope is that the 
investment element will grow enough to fund the shortfall when the policy reaches the point 
that the cost of cover becomes greater than the premium.
Policies are reviewed regularly to check how theyre performing against the original 
assumptions. But at each  review, the insurer also needs to make new assumptions about 
the cost of cover and investment performance in the future.
Once these calculations are completed, the insurer can determine whether the policy  has 
passed the review,  usually meaning  no changes  to cover or premium are required. Or 
failed, usually meaning the policyholder will be offered the choice  of either  paying  a higher 
premium to maintain  the same level of cover or accepting reduced cover for the same 
premium. I note each time the review was unsuccessful Mrs B was given the choice to 
increase the premium which  she was happy to do. Some insurers  have offered non 
reviewable whole of life insurance policies over the years, where  the cover and premium  are 
fixed from the start. 
Ive carefully considered  what Mrs B said she was (and wasnt) told about the policy  when it 
was arranged. But having considered everything  she and the business have said,  I dont 
think her comments  alone  are enough  for me to say the policy  was mis-sold.  I must take into 
account the explanatory literature the business  says Mrs B was given when the policy  
started. This explains  the policy was reviewable, and the premiums subject to increase, on 
balance, Im satisfied the policy allowed the business to do what it was doing and that it 
didnt mislead her about how it would work.
That said,  the business quite rightly accepts  that it failed to carry out the policy  reviews on 
time and subsequently  provided Mrs B with information that wasnt  clear.  
But, I note that if the policy had been  reviewed in 2011 Mrs B wouldve had to pay an 
additional £46.81 a month, for 12 months, leading up to the review in 2012. And 
subsequently she wouldve  had to pay an additional £472.63 a month from 2016 (or 2017 if 
Im considering the 2012 date) to 2018.  I note the business says this amounts to just under 
£12,000 which its not looking to recover. 
So on the face of the evidence, on balance, Im satisfied the failure to administer the policy 
correctly hasnt caused Mrs B a financial  loss. I also dont  think  that Mrs B is entitled to a 
refund of the premiums shes paid since 2018.  Despite  what  she says, the business was on 
risk for this period and in the event of a valid claim would pay out the sum assured. It also 
made no undertaking that itd return the premiums if she subsequently  decided not to 
continue with the policy. Mrs B always had the option to cancel the policy  having been  told 
about the increased premium moving  forward  and make a complaint but she chose to 
continue to pay the increased  premiums.  
That said,  I agree  with the adjudicator  that Mrs B has suffered trouble and upset arising out 
of the unclear information. I dont think the business deliberately  set out to mislead Mrs B but 
she was nevertheless left thinking the premiums  wouldnt increase after 2017 which wasnt  
true.   
Ref: DRN54157524For the ongoing confusion and lack of clarity  I think compensation for £250  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.  
I note her points about the direct debit but I dont think the business has done anything  
wrong. It seems the business is entitled   as per the direct debit mandate   to collect the 
correct premiums to pay for the policy. I think its likely that the amount automatically 
changes according  to the cost of the premium rather than any subsequent  changes by the 
bank or the business. 
I appreciate Mrs B will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion  as the adjudicator.  
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isnt what she wants to hear.  Whilst I appreciate her 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require  the business to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mrs B 
what she wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I partially uphold this complaint. 
Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Limited  should pay Mrs B £250  compensation for trouble 
and upset caused less any money  already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5415752