K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy 
taken out in 2001 alongside a credit card. Mr S says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold 
him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr S didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out. Ive seen  a copy of the application  form which shows Mr S selected  PPI. 
Although the form shows a printed  X rather than a manual selection, Mr Ss 
personal details  have also been completed electronically and as the PPI was sold 
during a branch meeting I think its more likely that the information and choices on 
the form reflected  the discussion between Mr S and the representative. Mr S also 
signed this form and so if he had any doubts about  PPI at this time,  he could have 
raised this with the representative.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr S so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said  including that the policy  was added  without his 
consent and he wasnt given any information about the costs or benefits  of the policy. But 
because of what Ive said, these points dont change  my decision. The PPI would have paid 
out in addition to any statutory sick pay if Mr S wasnt able to work.  It would  also have paid if 
he lost his job. And I havent  seen sufficient evidence to conclude  that the PPI was 
unaffordable to Mr S at the time of the sale.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr S paid for it. But BoS has already offered  to give Mr S back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mr S now Ive issued my final decision if it hasnt done 
so already.
Ref: DRN52717382my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5271738