K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited shouldnt  have  charged  her an early 
repayment charge  (ERC) when  she sold her home  to live with her daughter. Mrs M would 
like to have this money returned.
background
Mrs M and her late husband Mr M took out a lifetime mortgage with Aviva  in 2002. This was 
by way of an equity release plan called a flexible  cash release plan. In 2002 Mrs M borrowed 
£49,400 on the lifetime  mortgage. Mr M sadly died and in 2016 and Mrs M sold the family 
home. Mrs M moved  in with her daughter temporarily until a flat became  available  at a 
retirement village  where Mrs M then moved.  When Mrs M sold her home, Aviva charged her 
an ERC. Mrs M says that Aviva told her that it would refund the ERC when she moved to a 
retirement village.
According to the mortgage offer Mrs M could avoid the ERC if she left her home  because  
she needed long term care.  Mrs M is partially deaf and partially  sighted.  Mrs Ms doctor 
completed a medical  assessment. Aviva  says that Mrs M didnt meet the criteria  of needing 
long term care and didnt refund the ERC. Our adjudicator didnt recommend that in the 
circumstances that this complaint should  be upheld as she didnt feel that Aviva  had done 
anything wrong. Mrs M says that her health has deteriorated  in the last few years  and asked  
for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This lifetime mortgage like most such mortgages was designed to last either  for the lifetime  
of the borrowers  or until they left the property  because  they needed long term care. Other  
than that, if the borrower paid off the mortgage  she was likely to face an ERC. The interest  
rate that a lender will offer on a mortgage is partly based on the expectation that the 
mortgage will last its full term. As some mortgages  end early,  lenders will insert a charge for 
early redemption called an ERC.  
The lender  can assess any potential losses it may suffer from early redemption  over a group 
of mortgages  and allocate an ERC to each  mortgage. By doing that it spreads its risk. Its 
then a matter for the borrower if they wish to accept the terms of the mortgage including the 
ERC. Mr and Mrs M agreed this mortgage with Aviva and I have  to look at whether Mrs M 
sold the house because she needed long term care.
Aviva had a procedure to assess whether Mrs M needed long term care. Long term care is 
defined in the loan agreement as the permanent care Mrs M would need from another 
person or persons  either to help her perform two or more activities of daily living (ADLs) or 
if she was cognitively impaired. In order for the ERC  to be waived Mrs M would need to 
show that she required this level of care.
Aviva sent Mrs M an assessment form to be completed by a medical professional.  The form 
is fairly straightforward and asks the doctor to assess whether Mrs M can perform certain 
tasks washing, dressing, feeding, using the toilet, mobility and transferring  unaided or if 
she required  assistance.
Ref: DRN53933952I note that the doctor completed  the form to say that Mrs M could complete these tasks 
unaided although the doctor adds that Some of these ADLs  may decline in the next year or 
so as Mrs M ages. At the date of assessment Mrs M was 85. Mrs Ms daughter, who 
submitted the form, wrote  that Mrs M had recently broken her hip and that she suffered from 
macular degeneration which would continue to decline quite quickly.  She added  that 
although Mrs M could manage  most ADLs just now that this would likely change within 
6 months. Mrs Ms daughter wanted  Mrs M to move in with her so that she could care for 
Mrs M or engage someone  to do it. I understand that Mrs M moved  in with her daughter and 
then on to a retirement  village where  she has a flat.
Mrs M says that she was disappointed  at the time that she had to pay the ERC but with the 
death of her husband shortly beforehand and with the move  she hadnt  the capacity to bring 
this complaint in 2016. Ive listened  to the calls between Mrs M and Aviva.  Mrs M seems to 
be a very independent  person with problems with her sight  and her hearing. When  she sold 
her home in 2016  she had the intention  of moving  into this retirement village and hoped that 
it would  only be fair that she retained  the ERC. This would  help her financially and maintain 
her independence.
The difficulty  for Mrs M is that when she and her late husband  got the loan from Aviva,  they 
accepted the conditions  of the contract. This meant if Mrs M sold the property and at the 
time she didnt require long term care she would have to pay an ERC.  Aviva set out the 
conditions that would  have to be met if Mrs M was to qualify as needing long term care in the 
mortgage contract.  The assessment it sent out is geared  to assessing whether Mrs M met 
those conditions but her doctor confirmed that she didnt.  
Mrs M would  have  had to have a higher  level of disability  than she had at the time and 
possibly a higher  level of disability than she now has to qualify. The relevant time for 
assessment was when  the ERC  was to be paid in 2016. I have found no evidence that 
Mrs M was told at the time that Aviva  would refund the ERC  and given that Mrs M didnt  
meet the assessment  criteria I think it unlikely. I am sympathetic to Mrs M and can entirely 
understand her disappointment at having to pay the ERC. I also noted  Mrs Ms courtesy in 
thanking the staff at Aviva  for how they dealt with the matter even though  they were  giving  
her unwelcome news. But, I cant say that Aviva has acted unfairly if it followed what was 
agreed between  it and Mr and Mrs M in the contract  and what is standard industry practice 
as to what are the requirements for long term care. For the above reasons I cant fairly 
uphold this complaint.   
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5393395