K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with how Barclays Bank  UK Plc (Barclays) has used some  of the 
compensation it calculated for mis-sold payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr M took out three  loans with Barclays between July 1996 and May 1998. Each  loan 
refinanced the earlier  loan.  With the last two loans Mr M took out PPI policies, the cost of the 
premium being added to the amount he borrowed.
Mr M complained he was mis-sold the PPI and Barclays upheld his complaint. Barclays  
worked out for the two polies he had, with loans ending 9999 and 0429, the total 
compensation including all costs for the PPI in his loans was £8,086.47. 
But as Mr M had stopped  making payments on his last loan 0429, Barclays said it was using 
£3,619.21 of the PPI costs from the compensation to remove  this from what had been  owed  
on the total loan when  Mr M stopped  paying.
Mr M wasnt happy with this as he said he had paid a lump sum to short  settle the loan and 
had been told the account was closed in 2003.
He brought his complaint  to this service and our adjudicator said what  Barclays  had done 
was fair. Mr M still wasnt happy as he said he had no debt and he should  get all the 
compensation calculated paid to him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M took out his first loan in July 1996. There is very little evidence available  for this loan 
and Barclays says it is unable to determine whether PPI was added to the loan or not. Mr M 
hasnt been able to provide any documents about  this loan and possibly PPI. So without any 
further evidence  I cannot in this decision make any findings about  PPI being sold with this 
loan. 
Mr M took out his second loan, ending 9999, in April 1997 and repaid the first loan. With loan 
9999, Mr M did take out a PPI policy and the cost was added  to his loan. Then in May 1998 
he took out loan ending  0429, using this to pay off loan 9999 and again bought a PPI policy  
with the cost being added to the amount  he borrowed.
When Mr M paid off loan 9999  he got a rebate for some  of the costs of the PPI policy that 
had been added to that loan. But some of the cost of the PPI was still in the amount he paid 
on settlement. So in effect he borrowed  slightly more with loan 0429 to pay for this PPI, as 
well as having the cost of the new PPI policy added to the new loan.
I can see from the loan account statements that Mr M started to miss payments on loan 
0429 from June  1999. By January 2000 he had stopped making payments and Barclays  
referred the loan to its recoveries section. At this time Mr M had a balance outstanding on 
the loan of £14,613.58, some of which was for the costs of the PPI carried forward from loan 
9999.
Ref: DRN50032892In 2003 Mr M agreed with Barclays to make a payment of £7,000  to short settle the loan 
debt. This meant Barclays was willing to accept a lesser lump sum in settlement of the total 
amount outstanding. So it got some of the money  owing  and would then no longer chase 
Mr M for any more of the amount he still owed. It told Mr M when he paid this money  the 
account was closed.
When Mr M made his complaint about  the mis-sold  PPI, Barclays  worked out the 
compensation he should get to put him in the position he would have  been  in if hed never 
been sold any PPI. Ive looked  at how it has done this and its approach is what  I would 
expect.
Barclays has worked out how much Mr M paid for PPI with his repayments made for loan 
9999 and also whilst  he was making  repayments  for loan 0429. It has also worked out how 
much of the PPI was left in the amount Mr M paid to settle loan 9999 and any extra  interest 
that charged interest at the rate for loan 0429  whilst  it was running.
Barclays has also worked out how much of the total PPI costs remained in the outstanding 
balance in January 2000  when the outstanding balance was passed as a debt to recoveries. 
And it has included  compensatory interest  on the amounts Mr M had paid and was out of 
pocket for the PPI costs. In total this all came to £8,086.47.
Mr M feels this is what he should be paid by Barclays. But Barclays only sent him a cheque 
for £4,467.26. It used  the remaining £3,619.21 to restructure the debt left when Mr M 
stopped paying for loan 0429.
I note Mr M is very adamant he had no debt on this loan. This is because he says he paid a 
lump sum to settle it in 2003  and therefore  there was nothing  more owing. 
Barclays did agree  to accept a lump sum as short settlement and so never chased Mr M for 
any more of the debt and would not then take any legal action against  him to recover  the 
remaining amount.  But that does not change the fact that Mr M never  paid the full amount of 
the loan and so the PPI that formed part of the loan. 
When Mr M stopped making  payments to his loan he owed  £14,613.58. But of this £3,619.21 
was for the costs  of the PPI. If this is removed it leaves £10,994.37.  This wouldve been what  
Mr M owed  if he had not had PPI added to the amounts he borrowed with both his loans. 
And the lump sum he paid in settlement  in 2003  would have still not cleared the amount he 
owed even without  the PPI included.  Mr M would still have  underpaid what  he borrowed for 
his own purposes  by several thousand pounds. 
Mr M has never actually paid the £3,619.21  for the PPI costs that were part of the balance of 
what he owed for the loan when he originally defaulted. So it wouldnt be fair for Barclays to 
pay him this money  now, as he never  actually paid it. Barclays has striped  this amount from 
the balance that was outstanding on default in 1999.
There is legally a right of set off that banks have  so they can use compensation due to 
customers (that is a debt the business  owes the customer)  to set off against debts a 
customer owes the business. Technically the amount Mr M borrowed for his own use without 
any PPI was never fully repaid. Although Mr M argues he has no debt as the short 
settlement was agreed as settling the total outstanding for the loan balance,  there  was an 
Ref: DRN50032893amount that was never repaid. And although  Barclays cannot chase Mr M for this it can use 
money it may owe him to reduce this amount that it is out of pocket.
However here Barclays have not actually done  that in this case, as it hasnt used the total 
Mr M is due in compensation  to set against  the amount  he owed on his loan and then just 
pay him the difference. What  it has done is work out the total costs  of the PPI that was in 
both Mr Ms loans and then use the part that was never actually  paid for the PPI to reduce 
the amount Mr M hadnt paid when he stopped making payments to his loan in 1999.
The purpose of the compensation is to put Mr M in the position  he would be if hed never  had 
PPI. That is what has happened here.  So I think what Barclays has done is fair and Im not 
going to tell it to do anything  more.  
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint that there  is more of the total PPI compensation due to 
be paid to him by Barclays Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5003289