K821x#15complaint
Mr Gs complaint concerns investment advice provided by Santander UK Plc. Hes 
represented by a claims management  company (CMC), which  has said that the advice was 
unsuitable because  he was rushed into investing too much of his money  at a level of risk that 
was too high.  
background
In September  2000 Mr G was advised  to commit £7,000 to a stocks and shares Maxi ISA. 
He says he had recently  been made  redundant and the invested  money  came  from the 
associated payout.  Theres limited documentation available from the time but the application  
form shows that the investment was made into UK Growth.
Mr G maintained the investment for just over five years, surrendering  it in full in October  
2005 when he received  back  just under £5,800.
Our investigator felt that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He noted the limited documentation  
 no fact find or suitability  letter  but, on balance, thought it was unlikely Mr G wouldve 
wanted to expose a large proportion of his redundancy payment to the level of risk 
associated with the UK Growth  fund.  
The investigator recommended  that Santander compensate  Mr G by comparing  the 
performance of his ISA with that of our no-risk, fixed-rate bond  benchmark, to reflect the 
position if Mr G had been recommended a more suitable course  of action given his 
circumstances.
Santander didnt  agree. It said, in brief; 
As no documentation had been provided  in respect  of Mr Gs redundancy, the 
investigators view was based on speculation  about  what  proportion  of this money the 
£7,000 actually represented.
During the period in question Mr G held other accounts with Santander. 
He maintained the ISA for the recommended minimum  term of five years, which  
suggested it was affordable  and suitable.
Although he may have  just started a new business at the time of the advice and 
therefore been vulnerable to risk, that wouldve been  the case  whenever hed started  
the business. 
He surrendered the ISA because of an unexpected tax bill. If that hadnt been 
necessary he would probably  have held on to the ISA, again  indicating it was suitable 
for him.
   
The investigator wasnt persuaded  to change his opinion, so the matters been  referred  to 
me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, on what I 
consider is more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence and wider 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN57934562As noted,  theres  very little documentation available from the time of the sale.  So, in a 
reaching a decision  Im very reliant  upon  what Mr G has told us though his CMC. Hes said 
that he had recently  been made  redundant and that was the source of the invested  money.  
The information that Santander  has supplied concerning the level of risk associated  with the 
recommended fund isnt entirely clear. It suggests that it was certainly at least a balanced 
fund, with the possibility that there  may have been  an element of speculative investment 
involved. In any event, Im satisfied  the fund was heavily  reliant  upon  equity  performance,  so 
would seem more suited to someone with some investment experience.  
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Mr G was in this sort of position.  And if I accept that he had 
just been made redundant  and I see no reason not to accept this  then it strikes me as 
unlikely that he would  have wanted to, or been in a position to, expose  his money to the sort 
of risk involved  with a fund with such high equity content. 
I accept, as Santander pointed out, that theres  an element of speculation  about  this. But I 
think its a reasonable  conclusion  to reach  on balance. I note what  Santander  has said about  
Mr G maintaining the ISA for five years, suggesting it was affordable  for him. But as the 
investigator pointed  out, just because Mr G maintained the investment doesnt mean it was 
suitable for him.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr G 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
I take the view that Mr G would have  invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr Gs circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
what should  Santander do?
To compensate Mr G fairly, Santander  must:
Compare the performance of Mr Gs investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Santander  should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
Maxi  ISA 
surrenderedaverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Ref: DRN57934563actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Santander 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because: 
Mr G wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking  any of his capital. 
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  given Mr Gs 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean  that Mr G would have  invested  only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Santander 
UK Plc to pay compensation to Mr G as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5793456