K822xcomplaint
Mr Z complains about Domestic & General Insurance  Plcs (D&G) handling of a claim 
under his washing machine breakdown cover.
background 
Mr Z owned a flat that was rented out to tenants. The washing  machine in the flat was 
covered under a policy from D&G, and Mr Z made a claim  because the washing machine 
was failing to drain  or empty out water. On 10 November, D&G sent an engineer  to 
undertake a repair. The engineer fitted  a module  and a lock, but the repair  was 
unsuccessful. Later  that night, the tenant reported that when he used the washing machine, 
it leaked, causing damage in the basement flat below.  
When Mr Z reported  the incident to D&G  on 12 November, it told him it couldnt  send 
someone out to do the repair for another  week. The second engineer attended  on 19 
November. Mr Z has reported the engineer told him the washing machine hadnt been  
properly fixed the first time, and he would need  another part which  might  take a week  to 
obtain. But, D&Gs notes  show  that during a call with the engineer  on 21 November, the 
engineer reported there was no leak and hed told Mr Z he would be unable to fix it without a 
new module and door lock. 
Mr Z said he couldnt wait that long and subsequently bought  a replacement washing 
machine for £219, paying £10 for delivery,  £25 for installation and £20 for recycling. He also 
bought a repair and support plan for £129.99.  He later complained to D&G about its handling 
of the claim. It refunded  £15.87 for direct debit payments taken after he disposed of the 
washing machine,  and £55 for the delay  in responding to the complaint. But Mr Z wasnt 
satisfied and so he complained to this service. He said he wanted D&G to refund all the 
premiums hed paid,  pay for the new washing machine and the repairs to the basement  flat, 
and compensate him for the time spent  dealing with the claim. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She explained  that because 
there were no notes, it wasnt possible to determine  what the original fault had been.  Or 
whether the second engineer would have been able to repair the washing machine if Mr Z 
had waited for the replacement part. She noted  the washing machine hadnt  flooded in the 
first instance; rather, the water wasnt draining  or emptying. She said it was likely  the first 
engineer would have tested the washing machine to ensure it was draining and emptying 
and that, while it was possible the first engineer misdiagnosed  the fault, it was also possible 
the leak was a new fault. 
Our investigator noted that while Mr Z had said he was told the first repair  wasnt done 
properly, there were no notes to support  this. She concluded that without any evidence that 
the first engineer  carried out a substandard repair  and that this had caused a flood, she 
couldnt say the alleged  damage in the basement flat D&Gs fault. 
She also explained that as Mr Z had the benefit  of the policy,  it would be unreasonable to 
ask D&G to refund the total premiums paid before  he replaced  the washing machine. But 
she thought it should pay £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused by 
delays and poor communication and the time Mr Z spent dealing with the claim. 
Mr Z has asked for his complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman. He says it shouldnt  be 
up to him to prove  the leak was D&Gs fault and that D&G has the resources to keep proper 
Ref: DRN52856322records. He says the situation  has placed him in financial difficulty,  and that he shouldnt 
have to claim on his home insurance to pay for the repairs  to the basement flat. Hes happy  
to accept £200 compensation but he maintains  D&G should reimburse the cost of 
redecorating the basement flat and questions which party is responsible  for the poor 
handling of the claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is whether there  was a leak following the repair on 10 November, 
whether the leak was linked to the original claim,  and, if it was, whether it caused the 
damage in the basement flat. 
D&G told Mr Z that his complaint would  need  to be dealt with by the engineers  employer, 
but thats not the case. Further, the policy states D&G will not be liable for damage to any 
other property or possessions, unless it is our fault and Im satisfied  this makes it clear  that 
D&G could  be responsible  for the cost of the repairs in the basement flat if the leak was due 
to its failure to successfully repair the washing machine following the first visit. 
I consider there would need to be negligence or recklessness which caused the leak to 
happen before I could  fairly make D&G pay for any repairs and, importantly, any liability  
would be to Mr Z, not his neighbour.  Further, I would  need to see evidence that the damage 
was caused by a leak from Mr Zs washing machine, that he was being pursued  by his 
neighbour for the cost of the repairs, and evidence  that the repair  costs  were reasonable.
was there  a leak?
Mr Z believes the washing machine wasnt successfully repaired by the first engineer,  and 
that this resulted in a leak into the flat below. 
If there was a leak, I consider the timing means it probably was linked to the original 
claim/failed repair. But D&G hasnt produced any notes from the first visit, and Mr Z disposed 
of the washing  machine,  meaning it cant now be examined. So the only evidence relating  to 
the condition of the washing  machine is the record of a call between D&G and the engineer  
on 21 November, which states there  was no leak. D&G  has argued neither the neighbour, or 
Mr Zs tenant  made any attempt to repair the leak prior to the engineers visit on 19 
November, therefore  if there had been a leak from the washing machine, it would still have 
been there. I accept  this is reasonable and that, based on the available evidence, the 
washing machine  wasnt leaking. Therefore, I cant fairly make D&G pay for any repairs to 
the basement flat.
Ref: DRN52856323the replacement  washing machine
The policy states  that in some situations  we will arrange to replace your appliance instead of 
repairing it (for example  where we cannot  repair it or we decide that it is uneconomical for us 
to repair  your appliance).  I understand Mr Z didnt want  to wait for the replacement  parts,  but 
he went ahead and replaced the washing machine without consulting  D&G and in the 
circumstances I dont  think  that was reasonable. I understand he needed a working washing 
machine for his tenant to use, but the second  engineer had needed to order parts  and in 
those circumstances  I dont think it was reasonable for Mr Z to have gone  ahead and 
disposed of the washing machine.
The policy states  that replacements might be required in circumstances where D&G cant 
undertake a successful  repair or where  a repair is uneconomical, but Im not satisfied that 
was the case  here. The second engineer  had identified what he thought was the problem, 
and ordered the necessary parts. In these circumstances Im not satisfied a successful or 
economical repair wasnt possible  and Im not persuaded D&G would have ultimately  paid 
for a replacement. Therefore I cant fairly make it reimburse the money Mr Z paid for a 
replacement washing machine and the associated costs.
premiums
I understand Mr Z feels let down  by D&G, particularly  as his claim was never  properly 
resolved. But in going ahead and paying for a replacement washing machine, Mr Z took 
away the opportunity  from D&G for it to resolve  the claim by undertaking a lasting and 
effective repair. Mr Z did receive cover for the premiums he paid, so I cant fairly make D&G  
reimburse those premiums. I understand D&G offered a refund  for the premiums  Mr Z paid 
once he no longer had the original washing machine and Im satisfied that was fair. If Mr Z 
still doesnt have  this money he should contact D&G to arrange  for the payment to be made.
compensation
Both parties  have accepted £200 compensation for the delays to the initial part of the claim 
and the time Mr Z spent trying to resolve  the problems he experienced. Im satisfied £200  
addresses the impact  D&Gs failings had on Mr Z and that its fair and reasonable.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and direct Domestic & General Insurance Plc to pay Mr Z 
£200 compensation. The compensation is to be paid within  28 days  of the date on which  we 
tell it Mr Z accepts  my final decision (if she does). If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest* on the compensation from the date my final decision to the date of payment,  at 8% 
a year simple.
Ref: DRN52856324* If HM Revenue & Customs requires Domestic & General Insurance  Plc to take off tax from this interest. It must 
give Mr Z a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. He may then be able to reclaim the 
tax from the tax authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5285632