K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs R held with Bank  of Scotland plc trading  as 
Birmingham Midshires (BM).  The house  was the subject  of possession proceedings for 
arrears, and was eventually sold in possession, leaving a shortfall.  Mr and Mrs R complain  
that BM sold the house for less than it was worth.
background
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint, and didnt  think BM had done anything 
wrong. He thought BM had taken steps to sell the property for the best price reasonably 
achievable.
Mr and Mrs R disagree,  and have asked that an ombudsman review their complaint. In doing 
so, theyve not said anything new in response to the adjudicators view. Ive taken that to 
mean they want their complaint reviewed  on the basis of the arguments and evidence  theyd 
already provided  previously.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr and Mrs R wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Mr and Mrs R, but although Ive read and 
considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what  I think  is relevant. If I dont comment 
on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think  I need to 
comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
I cant consider whether  BM was entitled  to take possession of Mr and Mrs Rs former  home. 
The court had already decided that, and it wouldnt be appropriate  for me to second-guess 
the courts decision.  This brings me to how BM marketed and sold the property after 
eventually taking possession. This was during 2018.  
The duty on BM was to sell the property for the best price achievable within a reasonable 
period of time; its worth  noting that this doesnt  necessarily mean the highest price. A lender 
shouldnt sell the property  for too low a price to secure a quick sale. Nor should it delay a 
sale unduly (during  which the debt continues to rise) to try and achieve a price  thats  
unrealistically high.  Its about achieving a balance between the two. To ensure that happens, 
lenders should  obtain  at least two independent  valuations, and then market the property with 
a view to achieving a selling price at, or close to, the independent valuations.
Overall, Im satisfied BM has discharged its duty to Mr and Mrs R in this case. It took all 
steps that I would  expect  of it to establish how much to market  the house for. It then made 
reasonable efforts to sell it at or near that figure. The property was the subject of various 
offers and BM ultimately accepted the highest price  offered for the house; that was 
£620,000, higher than either  of the two valuations.  Another party (whom  Mr and Mrs R 
regarded as their preferred buyer) offered  the same amount but in BMs opinion wasnt  as 
well-placed to proceed as the party who actually bought the house.
Ref: DRN56040732Mr and Mrs R question why the property was marketed as having three acres of land 
attached to it when there were actually seven.  The reason for that is that the title forming  the 
security held by BM only included three acres;  so the other four acres werent BMs to sell in 
possession. 
I know Mr and Mrs R feel very strongly that their former home was under-sold,  but the 
evidence doesnt  support  their view that the property was worth what they thought  it to be 
worth. Ultimately, a propertys worth what someones willing to pay for it. In the case  of 
Mr and Mrs Rs former  mortgaged property, that was £620,000.
my final decision
My decision,  for the reasons given, is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5604073