K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc didnt tell her that it intended to repossess her 
car.
background
In October  2016 Ms C was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase  agreement 
with Secure Trust. The total amount payable under the agreement was £15,788.20 over a 
term of 60 months. The monthly payment was £262.97.
Ms Cs account fell into arrears in June 2018. Secure Trust contacted  her and in late June a 
payment arrangement was put in place. Ms C maintained  the arrangement for a couple  of 
months but in September 2018 she failed to make  payment. Ms C contacted Secure Trust 
and another payment arrangement was put in place.
Ms C didnt keep to the arrangement.  In October  2018 Secure  Trust issued a default notice 
and asked Ms C to pay the arrears in 14 days.
Ms C didnt pay the arrears. Secure  Trust wrote to her advising of its intention to take further 
action. It warned that the car was at risk of repossession.
On 29 October 2018 Secure Trust issued a notice of termination. It arranged  for an agent to 
visit Ms C to discuss  her option  to voluntary surrender the car.
Ms C refused to surrender  the car so Secure Trust applied to the court for a return  of goods 
order.
Ms C complained. In its final response  Secure Trust said it had made  Ms C aware of the 
consequences of missing payments.
Ms C wasnt  happy with the response and complained  to this service. She said she wasnt 
made aware  of the prospect of repossession and she was unhappy about the conduct of the 
agent who visited her property. She wants the account balance written off.
Ms C is also unhappy that theres  a safety  recall outstanding on the car. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint.  She was satisfied  that Secure Trust had made 
Ms C aware of the position of her account and the consequences if she took no action.  The 
investigator didnt  think  it was unreasonable for Secure  Trust to instruct  an agent to visit 
Ms Cs property but said that any complaint  about  the agents  conduct should be made  to the 
agents company  in the first instance.  In relation to the safety recall, the investigator found no 
evidence that the recall  was outstanding  at the point  of supply. She also said that a safety 
recall didnt mean that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Ms C didnt agree. She said the agent hadnt  attempted  to contact her before he visited her 
property. She also said there  had been  4 safety  recalls on the car and if shed known about 
these she wouldve purchased the car.
Ref: DRN54048182my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Ms Cs account history. I can see that the account initially fell into arrears in 
June 2017. Ms C brought the account  up to date in March 2018 but it fell into arrears again. 
A payment arrangement  was agreed  but Ms C didnt keep up with the payments.
Ms C has said that she wasnt made  aware of the prospect of repossession of the car. So 
Ive looked at what Secure Trust did to make  Ms C aware of the position on her account.  I 
can see that Secure  Trust tried to contact  Ms C about the arrears. It sent a default  notice 
which clearly set out the consequences of failing to pay the arrears. It also wrote separately 
to Ms C warning her that the car would be repossessed if she didnt  contact them. Following 
this, Secure Trust sent a notice of termination and advised her that if she didnt  return  the car 
voluntarily it would be repossessed.
Ms C has acknowledged  that she received these letters. Having looked  at all of the 
correspondence, Im satisfied that Secure Trust took reasonable steps to advise Ms C about 
her account  position  and of the risk or repossession of the car.
Ms C has said that she wasnt made  aware of the specific  date of repossession  and is 
unhappy that the agent turned up without warning. Ive reviewed the system notes and I can 
see that the recovery agents told Secure  Trust that they had attended at Ms Cs property 
several times but were unable to make contact with her or locate the car. The agents also 
said they left calling cards and tried to contact Ms C by telephone.
Ms C says she didnt receive  any cards  or calls.  I cant be certain  whether the agents left 
cards or not. On balance, I think its more likely than not that the agents wouldve tried to 
make contact with Ms C before visiting her house.  Im unable  to say that Secure Trust acted 
unfairly in instructing the recovery agents,  because it had warned Ms C that the car would  be 
repossessed. Im unable  to comment on the behaviour of the agents because theres no 
evidence to support  what Ms C has said. I havent  seen enough to persuade me that the 
agents acted unreasonably. However, if Ms C wants to make a complaint about  the agents  
she can complain directly  to the company, which is registered by the FCA.
Taking all of the available information  into account,  Im unable  to say that Secure Trust has 
done anything  wrong. Im satisfied that Ms C was made aware  of the position  of her account  
and the prospect of repossession.
In relation to the safety recall, I havent seen any evidence  that  the recall related  to a part of 
the car which would  make  the car of unsatisfactory quality or not fit for purpose.  I can see 
that Ms C covered 35,000  mils in the car before any work in relation to the safety  recalls  was 
carried out. If the car had a fault related to the recall,  I would be expected this fault to have 
become apparent much sooner, given the time and mileage elapsed.
On the basis of the information Ive seen,  Im unable to say that the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality. The existence of a recall doesnt of itself mean  there is an inherent fault.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN54048183Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5404818