K820x#14Complaint
Mrs P complains that Ferratum UK Ltd (Ferratum)  incorrectly gave her unaffordable loans. 
Background
Mrs P was given an instalment loan by Ferratum on 27 February 2019, the loan was for 
£400 which she could  repay over four instalments and the highest  repayment amount was 
£167.37.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and didnt think Ferratum unfairly lent to 
Mrs P. This complaint was reviewed by another adjudicator and in our most  recent 
assessment the adjudicator thought Mrs P shouldnt have been given the loan. So he upheld 
the complaint.  
Ferratum disagreed with our most  recent adjudication. So the case  has been passed  to me, 
an ombudsman, for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  short  term lending on our website. And Ive used this general  approach  to 
help me decide  Mrs Ps complaint.  
Having carefully considered everything  Ive been provided with, Im upholding Mrs Ps 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the adjudicator. 
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why he thought it was unfair for Ferratum  to have 
provided this loan to Mrs P. Ferratums response  to the most  recent  adjudicator assessment 
was to reiterate  that it treated Mrs P sympathetically  and positively when it became aware 
she was in financial difficulties. 
Ferratum also raised  concerns about why a second adjudication was carried  out. I want  to 
assure Ferratum that Ive reviewed everything  on this case  afresh,  taking into account all the 
arguments relating  to this complaint.
Ferratum has provided  information  to show  that before it lent to Mrs P, it gathered  some  
information about Mrs Ps net monthly income,  which she declared at £2,501. It also showed  
that it carried out a credit  check. From  its credit check, Ferratum  saw that Mrs P had 20 
active accounts at the time, of which 16 had been  opened in the previous  six month  period, 
and also revealed  that she had an active short term loan. 
Given that Mrs P was due to repay  this loan in four instalments and the information  
Ferratums credit check revealed - the large  number of recently opened  and active credit,  I 
think it wouldve been reasonable for Ferratum to take its checks  further.  It should have 
been checking her monthly outgoings  including short  term commitments. As a responsible 
lender, Id expect  Ferratum to react to the information its checks  revealed  and it wouldve 
been fair at this stage for Ferratum to ask Mrs P about her regular monthly  outgoings, and 
specifically about  her active accounts,  before lending, in order to satisfy itself that she could 
sustainably make the loan repayments.  
Ref: DRN57280732Mrs P has provided copies of her bank statements and credit file, which  Ive used  to assess 
her actual financial position at the time.  I appreciate that Ferratum may not have seen the 
exact information but in the absence of alternative information, I think its reasonable to rely 
on this information.  And had Ferratum carried out proportionate checks,  its likely to have 
seen that Mrs Ps actual  income was around  £2,450  and she received child tax credit of 
around £64 per week. Mrs P had at least £1,375 outstanding to other  short term lenders, and 
was repaying other mid to long term creditors  including a personal loan and a monthly 
mortgage ofaround  £735  a month. In those circumstances,  Mrs P wasnt in a position  to 
sustainably repay  this loan. I think thats  borne out by Mrs P having difficulties repaying the 
loan and theres an outstanding balance. 
Ferratum shouldnt have  lent Mrs P this loan and so Im upholding her complaint and 
Ferratum needs  to put things right.  
What Ferratum  should do to put things  right
As the loan still appears to be outstanding, to put things right for Mrs P, Ferratum  should:
remove the interest and charges on its loan, leaving just the capital amount 
borrowed;
treat any payments  Mrs P may have made towards the loan to date as capital 
repayments - if doing this would  clear the loans balance, refund any overpayments  
to her and add 8% simple a year from the date of payment to the date of settlement* 
to those overpayments;
if carrying out these  steps would clear  the loans balance, Ferratum  should remove  
any adverse information about this loan from Mrs Ps credit  file;
if a capital balance  would still remain however, Ferratum  should treat Mrs P positively 
and sympathetically, working with her to find a suitable repayment plan for the 
balance of the loan, allowing for her present financial situation.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Ferratum  to take off tax from this interest. Ferratum must  
give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ferratum  UK Ltd should pay 
Mrs P compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5728073