K822xcomplaint
Mrs M has complained about the way Great Lakes Insurance SE and its agents have dealt 
with her claims under her mobile phone  insurance.
background 
Mrs M bought her phone  and this insurance  in November  2015 and renewed it each year.  In 
June 2016, she accidentally dropped her phone and cracked the screen.  She paid the 
excess of £75 and had the screen repaired by the manufacturer.  
In August  2017,  she lost the phone  and then made a claim. Great  Lakes replaced her phone 
with a refurbished  phone  of the same model.  As she was then on holiday, she didnt start 
using the phone until September 2017.
She said the refurbished phone  had a faulty home button, which  sometimes  just didnt work. 
Initially she thought  this was her user error  given  her medical condition  and some trouble 
with sensation in her fingers. Eventually  she gave up using the home button. She told Great 
Lakes about this on 2 October but put off sending the phone back due to the inconvenience 
of having no phone.
However, in November a software update didnt complete on the phone. So she took it to the 
manufacturers shop, who told her the home  button needed to be repaired and without that, 
the software update wouldnt be able to complete. Consequently, she sent her phone back to 
Great Lakes on 13 December to be received  by it by special delivery on 14 December 2017. 
Unfortunately, Mrs M did not receive her phone  or another  phone  for 84 days, despite 
chasing and complaining. 
Great Lakes also said Mrs M had tampered with the home button, which meant  she would 
have to pay another excess  and make a claim. She disagreed with this, as the home  button  
had been faulty since she received this phone from Great  Lakes as the replacement  phone 
for the one she had lost.
Great Lakes apologised and paid her £50 compensation. Mrs M did think  this was enough  
and brought her complaint  to us.
The investigator thought Great Lakes should increase its compensation by another £75. 
Great Lakes agreed  but Mrs M didnt  think it was enough and she wanted a new phone. So 
her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 January where  I said the following:
Clearly, Mrs M was put to some  considerable trouble and upset  over how her 
complaint over the home  button on the first refurbished  phone was handled. She was 
accused of tampering with herself, when she hadnt,  and she was left without her 
phone for a considerable amount of time, which was unreasonable.  Great Lakes 
have acknowledged  this extent of her trouble and upset in its final response letter.
But Mrs M said she also incurred both the costs of the insurance and the costs  of her 
sim card monthly  fee when she was without her phone. These amounted to £18 
worth of insurance premium and three  months  of sim card charges totalling another 
£36. She also said she borrowed a phone but had to buy PAYG sim costing £20. She 
Ref: DRN59414642also paid £10 to Great Lakes for a subject access request fee, along with the £5.80  
postage fee in sending  the phone back the first time. This amounts to just short  of 
£90, and I consider  those  costs are reasonable and indeed modest.
Great Lakes provided  Mrs M with a refurbished phone as per the terms of the policy 
when she lost her own. This phone  had a faulty home button, which it should not 
have had. Great Lakes  has now replaced  that phone with another refurbished  phone 
and the entire scenario cost Mrs M some considerable trouble and upset to get that 
achieved. I agree with the investigator that £50 compensation  wasnt  enough, But I 
dont think the further £75 compensation,  which  Great Lakes has agreed to pay, is 
sufficient. 
When an insurer like Great Lakes here provided such  a sub-standard service, we 
look to make sure it then has tried to put things  right.  And I dont think it has. The 
costs that Mrs M has listed of £90 are reasonable so I think the compensation Great  
Lakes pays her, should first include that. It also put her to some considerable 
inconvenience in first accusing her of tampering  with the home button herself and 
then ensuring she was without her phone for 84 days. So I think  in addition  to the £90 
it should pay her £110  in compensation  making  the total it should pay Mrs M to be 
£200. It has only paid her this far £125  of that sum. So I think it should now pay her a 
further £75 compensation.
Mrs M has also raised the issue that she specifically asked  Great Lakes for a new 
phone and not a second refurbished phone so that at least it would have a 
manufacturers warranty. But theres nothing in her policy which  entitles Mrs M to this 
in any situation.  Further, all refurbished phones  provided by Great Lakes do have a 
12-month guarantee. I do understand  this second  refurbished phone also had some 
issues but I also understand  they have now been resolved. So presently, Mrs M has 
a phone similar to the one that she originally  insured, which  works. Therefore,  in that 
regard Great Lakes  has honoured its policy with Mrs M.
Mrs M accepted my provisional decision and so did Great  Lakes.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In view that both parties agree with the outcome of my provisional  decision, I see no reason 
to change it.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and require  Great 
Lakes Insurance  SE to pay Mrs M a total of £200  compensation.  As it has already paid her 
£125 of that compensation, it now needs to pay her a further  £75 compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Ref: DRN59414643Rona Doyle
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5941464