K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
We know very little about this sale other  than Mr P having bought the policy in January 1998 
at the same  time as taking out a £600 loan. 
However, because  of the passage of time, Lloyds hasnt been able to supply the original 
loan documentation   consequently, Ive had to make some assumptions and calculations  
about Mr Ps loan and PPI costs (which Ive rounded off) to help work out what most likely 
happened. Records show he probably  applied for the loan and PPI policy in a branch, but for 
other aspects of the sale Ive had to use my experience to judge what is more likely to have 
happened. 
Mr P doesnt  appear to remember much about the circumstances either. He has no 
paperwork and I note his representative supplied details, such as his job type and some 
apparent savings he was said to have  in place which related to the wrong sale date. This 
means the information about Mr Ps circumstances  appear to relate to 2008,  10 years after 
the sale in question. We tried to clarify all this with him through his representative, without 
any success.
I can say the policys  one-off  upfront  premium  which Ive calculated to be around £115 was 
paid in advance  by being added to the loan (a single premium) where it then attracted 
interest over the term of the loan.  The loan was repayable over a 6-month term and the PPI 
policy term matched that of the loan. 
The policy probably  provided cover for Mr P for accident, sickness,  unemployment and life  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr Ps monthly loan repayment  
for up to 6 months in the event of a successful  disability  claim or unemployment. 
At the time,  I dont know what Mr Ps job was because of the wrong date issue  Ive 
mentioned above.  Nevertheless, Ive assumed he may have been entitled  to some sick pay, 
but I have seen no evidence of the £9,000 savings his representative says he had  I note 
he was, after all, applying  for a loan at the time. To be fair to Mr P, Ive also made an 
assumption he may have  been entitled  to some redundancy pay, which  I think  would have 
been moderate, given his age. 
As regards  his health, Mr P said hed suffered from a bad back, but I note this appears to 
have pre-dated the PPI sale by around  10 years (1988), and no specific  details have been 
offered as to its relevance to the point of sale. So Im afraid I dont think  this to be relevant to 
my overall decision given his age at the time and the unfortunate lack of information.  Lloyds  
says the loan closed as planned in July 1998.
Mr Ps representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.  I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mr Ps representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr P wouldnt 
Ref: DRN51801182have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ps representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr P about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr P and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr P received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr P disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ps. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps complaint
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1998. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
Ref: DRN51801183complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ps case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ps complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
Ref: DRN51801184-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr P with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr P sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr P, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr P suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr P and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr P know he had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. We no longer  have  access  to 
the original sales  material but as the sale was in 1998 that isnt unusual;  businesses arent 
required to keep records indefinitely. Nevertheless,  we do know quite a bit about  how these 
sales usually happened because weve seen a lot of similar  cases. Lloyds has sent us a 
example copy of the type of application  form that was used at around that time. The copy of 
the application form Ive seen matches  my experience of these sales,  and I note the form 
shows what appears, in my view, to be an obvious  choice  between either having  or not 
having - PPI with the loan. I think Mr P would have ticked the yes box for the PPI to be 
added.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr P knew the policy  was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds concedes this was an advised sale. This means it had to advise Mr P with 
reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given 
his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr P. It seems Mr P cant remember clearly what  happened and there is 
no record available of what  the adviser discussed in relation to the policy. This is 
unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser likely had some limited 
information about Mr Ps financial  circumstances, but there is no specific evidence to show  
the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr P would have been caught  by the significant 
exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  did not fully meet his needs. 
For example, there is nothing to show Lloyds considered whether Mr P had any pre-existing 
medical conditions.  Knowing what I know about  these  sales  from that time period, and on the 
balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done to determine  
whether the policy  was suitable for Mr P given his circumstances. So Im not persuaded 
Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN51801185However, while Im not persuaded Lloyds  did all it should have  done  to make sure the policy  
was suitable for Mr P, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration these probabilities:
-Mr P met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr P had a need for the policy   the policy would have helped  Mr P manage  the 
consequences was he unable to work. The PPI would have paid his loan repayments 
in the event of a successful claim and this would  have  been in addition  to any other  
means he had.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr P.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr P. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Ps employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  for 
him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any relevant pre-existing medical  conditions  
that could affect his ability  to claim.  
-There was no indication that early settlement / cancellation of the loan and PPI was 
likely.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr P sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Lloyds was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr P was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr P was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  he would have been given a policy document which explained  the 
rules. I also think  its unlikely  Mr P would have taken  out the policy without any sense of what  
the policy was. Also, I think  Mr P could see that the single premium  was being added  to the 
loan and the total cost was shown. I think its possible the interest part of the PPI loan might 
not have been very clear to him  but the overall  interest, in this regard, for the life of the 
lending, is likely to have  been only around £5 or so. So, I dont think this potential  
shortcoming about disclosing the PPI interest  would have changed what Mr P did.  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr 
P agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr P Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr P. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr P all of the information  he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ref: DRN51801186Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ps representative has raised a number  
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ps. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ps representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr P about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ps representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr P has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
What effect did Lloydss shortcomings  have  on Mr P? To what extent did Mr P suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr P. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr P suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr P would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr P, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr P has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mr P would have acted differently, or whether  he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr P says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
Ref: DRN51801187weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr P had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised him that there was a suitable  
product he could buy that would protect  his loan payments in the event he was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ps circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr P was given about the cost was clear 
enough, accepting  the PPI interest could probably have been made clearer. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions probably 
wasnt as clear as it should have been.  Overall however,  Im not persuaded Mr P would 
have found the cost unacceptable if he had been given all of the cost information during the 
meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr P would get back in return 
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Ps expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his loan 
repayment) were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr P thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr P knew  about 12 
months before the start date of the policy and which re-occurred  within the first 12 
months of the cover; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr P 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr P be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr P pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr P from taking  out the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr Ps circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. 
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest he wouldve been caught by any of the 
significant exclusions  Mr P didnt have any relevant pre-existing medical conditions as the 
Ref: DRN51801188one he mentioned does seem  to have been  resolved and it pre-dated the PPI sale by 10 
years. He was also in permanent employment. Theres no evidence to suggest he intended 
to repay  the loan early. So, I still think he had some reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr P would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr P had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into his thinking about what  he would  have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although its possible he may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mr P was unable (through  disability)  to carry on his own 
occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr P would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  were  Mr P made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr P 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ps representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr P would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr P 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN51801189Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr P in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr P compensation, as that would put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr P thinks Lloyds misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr P, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1998 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ps representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr P and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr P in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5180118