K820x#14complaint
Ms G has complained that Barclays Bank  UK Plc didnt help her to recover money shed 
transferred from her account.
background
In March 2018 Ms G transferred £130,000 from an account she held with Barclays. She says 
she contacted  Barclays in November 2018 to try to recover the money shed transferred but 
it didnt help her.
Ms G then complained to Barclays. It didnt uphold her complaint and she referred the 
complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld because  they thought  
Barclays had acted  fairly and reasonably. Ms G didnt agree with our investigators  
recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G has provided a lot of detail about the circumstances  in which  she transferred the 
money and how the recipient should have used the money after it had been transferred. Im 
not going to repeat the information in my decision because it relates solely  to the dispute  
between Ms G and the recipient of the money.  It seems Ms G has been  through a very 
difficult time as a result of the recipients  actions. But I can only deal with issues  between 
Ms G and Barclays.
Its clear that Ms G fully intended to transfer the money in March 2018.  Subsequently, the 
recipient didnt use the money for the purpose agreed with Ms G. But that is something over 
which Barclays had no control. It received instructions from Ms G to make  the transfer and it 
complied with those  instructions.
Ms G didnt contact Barclays about  the transfer until more than six months  after it had been 
completed. Im satisfied  it was reasonable for Barclays to say it was then too late to recall 
the funds unless the recipient agreed  to return them.
Ms G says she thinks the recipient would have returned the funds if Barclays  had asked 
them to. Im not persuaded this is correct.  Ive seen a letter  Ms Gs solicitors sent to the 
recipient in March  2019 demanding the return of some of the money. Ive also seen some 
court documents showing Ms G commenced proceedings against the recipient in May 2019. 
The court documents are incomplete but it seems  the recipient defended the claim. I think  
its unlikely the recipient  would have complied with a request from Barclays to return the 
funds when they didnt comply with a demand  from Ms Gs solicitors and defended the court  
proceedings.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied Barclays has treated Ms G fairly and reasonably.
Ref: DRN59368662my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make no 
award against Barclays Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5936866