K821x#15complaint
Miss T complains that Cash  On Go Limited (trading as Peachy) lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Miss T borrowed  from Peachy  between September and December 2018.  Each  of her loans 
was scheduled  to be repaid in six monthly instalments. Miss T took some additional 
borrowing on her second loan around  a month  after taking it out. That additional borrowing 
changed the amounts that Miss T needed  to repay  each month  and was covered by a new 
credit agreement so I think it right to treat it as a refinance of her second  loan. So I consider 
that Miss T was given three  loans  by Peachy. Miss T hasnt yet repaid her final loan and a 
balance remains outstanding. A summary  of Miss Ts borrowing  from Peachy  is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 27/09/2018 26/11/2018 £   450
2 27/11/2018 Refinanced £   550
3 19/12/2018 - £   600
Miss Ts complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He didnt think  Peachy 
had been wrong  to give the first two loans to Miss T. But he didnt  think that Peachy should 
have agreed the final loan.  So he asked  Peachy  to pay Miss T some compensation.
Peachy didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Miss T accepts  my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Peachy needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss T could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Peachy should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN56331932the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Peachy was required to establish 
whether Miss T could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ts complaint.
Peachy asked Miss T for information about  her income and her normal  expenditure before 
agreeing each of the loans. Miss T explained to Peachy  that she was single and was 
currently living with her parents. So Peachy says that gave  it some  confidence that the 
relatively high disposable  income Miss T had declared was reasonable.
I think that the checks Peachy did before agreeing  the first two loans were proportionate. 
The amounts that Miss T needed to repay  were  small compared with the disposable  income 
shed declared.  Given  these repayment amounts, what  was apparent  about  Miss Ts 
circumstances at the time, and her borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for Peachy to ask her for the amount of information that would be needed 
to show the lending was unsustainable  before  agreeing  the first two loans.
I have noted that Miss T was unable to make her first repayment on loan 1 as planned. 
Peachy agreed  to defer  that repayment  by a month  and Miss T paid some  additional  interest 
as a result. I think that should have  caused some concerns  to the lender.  And I have also 
noted that, after repaying loan 1 much earlier than planned, Miss T borrowed a larger  
amount the following  day. I think that should also have  caused some concerns. But, on 
balance I dont think either of those situations would have caused sufficient concerns for me 
to say that Peachy should have  stopped  lending to Miss T, or done some additional checks, 
at that point.
It appears that Miss T was also unable to make her first repayment on loan 2 as agreed. So 
once again Peachy agreed to defer that repayment  by a month and Miss T paid some  
additional interest. And just two days later Miss T asked to borrow some additional capital 
Ref: DRN56331933from Peachy  and I would note that the additional  amount  she asked to borrow  was not 
dissimilar to the interest payment shed made just a couple of days  earlier.
I think by now Miss Ts repayment  behaviour should have caused Peachy to be concerned 
about whether  it knew enough about Miss Ts financial situation. Whilst it might still have 
been reasonable to use the information Miss T provided as the basis  of its lending 
assessment, I think Peachy should have asked  her some very specific questions about  other  
short term lending she might have.  And had it done  so Peachy would have seen the very 
real problems Miss T was having managing her money. At that time Miss T was already 
borrowing from at least three other  short term lenders. So I dont think  it was reasonable for 
Peachy to conclude Miss T would be able to repay  this loan in a sustainable manner.
I have considered that Peachy has said the additional amount Miss T borrowed was within  
the amount of credit it would have given  her at the time she took loan 2. So I shouldnt be 
making a separate assessment about the additional  lending. But I dont agree. Whilst it might  
have been entirely  reasonable, based on what it knew at the time of loan 2, for Peachy to 
give Miss T a loan of £600, I dont think that was the case a month later.  By then Miss T had 
again failed to make a repayment when it was due. And she had asked to borrow  a sum 
broadly similar to an interest payment shed just made.  I think Peachy should have realised 
that it was more likely than not Miss T was having  to borrow  further to cover  the hole 
repaying her previous  loan was leaving in her finances and that Miss Ts indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
So I dont  think Peachy should  have  agreed  to give Miss T the final loan, and it needs to pay 
her some compensation.
putting things right
I dont think Peachy should  have agreed to lend to Miss T on 19 December 2018. So for that 
loan Peachy should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Miss T on the loan.  
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Miss Ts credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Peachy to take off tax from this interest. Peachy must 
give Miss T a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
It appears that Miss T still owes Peachy some, if not all, of the principal balance she 
borrowed on her final loan. Peachy may deduct this from any compensation that is due to 
her. But, to be clear, that outstanding balance should be recalculated to remove  any interest 
and charges, but taking account of any repayments Miss T has made on that loan as though 
they were applied against the principal sum borrowed.
If, as seems  likely, a balance still remains outstanding Peachy should  attempt to agree a 
mutually acceptable repayment arrangement with Miss T. In doing so I would remind  Peachy 
of its responsibility to treat Miss T positively and sympathetically in those  discussions.
Ref: DRN56331934my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Miss Ts complaint and direct Cash On Go Limited  to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5633193