K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that he was unable to make  a cash deposit into his Starling Bank Limited 
account.
background
Mr R says he opened the account  with Starling as he wished to take advantage  of its 
relationship with another bank I will call N. Mr R says he was told he could make cash  
deposits into his account at N. But was unable to make such a deposit at the end of 2018.  
Mr R says he was told by Starling to try another N branch.  He would like £100 compensation 
for whats happened.
Starling initially told Mr R the mistake  must  be Ns and that it had an agreement  with it. 
Starling then told us that it was upholding  Mr Rs complaint  and offered him a gesture of 
goodwill payment of £50.
Mr R had already brought his complaint to us and our adjudicator upheld it. The adjudicator 
thought Mr R had been given incorrect information about N when the account was opened  
and incorrectly told to try a different N branch. The adjudicator also thought the information 
in Starlings final response letter was incorrect and recommended it pay Mr R compensation 
of £100.
Starling doesnt  accept that view and now says its agreement with N didnt come  to an end 
until early 2019  and so didnt make  a mistake
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusion  as the adjudicator but for slightly different  reasons.
I accept that its up to Starling if it wishes to change the way in which it carries out its 
business and as in this case to end its relationship with N. I appreciate that Mr R may be 
caused some inconvenience by that but Im satisfied that its up to Starling to make  such 
commercial decisions and not something  I can fairly  interfere in.
Im satisfied that Mr R has been given  misleading information by Starling. I can see that 
initially Starling said it hadnt made  a mistake  but then later told him it had and offered him 
£50 as a gesture of goodwill. But I can now see that Starling says its relationship with N 
didnt end until early  2019 and so didnt make a mistake.  So I think  Mr R has been  given 
three different answers by Starling  and so I have no doubt Mr R would have been caused  
frustration, confusion and inconvenience. I also think that Starling has taken some time to 
provide Mr R with an answer  to his complaint.
Ive come to the same  overall view that the adjudicator and initially Starling came  to that 
Mr R should receive compensation. I appreciate that Starling has offered £50. But for the 
reasons Ive explained I dont think that offer goes far enough or reflects the level of 
misleading information Mr R has been given over the last seven to eight months. I think  the 
total compensation should be increased  to £100.
Ref: DRN50859722my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order  Starling Bank Limited to pay Mr R 
£100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5085972