K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited declined  his claim under his motor  
insurance policy following  the theft of his motorbike.
background
Mr Fs bike was stolen  from his home,  although it was recovered  some days later but had 
been damaged.  Mr F contacted MCE to report the bike stolen and said it had been taken 
from his parking bay at home in a shared car park with fob-controlled gates.  But when Mr 
F took out the policy he told MCE the bike was kept in a garage overnight. MCE said this 
was a reckless misrepresentation of information  so it voided the policy,  refused the claim 
for the subsequent damage  and it kept the premiums Mr F had paid.
Mr F complained about MCEs  decision.  He said there wasnt an option for shared parking 
and as his parking area is designated to him, no-one  else can use it  so it is not 
communal. He feels he answered the question  about the parking honestly.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said he thought the question  MCE had asked 
about the overnight storage of the bike was clear  but he didnt think  Mr F had acted  
recklessly, or deliberately  answered the question incorrectly. Instead our investigator said 
Mr F had been careless when completing  his answer and should  have checked if he was 
unsure of the right option. As a result, he said MCE should record  the mis-representation 
as careless. And, as the cost of the policy would have been more if Mr F had chosen the 
correct option,  our investigator said MCE should settle the claim based  on the 
proportionate amount  of the premium  he had paid. He also recommended  that MCE pay 
Mr F £100 for the distress and inconvenience that had been caused.
MCE disagreed with our investigators opinion. It said Mr F was asked to confirm hed read 
the terms and conditions when completing his online insurance application and it says he 
also had access to his Key Facts  document which included a definition  of what  it considers  
to be a garage  his parking arrangements didnt match  that definition. As he ticked  the box 
to confirm he had read these terms MCE said it was a deliberate or reckless 
misrepresentation. So it said it was right to void the policy and to decline the claim.
Mr F also disagreed with the opinion. He said there wasnt an option which matched  the 
type of parking he has so he chose what he thought was the right fit  so he didnt 
misrepresent the information. He also felt compensation  of £100 was too low.
As both parties disagreed with the opinion the matter was passed  to me to review. 
Ref: DRN56157332my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I felt the complaint should be upheld. The 
relevant parts of the provisional decision are copied  below.
When taking out insurance Mr F had a duty under the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure & 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) to take reasonable  care not to make a 
misrepresentation when providing information  to the insurer.
When considering  such complaints  we need  to be satisfied that a clear  question was 
asked by the insurer and that, had the right information been  given, it would have made a 
difference to the insurance offered  either  the insurer would have refused to provide 
cover or would have  offered to cover but on different terms (such  as charging additional 
premiums).
When making his online  application through a comparison website, MCE says Mr F was 
asked Where is the bike kept overnight? and he was given options to choose from - 
garage, public  road, drive,  car park, locked compound or private property. I believe this to 
be a clear question.  MCE has told us that, had Mr F selected the option  of car park  the 
one it thinks is the most  suitable  it would have  charged a higher premium.  Considering  
Mr Fs description  of his parking arrangements, I dont think  this could reasonably  be 
considered as a garage. Im satisfied that the choice of garage was not the most 
appropriate option Mr F could have chosen,  so I do think there has been a 
misrepresentation.
But in order to agree  with MCE  that this was a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation, I 
would need to be satisfied Mr F knew he was giving  untrue or misleading information which 
was relevant to the insurer - or didnt care whether it was relevant, untrue or misleading. 
Mr F says shared parking wasnt an available option, so he chose  the one which he felt fitted 
the best - thats why he chose the option of garage. And Ive also noted comments  by his 
representative who says Mr F was quite nave  about  insurance  - which  would suggest he 
may not have been aware of the importance of this question to the insurer.  Taking all of this 
into consideration, I dont  think this was a deliberate or reckless act to misrepresent this 
information.
Mr Fs representative  has said Mr F was living with his parents when he took the policy out 
and his bike was garaged  when he was there. Our investigator looked at this point and 
concluded Mr F was buying the insurance to cover him at the property from where  the bike 
was stolen and that his answers related to the correct  location. Neither  Mr F nor his 
representative have  disputed what the investigator  has said so I havent considered this 
point further.
MCE said, when Mr F called to say the bike had been stolen, he said it was stored in a 
parking bay and didnt refer to it as a garage  so he would have known he had given 
incorrect information previously. But I dont think this proves Mr F deliberately gave incorrect 
information at the time of taking the policy. In the call recording Mr F does describe the bike 
as being in a parking bay but also goes on to say there are fob controlled gates to reach  this 
area. I think  this suggests he considered his arrangements to be more than simply a parking 
area open to the public, which matches his explanation for his original choice.
Ive also thought about MCEs comments regarding  Mr F having access  to documents  
which contained the specific description of what MCE meant  by the term garage . It is the 
Ref: DRN56157333responsibility of the applicant  to make sure that the insurance meets their needs  so I agree 
Mr F should have read these terms. But that doesnt  mean  he has been  reckless in not 
doing so  I think it is generally  accepted  that not everyone does read terms and conditions 
as they should do. However, it is my opinion that Mr F should have taken more  care with 
his answer to the question. If Mr F was unclear about which  of the overnight parking 
options he should choose, he could  have done more  to ensure he gave the right 
information. If he had checked the policy terms he would  have  seen that garage was not 
the appropriate option. Or he could have contacted MCE  directly to clarify.
Overall, I think Mr Fs actions should  be more accurately  considered as a careless  
misrepresentation  rather than a deliberate or reckless act. This means  I agree  with the 
investigators recommendation that the complaint  should be upheld. But my view on what 
MCE needs to do now is different  to what was initially recommended.
I think the policy should be reinstated and all indicators of the avoidance should be 
removed. The claim for the repairs to the bike should be settled. Im aware that if Mr F had 
provided the correct  information when making the application the premium  charged would 
have been higher than he has paid  MCE has provided evidence  to show  the premium  
would have been 14% higher (Mr F actually received a reduction  in premium as a result of 
choosing the option of garage). This means he isnt entitled to the full cost of his repairs  
back  as he hasnt  paid the correct  amount of premium. MCE should  pay 88% of the costs 
of the claim for repairs based on the amount of premium it has received compared to what  
it should have  received.
Mr F has been  without a working bike for many  months now and has told us he has had to 
make alternative, more  expensive, arrangements to continue with his daily life, such as 
travelling to work. He has been using public transport which he says has cost him £104 a 
month more than he would have incurred  if he was using his bike and paying for fuel. I 
understand Mr F has also had to pay an additional  sum for travelling since  moving to a new 
home in September. In the circumstances, I think there are potential grounds  to make MCE 
reimburse Mr F for the additional costs  he has incurred during the time he has been without 
the use of his bike. But at this present time I havent  seen any receipts  or other  
documentation to prove the costs he says he has had to pay. If Mr F can provide me with 
suitable evidence  of these travel expenses  he has incurred  since  his bike was stolen, I will 
consider including them in the award in my final decision.
Our investigator recommended that MCE should pay £100 to Mr F in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience caused. Mr F didnt agree with this offer and felt the sum should 
be higher. I appreciate Mr F has been  inconvenienced by this issue and no doubt having his 
policy voided, which can make it more difficult or expensive  to get insurance, would have 
caused him extra worry. But I think this sum is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
responses to the provisional  decision
MCE confirmed it received the provisional decision, but it didnt provide any further 
comments for consideration.  
Mr F responded to confirm he accepted  my outcome. As detailed  in my provisional decision, 
I said I would consider his additional  travel expenses in my final decision if he could provide 
evidence of the costs he has had to pay. Mr F has provided bank statements showing costs 
for train and bus fares he has incurred which total £1482.40. After deducting the £37 which  
Ref: DRN56157334Mr F says it would normally cost him in fuel each month using his bike,  he has paid 
additional travel  costs of £1334.40.
Ive also seen that Mr F has provided  us with quotes  he has received for the repairs  to the 
bike. I have asked our investigator to pass these on to MCE who should contact Mr F directly 
in relation to the settlement of the claim.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent  been  provided with any new evidence or comments that alters  my view,  I see no 
reason to change  the decision to uphold this complaint. 
However, I did say I would consider any additional travel expenses  if Mr F could provide 
supporting evidence. He has done so and therefore,  in the circumstances, I think  its fair for 
MCE to also reimburse these expenses. I have therefore added  these travel costs to the 
award.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require MCE Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Reinstate the policy as though it was in force at the time of the theft;
Remove any record of avoidance from any internal  or external databases;
Settle Mr Fs claim for repairs to the bike, paying  88% of the cost,  based on the 
amount of premium  Mr F paid for the policy;
Pay Mr F £100 compensation;
Pay Mr F £1334.40  in respect of the additional travel expenses  he has incurred.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5615733