K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about delays with an international payment from his business account with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. Mr G asks that Barclays pays compensation for losses of about 
£4,000.
background
On 28 June 2018 Mr G visited a Barclays branch and asked it to make  an international 
payment from his account.  The payment  related to goods ordered from overseas. After  the 
payment had gone, Mr G asked Barclays to change the beneficiary name, which  hed found 
out wasnt correct. Mr G says Barclays didnt do this promptly and, as a result, the payment 
was rejected by the beneficiary bank.  Mr G says Barclays caused further delays which 
meant the payment wasnt successfully completed until 24 July 2018. Mr G says goods were 
held at a port until the payment was received and he incurred charges for this. 
Barclays said it wasnt responsible for the payment being returned  but had caused  delays  of 
about seven days  with the payment being re-sent. It offered compensation of £630 for Mr 
Gs costs, £275 for inconvenience and £24.63 for exchange rate losses.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld,  saying:
Barclays didnt make an error with the original payment: it acted on Mr Gs instructions.  
The payment  was returned  because  the details  provided  by Mr G  were  incorrect.  The 
terms of the account make it clear that payments  are irreversible. And the payment 
confirmation says that incorrect  details can cause delays, cancellation and costs.
Barclays sent an amendment request  on 3 July 2018. This was sent on a best 
endeavours basis. While  Mr G says Barclays should have made the request sooner, 
theres no guarantee the beneficiary bank wouldnt still have returned the payment.
The beneficiary bank  rejected the payment on 5 July 2018. Barclays received the funds 
back on 12 July 2018. Mr G confirmed  he wanted  to re-send the payment  on 16 July and 
Barclays re-sent the payment on 24 July. Barclays accepts it caused a delay of seven  
days in re-sending the payment. 
While  Barclays  made errors the compensation it offered  was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Mr G said he was unable to provide evidence of the costs  and losses  he 
said he incurred. 
Mr G didnt agree, saying the delays could have been avoided  if Barclays  had sent the 
amendment request on 29 June 2018  when he says he asked it to correct  the beneficiarys  
name. And if it had told him that the amendment request wasnt  guaranteed  to be successful 
he could have sent another payment. Mr G says Barclays should at least pay his daily costs 
of £140.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
Ref: DRN51481532words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
Mr G visited a Barclays branch on 28 June 2018  and asked it to make  an international 
payment from his account.
Mr G then contacted Barclays and asked it to change the beneficiary name, which  hed 
found out wasnt correct. Mr G says this was on 29 June  2018. Barclays has a record  of him 
requesting this on 3 July 2018. Barclays sent the amendment request to the beneficiary bank 
on 3 July 2018. 
On 5 July 2018 the beneficiary  bank  rejected  the payment. The funds were returned to 
Barclays on 12 July 2018. 
On 16 July 2018 Mr G confirmed to Barclays that he wanted the payment re-sent. Barclays  
made the payment on 24 July 2018 and it credited the suppliers account the same day.
did Barclays make  an error that caused delays to the payment?
Barclays didnt make an error when it sent the payment using the details  provided  by Mr G. 
While Mr G now says Barclays should  have spotted  the error  he made in the instructions, I 
dont think this is reasonable.
Mr G says he visited his branch and told Barclays about the error  with the beneficiarys 
name on 29 June 2018.  And he says that Barclays assured him the error wouldnt be a 
problem and it was 100% certain the payment  wouldnt be rejected if it sent an amendment 
request. Barclays doesnt have a record of this but it accepted Mr Gs version of events. If 
Mr G was given this information, it was incorrect. But I dont think  this changes the outcome.
Barclays sent the amendment request on a best endeavours basis. It was the beneficiary 
banks decision to return the payment. Theres no evidence this would have been different  if 
Barclays had sent the amendment request sooner.
Mr G says if hed known  the payment might be rejected  he could have made  the payment 
again. But I dont  find this likely, for the reasons below.
On 5 July 2018 Barclays  confirmed the payment was in the process of being returned.  It said 
it could re-send the payment once it received the funds back. At this point, Mr G could have 
instructed Barclays to make a new payment immediately  assuming there  were  enough  
funds in his account. But he didnt do so. So, on balance, I think  its unlikely hed have made 
a second payment before the first payment was rejected.
Once the funds  were  returned and Mr G confirmed he wanted to re-send the payment 
Barclays should have  re-sent the payment promptly. If it had, I think  it would have credited 
the suppliers account on 17 July 2018   seven days earlier than it was received. So I think  
Barclays is responsible  for a delay of seven days.
Mr G says Barclays made errors  and gave  him incorrect information throughout. I can 
appreciate how frustrating this was. But based  on the available  evidence,  I dont think  these 
errors caused a further delay in the payment being received.
Ref: DRN51481533what compensation is fair and reasonable? 
I think its fair and reasonable for Barclays  to compensate Mr G for his actual losses resulting 
from the seven days  delay in the payment being  made. Mr G hasnt provided evidence  
such as an invoice, payment receipt or bank statement  that he incurred and paid any costs 
as a result  of the delay. 
Mr G provided  an email  from the shipping company that set out the costs  applicable if goods 
were held due to late payment. The email says theres a charge of £70 for the first five days 
and £140 thereafter. When it offered compensation, Barclays  said it would pay 
compensation of £70 for five days and £140  for two days. Mr G says Barclays  should pay 
compensation of £140 for seven days.  I dont think the way Barclays  calculated  the 
compensation is unfair. But, in any case, Mr G hasnt provided  evidence that he paid any 
charges.
I dont have evidence  that Mr G suffered a financial loss, so I dont think  its fair and 
reasonable to require  Barclays to increase its offer of compensation. But Barclays  did make 
errors which caused Mr G trouble and inconvenience. 
Barclays offered £929.63 which includes compensation for Mr Gs costs, inconvenience and 
exchange rate losses. I think, in the circumstances, this is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I think  the compensation offered by 
Barclays is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5148153