K820x#14complaint
Mrs O is unhappy with the way a claim under  her home insurance  policy  has been handled 
by AXA Insurance  UK Plc.
background
In March 2017 Mrs O made  a claim to AXA. She said there  was a crack in her bath and it 
was letting water out. She said as a result  the flooring  was damaged,  as was the ceiling of 
the room underneath the bathroom.
AXA appointed a surveyor to validate the claim. It says the surveyor asked Mrs O to send in 
quotes for repairing the damage but there  was a delay  in it receiving these. When it did 
receive them, it raised queries about  the scope of the works quoted for because it thought 
some of the works were unrelated to the damage being claimed for. Mrs O complained  about  
the lack of progress.  She was expecting AXA to cash settle the claim. 
In response to the complaint, in February 2018 AXA appointed a different surveyor  to 
validate the claim. As a result of the second  surveyors report, AXA asked for evidence  that 
Mrs O had repaired the damage shed claimed for in a similar claim about four years 
previously. Mrs O sent it a receipt  which was dated  about a month before that damage was 
supposed to have happened. AXA didnt accept this as proof  that the works had been 
carried out.
Mrs O complained about poor communication, the fact that it took about a year for AXA to 
send a second surveyor out to her property and that the second surveyor asked for receipts  
which she hadnt been required to provide originally.
Mrs O brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
She didnt  think Mrs O had provided satisfactory  evidence that shed repaired the damage  
from the first claim.
As Mrs O didnt  agree, the matter has been  referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After the latest  claim was notified to AXA in 2017, there were various gaps when nothing  
much happened. But I can see from AXAs file that it did attempt  to keep in touch with Mrs O 
during this period. In particular, it made several attempts to contact her by phone and left 
messages for her. At one point  it closed the claim because it hadnt heard from Mrs O for 
some time and thought she didnt want to pursue her claim. I think  the problems Mrs O 
experienced could probably have been  avoided  if shed  kept in contact with AXA and its 
surveyor throughout the claim.
I can appreciate that it must have been frustrating for Mrs O to start again  with a new 
surveyor. But AXA could see that for whatever reason there hadnt been much  progress on 
a relatively uncomplicated claim for about  a year. I think it was entitled  to change surveyors  
in an effort  to move Mrs Os claim along.
Ref: DRN54238782For any home insurance claim its for the policyholder in the first instance to show  that they 
have a valid claim. In essence, they must  show that an event covered by the policy  occurred 
and that theyve suffered  a loss. AXAs second  surveyor sent someone to inspect  Mrs Os 
property who knew her property from an earlier claim for similar damage.  He was concerned 
that the earlier damage might not have  been  repaired. In the light of that I dont think it was 
unreasonable for UKI to ask Mrs O to provide receipts showing that the damage covered by 
the previous claim  had in fact been  repaired. In view of the information that had just come to 
light I think this was reasonable even though  the receipts hadnt been required by the first 
surveyor.
Finally, although  AXA made a cash  offer to settle the claim initially,  I think it was reasonable 
of it to require further information from Mrs O when the similarities with her previous claim 
became clear. I also think it acted reasonably in not accepting the handwritten receipt  
provided by Mrs O that appears to pre-date the loss she was claiming for.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5423878