K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds  (UKI) handling of a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
In bringing this complaint Mr Ds been helped by his dad. But, for ease Ill refer to his dads 
actions and comments as being those of Mr D.
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
background
Mr D was in an accident in February 2018  and asked UKI to arrange repairs.  One of UKIs 
approved repairers  repaired  the car but Mr D wasn't  happy with the standard of repairs.  UKI 
sent someone to rectify some of the problems. But the car had to go back  to the garage.  
After it was retuned the car still wasn't right so UKI arranged for it to go to another garage. 
Mr D made  a series of complaints to UKI. UKI acknowledged  that repairs  weren't up to 
standard and, in response to his complaints,  paid him compensation to address his distress 
and inconvenience  adding  up to £1,100. Mr D doesn't think  that goes far enough  and 
remains unhappy with the standard of repair.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 November 2018. For ease Ive copied my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill partly  uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr D has made  a number  of detailed points but in this decision I 
will focus on what I see as being  the main outstanding issues. But, since  he initially  brought  
his complaint to us, Mr D has raised a number of other concerns, for example about the cost 
of his new premium and about his policy lapsing. But those are new issues  and are not 
matters our investigator has considered. So I don't intend to comment  on those things here.
repairs
It's not disputed that initially some of the repairs were not up to standard, in particular, that 
the bonnet wasn't fitted properly. Mr D thinks this is because  the cars chassis was damaged 
in the accident. So he thinks the car should be written off. UKI agreed  that, at first the bonnet 
wasn't correctly aligned, even after the car had gone back  to the original  garage.  So it 
arranged for another garage  to put things right.  UKIs said that its engineer is happy with the 
standard of repair of the second  garage. In contrast, Mr D has provided a video that would 
seem to indicate that the bonnet still isn't in the right place.
I don't have engineering qualifications so Im not able to determine from the images I've 
seen, whether or not the issue with the bonnet  has been fixed to a reasonable standard or 
not. UKIs  own engineer has said he thinks the most recent repairs are reasonable. In those 
circumstances, where  a qualified engineer has given an opinion I would usually suggest that, 
if Mr D wished to challenge  this, he should provide a report  from another suitably qualified  
engineer. But given that their matter has dragged on for months, Mr Ds car has been  back  
Ref: DRN52819282for repair several times,  and Mr Ds video seems to show that the bonnet  still isn't fixed, I 
don't think  its fair to do that now. 
So given that the quality  of repairs is in dispute  I think the best way to resolve that dispute  is 
to ask an independent engineer to assess the repairs. UKI should instruct and pay for the 
independent engineer. It should confirm with Mr D that hes happy with the choice  of 
engineering firm which will provide the assessor.  What happens next will depend on the 
findings of the independent engineer as follows:
1. If the independent engineer thinks the repair  work already carried  out is of an 
acceptable industry standard, then UKI need  not take any further action. 
2. If the independent engineer reports that the repairs  are not up to standard, and it's 
not possible or cost effective to correct those to an acceptable standard,  then UKI should 
buy the car from Mr D at its market value  at the time of the accident in February  2018.  
3. If the independent engineer decides  that the repairs are not of a reasonable standard 
but can be put right then UKI should pay to have the car repaired. It should agree with Mr D 
which garage will carry out the repairs. The independent engineer  should  confirm that the 
repairs are of an acceptable standard before the garage returns  the car to Mr D. 
If UKI need to take action as set out in points 2 or 3 above, UKI should  pay Mr D a further 
£250 compensation to address the further distress and inconvenience  that the poor quality of 
the repair work has led to.
For the avoidance of doubt, the independent  engineer need only consider the standard  of 
repair work associated  with Mr Ds first accident from February 2018. The engineer  need  not 
consider any damage to the car arising from events  before or after that accident.
Its clear from the content and tone of his emails  that Mr D is very unhappy  with UKIs 
service. And his emails  paint a picture  of how that service has affected him. And I can see 
that hes been put to considerable inconvenience as the car wasn't repaired properly and 
hes had to make do with a hire car. Its also very clear how upsetting hes found the whole  
unnecessarily drawn out process. To address that UKI has paid him compensation totalling  
£1,100. Mr D doesnt think that goes  far enough.
Ive thought carefully about whether to award further compensation. And having done so, I 
think the compensation UKI has already paid - save for any more it must pay in line with my 
directions at points  2 and 3 above - is reasonable in the circumstances. Thats because 
£1,100 is a substantial sum and is higher than awards I have made in other cases  of similar  
seriousness. So I don't intend to direct UKI to increase  that figure.
developments
Mr D doesnt agree with my provisional  decision.  He said that, given the number of attempts 
at a repair he doesn't think  it should be repaired again. He thinks  that the timescales 
involved mean an independent inspection isn't an option. He said the car should be written  
off. And hes repeated  how the complaint has affected him and thinks  UKI should pay him 
more compensation  as a result.
UKI asked  to see Mr Ds video of his car, which we provided. But it didnt provide a further 
response to my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN52819283my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not going to change 
my provisional decision.
Mr D has repeated that he wants his car written off. But I wouldn't  expect an insurer  to write 
off a car that can be repaired  economically. And I haven't seen any persuasive  evidence that 
the car is beyond economic repair or is unsafe  to be driven. In fact the only engineering 
evidence I've seen,  from UKIs engineer, is that the car doesn't need further repair.  So I don't 
think its fair to instruct UKI to write  the car off because thats what Mr D wants  or because 
its already had several repairs.  
Also, if the repairs weren't  of a reasonable standard then that should  still be apparent 
regardless of the passage of time. So I don't think the fact that the cars already been 
repaired several times means  that an independent  engineer wouldn't  be able to come  to a 
fair conclusion about the standard of the previous repairs  resulting from the February  2018  
incident. So Im satisfied that the fair thing to do now is for an independent engineer  to 
assess the quality  of repairs. And that assessment will determine  what  needs to happen 
next, as set out in my provisional  decision and below.
Im also satisfied that the compensation  UKI has already  offered  is reasonable in the 
circumstances, for the reasons that I gave in my provisional decision. Although Ive 
considered what  Mr D said in response to that decision, he hasn't said anything  that 
convinces me that further compensation, at this time, is warranted.
Mr D is clearly unhappy with my findings. But he doesn't have to accept them  and in those 
circumstances he would  be free to take any other action,  for example through  the courts,  in 
order to pursue his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I partly uphold this complaint. I 
require U K Insurance Limited to instruct an independent engineer to assess  the quality  of 
repairs done to Mr Ds car following the accident in February 2018. What  happens next 
depends on the independent  engineers  report as follows:
1. If the independent engineer thinks the repair  work already carried  out is of an 
acceptable industry standard, then UKI need  not take any further action. 
2. If the independent engineer reports that the repairs  are not up to standard, and it's 
not possible or cost effective to correct those to an acceptable  standard,  then UKI 
should buy the car from Mr D at its market value at the time of the accident  in 
February 2018. 
3. If the independent engineer decides  that the repairs are not of a reasonable standard 
but can be put right then UKI should pay to have the car repaired. It should agree 
with Mr D which garage will carry out the repairs. The independent engineer  should  
confirm that the repairs  are of an acceptable  standard before the garage returns the 
car to Mr D. 
Ref: DRN52819284If UKI need to take action as set out in points 2 or 3 above, it should  pay Mr D a further £250 
compensation to address the further distress  and inconvenience that the poor quality  of the 
repair work has led to.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5281928