K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold them  a Silver 
packaged bank  account in 2014.  They pay a monthly fee for the account  which  provides 
several benefits in return.
background
Mr and Mrs P opened a fee-free account  with Lloyds in February 2014. They upgraded this 
to a Silver  packaged  account two weeks later during a review in one of Lloyds  branches.
Lloyds says that Silver account was sold via the internet.  Mr and Mrs P say it was sold in a 
branch. Mr and Mrs P say that even if it were  sold via the internet, they were in a Lloyds 
branch at the time.  Ive kept this in mind when thinking about their case.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Lloyds mis-sold the Silver account to Mr and Mrs P 
and didnt recommend that Lloyds should pay them any compensation. Mr and Mrs P didnt 
agree so they asked for an ombudsman  to look at the complaint and make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help me decide what to do about  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr and Mrs Ps complaint a lot of thought,  I dont think  the Silver  account was 
mis-sold to them. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs P were given a fair choice when they took 
their packaged bank account.
Mr and Mrs P say they were railroaded into taking  the Silver account for the mobile phone 
insurance it included.  In their complaint to Lloyds  I also note they say they were told it would 
look better in the future when they were applying for other banking  products with Lloyds, 
such as home insurance and loans. They also said they were told they had to take the 
account in order  to take a loan / overdraft  / mortgage.
Ive carefully considered  what Mr and Mrs P have said, as well as their circumstance. And 
having done so, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs P took the Silver account on the premise  
of a better  chance  of obtaining other banking products, or because  they didnt have a choice 
bout doing so.
This account was opened as a fee-free  account,  and I can also see that Mr and Mrs P had 
previously held a separate  fee-free joint account with Lloyds, as well as a joint home 
insurance policy. And it looks as though theyd had an agreed overdraft limit of £100 from 
the time the account was opened, which didnt change at the time, or after they upgraded.
Ref: DRN52137342Mr and Mrs P also said they were told they werent  eligible  for a fee-free account. But as 
theyd previously held fee-free accounts, I think its unlikely they were told that. Or if indeed  
they were,  I think its unlikely theyd have believed it.
So having  considered everything  here,  Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs P were aware that they 
had a choice about taking  the Silver account.  And I dont think they took it because they 
were given no other option  but to do so, or because they were given false  information.
I havent seen  enough to make me think Lloyds  recommended  the Silver account to Mr and 
Mrs P. So whilst it didnt have to check if the account was suitable for them, it had to give 
them the key information about it for them to decide  for themselves whether they wanted it.
Like our adjudicator, I think that Mr and Mrs P were interested in some of the benefits of the 
packaged account and chose it because  of these benefits. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs P say they were told that taking the Silver account  was the 
only way for them to obtain  mobile phone insurance.  And they say Lloyds didnt give any 
consideration to the other insurances they already  had in place  such  as car breakdown 
cover and travel insurance. 
I should start by explaining that the Silver account  wasnt the only way Mr and Mrs P could 
obtain mobile phone insurance,  and I think its reasonable to say that Mr and Mrs P probably 
knew that. But it was the cheapest way through Lloyds that they could get it. And it looks as 
though Mr and Mrs P registered two mobile  phones  against the policy  on the day they 
upgraded, and they also went on to register two further phones  the next year. 
Lloyds contact history also suggests that either  Mr or Mrs P contacted it around four months 
after the upgrade to request documentation  related to the travel insurance policy that came 
with the Silver account. So whilst I accept they might  not have known the details of the policy 
at the time the account was sold, I do think they knew they were  covered,  and importantly I 
think they wanted to rely on that insurance.  
I cant see any reason Mr and Mrs P couldnt have used the accounts other benefits too, 
such as the car breakdown cover. I know they say they already had that cover in place, but I 
think they most likely  knew about  the policy that was included with the Silver account,  and 
could have used  it instead of paying  for a separate policy if theyd wanted to.
I fully understand  that Mr and Mrs P may not have  used all the benefits of the Silver account.  
And with hindsight, they might not feel like its been good value for money  to them.  But that 
in itself doesnt mean Lloyds mis-sold  the account to them, and doesnt mean Lloyds  should  
automatically uphold  their complaint.
Its possible that Lloyds  didnt tell Mr and Mrs P everything it should  have about the Silver 
account. But I havent seen enough  to make me think that Mr and Mrs P wouldnt still have 
taken the account,  even  if Lloyds had told them more about it. 
Ive also thought about what  Mr and Mrs P said in relation to the way the account was sold. 
They explained that although Lloyds says the account was sold online, they were in fact in a 
Lloyds branch at the time, as theyd visited to have an account review.
Ref: DRN52137343Its unclear why theres a discrepancy here, but however the account was sold, it doesnt 
change my decision in this case. Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ps recollections, but in doing  
that Im mindful that Mr and Mrs P say the account  was sold in 2008, and not 2014. 
The evidence Ive seen  satisfies  me that the account  was sold in February 2014, so it seems  
possible that Mr and Mrs P dont remember the sale clearly  which is understandable, given 
the time that has passed since then. But either way, and having  considered  everything,  I 
think Mr and Mrs P received enough  information about the Silver account, and they were 
free to make the decision on whether to upgrade, and they chose to do so.
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs P that Ive looked  at all the information I have about their 
complaint. And Ive thought about everything  theyve said.  But having done  so I dont think  
Lloyds mis-sold the Silver account to them. So I dont  think it owes  them  any money.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 September 2019. 
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5213734