K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains (on behalf  of himself and the estate of his late wife Mrs F) that Yorkshire  
Building Society (trading  as Chelsea  Building  Society) mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
Chelsea Building Society sold the mortgage  and PPI to Mr and Mrs F. It later merged with 
Yorkshire Building Society.  And Yorkshire Building  Society is responsible for dealing with 
this complaint. So, to keep things simpler,  in my decision Ill just refer to Yorkshire  Building  
Society as the business that sold the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs F took out a joint mortgage  in 1998.
A couple of years  later, in or around  August 2000, they took out PPI to protect  their monthly  
mortgage repayments in the event that Mr F lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mr F disagrees. He 
mainly says that due to the high level of savings he held,  and his job security,  he firmly 
believes that he and Mrs F would never have knowingly agreed to take out PPI. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Yorkshire Building Society couldnt  provide  any paperwork  signed  by Mr and Mrs F from 
when they were sold the PPI. But this isnt a reason  for me to uphold the complaint. Its not 
surprising that paperwork isnt still available after so long. I wouldnt expect Yorkshire 
Building Society or Mr F to have kept this. So I have to decide what I think  is most likely to 
have happened  based on the limited information  Ive got, including what Mr F can recall  and 
what Yorkshire Building Society has told us about its usual sales process at that time.
Ive taken into account what Mr F has told us, including his comment that he would never 
have agreed to have  PPI. But it wouldnt  be reasonable to expect Mr F to recall exactly  what  
was said or done  so long ago. So what he says now about why he thinks the PPI was mis-
sold isnt enough  on its own for me to be able to uphold  the complaint. I must  look at all the 
available information  and decide what I think is most likely. 
It looks like Mr and Mrs F probably didnt  take out PPI when  their mortgage started. Ive seen 
a welcome letter which was sent to them in August 2000, enclosing details of the PPI theyd 
taken out. Theres  only limited information  available  about their borrowing but it looks  as if 
their mortgage was running for about  two years without PPI before they took it out. So at the 
time, I think that Mr and Mrs F wouldve understood that it was up to them to arrange  PPI if 
they wanted to take it out as it wasnt required  as part of their mortgage.  
Ref: DRN50075602The welcome letter refers to Mr and Mrs F having returned a reply  slip. Yorkshire Building 
Society says that its usual  practice,  when PPI was arranged in response to a mailing  after a 
mortgage had already  been completed, was that a customer wouldve had to complete and 
sign such a slip, to confirm he was eligible for the cover and had read and understood the 
details of the policy which had been sent to him as part of the mailing.  On balance I think 
thats probably what Mr and Mrs F did, even if understandably  Mr F doesnt now recall it.
Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage was a significant financial  commitment. Their home wouldve been 
at risk if the mortgage  payments  werent kept up to date. PPI provided a dependable means 
of ensuring their monthly mortgage repayments were protected even if Mr F couldnt  work. 
Looking at their circumstances at the time I think that PPI offered them  protection  that they 
couldve benefitted from having. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs F decided  that they 
wanted to have the benefits that PPI offered and they chose to buy the policy  to cover Mr F. 
Yorkshire Building Society told us that it doesnt  any longer have a policy document from the 
exact date Mr and Mrs F took out PPI. But it has provided a policy document that was in use 
shortly before Mr and Mrs F bought their PPI. So I think its likely that in all main respects the 
policy that covered  Mr F wouldve had similar terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs F chose  the cover based on the information they were  given about the policy  - 
Yorkshire Building Society didnt personally recommend the policy  to them. But it still had to 
make sure that Mr and Mrs F had good  enough  information to make a proper  decision  about 
whether PPI was right for them.
I can see why they mightve wanted to protect themselves against the risk that Mr F might  
become unexpectedly  unemployed. There can be no guarantee that any job will always be 
secure. The policy wouldve paid the monthly benefit  theyd selected  if Mr F lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work, on top of any redundancy pay he mightve got. 
Having the policy in place wouldve given Mr and Mrs F peace  of mind that their home was 
protected in these circumstances.  I think this couldve been  an important consideration for 
Mr and Mrs F at the time. 
Mr F mentioned having substantial savings. But there was no guarantee when Mr and Mrs F 
took out this mortgage that they would always have savings to rely on as everyones 
circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
And it looks like they preferred not to spend  those savings, or they had other plans for that 
money, since they took out this mortgage rather than invest all their savings to reduce their 
borrowing. Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs F could depend on being able to continue to keep 
savings intact  to spend on other things or to provide financial security for the future. 
It looks like Mr F was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions that probably wouldve applied. And it doesnt look as if Mr F was affected  by any 
of the main things not covered under the policy. So I dont think more  information about the 
policys terms wouldve made  any difference to Mr and Mrs Fs decision to take out 
unemployment cover  for Mr F.
Ref: DRN50075603The policy was free of charge until 31 January 2001. Mr and Mrs F wouldve seen that theyd 
have to start paying  to keep it running after the initial free period because this was explained 
in the welcome  letter  that Yorkshire Building Society sent them  when the policy  started. 
I dont know if they knew  how much the monthly premiums would be when they agreed  to 
have the PPI. But they took out the policy when they didnt have  to and its likely they chose  
the type of cover and amount of benefit  from a range of possible options. So it seems  to me 
that they were  happy to pay for the insurance they wanted to have at the time.  The premium  
was relatively low. And as they were  paying for it monthly Mr and Mrs F couldve cancelled 
the PPI if they hadnt wanted  to keep it running when they had to start paying for the policy in 
February 2001, or at any time after that if their situation or wishes changed.  
Its possible there mightve been  some failings in the way this policy  was sold.  But this isnt a 
reason for me to uphold  this complaint. I think Mr and Mrs F still wouldve decided  to buy the 
policy for Mr F even if theyd been better  informed,  as the policy  gave them useful protection. 
So, as things stand,  it doesnt look to me as if Mr and Mrs F have lost out as a result of 
anything Yorkshire  Building  Society did wrong.  This means that it doesnt need to do 
anything to put things right.
In coming to my provisional decision Ive thought carefully about  everything  that Mr F has 
said, including his comments made in response to our adjudicators  views.  I accept that 
theres only very limited  information now available on which I can base  my decision, and 
I appreciate he feels strongly  about  this complaint. I understand that what  Ive said will come 
as a disappointment. In my decision  Ive dealt with all the main points hes raised  that have 
an impact on the outcome  of his complaint and I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive 
done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
Based on the information Id seen, my provisional decision was not to uphold  this complaint.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Neither party has made any further  comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair not to uphold  this complaint for the reasons 
I explained in my provisional decision.  
Ref: DRN50075604my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN5007560