K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about AXA Insurance  UK Plcs service under  his travel insurance policy.  My 
references to AXA include its agents  including its emergency assistance service.
background
Mr R was travelling  abroad on his own when he fell and hurt his hip. He was transferred to 
an international hospital where he says staff told him hed fractured the femur to his hip. His 
cousin contacted AXA on 21 February to tell it about the accident and make a claim.  She 
told AXA that Mr R needed a hip replacement.
Mr R complains that AXA didnt repatriate him to the UK until 28 February. He says:
There was a lack of assistance  from AXA throughout the process and it left him 
stranded abroad waiting to be repatriated
AXA failed to communicate with him and he was unable to contact it through  the 
hospital
AXA tried to insist he have surgery abroad which he didnt want
AXA didnt transfer him to the UK hospital of his choice  where  his orthopaedic 
consultant was based 
AXA failed in its duty of care to him.
Mr R says hes been left with a limp and confidence  issues. He wants  AXA to pay him 
compensation for unnecessary suffering.
AXA said it followed the correct procedures to provide the most appropriate and medically  
necessary help. It apologised for any inconvenience but said it wasnt  responsible  for the 
delay as the repatriation took longer than expected  because:
It was very difficult to contact Mr R through the hospital and he didnt have a mobile 
phone and or access to emails
The Foreign Commonwealth Office  (FCO) advised against all except essential  travel 
to where Mr R was so travel arrangements werent straightforward
Mr Rs UK hospital of choice wouldnt accept him as he had to follow  NHS procedure  
and be admitted to the hospital which is close to his home area.
Our investigator thought AXA had given reasonable service and wasnt  responsible for the 
delays in repatriating  Mr R.
Mr R doesnt agree and wants  an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Waiting to be repatriated  was a very difficult time for Mr R and Im sorry to see he says its 
affected him long term. But I need to decide  whether  AXA handled his claim fairly  and 
reasonably, and I think it did.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN58772432Mr R felt he was left stranded  as he received little communication  from AXA. But AXA did 
make attempts to contact him and at first wasnt able to. He had very little access to a 
telephone or internet which meant it was very difficult for AXA and his family to communicate  
with him.
Initially AXA didnt have  a phone number for Mr R. When it tried to call him on the 
23 February the number  was incorrect  and it couldnt speak to him when it called the hospital 
on 24 February. The same date, Mr Rs cousin told AXA that she had no contact from him.
Im satisfied that AXA made reasonable attempts to contact Mr R and its not responsible for 
the lack of communication.
From AXAs notes it managed to speak with Mr R later on 24 February. He told it he didnt  
want surgery abroad and wanted to be return to the UK.
Mr R says AXA tried insisting  he have  surgery abroad but I havent seen any evidence  to 
support that suggestion. On 25 February, before it was able to confirm cover, AXA was 
making detailed  arrangements  for his repatriation  which doesnt support  that it insisted he 
have surgery abroad.  
AXA may well have  spoken to Mr R about  having  surgery abroad.  It would have been  
reasonable for AXA to do so as AXA needed  to consider the options to decide  what was in 
Mr Rs best interests on the medical information  it had and the circumstances.
As part of the repatriation  arrangements AXA contacted Mr Rs UK hospital of choice. The 
hospital told AXA on 26 February that it wouldnt admit Mr R and he should be admitted to a 
hospital close to his home area.  AXA told Mr Rs cousin  and Mr R why the arrangements 
had been postponed. On 27 February AXA contacted a hospital  local to Mr Rs home who 
said he should be admitted through Accident and Emergency,  assessed  and treated 
accordingly. AXA updated Mr R and he was repatriated the next day.
It took AXA seven  days from being notified of the claim to repatriate Mr R. I think  thats a 
reasonable timescale given the communication problems, that travel  arrangements  were  
more complex given the FCOs advice about  Mr Rs location and Mr Rs hospital of choice 
refused to admit him. None of those factors were AXAs responsibility. Theres  no evidence 
that it failed in its duty of care to Mr R. 
Im satisfied that AXA gave Mr R a fair and reasonable service in arranging his repatriation.  
Theres no basis for me to make  any compensation award.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5877243