K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold to them  a monthly  
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1991 when they applied  for 
a joint mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs N complained  to this Service. They initially said the Nationwide mortgage man 
told them  they had to take out the insurance  because it was compulsory; they were told to 
split the cover jointly between them. They didnt need the cover  and complain  the PPI was 
mis-sold.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld  against Nationwide  because  the 
policy was presented as an optional product. And although the cost and benefits  couldve 
been clearer, the policy was still of value  to Mr and Mrs N.
Mr and Mrs N disagreed  with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at 
again. They  added the following points:
the policy was taken out by a mortgage  advisor in the estate agents office and not 
with Nationwide  direct   so they were disputing who was responsible for the PPI sale;
they did not speak to Nationwide  at any time;
the person  selling PPI worked on a commission basis   and he was more interested  
in that;
he didnt explain the terms properly;
theres no proof that the seller  gave Mr and Mrs N a leaflet explaining PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr and Mrs N said they did not buy PPI from Nationwide, I first looked at whether 
Nationwide, the lender,  was responsible for the PPI sale. If I think  Nationwide was 
responsible for the PPI sale, then I can go on to look at the merits of the PPI complaint.
was Nationwide  responsible for the PPI sale?
If I decide Nationwide is responsible for the PPI sale, then I next need to decide  whether the 
sale happened as it shouldve done. If I dont  think Nationwide was responsible for the sale 
of the policy  to Mr and Mrs N, then Im not able to consider a complaint about  the sale of the 
PPI against it.
Ive looked at all the submissions and evidence sent in by Nationwide. It told us the 
following:
it has always accepted responsibility for this PPI sale;
the PPI was sold in August 1991;  
the PPI was sold during a meeting with Mr and Mrs N;
the policy gave  them joint cover for their mortgage;
PPI started at the same time as the mortgage loan; 
Ref: DRN57125772Mr and Mrs N brought  their complaint against  Nationwide because they first told us the 
Nationwide man at the estate agents  sold the PPI policy.  But after our adjudicator rejected 
the complaint  against Nationwide, Mr and Mrs N said: when this policy was taken out, it was 
never taken  out with direct contact with Nationwide 
Ive looked at the evidence provided,  including the Mortgage Application  and what Mr and 
Mrs N have told us about the sale. At the bottom  of the application  form, it says the following:
For the sale of general insurance, the Society  and Estate Agency are independent  
intermediaries which act as your agent and accept responsibility for the advice provided and 
for the arranging of your insurance.  We comply with the Association of British  Insurers  Code 
of Practice, a copy of which is available on request.
So on the strength  of this final paragraph on the form, Im satisfied that Nationwide is 
responsible for the PPI sale and so I will now be able to look at the merits of the complaint.  It 
also seems likely that Mr and Mrs N did speak to a Nationwide representative at the estate 
agents as they first remembered.
was the PPI mis-sold  to Mr and Mrs N?
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr 
and Mrs N so Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs N specifically complain they were told they had to have the PPI so I first looked 
at whether Nationwide did enough to show Mr and Mrs N that the policy  was an optional 
product. I looked at the mortgage  application  form which Nationwide  says was completed for 
Mr and Mrs N in 1991. There  is a section referring  to Mortgage  Payment Cover and it asks 
the consumer  whether  they want to cover  one or both mortgage applicants. I think that if they 
didnt want the cover, then they wouldnt have completed this part of the form at all. So I 
think there was enough  on the form to show PPI was an optional product.
Mr and Mrs N told us they bought the policy during a meeting and on the advice of a 
representative. But Nationwide told us that, in line with its consistent business approach, the 
sale was a non-advised information  only sale. I accept Mr and Mrs Ns evidence  is their 
best memory  of the sale but  based on our knowledge of Nationwide sales at that time - I 
think its more likely  it was a non-advised sale and so Ill look at it on that basis.
For a non-advised  sale, Nationwide  shouldve  given Mr and Mrs N enough information which  
was clear, fair and not misleading so they could make their own informed decision about 
whether to buy the policy. So Id expect Nationwide to highlight the policys significant  
features.
I checked they were  both eligible to buy the policy as Mr N said he had only just started a 
new job at the time of buying the PPI. However, the mortgage application form shows he had 
been working for four years; and Mrs N had been working for eight years.  So I think they 
were both eligible  to buy the policy.
Ref: DRN57125773For a non-advised  sale, I wouldve expected Nationwide to tell Mr and Mrs N about the cost 
and benefit of it. I dont  know what was said during the meeting about that, but Nationwide  
said it gave a leaflet  to Mr and Mrs N which explained PPI  although Mr and Mrs N said 
there was no proof they did get a leaflet - and Nationwide also said the Insurance Schedule  
showed the monthly PPI cost. 
I also saw that Mr and Mrs N chose the monthly benefit to be split equally between them  
and this was written on the mortgage  application  form for them  so I can assume they had 
some information about PPI before  choosing  the 50/50 split. Mr and Mrs N said this was not 
suitable for them but I could see from the mortgage application form that they had similar 
annual earnings,  so I think the joint cover  probably  was suitable for them. As Ive already 
decided they chose to have the PPI, I dont  think  any more  information about cost and 
benefits wouldve  stopped them from buying the policy.
Id also expect Nationwide to highlight the things the policy didnt cover (the exclusions). 
I dont know how the main exclusions were explained to Mr and Mrs N in the meeting. But I 
dont think it would have  mattered to them because I dont think they were affected by the 
main ones. 
Taking everything into account  at this stage, I think the policy  was shown as optional. And I 
dont think that any more detailed information  wouldve put them off from buying  the PPI. So 
Im not intending to uphold this complaint which means Nationwide doesnt  have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs N.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs N because:  
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs N about that. Because Nationwide didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs N, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs N any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back to Mr and Mrs N any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs N the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide  should  
also pay Mr and Mrs N 8%* simple interest  on each payment (15% on payments before April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs N can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
Ref: DRN57125774The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs N.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs N any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 July 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5712577