K820x#14complaint
Ms M is unhappy with her home  insurer Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA), as she 
feels it completed poor work of little value when  handling a fire damage claim for her, and 
that, as a result, shes lost out on a larger cash settlement. She also thinks  it treated her 
poorly.
background
There was a fire at Ms Ms home in October 2016.  She and her family  had to move out of the 
home, and whilst RSA said it would investigate matters, it wasnt  prepared to accept  liability 
straightaway. That didnt occur  until December 2016. The buildings claim progressed and 
contents items were  moved into storage with some being restored, others were disposed of 
as beyond repair. In February 2018  the building reinstatement  was nearing completion but 
RSA was still waiting  for the contents claim to be fully presented. Around this time the stored 
contents were returned to Ms Ms home.
In August  2018,  RSA having  told Ms M what it would pay in settlement for her items  
damaged beyond repair, Ms M complained  to RSA about the restored contents.  She said 
she hadnt been told theyd be restored, that they hadnt been restored and that they were in 
a poor state  upon return. She showed RSA items  covered  in dust, with marks on them and 
loose parts, she said laundered items were stained. Ms M said some  items had been 
disposed of that werent damaged, and one item RSA had told her it had paid to restore, 
didnt even belong  to her. Ms M said her total claim against the policy for damaged items 
was £38,052.37, and RSA should  pay this, plus £2,618  for an undamaged sofa and washing 
machine it had disposed of. Ms M said RSA should  pay this total to her, instead of the 
£22,114.62 it had offered (being the sum insured of £50,000 less the reported cost of 
restoration work). 
Ms M also told RSA she felt it had treated her very poorly at times,  with a complete lack of 
compassion for the situation she was in. She said that in November 2018 she and her family 
(consisting of two female relatives) had been forced  to move  to one room in a budget hotel,  
where shed spent several weeks sleeping on a sofa. She felt RSA had tried to return the 
contents items too early and its enquiries  made  prior to it accepting the claim had been 
unnecessarily prolonged. She felt RSA was taking too long to pay the undisputed elements 
of the contents  claim.
In November 2018 RSA issued a final response on Ms Ms complaint. It acknowledged 
thered been a severe delay in it providing its response and offered £200 compensation. But 
regarding the claim it didnt provide any comment in respect of how that had been handled. 
RSA said the balance available for settlement of the contents items was still in dispute and it 
would continue to review this, but in the meantime it would pay what it felt was currently  
available. RSA said it was satisfied that restoration  work had been done and that items had 
been returned to Ms M in good order, apart  from in respect of any pre-existing damage.  
Ms M complained to us and our investigator  didnt uphold the complaint.  She said RSA had 
clearly worked to restore contents items  and it could fairly factor its cost for this into the 
settlement available to Ms M. 
Ms M said she felt our investigator hadnt dealt  with her concerns  about  how the claim was 
handled. Our investigator replied stating compensation was not, in her view, justified.
Ref: DRN55092652Ms M replied at length in respect of the contents  aspect of the claim.  Essentially, Ms M feels 
RSA did no work of worth, the work  and costs  were not checked and that its not fair for it to 
reduce her cash settlement for other  items on account of this work. Ms M mentioned some 
items individually which she has specific concerns  about. 
Ms Ms complaint was passed  to me and, having considered everything, I wasnt minded to 
uphold it. But my reasoning in some respects differed to that set out by our investigator,  and 
I needed to let both parties know why I felt RSA had handled the claim reasonably. So, 
I issued a provisional decision to explain my views and allow  both parties to reply.  My 
findings were:
basis of claim settlement
I appreciate that Ms M has disputed some  of the prices RSA has attributed to her damaged  
items. But Ive seen nothing that makes me think RSA was wrong in its assessment of their 
replacement value. RSAs  cost to repair those items came in at significantly less than their 
total replacement  value (as determined by RSA), but that was still around £26,000. And 
Ms M claimed  over £38,000 for items  which were  damaged beyond  repair  by the fire. That 
means the total replacement value for items  lost in or damaged  by the fire must be over 
£60,000 and Ms M had a sum insured  for contents of £50,000.
The sum insured  is meant to reflect what it will cost to replace  all contents as new. RSA sets 
out in its policy what it will do when settling  contents  claims if the sum insured is not 
sufficient for that purpose:
If loss or damage happens  and the sum insured  is less than the cost of replacing all your 
contents as new,  we will, where appropriate, take off an amount for wear and tear from the 
cost of the new item unless the item can be economically repaired when only the cost of the 
repair will be paid:
And;
The most we will pay for any one claim is the amount it will cost us to replace  all your 
contents as new but not more than the sum insured or any limits  shown in your policy.
Here RSA did not seek to deduct an amount in respect of wear and tear from the damaged  
beyond repair replacement items. But it did determine to settle based on the sum insured 
value, having  taken into account what it had spent on restoring  items.  I think  that in this 
instance, given  the policy wording set out above,  this approach to settling the claim was fair 
and reasonable.
restoration 
I know Ms M feels  RSA did no work of worth to the items it says it restored.  But Ive seen the 
photos of the furniture  items and I think its clear  the items have been worked on and their 
condition has been improved. Regarding laundered items Im mindful  that it was several 
months after the return of these items  that Ms M drew her concerns about them to RSAs  
attention. That delay is bound to make  determining liability for the condition of these items 
more difficult. For me to decide that RSA had failed Ms M, Id have to be satisfied  of their 
condition before the fire and that their condition reported since  being returned to Ms M is 
most likely on account of work undertaken by it. I havent seen anything  that makes  me think  
this is the case.  
Ref: DRN55092653Ms M has also said that if RSA had completed  a basic refurbishment of items, for example, 
washing down, sanding  and re-varnishing  wooden items, this would have cost much less 
than the charges RSA has attributed to this work.  Ms M thinks the costs and work should  
have been checked and questioned by RSA.  Beyond Ms Ms contention of prices  Ive not 
seen any evidence which makes me think the costs in question here are unlikely to be true. 
An insurer  wouldnt  usually have cause to check on its contractors unless or until concerns 
are drawn to its attention. I see that when Ms M raised concerns  about the contents 
restoration, RSA did look into this and was satisfied  work had been done. 
I know Ms M feels  RSA should  have  told her it intended to restore  items. I can see that RSA, 
during the claim, was less than clear about this. But Im not persuaded it really mis-led Ms M. 
I know she says it was her intention to restore all these items  but Ive seen no express 
direction from Ms M to RSA saying this is what she wanted to do. As such, given Ms M had 
made a claim to it for damaged items,  Ms M was entitled to expect RSA to act in line with the 
cover in place and RSA was under  a duty to discharge its obligations under the policy, and in 
this case that included restoring damaged items.
sofa, washing machine,  dishwasher and wall unit
Ms M says the sofa and washing  machine werent damaged but RSA disposed of them,  
meaning their replacement cost has been factored needlessly  into the claim. Ive seen 
confirmation from RSAs  restoration contractor that the washing machine failed a safety  test 
and the smell of smoke  couldnt be removed from the sofa.  I think its reasonable for RSA to 
treat these  items as damaged beyond repair by the fire.
Ms M included the dishwasher in her contents claim but then asked  RSA to move  it to the 
buildings claim as its an integrated appliance.  RSA has confirmed  it has done that, so its 
replacement cost isnt factored  into the contents  settlement.
Ms M says RSA added costs for restoring  a wall unit into her claim, but it didnt belong to 
her. Im not persuaded its likely this item wasnt taken from Ms Ms home. This is not a small 
item and Ms Ms belongings  would likely have all been loaded and then kept together. Im 
also mindful that Ms Ms house is large  with a lot of belongings in it, not all stored in a 
particularly tidy manner,  and she was not the only adult living  in the property. I think its 
reasonable to think that its more likely that Ms M was unaware of this item being in her 
home than it is to think RSAs contractor  erroneously mixed this large item in with all of 
Ms Ms other  pieces  of furniture. 
claim handling
I understand that RSA making enquiries at the outset must have been frustrating for Ms M. 
However, it was entitled to do that and I think it completed those  enquiries  in a reasonably 
timely manner. 
But an unfortunate consequence  of an insurer undertaking enquiries like this is that it will 
often need to tell its policyholder that it wont be able to agree  to cover things like short-term  
rental accommodation until it has accepted liability. This can often lead to its policyholder  
having to stay in hotels,  sometimes in less than desirable circumstances. I understand  that 
Ms M felt let down at this time but as RSAs  enquiries were on-going, and hotel costs were 
accruing, Im not persuaded there  was much else that could have been done.  I know Ms M 
thinks RSA should  have negotiated a better  deal for a hotel  but RSA hadnt accepted 
liability at the time.  Further,  given Ms Ms location and the budget  hotels being  utilised  in 
Ref: DRN55092654order to keep costs  down, Im not persuaded any discount could reasonably have been 
achieved even if RSA had intervened. 
I appreciate that Ms M feels RSA acted  unfairly  when it tried to return her restored contents 
items whilst the home was still uninhabitable. But it isnt unusual for an offer like this to be 
made by a restoring  contractor. Not least as sometimes a policyholder will want  some  or all 
of their items  returned  quickly,  and sometimes even larger  items  can be of use in rented 
accommodation. Im not persuaded  RSA did anything  wrong  here. 
Im not persuaded RSA unreasonably delayed settling for Ms Ms contents which were 
damaged beyond repair. Ms M only gave it full details of this part of her claim in 
February 2018; there were clearly a lot of contents  to consider and RSA confirmed in its 
November 2018  final response letter that it would settle the part of the claim it accepted was 
due to Ms M, whilst continuing to review what was in dispute. I think  that was reasonable. 
RSAs offer of £200 compensation
Ms M feels this is not enough given what she feels shes been through  with the claim. But 
Ive given my views on that above,  and the £200  wasnt paid by RSA in respect of the claim. 
Rather RSA paid this because  it felt it had delayed in providing its response to Ms Ms 
complaint. Im not going  to comment on this further  because complaints about complaint 
handling arent something this service is able to consider. 
summary
I can understand why Ms M feels frustrated  she has suffered an upsetting  incident  and 
thought that, at least, shed be able to get back or replace all her damaged possessions. 
I accept that finding  out this was not to be the case was upsetting  for her. Unfortunately,  
given the extent of Ms Ms belongings and what she lost, set against the terms of the policy, 
she was never entitled to receive all of that from RSA.  In my view RSA has handled and 
settled this claim fairly and reasonably, I wont be asking it to do anything more.
RSA said it accepted my findings. 
Ms Ms representative, Mr S, replied on her behalf. He said my decision was completely at 
odds with the law and the facts, and I had put too much of a subjective  spin on matters. Mr S 
said the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 placed  an implied term into the contract between RSA 
and Ms M for it to act with reasonable care and skill. And, Mr S said, RSA had not done so 
which had caused  loss to Ms M which it, therefore, was responsible for.  
Mr S said,  applying  that law to the claim:
RSA had admitted not checking  on the work of its agent,  its excessive  invoices were  paid 
without question.  No reasonable person would have paid that much  for work without 
checking it. Therefore, there is a clear  breach  of contract because RSA acted without  
reasonable care.
Ms M wasnt  told that her items  were  going  to be restored. Or even that they had been  
restored. At no time was Ms M consulted.  She was only told items  were being taken to 
storage (with non-restorable  items  being  disposed of and internal areas of the property 
cleaned) and that is all she agreed  to. This is another failure  to take reasonable care,  but 
the written direction  that items were being  taken to storage was information  Ms M relied 
upon, so RSA is bound by that. If shed known that the agent was to restore  the contents 
Ref: DRN55092655items, she wouldnt have  allowed that to happen,  or would  at least  have  wanted  to be 
actively involved. 
If Ms M had engaged  the restoration  company directly, shed have had further  protection  
regarding only paying a reasonable price for their services. And the charges actually 
applied by the restoration company are grotesquely  out of proportion, given little or no 
work was done and the actual value  of the items.
Again  if Ms M had engaged the company directly, shed have had the right to demand a 
reduction in price on account  of the poor work done. Here the restoration work was of no 
value, items were disposed of that werent  damaged and damage was done to fabric  
items  and the appropriate reduction for all of that is the full amount allotted in respect 
of this work/these  items against  the claim.
RSA had a duty of care to ensure it protected Ms Ms interests  such that she received 
similar protection to that she would have if she was dealing  directly with its agent.
Mr S said that, in light of this, I should find that Ms Ms loss on account of RSAs  failures  was 
the total of the sum it had paid to its agent. Mr S said I should  take this opportunity  to make a 
decision that finds an insurer  must use reasonable care and skill and protect the rights of its 
policyholder  finding anything else would mean  an insurer could ignore the legislation.
Mr S added that it seemed I felt it was appropriate  for a policyholder to have to endure  
unsatisfactory sleeping  conditions.  In short he said Ms M had been treated shamefully and 
he wondered if my findings might be based  in discrimination on account  of Ms Ms ethnicity.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I can assure Ms M that my findings  are based on the circumstances of the claim and 
complaint, as evidenced by the submissions  of both parties. I have not treated Ms M 
differently to any other complainant.  
I understand that when Ms M and her family stayed in the hotel  before  RSA accepted the 
claim the conditions  were unsatisfactory. That is unfortunate. But RSA hadnt  accepted  
liability for the claim at that time. 
I take the relevant law into account  in every  decision I make. The Consumer Rights Act uses  
the phrase reasonable  care and skill, and part of my role is to decide  whether I think  an 
insurer, in this case RSA,  has treated its policyholder fairly  and reasonably. An assessment 
such as that sometimes  requires me to take into account and refer to subjective matters.
Ive explained  provisionally why I think that, in the circumstances here, RSA acted 
reasonably. As I said, it would not be standard practice for an insurer to check and question 
the work  of its agents. 
I said I felt RSA could have been  clearer with Ms M during the claim about what its intentions  
were in respect of the damaged contents  items but Im not sure,  if it had been,  that Ms M 
would have done anything differently. I note she says poor business reviews  of the agent 
would have meant she wouldnt have wanted it to work on her belongings  but those 
reviews didnt cause  her to object  to it working on her home.  Im mindful that the detail in the 
letter about  what the agent  was being instructed to do might be considered  binding.  I accept 
that would  mean if the agent  then didnt complete the specified work eg they didnt store  
Ref: DRN55092656items when  they said they would, that would equate to a breach. But I dont  think, especially 
in light of the wider  policy which explained the full obligations and duties of both parties, that 
because the letter said X, Y and Z would be done, it should reasonably be implied that RSA 
was then bound to not act outside  of that scope. 
In considering whether an insurer has acted fairly and reasonably,  that naturally 
encompasses consideration of the acts and/or omissions of their agents. Thats  because  any 
failure by the agents is seen as that of the insurer, in this case RSA. If Id felt there was a 
problem with the price  RSAs agent charged or with the work it did, Id have  found  RSA liable 
for that, and made it rectify matters. So Ms Ms position has not been affected on account of 
her not having  entered into a direct contract  with the restoring company. 
I appreciate that Mr S, and by extension Ms M, doesnt agree with my findings. However, 
having considered the points made, Im not minded  to change  my views  provisionally stated. 
My provisional findings now form part of the findings of this, my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2021.
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5509265