K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about  AXA Insurance  UK Plcs handling of a claim they 
made under their travel  insurance  policy.
background
In February 2019  Mr and Mrs M went on a family  safari abroad.  Unfortunately, Mr M fell ill 
and suffered a suspected seizure.  He was airlifted to a local hospital  for treatment and later 
repatriated home to the UK. AXA met their claim but they were unhappy with various aspects 
of the handling of their claim which they felt had impacted on them  significantly.
AXA upheld some aspects of their complaint and offered £350 in compensation. Mr and Mrs 
M didnt think this went far enough and referred  their complaint here. Our investigator agreed 
and felt that £500 was a fairer figure overall.
Neither party agreed. AXA felt that the offer they had made was fair. Mr and Mrs M said in 
summary that no amount of money  could put right the damage done  to their mental health or 
the lasting impact on Mrs M, but that £500  was not acceptable.  They  felt that 
communication, which was for them the main  issue, had be made light of. They  also felt that 
the flight for Mrs Ms relative, who flew out to assist them,  should  be covered. 
my findings
Ive only included a brief summary but Ive considered all the available evidence  and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. 
Having done so I agree that this complaint  should be upheld in part, but like the investigator I 
think that £500 is a fair sum in the circumstances.  Ill explain why.
Case set up, progress and breakdown in communication 
From the evidence I have  it seems  that the case was set up without delay. Usually medical  
records are required but I can see that the medical assistance team agreed to proceed with 
the claim without this information. I understand that Mrs M feels strongly that there were 
issues with communication and due to this she asked a relative  to fly out. I can see that 
AXAs agents needed to be chased  on occasion  for updates and I think that would have 
added to the stressful situation  that Mr and Mrs M found themselves in. 
But looking  at the contact notes it does seem  that AXA itself had issues  in contacting the 
hospital and after some days asked whether there were  any other assistance services which 
could help because  of the difficulties  it was experiencing  with its agent. So whilst I think  that 
AXA could have  made this request a day or two sooner, I dont think it was responsible  for 
the issue itself. Communication can sometimes be less than straightforward when dealing 
with another country and I can see that this was no exception. I cant find AXA wholly  
responsible for this. I understand why a relative  flew out to assist Mr and Mrs M at this 
difficult time, but I dont  find that AXA are liable to pay the cost of her flight.
Delay in repatriation
I can appreciate that Mr and Mrs M were  keen to come home  as soon as was possible.  And 
its clear from the contact log that Mrs M made  this clear. But its understandable  that the 
Ref: DRN58480172neurologist wanted to make sure that Mr M had been seizure free for some time before 
agreeing that he was fit to fly.
I cant say that there was any extended delay from the date clearance  was confirmed with 
the airline until the flight home five days later. Mrs M has commented  on the arrangements 
made for the medical escort, and I can see that there was miscommunication with regard to 
the booking and accommodation. This would have been frustrating to witness  but I cant 
award compensation to Mr and Mrs M for difficulties experienced by the medical escort.
No ambulance at airport on return to UK
An ambulance should have been  arranged to collect Mr and Mrs M from the airport on their 
return. I understand that relatives had to collect them  when it became apparent that no 
ambulance had been arranged. AXA have paid the related costs  but this mustve been 
frustrating for Mr and Mrs M and shouldnt have  happened.
Overall Im satisfied that the communication received by Mr and Mrs M at an extremely  
distressing time for them was not what they could rightly expect.  Additionally when they 
finally arrived home no ambulance had been pre-booked for them. I agree that 
compensation is due and that the £350  offered by AXA is insufficient.  I find that an award of 
£500 is merited for the unnecessary distress  and upset caused  by AXAs handling  of their 
claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I uphold this complaint  in part. I require AXA Insurance Plc to 
pay £500 in compensation to Mr and Mrs M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 March  2020.
Lindsey Woloski
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5848017