K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2007. Mr B says National  Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr B has said he thinks the PPI was added without his knowledge but I think  NatWest made 
it clear that Mr B didnt  have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why he cant remember this. I say this because  Ive been  given  a copy  of 
the electronic  credit  agreement which was created when Mr B completed his application 
online and this includes a section about PPI. A tick has been placed in the box to purchase 
the cover  and a tick has been printed in the separate signature box to confirm his selection.  
If Mr B didnt want to take out the PPI he could have left the section blank. Mr B has also 
placed a tick in the signature box for the overall credit agreement, which suggests he 
agreed with everything  that had been  entered.
So on balance, based on everything Ive seen  and been told, I think NatWest made Mr B 
aware the policy was optional  and he agreed  to take it out, knowing he could refuse it if he 
didnt want it.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have  to make  sure Mr B got the information he needed to decide  for himself if it 
was right for him.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. 
Mr B has told us he would have received six months full pay followed by six months half 
pay from his employer if he was too ill to work  but this policy  would have paid out for up to 
12 months which would be in addition to his sick pay and potentially  for longer than he 
would have received full pay. And it would have provided cover for the same length  of time if 
he was to lose his job. While Ive noted Mr B has said he struggled financially, Ive not seen 
anything else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable. So, taking all of this 
into account, I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put him off taking  out 
the cover.
Which means NatWest doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. 
But NatWest has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:
Ref: DRN55174112NatWest got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about  that. Because NatWest didnt tell Mr B, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said. But for the reasons mentioned  above  these 
points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But National Westminster  Bank Plc does have to pay back  to Mr B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5517411