K822xcomplaint
Ms D complains that she was mis-sold a mortgage by an appointed representative of 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited (L&G).
Ms D is represented in bringing this complaint by a claims  management company (the 
CMC).
background 
Ms D was advised by an appointed representative  of L&G when she remortgaged  in 2006. 
She refinanced her existing mortgage with a new lender and borrowed some additional 
funds, most of which were  used  to pay off other debts.
The CMC complained that the advice was unsuitable.  It said Ms D was in a relatively stable 
financial position and had no need to remortgage. It thought it had been particularly bad 
advice to consolidate unsecured debts, which Ms D had been managing to repay  
especially as some of them had low balances. And it noted that as Ms D was only a few 
months in to a fixed rate deal with her existing lender,  shed had to pay an early repayment 
charge (ERC) on top of all the other fees and charges.  It also said Ms D had paid more in 
legal costs than was necessary.
L&G said the brokers advice had been  suitable  overall. It said Ms D had accumulated  debts 
totalling around £28,600 across credit cards, loans and an overdraft. The latter was 
increasing. So it thought Ms D had a need  to reduce her outgoings  which  the remortgage 
achieved, by £312 a month. But it agreed that it wasnt suitable to consolidate credit card 
debts with relatively small outstanding balances. So it offered to compensate Ms D for the 
extra amounts shed paid by consolidating  four of her credit card debts. With regard to the 
legal costs, it didnt  think the broker had done anything wrong  noting in particular that the 
mortgage had a cashback incentive that more  than covered what  shed paid in this respect.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Ms Ds complaint.  But she thought  L&G had made a fair 
offer to resolve things  so she didnt  think it needed to do anything further. The CMC didnt 
accept this, and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. So Ms Ds complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
While the complaint has been with us, L&G has paid the settlement it proposed to Ms D. Its 
also offered to reimburse a referral fee paid to the broker  by Ms Ds solicitors, along with 
interest and a compensation payment  which the CMC has accepted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage advice
L&G has already  accepted that it wasnt suitable  for Ms D to consolidate  four of her credit 
card debts within the new mortgage.  I agree.  These had fairly low balances  outstanding  
they totalled around £1300. And given Ms Ds circumstances, I think  it wouldve been better 
to have left these accounts running separately. She couldve paid them off sooner  and 
more cheaply   that way. L&G has already  offered (and paid) Ms D the additional cost she 
Ref: DRN50090942incurred by rolling these debts up into the new mortgage. I think  thats a fair way to settle this 
aspect of the complaint, so I dont require  it to do anything further in this respect.
Looking at the consolidation and the advice more widely, I dont agree with the CMCs 
argument that Ms D didnt  have a need to remortgage. The fact find shows that things were 
increasingly tight for her. She had a relatively  high level of unsecured debt: on top of the four 
smaller credit card balances mentioned  above, the fact find recorded that Ms D had a fifth 
credit card account with a balance of £3,500 and two loans with a combined outstanding 
amount of around  £22,000. She also owed over £4,000 on her overdraft  which  is noted as 
increasing, and which  had a limit of £4,800. That represented more than Ms D earned in a 
month  meaning  her account was permanently  overdrawn. The fact find recorded  that, after 
other living expenses  were taken into account,  Ms D had just over £100 a month  left as 
disposable income. 
I think, therefore, that Ms D had a need to reduce her outgoings. And by consolidating these  
other debts  within  the mortgage  significantly reducing the interest rate she was paying on 
them  she achieved this. Excluding the four smaller  credit card debts,  Ms D had been 
paying around £935 each  month to service her existing borrowing (including  her mortgage). 
Under the remortgage, this was brought down to around £670  a significant reduction,  
especially as Ms D also borrowed an additional amount to use as she wished. The 
consolidation also had the additional benefit of being one single payment to alleviate the 
stress of several payments, and of living in her overdraft. So I think the recommendation was 
suitable, with the consolidation justified  by the reduction in outgoings it offered Ms D.
The CMC says that if it were to accept that Ms D needed a new mortgage,  then the broker  
ought to have recommended that she contact  her existing lender  to arrange one. I dont think  
there was any general obligation on it to do that. The broker searched the market as a whole 
for a new deal for Ms D, and found her a lower  rate than the one she was on with her 
previous provider. So I dont think it acted unreasonably here.
Ms D did have to pay an ERC  on her existing mortgage to switch  her arrangements.  But I 
think that cost was justified in light of the savings she made on her new deal (the cost of the 
ERC was recouped within just a few months).  So I dont think it renders the recommendation 
unsuitable, or that Ms D ought to have waited until the ERC period expired  as the CMC  
suggests. The other costs  Ms D had to pay to take out the mortgage were  clearly and fairly 
disclosed to her. So given all of this, theres no basis on which  to require L&G to refund any 
of them.
The legal costs
The CMC notes that some of the costs in respect of the legal work were charged  by the 
broker rather than the solicitor in the form of a legal  administration fee. Ms D paid it £293.75  
for this, on top of the costs  paid to her solicitors  (£229.13).
I dont find anything inherently unreasonable in the legal  administration  fee itself: there are a 
number of administrative procedures that need  not have been  carried  out by a solicitor. I 
know the CMC questions the value of the work  given that a solicitor  was involved, especially 
in view of the fee it recouped. But while I appreciate where its coming from here, ultimately  it 
was up to the broker to decide what fee it wanted  to charge for the services it provided.
Ref: DRN50090943The broker  set out costs relating to the legal and administration work in a Solicitors Form of 
Authorisation. This confirmed Ms Ds instruction to pay £250  plus VAT to the broker in 
respect of the legal administration service, on top of the legal costs paid to the solicitor (£195 
plus VAT). And Ms D signed  that form. So I think she was clearly informed about the fee and 
what it was for  and she agreed to pay it. So I dont think  it was unfairly charged by the 
broker. The likely legal costs were set out clearly in both a key facts  illustration  and the 
mortgage offer too.
The CMC also says that Ms D couldve got free legal services through  the lender, but theres 
no evidence to suggest that was the case. So Ms D would always have needed to pay for 
the conveyancing work  to be done. It was then a matter for her to decide who to instruct in 
that regard, and Ive not seen anything to suggest  that she didnt have the freedom to 
appoint her own solicitors if shed wished. The legal costs were  paid with additional 
mortgage funds,  but thats not uncommon  and I cant see that Ms D wouldve preferred to 
pay them  upfront. 
The CMC has also raised concerns that the broker received commission  for recommending  
the firm of solicitors used for the conveyancing work. But while  the complaints been with us, 
L&G has made an offer to resolve that aspect of the complaint which  the CMC has accepted. 
So I make no finding on that matter here and understand that L&G will settle the issue 
directly with the CMC.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Ms Ds complaint  in part and require 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited to honour its offers  in respect of the will and 
estate planning  package and the commission paid by the conveyancing solicitors.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5009094