K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his account without notice and placed a 
fraud-related marker against his record.
background
Mr S held a personal  and a business account  in the name  of a limited company of which  
he is a director  with Barclays.  Ill refer to the company as F. Mr S decided  to raise some  
funds for the business by trading bitcoins.
On 30 July 2018, six payments for large  sums were paid into Mr Ss personal account.  
These were  for: £5,750,  £8,000, £2,500, £1,000, £1,400 and £2,200. £5,750  was paid to a 
bitcoin trading company and other funds were transferred to the joint account Mr S held with 
his wife. This account is held with another bank. 
At practically the same  time Barclays were notified  by the sending  bank that Mr S was in 
receipt of fraudulent funds. This caused Barclays to carry out a review of Mr Ss accounts.  
Mr S provided Barclays with evidence to show the validity of his bitcoin trading. Barclays  
remained concerned  about the nature of this. They felt Mr S had received fraudulent funds 
even if hed carried out checks on the people  he was trading with.
On 5 August  Barclays gave him notice of their intention to immediately close his personal 
account. They believed  they could do this under  section 11 of the account  terms and 
conditions. Blocks on Fs account  were  removed for the other two account-users on 8 and 
10 August. Barclays also placed a marker  against  Mr S on the industry  fraud database, 
CIFAS.
Mr S complained to Barclays.  They didnt  accept theyd  done anything wrong. Mr S brought  
his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. He discussed issues with Barclays resulting  in their 
agreement to remove the CIFAS marker  from Mr Ss record.  This was done  in September 
2019. He also made  it clear to Mr S we couldnt look at the impact on the business as this 
should be the subject of a separate complaint. But he did agree there had been an impact 
on Mr S and asked Barclays to pay him £300 in compensation.
Barclays agreed with this outcome but Mr S didnt.
He felt this had had a major impact  on him as hed been extremely  worried  about F and its 
ability to continue trading. He also believed  the lack of access to business funds had an 
impact on his own ability to earn a living. He provided us with detailed figures about Fs cash  
flow and trading.
Mr S has asked  an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN51127362Ive already been in touch with Mr S to explain some of the issues  I refer to below.
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than weve seen from both 
parties. And Ive done so using my own words. Im not going  to respond to every single point 
made by Mr S. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed  on what I think are 
the key issues  here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
I have also explained  to Mr S we can only look at the personal  account which  Barclays 
closed. It was the review  Barclays carried out which led to the CIFAS marker  being placed 
against his record  and the temporary  blocks placed  on access  to Fs account.
Im only able to look at the impact on Mr S as an individual and not as a director of F. Thats 
what my decision will cover.  Much of the evidence Mr S submitted was about the impact on 
the business, and on Mr S as a director of that business. Although  Ive reviewed this, I wont 
be referring to it in my decision.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
As Ive stated above I dont plan to repeat all the detail of this complaint. In any case  our 
investigator laid this out in his view of 3 October 2019. I can reassure both Mr S and 
Barclays that Ive carefully reviewed  all the detailed evidence on our file.
Firstly banks are obliged  to carry out a review if they believe theres any suspicious activity 
on an account. After  being notified by another bank of potential  fraudulent  activity,  I can see 
why Barclays carried out a review. Ive seen nothing to suggest Barclays  didnt do what  they 
should have done in undertaking this review.
The commitment in their terms and conditions is this can take up to 10 working days  to 
complete. From the evidence Ive seen, Barclays met this timescale in Mr Ss case.
Barclays decided to close Mr Ss account following the review. They believed they could do 
this immediately. I know Mr S believes Barclays concern was all to do with him trading in 
bitcoins but I dont believe it was simply that. From what Barclays  could see, even though 
Mr S had submitted  evidence to show his trading was genuine, someone had paid funds to 
him that werent  theirs to pay. As soon as Mr S had received the money, hed transferred the 
funds to his joint account. Mr S may not have known the money  didnt come  from the person 
he was trading bitcoins  with but he promptly put the money out of Barclays  reach.
Taking all this into consideration  I dont believe Barclays did anything wrong in closing Mr Ss 
account.  
At the same time Barclays recorded a CIFAS  marker against Mr S. The bar for recording a 
CIFAS marker  is a high one. The bank must have a good reason to believe it could have 
Ref: DRN51127363suffered a loss and/or  it reasonably believes it has grounds to press criminal charges as a 
result of the activity on the account.  This should be more than just a suspicion or concern.
After our investigators involvement, Barclays agreed to remove  the CIFAS  marker. I believe 
that was the right action to take. Theres nothing to show Barclays suffered  any financial 
loss. 
Ive then gone on to look at the impact of this on Mr S.
Mr S held a joint account with his wife. That has remained operational. He may well have 
had difficulty in opening a new personal  account but the focus of Mr Ss complaint has not 
been on that aspect. Hes been concerned about  his ability to earn as he was blocked from 
using Fs account. One of the other account-users had access  to Fs account  pretty  quickly 
after Barclays had initially blocked the account so I dont agree this had a long-term  impact  
on Mr S. All issues arising from the viability of F  including Mr Ss own earnings  as a 
director  can only be dealt with in any complaint brought by F.  Mr S knows this as Ive 
confirmed this to him.
Like our investigator,  I believe  its fair and reasonable  Barclays  pay Mr S £300 for the 
inconvenience caused in having a CIFAS  marker registered.
Knowing the strength of Mr Ss feeling  about  this issue, I appreciate  hes unlikely to agree 
with this outcome.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Barclays  Bank UK PLC to pay Mr S 
£300 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5112736