K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Oakam Ltd didnt carry out adequate  affordability  checks.
Mr S wants  Oakam to refund the interest  and charges that he paid on the loans.
background
Mr S took out four loans  with Oakam between June 2017 and June 2018.
Before this service became involved, Oakam offered to put things right for loan one but not 
the other three  loans.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ss complaint be upheld in part. He thought  that 
Oakam shouldve been doing more than it had offered to do so far. The adjudicator  
recommended that Oakam refund the interest  and charges  that Mr S had paid on loan four 
as well a loan one.
Oakam agreed to put things  right in line with the adjudicators recommendation. 
Mr S wasnt  willing to accept Oakams offer. He said that Oakam could see earlier  signs  of 
problems with his finances as he made most of the repayments on loan one late. 
my provisional findings
After considering all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  I was minded to require Oakam  to do 
more than it had so far agreed to do.
I also wanted to give Mr S the opportunity  to respond as my decision referred  to some 
additional evidence  that the adjudicator  didnt  have when he made his recommendation. 
Oakam had already agreed to put things  right for loans one and four. As there  didnt seem  to 
be any dispute about these loans, I didnt  say much more about  them  other than in relation 
to Oakams right to offset  the refund against the principal outstanding balance on loan four.
Oakam confirmed that it had sold the debt to a third party. Oakam wouldnt be able to apply 
the refund  to the outstanding principal balance due unless it first bought the debt back  
(unless Mr S agreed). Otherwise, Oakam needed to pay the refund direct  to Mr S.
loan two 
Mr S took out loan two in January 2018.  He said that Oakam shouldve  realised that he was 
in financial difficulties because he had made  a number of late payments on loan one.
 
I asked Oakam to give me further information  about Mr Ss repayment history for loan one. 
Oakam gave  me a copy of Mr Ss customer notes. The type of loan that Oakam offered was 
to be repaid weekly or twice a month. There was a note from 28 June 2017 of Mr S asking 
Oakam to change his repayment schedule to match  his monthly  paydays.
Ref: DRN55960422Based on this note,  it looked as though Mr S wanted to amend the repayment  schedule for 
loan one to suit his salary  date. There wasnt any indication that Mr S was struggling to keep  
up with his repayments because of financial difficulties.
I was satisfied that Oakam carried out adequate checks before  agreeing  loan two. Although 
Oakam was aware  of a number  of Mr Ss other credit accounts  being in arrears,  it recorded a 
monthly figure of over £300  for repayments on his other loans. So I was satisfied that Oakam  
took account of Mr Ss other credit  liabilities before agreeing loan two. 
Based on the information Oakam held about  Mr S, it appeared that he could afford loan two 
so I didnt uphold  his complaint about  this loan.
loan three
This is where I was minded to uphold more of Mr Ss complaint than the adjudicator 
recommended.
Mr S wasnt  able to repay loan two in line with the agreed terms so he rolled  the loan over in 
April 2018. 
By this time, Oakams credit check showed that Mr Ss total outstanding  credit balance had 
increased from £13,033 in January 2018  to £14,099. And his credit arrears  had increased  in 
the same  period to more than £13,200.  
Oakams credit search  also showed four more active credit accounts since  January 2018. 
Finally, the search  revealed three defaults within the previous 12 months  up from the two 
defaults Oakam could  see when it carried out a similar  credit check  in January 2018. 
As part of his application for loan three, Mr S gave  Oakam copy  bank statements. These  
showed that Mr S was in his overdraft facility  for much of the time. There was also evidence  
of at least one unpaid transaction fee. Again   more evidence of pressure on Mr Ss 
finances. 
Although Mr S declared a number of outgoings for rent and living  costs,  Oakam recorded 
other monthly loan repayments of under £50. As Mr Ss total outstanding credit and credit 
arrears had increased since January 2018,  it seemed  unlikely that his loan repayments  had 
decreased by more  than £240 in the space of three months.
Given the level of credit debt, arrears  and defaults that Oakams credit checks  revealed - 
added to the fact that Mr S hadnt  repaid loan two in full - I considered  Oakam should have 
been aware that he would struggle to repay  loan three. This was borne out by the fact that      
Mr S went  on to roll over loan three.
Overall, I considered that it was also reasonable to uphold Mr Ss complaint about loan 
three.
further submissions
Mr S said that he didnt have anything to add after he received my provisional decision. And 
Oakam hasnt responded.
Ref: DRN55960423my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As neither Mr S nor Oakam has asked me to consider any additional evidence  or 
information, I consider  its still reasonable to make my final decision along  the same  lines as 
my provisional decision. 
putting things right  what Oakam needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr S paid on loans one, three  and four;
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;  
remove any negative information  about loans one, three  and four from Mr Ss credit 
file
As Mr S still owes Oakam the principal  balance that he borrowed on loan four, Oakam  
should remove all the interest and charges applied to the outstanding balance (including  any 
that may have been applied by the third party). The important thing is to make sure that Mr S 
has paid or will pay no more in total than the principal amount he borrowed.
If after doing this, Mr S still owes money on loan four, Oakam can apply the refund to the 
outstanding principal balance subject to buying the debt back.  If Oakam  doesnt buy the debt 
back, Oakam wont be able to make any deductions from the compensation payment unless 
Mr S agrees.  It would then be up to Mr S to agree  a repayment plan with the third party.
If after taking the above steps there  is still a principal balance  due, I remind Oakam  of its 
obligation to treat Mr S fairly and reasonably in any settlement discussions.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakam to take off tax from this interest.  Oakam  must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. If Oakam 
intends to apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  balance,  it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I require  
Oakam Ltd to put things  right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN5596042