K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Leeds  Building Society  (LBS) mis-sold her payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
Mrs B took out a mortgage with LBS in 2004.  She was also sold a PPI policy which wouldve 
covered the repayments on her mortgage for up to 12 months  at a time if she wasnt able to 
work. The policy was free for the first 6 months. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Mrs Bs complaint  should be upheld. Mrs B disagreed  so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs case. 
Having done this, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
LBS shouldve  made  Mrs B aware  she had the option about buying the PPI. The sale took 
place 15 years ago, and the mortgage  was redeemed about  10 years ago. So theres very 
little paperwork available  for the sale of both the mortgage and PPI. I dont find this unusual 
given the time that has passed.  
Although LBS hasnt  been able to provide  a copy of Mrs Bs actual mortgage documents,  it 
has provided a sample copy  of what Mrs B is likely to have  completed  at the time. This 
sample makes it clear that the PPI was optional  as there  is a section to complete if a 
customer doesnt want to take the policy. From the evidence  Ive been given, there isnt 
anything to suggest Mrs B saw or completed  anything different.  
So on balance, from the limited information I have,  I think its more  likely that Mrs B chose to 
buy the PPI knowing  that it was optional.
Mrs B has said she felt pressured to continue with the PPI due to the tone of the letter she 
received after the free period ended. I dont doubt that these are her recollections. But I also 
have to consider  that the sale took place over 15 years ago and the letter  was sent after the 
sale of the policy.  I also have to consider that Mrs B might have interpreted the letter  
differently back then. Ive looked at a sample  of the letter Leeds says it sent Mrs B and can 
see that the wording  does  make assumptions  that the policy  will be kept and that its a good  
idea to continue  with the PPI. But, while its fair to say Leeds emphasised the importance of 
retaining the cover, this isnt the same as applying pressure. The letter  does give the option  
to make amendments  and whilst it doesnt directly  say she can cancel it, the letter did 
allow Mrs B to reflect on whether or not she wanted  the product. So on balance,  Im not 
persuaded that Mrs B felt she had no option but to retain the policy.   
LBS recommended the PPI to Mrs B so it had to make  sure the policy  was right for her. 
From what  Ive seen, it seems to have been  suitable  for Mrs B based on her circumstances 
at the time. Ill explain why:
Mrs B met the policys requirements  so was eligible for it.
Ref: DRN52480892Mrs B says she wouldve  received  between  three and six months sick pay benefit 
from her employer. In the event of a successful claim, the PPI wouldve paid her 
mortgage repayments for up to 12 months if Mrs B was unable to work due to being 
too unwell  or becoming unemployed. The policy wouldve paid out alongside Mrs Bs 
employee benefits. This would  have meant she could  have  used any sick pay she got 
to pay for other essential costs. 
Ive given careful consideration about Mrs Bs comments about the amount of 
savings she had available at the time and how although she had them  set aside  for 
other things that she wouldve always prioritised her mortgage repayments. I dont 
doubt that this is what Mrs B wouldve done but the policy  was a useful additional  
protection to have.  And by having it in place, it would have meant - had Mrs B ever 
been made unemployed or too unwell to work  - the policy  wouldve covered  her 
repayments. This would  have then meant  her savings would have then been 
available to be used  for what  she intended them for.  
It doesnt look like there was anything about  Mrs Bs circumstances that wouldve 
made it difficult for her to claim.  For example, she didnt have any unusual  working  
patterns or existing  medical conditions. 
I think LBS couldve explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But even if it 
had, I think Mrs B would still have bought it. Mrs B was taking on a large  financial 
commitment secured against  her home  on her own. So I think she wouldve wanted 
the security of knowing her mortgage repayments were covered. And it doesnt  look 
like the policy was unaffordable for her.  
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Mrs B, LBS shouldve  taken reasonable steps  
to point out the main things the policy didnt cover. I dont  know  if LBS did point these things 
out. But Ive explained why I think the PPI was right for Mrs B. And I dont think clearer  
information wouldve  changed her decision.  I think she still would have bought  it. I say this 
for the same reasons  I think the policy was suitable  for her. 
So taking everything into account, I dont think Mrs B has lost out as a result of anything LBS 
mightve done wrong. 
But LBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:  
LBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mrs B about that. Because LBS didnt tell Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, LBS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I know Mrs B feels strongly and will be disappointed by this outcome. Shes put time and 
effort into her complaint. And Ive thought carefully about all the points shes raised, but for 
the reasons explained above, these points  dont change my decision. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Leeds Building  Society does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
Ref: DRN52480893But Leeds  Building Society does have to pay back to Mrs B any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5248089