K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) gave him loans that he 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr G was given four loans  by Lending  Stream between July 2016 and February 2017. Each 
of the loans was due to be repaid in 24 weekly instalments, but Mr G repaid all the loans 
before their due date.  A summary of Mr Gs borrowing from Lending  Stream is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 27/07/2016 08/12/2016 £   250
2 18/11/2016 03/02/2017 £   100
3 29/12/2016 11/05/2017 £   170
4 03/02/2017 13/07/2017 £   350
Mr Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
checks Lending Stream had done before agreeing the loans had been sufficient. And since 
those checks suggested that Mr G could afford to repay the loans she didnt think the 
complaint should  be upheld.
Mr G didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint  hasnt been  resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Lending Stream was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make  checks to see whether 
Mr G could afford to pay back each loan before it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr G was borrowing, and his lending  history,  but 
there was no set list of checks Lending  Stream had to do.
Lending Stream has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr G. Before each loan 
it asked Mr G for details of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked  Mr Gs 
credit score before agreeing each  loan. 
I have considered that Mr G asked  to take additional  lending before he had finished  repaying 
a previous loan.  And whilst that might have caused  some concern to Lending Stream,  I dont 
think it was necessarily an indicator that it shouldnt lend to Mr G, and in particular given  the 
relatively short nature of its relationship  with him.
I think that the checks Lending  Stream did before agreeing each of the loans were 
proportionate. The amounts that Mr G asked to borrow were relatively modest compared to 
the income he declared to the lender. And the repayments, even after considering Mr G 
Ref: DRN57205492would at times need to repay  two loans concurrently, appeared to be easily affordable  based  
on what he said about his disposable income. Mr G only took four loans from 
Lending Stream over a period of more than six months. So I dont think  Lending Stream  was 
wrong to give these loans to Mr G.
I appreciate that Mr G says the loans caused him to face significant  financial hardship. And 
that Lending Stream should  have  known he was under financial pressure. But that wasnt  
something he told Lending Stream at the time.  And I dont  think it was something  that 
Lending Stream should have known from what I consider to be proportionate checks. I think  
it was reasonable  for Lending  Stream to rely on the information Mr G provided  and that 
suggested the loans were  affordable  for him. I dont think it was necessary  or proportionate 
for Lending Stream to have independently  verified that information.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Gain Credit LLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5720549