K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that MBNA Limited  (MBNA) did not send him notice  of sums in arrears  
(NOSIA) letters and should  therefore refund interest  and charges on two outstanding 
accounts.
background
Mr W received  a letter from MBNA  explaining  that theyd noticed they hadnt sent him a 
NOSIA for one of the credit card accounts  he held with them. They  said that as this was the 
case they were obliged to repay any interest  and charges that had been made.
Mr W said he had three  credit card accounts and he couldnt remember  getting NOSIA  
letters for the other two either. So he asked  MBNA  to refund the charges and interest that 
had accrued on these  as well.
But MBNA didnt  agree  with Mr W. They said theyd checked their systems and could see 
that letters had been sent on these accounts.
So Mr W referred his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator asked MBNA for the 
evidence and they provided  a screen  shot of their system which  showed  letters  had been 
sent. She was therefore persuaded that this was most likely to have happened and she 
didnt think MBNA needed  to take any further  action.
But Mr W disagreed. He said it was clear there had been failings in MBNAs systems and it 
was therefore  wrong  to rely on those very systems to provide evidence  that letters had been 
sent. He explained that, as hed entered into payment plans on these accounts, he had kept 
all paperwork associated with the accounts and could guarantee he hadnt  received the 
NOSIA letters. So he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. And here I think it is most probably 
the case that the disputed  letters were sent to Mr W.
I say that because, whilst  I understand Mr W disputes receiving the letters:
Ive seen a screen shot that demonstrates  MBNAs automated  system thinks  they 
were sent
MBNA demonstrated their integrity when they proactively contacted  Mr W to explain 
theyd forgotten  to send letters on one of his accounts. It would therefore  seem 
uncharacteristic for them to dispute the dispatch of other letters  when they are 
evidently attempting to ensure they are meeting  legislative  requirements
And I think theres more  evidence the letters were dispatched than not. So I dont think 
MBNA need  to take any further action  here.
Ref: DRN51690792my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5169079