K820x#14complaint
Mr Y says HFC Bank Limited (HFC) mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1996.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ys credit  card account when he applied for the card by post. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr Y disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ys case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ys complaint because:
 I think made Mr Y aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it  
although I can understand why he can no longer remember  this.
 HFC didnt recommend the PPI to Mr Y so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable  for 
him. 
 Its possible the information HFC gave Mr Y about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But Mr Y chose to take out the policy  and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. He was not affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations  and the policy  
was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr Y would 
have made a different decision if better  information had been provided. On balance I 
think he would still have taken  out the policy.
Mr Y said it was unreasonable for us to expect him to recall what  sick pay he might  have 
received 20 years ago. I accept that its difficult given this was so long ago, but without some  
evidence I cant fairly  say HFC mis-sold the policy. So this point hasnt  changed my 
conclusion.
Ref: DRN50939472my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5093947