K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says Nationwide Building Society (NBS)  mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs T bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out a loan. NBS says she applied 
for the loan and PPI policy in branch.  
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £155.41  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 24-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £82.87 with the PPI costing an additional £7.57 making the total 
monthly repayment £90.44. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs T for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mrs Ts monthly  loan repayment for up to 
the remaining  term in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 months  in the event of 
unemployment. 
At the time,  Mrs T was employed as an administrative assistant. She has told us she was not 
entitled to any sick pay and didnt have any other means (such  as savings) of repaying her 
loan should she be unable to work. She did say she had a life insurance policy.  Mrs T has 
said she was in good health  at the time of the sale. 
NBS has sent us its account transaction list to show that the loan account closed in 2002.  
Mrs Ts representative  has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ts representative  says:
NBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mrs T wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ts 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NBS should  have told 
Mrs T about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NBS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs T and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
Ref: DRN57675902The information Mrs T received  was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs T disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ts. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ts complaint
This sale took place  in 2000 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN57675903I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like NBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Ts case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so NBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Ts complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If NBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs T with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether NBS gave Mrs T sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs T, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs T suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs T and NBS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs T know she had a choice?
NBS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ref: DRN57675904Mrs T believes the PPI was sold during a telephone call but NBS says it was sold in branch. 
NBS has sent us its record of the application  that was completed  at the time  and I can see 
the entries were  input  on an electronic  screen  indicating it was sold during a meeting in 
branch. So, I think NBS is likely be right and it was sold in branch. 
There isnt a recording of the discussion that took place which  isnt surprising where  a sale 
was made  during a meeting in branch. But this means I have to decide what  I think  is more  
likely based  on the evidence that is still available  such as the loan agreement  that Mrs T 
signed before the loan was actually set up.  
I can see the PPI is set out under  a heading  Optional  Credit Insurance. As explained 
above, I dont  know what she was told during the meeting,  but had she been led to believe 
the PPI was compulsory,  I wouldve expected her to have  questioned this when reviewing 
the loan agreement which clearly labelled it as optional. 
Mrs T signed the agreement  so she agreed  to take the PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs T knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did NBS provide advice?
NBS says it didnt  provide  advice during this sale and Mrs T hasnt said if she agrees. 
Looking at what happened when NBS sold Mrs T the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided 
advice. I say this because I havent  seen  anything to suggest NBS sought details of Mrs Ts 
wider circumstances  to assess the suitability of the policy  or that it provided  her with a 
tailored recommendation to take the PPI.
This means  NBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mrs T. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  Mrs T to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs T was given a broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs T was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because the loan agreement says that shed be covered for disability, 
unemployment and life and I think its unlikely Mrs T would have taken  out the policy  without 
any sense of what the policy was. And I think Mrs T knew that the single  premium  being 
added to the loan was £155.41, the interest added to the premium  was £27.27, the total cost 
was £181.68,  and the monthly cost was £7.57  as this information was, in my view, at least  
sufficiently clear on the loan agreement Mrs T signed.  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  NBS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit - or about the exclusions or limitations before 
Mrs T agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think NBS gave  Mrs T sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
Ref: DRN57675905attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ts representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ts. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ts representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs T about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ts representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs T has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that NBS ought to have done  either. 
What effect did NBSs shortcomings  have on Mrs T? To what extent  did Mrs T suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that NBS didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mrs T. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mrs T suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mrs T would  have still 
taken out the policy,  had NBS done  things properly.  
Mrs T says she would not have taken  it out and believes I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs T had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs T chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs T thought she was getting  
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs T has suffered any loss or detriment. 
Ref: DRN57675906As Ive already  said, the information Mrs T was given about the cost was clear. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the actual benefit or the limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been. 
Im not persuaded NBS made clear exactly what Mrs T would get back in return  in the event  
she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mrs Ts expectations about what  the 
policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet her loan payments) 
were significantly  different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs T thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any medical condition  or disease which Mrs T 
knew of or should reasonably have known  of on the start date or for which  she 
received treatment, advice or was referred for investigation during the 12 months 
before the start date and which recurs  within 12 months of the start date.
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs T 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs T pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs T from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs T didnt have  any pre-
existing medical conditions and she was in permanent  employment. So, I still think  she had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs T would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mrs T needed to not be doing any work. I dont think  this is likely 
to be too different to what she would have expected to make a claim. Her loan agreement 
said she was buying cover to protect her payments if Mrs T was unable  to work due to 
disability, unemployment  and life. So, it seems unlikely she would have thought shed be 
able to make  a successful  claim if she was still working, whether that be in her normal job or 
any other job. 
From what  we know, the policy did provide a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled early, so the 
policy provided flexibility if Mrs T decided to repay the loan early and cancel the policy.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs T would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close to what  
its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
Ref: DRN57675907consequences were  Mrs T made  redundant,  or unable to work through accident  or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mrs T would have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ts representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs T would  not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ts 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs T 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs T believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs T in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
NBS should pay Mrs T compensation, as that would put her in a better position than she 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Im also aware that Mrs T thinks  NBS misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
NBSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why NBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  NBS gave Mrs T, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2000 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ref: DRN57675908Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ts representative says a court might take if it were 
to find NBS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs T and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that NBS had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs T in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2021.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5767590