K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS) refused a mortgage 
application. They say it didnt consider the application fairly, and discriminated against  Mr W 
on grounds of his disability.
background
Mr and Mrs W jointly own their family  home, subject to a mortgage. However, due to 
additional needs resulting  from a disability, Mr W lives in a care home. Although  Mr W 
retains full mental  capacity, Mrs W has a power  of attorney to manage  his affairs  for practical  
reasons and because of his physical disability. 
Mr and Mrs W applied  to re-mortgage to YBS. Their loan to value was below 20%,  and they 
wanted to borrow  just under £80,000,  taking a five year fixed rate. 
YBS declined the application. It gave two reasons:
1.It said that the UK Finance  Mortgage  Lenders  Handbook  prevents an application 
being accepted where  one joint borrower is power of attorney for the other.  As a 
result, the application could only proceed  in Mrs Ws name, and it wasnt  affordable 
on her income alone;
2.It said that in any case  it couldnt take into account the income of a party  who 
wouldnt be living at the property  as Mr W wasnt.
Mrs W told YBS that although she held power of attorney  for Mr W, she wasnt  exercising it 
in this case. The application was from both of them in their own right. And Mr W was 
prepared to travel to a branch if required to confirm  that he was a joint party and applying 
direct, not via power of attorney. 
YBS said that it couldnt accept an application  in branch. And in any case, Mr W wasnt  living  
in the property, and wouldnt be living there following completion of the mortgage. It also said 
it wouldnt consider  that part of Mrs Ws income  which came  from tax credits. As a result it 
would only consider an application in Mrs Ws sole name using only her employment  income  
 which  wouldnt be affordable.
Mr and Mrs W complained. They said the mortgage  was comfortably affordable  on their joint 
incomes, paid into their joint account. It wasnt fair that YBS wouldnt consider their 
application, and it amounted to discrimination on grounds of Mr Ws disability.
Our investigator didnt  think Mr and Mrs W had been  treated fairly. He said YBS should  
re-consider their application, including making  arrangements to allow Mr W to confirm  his 
agreement to the application.  And it should  pay them  £200  compensation.
Mr and Mrs W accepted that. But YBS didnt. It asked for an ombudsman to review  the 
complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision to set out my thinking. I said:
Having considered the evidence, I dont think YBS has been consistent  about why it 
refused Mr and Mrs Ws application, or about its approach to their circumstances: 
Ref: DRN53620372The underwriters notes say that the application was refused because  
according to the UK Finance Handbook,  joint borrowers cant  appoint  the 
other to act as power of attorney  and thats the only reason given in the 
underwriting notes.
YBSs final response to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint said that it was refused 
because of the power of attorney issue, and also said Mr Ws income couldnt 
be taken into account because he didnt live in the property  though it didnt 
say that he couldnt  be party to the mortgage.
YBS told our investigator  on 4 February 2020  that the application was 
declined because of the power  of attorney issue. It could  only proceed in 
Mrs Ws name; her tax credits  couldnt be taken into account and therefore  
the mortgage wouldnt be affordable on her income alone.  But if the power of 
attorney was removed,  the application could go ahead in joint names,  as it 
was only a requirement that one of the applicants  has to live in the property. 
Mr Ws income from benefits and pensions could then be taken into account.
YBS told our investigator  on 10 March that both applicants must live in the 
property and therefore the application  could not be considered.  Neither 
Mr nor Mrs Ws income could be taken  into account. 
YBS told our investigator  on 14 April that the application hadnt been  
completed accurately,  in that it didnt say that Mr W lived in a care home or 
that he had been  party to the previous mortgage.  It said it could potentially 
consider Mr Ws income.
YBS told our investigator  on 10 June that while  it wouldnt consider Mrs Ws 
tax credits, it could  consider Mr Ws benefits  income provided they werent 
used to pay for his care.
It seems  to me that the key factors in this case are the power  of attorney, the fact that 
Mr W doesnt live in the property, and the nature of their incomes. Ill deal with each 
in turn.
the power of attorney
At the time of the application, Mrs W held power of attorney for Mr W. However,  that 
wasnt because Mr W lacked capacity or no longer made his own decisions.  Rather,  
it was for convenience  and to allow Mrs W to act on his behalf  in some 
circumstances. Although she held a power of attorney,  theres no suggestion  that she 
applied for the mortgage using it, or that Mr W wouldnt  have been able to agree the 
mortgage acceptance or deed, had things progressed that far.
YBS has referred to para 5.17.3 of the UK Finance Mortgage Lenders Handbook, 
which says
In the case of joint borrowers, neither  borrower may appoint  the other as their 
attorney.
It said that presented  an absolute bar to the application.
However, in my view its important to read that paragraph  in context. This is the full 
context (the Handbook  is addressed to conveyancing solicitors,  and therefore you 
means any solicitor acting in the mortgage transaction):
Ref: DRN536203735.17 Powers of attorney
5.17.1 If any document is being executed  under power of attorney, 
you must ensure  that the power of attorney is, on its face, properly drawn up, 
that it appears to be properly executed  by the donor and that the attorney 
knows of no reason why such  power of attorney will not be subsisting at 
completion.
5.17.2 Where  there are joint borrowers  the power should comply  with 
section 25 of the Trustee Act 1925,  as amended by section 7 of the Trustee 
Delegation Act 1999, or with section  1 of the Trustee Delegation Act 1999 
with the attorney making an appropriate statement  under section 2 of the 
1999 Act.
5.17.3 In the case of joint borrowers, neither  borrower may appoint  
the other as their attorney
Reading this section  as a whole, I think its clear  that this is not a general  prohibition  
on one joint borrower  holding power of attorney for the other. Rather, para 5.17.3 
follows on from para 5.17.1 and qualifies it. The effect is that if a power of attorney is 
being used to execute a document  in the mortgage or conveyancing transaction,  it 
must be a properly drawn and executed power of attorney  not exercised by one of 
the joint borrowers on the others behalf.
Therefore, if Mrs W wanted to enter into the mortgage on Mr Ws behalf, using the 
power of attorney to give her agreement on his behalf to the mortgage, YBS would 
be right that she could not do so. But thats not what was happening  here.
This was a joint application, with Mr W acting in capacity on his own behalf.  Mrs W 
would not be exercising the power  of attorney. And therefore the fact that she held it 
 for use in other  circumstances for other  purposes as the need arose  was not a 
bar to this mortgage going ahead within the terms of the Handbook.
I dont therefore  think that it was fair for YBS to refuse to consider an application  from 
Mr and Mrs W because  Mrs W happened  to hold  but would not be using in this 
transaction  power of attorney for Mr W. 
whether Mr W needed to live in the property
Ive set out above that YBS hasnt been consistent  in what it told us of its policy  in 
this respect. It has given us a copy of its full policy document,  which Ive read  and I 
can find no mention of this situation  in there. So I dont think, in fact, that YBS has a 
policy which  prohibits  this situation.
As Ive said,  I dont think this was the reason for the refusal at the time, 
notwithstanding what YBSs complaint handlers  have  told us since.  It wasnt  
mentioned as an issue in the underwriting notes, though the underwriter was aware 
Mr W wasnt living in the property. And in the final response, YBS told Mrs W that it 
couldnt consider  Mr Ws income,  but not that he couldnt be on the mortgage.
It seems  to me that, in a situation like this where Mr W jointly owns  the property  Ive 
seen the Land Registry  entry which confirms  that  and is part of the family  unit and 
Ref: DRN53620374only not living in the household because of his disability, it would be unlikely  to be fair 
not to include  him on the mortgage application.  It seems to me that the Equality Act is 
likely to be relevant here; since  Mr Ws disability is the only reason hes not able to 
live in the property  he and his family own, any refusal to allow him to be party  to the 
mortgage is likely to be a matter arising from his disability - which  could amount to 
unlawful discrimination unless it could be objectively justified. 
However, since I dont think this was why this application was refused, and I dont 
think that  under a proper application of YBSs policy  it would  be a barrier  to an 
application being considered, I dont need to finally decide here whether that would 
be fair and reasonable.
what income could  fairly be considered
YBS has consistently said that it wouldnt accept Mrs Ws tax credits when 
considering whether the mortgage  was affordable. I dont  think this was 
unreasonable; the rules of mortgage regulation  require a lender to consider whether 
a mortgage would be affordable throughout the term.  And as Mr and Mrs Ws 
children were already  teenagers, her tax credits would have come to an end before 
the end of the mortgage term. And so it wasnt unfair  that YBS wouldnt take this 
income into account in deciding  whether the mortgage would be affordable  over the 
whole term.
Since Mr W was to be party to the mortgage, his income should be considered as 
part of the mortgage application.  Again,  YBS has been inconsistent  about this. Ive 
already said that the reason Mr W isnt living in the property is his disability, and 
therefore the same considerations  apply  to whether his income should be considered  
as apply to whether he should be on the mortgage  at all. 
However, nothing  in YBSs policy says that income  from a person party  to the 
mortgage but not resident  in the property should be disregarded. And so  given that 
no application was actually considered, and Mr Ws income wasnt  therefore 
disregarded  I dont think I need to consider  whether that would be fair and 
reasonable. I see no reason under the policy why Mr Ws income shouldnt be 
considered.
YBSs policy  confirms pension income  is acceptable  in full. Its silent  on whether 
non-pension  benefit income can be considered, but YBS has told us that it would 
consider Mr Ws benefits income  as long as it isnt used to pay for his care.  I think  
thats fair  since in any other application income would be considered, but 
expenditure would be offset from income.
Putting things right
Looking at the underwriting notes as evidence of the decision that was made at the 
time, Im satisfied that its the power of attorney issue which was the cause of the 
application being refused.  That led YBS to believe that only Mrs W could be party to 
the application  and that in turn led to the confusion about  whether Mr W could have 
joined it or whether  his income could be taken  into account if he didnt.
I dont think the power of attorney should  fairly have been a barrier  to the mortgage 
application being considered. Im satisfied this failure caused  Mr and Mrs W trouble  
Ref: DRN53620375and upset. Mrs W has already told us she accepts £200 compensation, and I think 
thats fair.
If Mr and Mrs W want to resubmit the application,  YBS should give it fair 
consideration. In my view, fair consideration means:
Not refusing the application because Mrs W holds  power  of attorney  unless 
the power of attorney is to be used to enter the mortgage on Mr Ws behalf;
Allowing both Mr and Mrs W to be party to the mortgage and considering both 
their income and expenditure  though it need not take account of Mrs Ws 
tax credits.
Our investigator said that YBS should  arrange  for a member of YBSs staff to visit Mr 
W at his care home to complete the mortgage application with him. YBS said it 
wasnt possible to do that. Im not going to require  YBS to offer that  because Mrs W 
hasnt said thats  a service they need. Both Mrs W and YBS have separately 
suggested an application could be completed  in a branch. But if that proves not to be 
possible, I remind YBS of its obligations  to make  reasonable adjustments  to assist 
customers with disabilities; Im not going to prescribe at this stage what  adjustments 
might be necessary. 
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.  YBS said it would be willing  to consider a 
further application on the basis  Id set out. But it said it no longer offered face to face 
mortgage advice  in its branches. It said they would need to call the mortgage centre, or 
make an appointment  via its website.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and noting  that both parties accepted my provisional  decision, I see no 
reason to change  my mind in this case.  YBS says it no longer offers mortgage advice in 
branch. As I said in my provisional decision,  it also has obligations to make reasonable 
adjustments, where required  so while I wont prescribe that now, I remind  YBS that (if 
Mr and Mrs W decide to re-apply) it will need to consider how to assist  them,  including  if 
necessary by making adjustments  to its usual processes.
Ref: DRN53620376my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
Yorkshire Building Society to:
Pay Mr and Mrs W £200 compensation;
Consider a further application, should Mr and Mrs W choose to make  one, in the way 
Ive set out above and bearing in mind its obligations  to make reasonable 
adjustments.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 May 2021.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5362037