K820xUKI14complaint
Miss V complained about how U K Insurance Limited treated her claim for car repair under 
her motor insurance policy.
background
Miss V was in an accident in 2014 and her car was damaged. She arranged  for it to be 
repaired by a garage she chose. But she felt that they didnt repair the damage  properly. So, 
in 2018 she asked UKI to repair it to the right standard. But UKI wouldnt do this. They  
thought the repairs she claimed were due to subsequent damage which wasnt  related to the 
2014 accident. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that her complaint should  be upheld. She thought that, on 
the evidence available  to them, UKI hadnt been unreasonable  to decide as they did. Miss V 
didnt agree and so her complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont assess whether or how damage  to a car would be caused, as this is a matter for 
the experts in these  situations, insurance companies  and engineers. Our role in these 
matters is to determine whether an insurer has considered all the available  evidence and 
whether they can justify  their decision to not pay for repairs. 
After Miss Vs accident in 2014  she reported it to UKI. Their records  show  as follows.  She 
said she had hit a metal pole and damaged the front bumper and headlight on the 
passenger side. UKI asked her if they could inspect her car, to decide about repairing it. But 
she decided to have  the car repaired at garage  she chose, and to pay for that herself.   
She said she paid for her own repairs because UKI had told her that it then wouldnt affect 
her no claims  discount (NCD). So, she was unhappy that it did anyway, because UKI did 
incur costs on the claim such as car hire. But, as the adjudicator has already explained, this 
service is unable to deal with that part of her complaint  because  it falls outside of our 
jurisdiction because she did not come to us within six months  of UKIs final response  in 2014 
to her complaint. 
As regards  her cars  repairs, in 2014 Miss V told UKI that she wasnt  happy with the 
standard of the garages repairs,  and that their costs were going up. UKI explained then that 
they could not be responsible for anything that the garage had done, because she had 
instructed the repairs herself. 
Thats correct, as an insurer  is only responsible for the work  of a garage  it instructs.  But UKI 
did offer to pay her for the full cost of any further  necessary repairs  over and above  her 
policy excess, if, on investigation, the damage  she claimed could be attributed  to the 
accident. 
But she didnt accept  this offer.  When  Miss V next contacted UKI about her car damage it 
was 2018, so about four years later. Miss V felt that the garage in 2014 had only done 
temporary patchwork  repairs,  such as replacing  the bumper, which just masked the ongoing 
problems, and these  had now come to light.  
Ref: DRN50830302Despite the time that had passed,  UKI agreed to consider her claim. They sent an engineer  
to inspect her car. He said that the car had multiple areas of damage,  and they were not 
related to the 2014 accident.  In particular, the bumper  was damaged, but as it had been 
replaced after the 2014 accident that suggested  that the car had been involved in further 
accidents since then.  Photographs of the car also show dents in the cars rear, bonnet,  and 
wheel arch. Although UKI had still been  willing to pay for the cost of the original damage 
over and above her policy excess, subject to their engineers approval, they were  not willing 
to pay for what they considered to be new damage. 
The engineer said that the car had also been previously written off as a total loss and had 
been poorly repaired. Miss V said that she was young when she bought the car, it was her 
first car, and she did not know it had been  a total loss. I dont think her cars  condition when 
she bought it is relevant  anyway, as whats more important is whether it suffered damage  
after the 2014 accident. 
Miss V said she only wanted UKI to fix the damage  caused in 2014, but UKI cant  reasonably  
do that unless  they can say what damage  was attributable  to the original  accident.  The 
expert evidence does not link the cars  damage now to that accident. Miss V has shown us a 
report from another garage in May 2019, which described issues  with the car. However,  that 
still doesnt show that those issues were there as a result of the 2014 accident,  as opposed 
to subsequent damage. 
I appreciate that see that this has been  frustrating for Miss V. But I think  it was fair of UKI to 
offer, about four years  after the accident, to still be willing to pay for repairs for any 2014 
accident related  damage over and above her policy excess. But overall, on the evidence  that 
UKI had, I dont think that it was unfair of them to not accept liability for the claimed  repairs.  I 
dont think that they have  acted unreasonably, and so I dont ask them to do any more.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 May 2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5083030