K821x#15complaint
Ms B has complained about  Unum  Ltds decision  to decline her claim under her income 
protection insurance policy.
background
Ms B was the sole director and shareholder of her own company, through  which  she was 
also employed. She held an income  protection insurance policy with Unum. The policy, after 
a deferred period of 26 weeks, would pay a regular benefit if Ms B was unable  to perform  the 
material and substantial duties of her occupation because  of illness  or injury.
In May 2018, Ms B made a claim under the policy. She said shed been  forced  to work part-
time from March 2016, and unable to work at all from October 2017, because  of extreme 
fatigue, exacerbated by anxiety and depression.
In June 2018, Ms B was diagnosed with chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS).
In August  2018,  after examining the medical evidence, Unum  declined the claim. It said that 
although in the period between when she began  to reduce her hours in March 2016  until the 
end of the deferred period  in August  2016, Ms B sought advice and treatment for low mood, 
gastritis and headaches, the evidence didnt support that these symptoms caused  significant 
functional impairment.
Ms B appealed  the decision and provided a supporting letter from her GP. However, in 
November 2018,  Unum continued  to decline the claim.
Ms B complained to Unum. She explained that her incapacity had occurred gradually and 
asked if Unum could consider her claim with a different start date. Unum  still wouldnt agree 
to accept her claim. Ms B therefore referred  her complaint to us.
While the claim  was under investigation, Unum made Ms B an offer of £110,000 in full and 
final settlement of its liability under the policy. 
While Ms B was considering this offer, our investigator recommended  that the complaint 
should be upheld.  She was satisfied  that the medical evidence  showed that Ms B was 
incapacitated by her CFS. She considered that, although the evidence  indicated that Ms B 
began experiencing symptoms at an earlier date, she was materially affected  by her 
symptoms from May 2017 and so Unum should  accept  the claim from this date.  This meant  
it should start paying benefit from November 2017. The investigator further considered  that 
in failing to accept Ms Bs claim from this date,  Unum hadnt treated Ms B fairly.  She 
recommended it pay Ms B £500  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  this had 
caused.
Once the investigator had issued her findings, Unum withdrew its settlement offer. Unum 
didnt agree with the investigators  findings.  It said the investigator appeared to agree with its 
original decision to decline  the clam  based  on a start date of March 2016. It said there was 
no evidence that Ms Bs working pattern changed at the time of the investigators proposed  
start date in May 2017  and there was only limited  evidence supporting her incapacity from 
November 2017  onwards.  It therefore  disagreed with the suggestion that it should accept the 
claim with a start date in May 2017.
Ref: DRN50082782In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint. I 
shall explain  why.
The policy states  that benefit will be paid if, throughout the 26-week deferred period and 
beyond, Ms B is unable to perform  the material and substantial duties of her occupation.
The policy further  explains the amount of benefit  to be paid under the policy  must  not exceed  
50% of pre-incapacity earnings.  These  earnings  are defined to include, in broad terms, the 
policyholders salary in the twelve months  before incapacity plus the average annual  
dividends theyve received over the preceding three  years (though,  in calculating the level of 
benefit, Unum will also take account of any ongoing  income which the policyholder  receives).
Ms B believes that her work  has been affected  by her health problems for many  years and 
says she could have  started her claim from almost any date since 2009, which was when 
she took out the policy. However, while she has an extensive history  of various problems, I 
dont think there is evidence to show her various  conditions had materially  affected  her ability  
to work before  March 2016,  which was the date she put on her claim form as the date from 
which she reduced her working  hours.
I also agree  with Unum  and the investigator that there is little evidence to support that Ms B 
suffered a decline in her abilities in the 26 weeks following March  2016. While she visited  her 
GP complaining of various problems, according to the contemporaneous notes these did not 
relate to fatigue  and there is nothing to indicate that these  problems  necessarily caused  her 
functional limitations  beyond any limitations which may have existed before March  2016. It 
may be that her business activities declined from this date but that could be for any number 
of reasons; I cant reasonably conclude it was due to illness  suffered by Ms B.
However, the evidence  also shows that from May 2017 Ms B increasingly reported  
symptoms of fatigue; that in June 2018 she was diagnosed with CFS; and that by January 
2019 she was reporting to her GP that she felt so fatigued she couldnt  even leave  the house 
to attend the group  therapy sessions which had formed  part of her treatment.  By this stage, 
her work activity had virtually stopped,  as had her earnings.
I consider it reasonable to conclude from this evidence  that Ms B had become unable  to 
perform the material and substantial duties of her occupation and that this had lasted more 
than 26 weeks. I think Unum  should therefore  have  accepted her claim and started paying 
benefit with the only question being  when this should start from. Unum  didnt  do this. 
Instead, it made its offer of £110,000 in full and final settlement of any liability under the 
policy, an offer which it has since withdrawn.
It is difficult to know  exactly when the claim should start from. However, I agree with the 
investigator that the most  appropriate date is 11 May 2017, which is when Ms B reported 
suffering from occasional fatigue to her consultant ENT surgeon.  By October  2017,  Ms B 
was discussing with her GP whether she was suffering  from CFS which suggests that by that 
date the illness had been affecting her significantly for some time.  I therefore consider that 
Unum should accept her claim with 11 May 2017 as her first date of absence,  and pay 
benefit in accordance with the remaining policy terms from the end of the deferred period. 
Ref: DRN50082783Ms B will need to provide Unum with appropriate financial information so it can calculate her 
benefit entitlement.
The policy also contains a waiver of premium clause  while benefit is being paid. Unum 
should therefore refund premiums which Ms B has unnecessarily  paid.
Any benefit  payment or refund due to Ms B from before  30 November 2018 should be 
subject to interest from that date. This is because this was the date that Unum  maintained  its 
decision to decline her claim despite having  all necessary information to show the claim was 
eligible from a different start date to that mentioned on the claim form. Any benefit payments 
or refunds due to Ms B since 30 November 2018,  should be subject to interest  from the date 
they were due to be paid.
Finally, I agree with the investigator  that Unums handling of this claim has been poor and 
will have caused Ms B distress and inconvenience  for which  it should pay her £500  
compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I require Unum Ltd to do the following:
accept the claim based on the first day of absence being 11 May 2017 and pay benefit in 
accordance with the policys  remaining  terms and conditions;
refund  any premiums which Ms B has paid but which should have been  waived  under  
the terms of the policy;
add interest at the annual simple rate of 8% to these benefit payments and refunds, as 
follows*:
oin respect of benefit payments and premium refunds which relate  to the period 
before 30 November 2018, the interest should  be from that date to the date of 
settlement;
oin respect of benefit payments and premium refunds since  that date, the interest 
should be from when  the benefit  was due to be paid, or the premium was paid, to 
the date of settlement.
pay Ms B £500 compensation
Award - depending on how long Unum continues  to pay benefit to Ms B, Im mindful of the 
possibility that total compensation may exceed our £150,000 maximum award. If it does, 
Unum should pay Ms B our maximum amount.
Recommendation  if the amount I consider to be fair compensation exceeds £150,000, 
then I recommend Unum  pays Ms B the balance. I should confirm  that this recommendation 
is not part of my determination  or award. It does not bind Unum.
Ref: DRN50082784Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If Unum considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Ms B how much  its taken  off. It should  also give Ms B a certificate showing this 
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5008278