K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  about the mileage allowance within  her hire purchase agreement  taken 
out with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS).  She wants the mileage 
allowance amended and her payments  reduced  accordingly.
background
In March 2017, Miss G entered into a hire purchase  agreement with VWFS to acquire a 
brand new car. The cash price was £24,912.99 and the agreement was for a four-year term. 
Within the agreement, the mileage allowance had been set at 8,000 miles per year with a 
total maximum permitted mileage of 32,666 over the term of the agreement.
Miss G says this was the first time she had entered into a hire purchase agreement for a car. 
She was unsure what her annual mileage would  be. She entered into a discussion with the 
sale representative from the dealership when she says she was advised  to make an 
estimate. She agreed  to 8,000 miles each year on the understanding if this estimate  was too 
low or too high, she could amend the mileage allowance  directly  with the finance provider 
later.
After the first year Miss G found  8,000  miles much higher than the distance, she had 
travelled and thought a mileage allowance of between 4,000 to 6,000 miles would be more  
realistic.
On 07 Feb 2019,  Miss G contacted VWFS to discuss voluntarily terminating the agreement.  
She also asked to decrease  the mileage allowance  but was told this wasnt possible due to 
the type of agreement she held.  Miss G complained to VWFS as she felt the agreement  had 
been misrepresented  by the dealership. 
In its final response dated 13 February  2019, VWFS  didnt uphold Miss Gs complaint. It said 
the terms of the agreement regarding the mileage allowance were clear and it couldnt  
comment on what was said by the dealership, as it wasnt present during the discussion.
An adjudicator looked into things for Miss G. He looked carefully at all the information  
available. He wasnt present during the discussion,  but he agreed the hire purchase 
agreement didnt allow for an amendment retrospectively and so on balance he found it 
more likely to be a misunderstanding of what was said. He didnt agree VWFS had done 
anything wrong  and so didnt ask it to do anything further. 
Miss G disagreed with his view. She said her partner was present at the discussion and she 
wouldnt have agreed to 8,000 miles each year if there wasnt an option to amend. She finds  
this very unfair and asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information from both 
parties afresh. Having  done so, Ive reached  the same  view as the adjudicator.  I know  this 
will come as a disappointment to  Miss  G, Ill explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say what  I think is more 
likely to have happened. 
Ref: DRN50817492Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
Its important to say at the outset, because I wasnt present when  the discussions took place 
between Mrs L and the dealership, I cant be certain  of what was said. Theres no 
contemporaneous evidence of what was discussed.  In the circumstances, I need to look at 
the available  documentary evidence in order to determine  whats more likely  to have 
happened at the time when the agreement was entered  into.
I looked closely at the hire purchase  agreement. The agreement was a valid and legally 
binding document,  which  has been signed  by Miss G, and, in doing so, she had agreed to be 
bound by its terms and conditions. Clause 11 details the terms and conditions in relation to 
the mileage. It says the maximum annual mileage  is 8,000. 
I appreciate Miss G feels very strongly that because she hadnt  taken a finance agreement  
before she didnt know what her annual mileage  would be but when she agreed to the 
maximum annual mileage  she was agreeing  to travel a distance of no more than 8,000 
miles. If she did, she would incur a financial penalty.  There  are no options within the 
agreement to amend  or alter the maximum annual mileage. So, although I dont know  what 
was said at the time Miss G took out the agreement,  it doesnt negate Miss Gs responsibility 
to read and understand the terms and conditions by which she is bound.
From what  Ive seen Im not able to say there  is sufficient evidence  to support Miss Gs claim 
of misrepresentation  and so Im unable to uphold her complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5081749