K820x#14complaint
Mr L feels that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited has treated him unfairly  
regarding end of contract  charges for damage to a car hed hired  from it.
background
Mr L took out a hire agreement with Volkswagen for a new car in 2015. At the end of the 
contract he returned the car. Volkswagen then billed him for damage to the car totalling 
£155. Mr L disputes the level of damage  to the car and says its fair wear and tear. So he 
complained to Volkswagen. 
Volkswagen considered this and referred to industry guidance about fair wear  and tear, that 
of the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA).  It compared the damage to 
the car with the guidance and didnt agree with Mr L so said the charges should be paid.  
Unhappy with this Mr L complained here.
Our investigator felt that Volkswagen had treated Mr L fairly and all the charges for damage 
should stand.  Mr L doesnt agree. So this complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information  I have is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory (as some of it is here)  I 
base my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Volkswagen have charged  Mr L for the following damage to his car;
Replace Number plate £11
Refurbishing of three wheels at £36 each.  These  are Left-Hand  Front  wheel  (LHF) 
and Right-Hand  Front (RHF) and Right-Hand Rear  (RHR)
Machine polish Quarter  panel RHR £18
Machine polish Rear  Bumper £18
Mr L disputes the level of damage and says its fair wear and tear. But Volkswagen  disagree.  
It says Mr L had to take reasonable  care of the car and point to the guidance it follows  on fair 
wear and tear, that of the BVRLA.  It also points  to a significant list of other damage to the car 
which needs repairing  but it isnt charging for. It says hes only being charged for some  of the 
damage done.
Volkswagen has provided its internal inspection report and another  inspection report and 
photographs of the damage  to support its position.  Mr L says its not as bad as Volkswagen 
makes out. So I now consider the items charged  for and decide  whether Volkswagen  has 
treated Mr L fairly.
The number plate
The photograph of the number plate shows me that it is deformed and is clearly  misshapen. 
Mr L says the state of the number plate  wouldnt  lead to a failed MOT. But thats  not the test 
Ref: DRN54511612applicable here. Its clearly  misshapen and is beyond reasonable wear  and tear so I think 
Volkswagen have fairly charged Mr L for this item.
Refurbishing of three wheels at £36 each.
Volkswagen has provided pictures of these wheels  along with an inspection  report  
completed by a named individual from a different company. This external report includes all 
the damage that Volkswagen have  charged  for. The internal report  performed by 
Volkswagen shows  all the charged for damage  along with other issues  which  it says need  
repairing but arent being charged to Mr L.
The industry guidance on fair wear and tear says in relation  to wheels that Scuffs totalling 
up to 50mm on the total circumference  of the wheel trim and on alloy wheels are 
acceptable.  So scuffs longer than that are generally not acceptable and not fair wear and 
tear.
Ive considered the pictures supplied. The LHF wheel has numerous scuff  marks along the 
edge of it. Im satisfied  that there are in excess of 50mm of scuff marks on that wheel 
considering the number  of scuff marks and their lengths. From the evidence I think  this is the 
most damaged wheel of the three. I think this charge for this wheel is fair.
The RHF wheel also has noticeable and repeated scuff marks on it and Im satisfied the 
cumulative number of scuff marks is in excess of 50mm. So I think the charge for this is fair 
also. Lastly, Ive considered the RHR wheel, which appears to have the least level of scuff 
marks of the three wheels  in question. Having said that, considering  what I can see Im 
satisfied on balance there is more than 50mm  of scuff marks on this wheel. And accordingly  
I think Volkswagen has treated Mr L fairly  in charging him for the three  wheels 
refurbishment.
Quarter panel RHR and rear bumper
Volkswagen has said that it believes the vehicle has been  involved in an unreported  
accident, as it seems the rear and right side of the vehicle have had a full respray by a
poor repairer . It says it has asked Mr L about this. The investigator found  that the repairs  
hadnt been done to a professional standard. Mr L in his response  to the views of the 
investigator said he didnt  accept this but doesnt  clearly acknowledge if he did have the car 
repaired. 
The industry guidance Volkswagen follows on fair wear and tear says all necessary 
maintenance and repairs  must be carried out by a service agent/repairer approved by the 
leasing company . It also says obvious evidence of poor repairis  not acceptable . From 
the pictures I think it has been  repaired  and I have seen no persuasive evidence  that the 
repairs were completed by a repairer  approved by Volkswagen.
The pictures provided along with the independent  report show  inconsistency  in colouration 
and some mottling and scratches along the bumper. I can see that these issues  were 
identified by both Volkswagens  internal inspection and the external inspection.  I can also 
see from the dates  of the inspections; the external inspection was done  first so I dont think  
the external inspector has been  swayed by the other  report.
Ref: DRN54511613Based on what I can see from the photographs  and the two reports  Im satisfied on balance 
that Volkswagen  hasnt  treated Mr L unfairly in charging him for damage to the panel  and 
bumper.
Ive considered carefully what Mr L has said throughout this complaint, but I do not agree he 
returned car with only fair wear and tear. All in all Im satisfied that Volkswagen has treated 
Mr L fairly in applying these charges and has done  so in line with the industry guidance  on 
fair wear and tear.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
about Volkswagen  Financial Services  (UK) Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to let me 
know whether he accepts or rejects my decision before  22 June 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5451161