K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains National Westminster Bank  Plc will not refund  two disputed transactions.
background
In January 2019, Ms H complained to NatWest about two payments  which  had left her 
account in July 2018. She said she had not made  the payments and neither had she 
authorised them.
NatWest said it was holding her liable for the money  as the payments had been made using  
Ms Hs online  banking  details and a new beneficiary had been set up using Ms Hs personal 
information.  The IP address used to make  the payments  was also one which had been used 
for previous, undisputed transactions.
Ms H was not happy with this response so came to this service. 
Our investigator then explained why he could not ask NatWest to do anymore.  But Ms H 
insisted that the payments had been  made  by fraudsters.   She  said she had no reason to 
complain about  such  small  amounts of money  if one were to look at the transactions going  
through her account.  She also said it was possible for her card to be cloned.
She denied  it was possible for a third person to have  access  to her personal information in 
order to make these transactions and so asked  that an ombudsman consider her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  but based on what I have seen, I will not 
be asking NatWest to refund  these payments.
Generally speaking, NatWest can hold Ms H liable for the disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests  thats it more likely than not that she made or authorised  them herself.
In order to show authority,  the relevant rules say NatWest not only needs to show that the 
transactions were  authenticated   but that Ms H also consented to them.
For the following  reasons,  I dont  think it was unfair  or unreasonable  for NatWest  to hold Ms 
H liable  for these transactions:
-both payments were  made to a new payee.   In order  for a new payee  to be set up, a 
fraudster would  have  needed Ms Hs debit  card and her card reader.  They  would 
also need to be able to access Ms Hs online  banking using her secure information.  
Ms H says no one else has access to these details. I know she says it is possible for 
her card to be cloned  but this service  has never seen a successful cloning of the 
chip in a card.  In  any event, the fraudster  would need to have had Ms Hs card 
reader too  all this without her realising it was missing;
-the payments  were  made using an IP address previously used by Ms H;
-the second payment was made using Ms Hs mobile banking app  so a mobile 
phone which she says was never  out of her possession;
-the payments  were  made two days apart   which  seems  odd behaviour  for a 
fraudster when  there was clearly  a healthy balance available after the first payment 
Ref: DRN59005962had been made. I can understand  NatWest  questioning what  reason a fraudster 
would have to do that;
-Ms H admits  to making an authorised  payment minutes before each disputed 
transaction.  For the first disputed transaction, she accepts she used the same  
device;
-the payments  were  not raised  as disputed until some six months later.   Ms H says 
this is irrelevant because  she has six years in which to make  a complaint.  She is 
right about the timings  but Im afraid  shes not right about the relevancy.   The  delay in 
the report, as far as I am concerned, goes to the issue  of her credibility.  If these 
payments were genuine unauthorised  payments, I think Ms H would have  raised 
them sooner.
So, in the circumstances, I will not be asking NatWest to do anything more here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5900596