K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains about how Aviva  Insurance Limited handled a claim made on her motor  
insurance policy. She wants it to refund her policy excess. Mrs D is represented  in this 
matter by her daughter,  Miss A. 
background
Mrs Ds car was destroyed  in a fire. Aviva investigated the claim and independent engineers 
tried to establish the cause of the fire without success.  So Aviva paid the claim for the cars 
total loss less the policy excess. Mrs D said this was unfair as she wasnt  to blame for the 
fire. She thought Aviva hadnt investigated the cause  of the fire fully.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He thought Aviva 
was entitled to retain the policy excess if it hadnt  recovered its outlay. He thought it had 
reasonably investigated the cause of the fire but couldnt do more because  of the extent of 
the damage. 
Miss A replied  that this wasnt fair as they werent  to blame for the fire. She asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed, so its come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this has been  an upsetting and frustrating experience for Mrs D and 
Miss A. Mrs Ds car was destroyed,  her garage and fences damaged and her neighbours 
van damaged. Aviva  said it couldnt establish  the cause of the fire so Mrs Ds £580  policy  
excess was payable. 
The adjudicator has already explained  that it isnt our role to decide what  was responsible  for 
causing the damage. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
That said,  we expect  an insurer  to reasonably  investigate a claim before making its decision 
on how to settle  it. 
I can see from Mrs Ds policy  that the policy excess is always  payable,  no matter how the 
loss or damage occurred.  Its then regarded as an uninsured  loss which  may be recovered if 
another party can be held responsible for the damage and the insurer  can then recover its 
outlay. 
I think Aviva  did all it could to establish the cause  of the fire. Its not in Avivas interest to pay 
a claim and not try to recover its outlay. Miss A said the Fire Brigade said the cause of the 
fire was isolated to the car itself. But its report said the fire could be due to equipment  or an 
appliance, but it didnt prove this. It said the cause was not known.
Ref: DRN52145702Aviva had two independent  inspections  of the car made. These  also said that the cause of 
the fire couldnt  be confirmed. Aviva said that there  had been no recent  work on the car and 
there were no recalls or alerts for the make  and model of car. So I think  Aviva did all it 
reasonably needed to do to investigate the cause  of the fire. 
Aviva settled the claim for the total loss of the car, but it retained the policy  excess. I think its 
entitled to do this by the policy terms and conditions. So I cant say its done anything  wrong  
or require  it to refund Mrs Ds policy excess.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5214570