K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that BMW  Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) increased the interest  
rate on his finance agreement after a lump sum payment was made.
background
Mr F took receipt  of a used car in September 2018. He financed  the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with BMWFS. Shortly after the agreement started he paid a lump sum 
of £5,800 which he asked BMWFS to use to reduce his monthly payments to them.
But Mr F noted this meant that BMWFS increased the APR on his agreement from 7.9% to 
8.3%.
He complained to BMWFS but they explained that the agreement had been changed by the 
lump sum payment and the APR had changed  to balance it. They said he wasnt paying any 
more interest as a result  and had saved over £1,000  in interest by making the lump sum 
payment.
Mr F wasnt satisfied  with their response so he referred his complaint to this service and our 
investigator provided an opinion. He explained  that interest was frontloaded on the 
agreement and wasnt calculated on a daily basis. He noted that the calculations  Mr F had 
supplied had added interest on a daily basis and that his calculation  was therefore incorrect.  
He provided a detailed breakdown of the correct calculation and explained that by making  a 
lump sum payment Mr F had saved over £1,024.  He therefore didnt think there  was 
evidence BMWFS had been unreasonable.
Mr F disagreed with the investigators view and he therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr F so please  let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr F acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.
Ref: DRN54169562Ive considered the detailed calculations provided by Mr F and by the investigator,  I wont  
repeat them  here but I think Mr Fs calculations havent taken into account that the interest  
on the account is added at the beginning.
The terms and conditions  explain that the interest charged forms part of the total charge  for 
credit which is added to the amount of credit  at the beginning of the agreement. 
Applying the interest in that way I would agree with the calculation  the investigator  provided 
and I therefore  dont think Mr F has been  disadvantaged or that BMWFS have been 
unreasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5416956