K820x#14complaint
Mx D complains that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) declined their claim for a partial 
refund of their hotel  and transport costs following a delayed  outbound flight.
background
For ease, in my decision I will refer to IPA when talking about their agents  or 
representatives.
Mx D had travel insurance with IPA through their credit card. They  had a three day trip 
booked but their outbound  flight was cancelled meaning they were delayed  in reaching their 
destination for over 24hours.  Mx D later put in a claim  for a third of their pre-paid hotel and 
transport costs that they missed out on because  of the delay. 
IPA refused  their claim. They said these losses were not covered  by their policy. IPA said 
theyd only be able to consider costs  for additional  expenses due to the delay. They  quoted 
section 1.6 of their policy, travel inconvenience,  which says Mx D is covered for additional 
travel and accommodations costs they incur if their flight  is delayed  or cancelled and no 
alternative is made available within four hours. They are also covered for these additional  
costs if they miss connecting  flights and no alternative is made available within  four hours.
Mx D complained to IPA but the complaint wasnt upheld.  So, Mx D brought their concerns to 
our service.  They highlighted section 1.2 of their policy, cancelling,  postponing  and 
abandoning your trip, which  states  Mx D is covered for non-refundable,  unused  travel,  
accommodation, excursions and leisure  activities if they cancel, postpone,  change  or 
abandon their trip for a number of specific reasons. 
Mx D highlighted the reasons in subsection g which apply when there is a delay of more  
than six hours, on the outward journey of a trip lasting five days  or less, which means  they 
no longer want to go on the trip. The subsection states the outward delay must be a result of 
industrial action, adverse  weather, mechanical breakdown of public transport, or a 
transportation accident.
Mx D told us they felt their trip was changed,  postponed and partially cancelled.  Mx D raised 
several points explaining why they felt section 1.2 of the policy  applied.  These  included  that 
they had a duty to mitigate loss; such delays were not uncommon and therefore foreseeable; 
and that they felt there was an implied contractual term. Mx D didnt think it was fair that 
because they hadnt decided to cancel their trip, their losses  werent covered. Mx D wanted 
IPA to change  the terms and conditions, making the limitations of the cover  clear. Mx D also 
wanted IPA to reconsider the claim.
Our investigator found IPA had applied the correct policy clause and didnt uphold Mx Ds 
complaint. Mx D didnt  agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mx D lost out as a result of this delay.  And I appreciate this must have been  
very frustrating. I want to assure  Mx D that Ive given careful consideration to all of the 
Ref: DRN52795462submissions made before  arriving at my decision.  However, this decision only addresses 
those issues I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint.
Mx Ds view is that section 1.2 of the policy applies to their claim. Mx D is right that 
contractual terms can be implied. But I dont think its necessary to imply any terms in these 
circumstances - Ill explain why. 
Section 1.2 clearly  relates  to cancelling, postponing  and abandoning  a trip. Looking at the 
normal definition of these  terms, none  apply in Mx Ds circumstances.  I can understand why 
Mx D feels  like part of their trip was cancelled  and/or  postponed - they couldnt  be there 
when they should have  been. But their holiday wasnt actually cancelled  or postponed, it was 
delayed. And delays are quite clearly covered under section 1.6 of the policy which refers  to 
delay, cancellation  or overbooking. Contractual terms may be implied when  they are not 
explicit, but I think this policy has a clear section relevant to Mx Ds claim. 
Ive thought about the fact that section 1.2 also references changes  to a holiday. I appreciate  
this delay did change  Mx Ds holiday.  But I dont  think this is the fairest way to categorise 
what happened. Their arrival was delayed but they didnt change their destination or hotel. 
I also note that subsection g specifically requires that the delays means you no longer want 
to go on your trip. Mx D still went away  and so I dont think  this term is of relevance here. 
And having reviewed  the other  subsections, none reflect Mx Ds circumstances.
For all of these reasons I dont think clause 1.2 of the policy  applies.
Ive then looked at section  1.6 of the policy and how this applies to Mx Ds claim. And whilst 
they were covered for additional costs incurred because of the delay, the policy  doesnt offer 
to reimburse them  for costs of benefits not used. And so, the policy doesnt cover them for 
their unused transport and hotel costs. Given  this, I dont think  IPA have acted unreasonably 
in declining this claim. But if Mx D were to submit  a claim related to any additional costs 
incurred, IPA should consider this in line with the terms and conditions. 
I appreciate that Mx D finds it frustrating that had they decided they no longer wanted to go 
on their trip - their travel insurance  may have refunded  them for the costs they have now 
claimed for. But, for the reasons Ive given,  I cant say that this means  IPA have acted  
unfairly in refusing this claim.
Mx D also doesnt feel that the terms and conditions of the policy  were  clear, and theyve 
asked us to ensure that IPA change  them. 
Our service doesnt regulate financial businesses and so we dont have a role in, for 
example, saying how IPA draft their terms and conditions. This would be for the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) who is the regulator of financial services. 
So, I can only consider  the particular circumstances  of this complaint to decide  whats fair. 
Its clear Mx D thought  they were covered for unused accommodation and travel. But having  
reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy, I cant agree that the relevant clauses are 
unclear. So, whilst Im aware  Mx D may find this disappointing, I dont think IPA have done 
anything wrong  here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I've given,  I don't  uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN52795463Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mx D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Jade Cunningham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5279546