K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) recorded a third party motor insurance 
claim against her on an external claims database.  She also complains  about  the impact  this 
had on her motor insurance  premiums  and the way she was treated when she complained.
background
In 2016 UKI received a third party claim against  Mrs B for damage  allegedly  caused a year 
previously. Mrs B made  it clear to UKI from the outset that she hadnt  been involved in the 
alleged incident.  UKI successfully  defended the claim  but Mrs B complained to UKI about  
how itd handled  it. She then brought that complaint to this service.  One of my colleagues 
issued a final decision on the complaint in June 2017. He explained that UKI had a duty to 
investigate the third party claim even if it turned out that Mrs S had never been involved. So 
he didnt think UKI had been  unreasonable  and didnt  uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
After the investigation, the claim was closed by UKI. In July 2018 Mrs B contacted UKI 
again. She had moved her motor insurance  to another  insurer and after her policy  had 
started the new insurer contacted her to say itd discovered the 2016  claim on an external 
claims database so was increasing  her annual premium by £7 to reflect her claims history. 
Mrs B phoned UKI to make a complaint. She was unhappy the claim had been  recorded and 
unhappy that shed been made to look like shed lied about her claims history  to her new 
insurer. She was also unhappy about the way she said she was spoken to during a phone  
call. UKI initially told her that whilst  the claim had been closed without  any admission of 
liability or payments  being made  it was still listed on the external claims database because 
insurers have a duty to notify  all reported incidents  whether  they are considered fault, non-
fault or information  only. 
Mrs B remained unhappy  with UKI so it looked into matters again. It discovered that once the 
claim had been  closed due to the non-involvement of Mrs B in the incident, it shouldve  
removed the entry from the external claims database. Due to a technical error, UKI said this 
hadnt happened. So UKI told Mrs B that itd arranged to update  the database so that the 
claim was removed. It also paid her compensation of £50 for the inconvenience its error  had 
caused her. It sent her a letter confirming  this and said she could show  it to her new insurer  
to prove  that the entry on the database was an error. UKI also investigated Mrs Bs 
complaint about  how she was dealt  with by its staff.  It said it found its staff had remained 
professional throughout all their dealings with her. 
Unhappy with the outcome of UKIs investigation, Mrs B complained  to this service. During 
the course of our adjudicators investigation,  Mrs B also said that she was concerned that 
the wrongly logged claim had impacted  her premiums with UKI whilst she was still insured 
with it. Our adjudicator  looked into her complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld.  
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs B, I dont  think her complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN50994302I know that Mrs B remains unhappy  about  the way that UKI dealt with the third party claim 
when it was made in 2016. But I cant look at this part of her complaint here. Thats  because  
this service has already  considered this part of her complaint and an ombudsmans  final 
decision had been issued which addressed it. As this service is unable  to consider the same 
complaint twice I wont be looking at this aspect  of Mrs Bs complaint within this decision.  
UKI has admitted  it failed  to remove the third party claim from the database when the claim 
was closed due to her non-involvement. I can understand  why Mrs B, who had no reason to 
think she need disclose  a 2016 third party claim that had been  successfully  defended  to her 
new insurer, thought  she had been  made to look like she hadnt been truthful with her 
answers about previous claims.  
But I cant ignore  that UKI has acknowledged its error and Mrs Bs dissatisfaction.  It has 
removed the claim  from the database and confirmed the correct position with Mrs Bs new 
insurer. It has also paid Mrs B compensation of £50 for any trouble and upset caused by its 
mistake. 
I have to decide whether UKI has handled Mrs Bs concerns fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances and I have  to say that I think it has. It has accepted  it made a mistake, 
apologised, spoken to the new insurer and paid Mrs B compensation thats in line with what  
this service has awarded in similar  circumstances. So whilst I can understand why Mrs B 
was dissatisfied  with UKI, I think the steps its taken to rectify  its error are reasonable in all 
the circumstances and I dont fairly think I can make it do - or pay her - anymore. 
Similarly UKI has been able to show us that the claim  logged in the way it was  had no 
adverse impact on Mrs Bs premiums whilst she remained insured with it. The claim wasnt  
noted on her policy  and her no-claims discount  remained unaffected. So Im satisfied that 
UKI calculated Mrs Bs premiums correctly and Mrs B didnt lose out financially as a result of 
UKIs error with the database.  
Finally, Ive not seen  any evidence  that UKIs staff treated Mrs B disrespectfully  so I dont 
think UKI unfairly declined  this aspect of Mrs Bs complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.  
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5099430