K820x#14Complaint
Mr R complains on behalf of his mother Mrs R that Great  Lakes Insurance  SE (Great Lakes) 
refused to settle  her insurance  claim against her property insurance, for damage to her 
garden wall caused  as a result  of heavy rainfall.
Background
In November 2018 Mrs R had a garden  wall collapse following a period of heavy rain. The 
wall was described as being 3.4m high and 8m wide.  The property was built on sloping land 
and the wall in question was a large retaining  wall with soil behind it. The wall was around  
100 years old. Mrs R had an insurance policy with Great  Lakes that covered against 
accident damage and storm damage  and included garden walls.
Mrs R reported the damage to her insurer who appointed a loss adjuster.  The loss adjuster  
attended 9 days  after the damage occurred. The loss adjuster reported that the wall had 
collapsed due to lateral pressure from water  retention in the soil. The report  concluded  that 
the wall was no longer able to withstand  the force due to wear and tear on that particular 
section of the wall. The report noted  a bulge visible to the left part of the wall, but reported 
that the remainder  of the wall was in good  condition with adequate  provision  for removing  
excess moisture. The report noted  the presence  of vegetation on the wall and suggested 
that it couldve grown through the wall and eroded mortar over time.  The loss adjuster 
concluded that wear  and tear meant that the wall in that section was no longer  stable  
enough to hold the saturated soil. The claim was declined.
Mrs C decided to get a different opinion and appointed her own structural  engineer to assess 
the damage. This inspection  took place 34 days after the damage had occurred. The 
structural engineer  was of the view that the vegetation on the wall was superficial and didnt  
impact on the structure. The report concluded that the foliage had not penetrated  through the 
full thickness of the wall into the soil at the rear. The report  said that the durability of the lime 
cement mortar present meant that vegetation would not likely have penetrated it. The report 
explained that the dry stone wall sections plus the presence of weep holes meant there  were  
adequate ways for water to pass through the wall. The report  concluded that the most likely 
cause of the collapse of the retaining  wall was the increase in lateral pressure on the wall as 
a direct result of heavy  rainfall in the days before.
Given the different  opinions of the two experts the insurer appointed a second loss adjuster 
to inspect the damage. This inspection took place  about 2 months after the damage had 
occurred. The report from this inspection  identified the cause of the collapse as being  due to 
wear and tear over time. It suggested that factors like the growth of vegetation and soil in the 
gaps of the stones  weakened the wall. The assessor didnt feel that the wall was damaged 
due to an accident, or by storm conditions and wasnt  covered by Mrs Rs policy.
Mrs R made  a complaint  to her insurer because they still would not settle her claim.
The insurer  appointed a third loss adjuster who attended and inspected the site towards the 
end of April 2019.  This assessor noted that the wall had not had any maintenance for 30 
years. This assessor also concluded that the damage hadnt  been caused by an insurable 
event and declined  the claim. The report again  identified overgrown vegetation and felt the 
main cause of the damage was the lack of maintenance  and clearing of the vegetation and 
shrubbery growing  on the wall.
Ref: DRN50157342Mrs Rs complaint was brought to us and our investigator looked at the evidence. She felt 
that Great Lakes  decision to decline the claim was reasonable  given the views that the 
damage didnt  seem  to be caused  by an insurable  event.
Mrs R did not agree and felt that the views  of the three loss adjusters did not disprove the 
view of the structural engineer that they were  relying on.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the expert reports.  The report by the structural  engineer appointed by Mrs R 
is detailed and assists  in understanding how the wall was constructed  and how it collapsed.  
Its conclusion  that the wall was damaged due to lateral forces caused by the excessive 
rainfall is not entirely at odds with the three loss adjuster reports.  So I think  its reasonable to 
say the heavy rainfall certainly contributed to the walls collapse.
Mrs R said that more  weight should  be attached to the report  by her structural  engineer. His 
report suggested that the strength of the wall wouldnt have been affected  by the vegetation  
growth and that the weep holes and drainage  should  have been adequate. His conclusion 
was that the only cause  of the walls collapse was the heavy rainfall.
In considering if the rainfall alone  could have caused this damage I think its relevant to look 
at how severe the weather was prior to this event. The nearest weather station reported high 
levels of rainfall in the run up to the event in November 2018. The recorded levels  were  
higher than for the same period for the previous  3 years. However in 2014  the rainfall for the 
same time of year was similar and in 2013 it was far worse, recording almost double  the 
rainfall. This is only a rough guide but leads me to conclude on balance  that the rainfall prior 
to the damage  to the wall was probably not a one off weather event.  The wall in question 
stood for over 100 years so it seems reasonable to assume it was built to cope  with the 
climate in that area. Were  it in a good  state of repair it should probably have coped  with the 
rain in November 2018  as it had in previous years. Because of this Im not sure its 
reasonable to say that rainfall was the only reason the wall collapsed.
The different  loss adjusters all accepted  rainfall  as a factor but indicated that other  factors 
combined to render the wall less able to cope with the lateral forces  of the soil than when it 
was first built.  These combined  views  all identify overgrown and penetrating vegetation  as 
potentially being  a factor. I think it was reasonable to suggest that the presence of that level 
of growth on so old a wall was a factor  in weakening  it.
Great Lakes are saying  that the damage  is not covered as storm damage in the policy. 
When we consider a complaint about  a claim for storm damage there are three issues that 
we consider:
1.did storm conditions occur on or around the date of the damage?
2.is the damage claimed  consistent for consistent  with damage a storm would normally 
cause?
3.were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
We would  expect the answer to all these questions to be yes for us to uphold a complaint. 
Having looked  at the weather station  report  for that time I think it can be argued  that the 
levels of rainfall and the high recorded  winds could be considered storm conditions for 
Ref: DRN50157343question one. Given the fact that water logged soil gradually increased the lateral  forces on 
the wall though, this is not consistent with normal storm damage,  so I think the answer to 
question two is no. Also, based on my interpretation of the expert reports  above, I dont 
think the evidence  proves on balance that storm conditions were  the main cause of the wall 
collapsing. So I think the answer to question  three  is also no. I therefore  wouldnt consider 
that this would be storm damage  under  this insurance policy.
The insurance policy covers accidental damage  which is described as unexpected  or 
unintended damage caused by sudden and external means.  Great Lakes are saying that this 
damage is not accidental damage  either  under this policy.  They say that wear and tear was 
a contributing factor. For the above  reasons I think this was a fair conclusion  for them to 
reach. The vegetation growth  was clearly visible on the wall. Mrs R explained to the third 
loss adjuster that the wall had not had any maintenance in the thirty years  that she had lived 
there. I cant  know  the condition of wall before it collapsed and must consider what seems to 
be a fair and reasonable interpretation  of the events.  I think that on balance  the views of the 
loss adjusters appointed by Great Lakes were reasonable and Great  Lakes treated Mrs R 
fairly in dealing with her claim.
It will disappoint Mr R and Mrs R, but for the reasons  Ive given I think  that Great  Lakes 
acted fairly  and reasonably in declining the claim as storm damage  or accident damage.
My final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2020.
Gary Lane
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5015734