K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that she was mis-sold two payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policies by 
Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide).
background
I set out the full background to this complaint in my provisional decision issued earlier in 
March 2019. I invited both parties to comment on that decision. Both parties responded to 
confirm they had received the provisional decision,  but neither party had anything further to 
add.
The provisional decision is attached here and forms part of my final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party made any further comment I am satisfied there is no reason to depart from 
the findings I made in my provisional decision.
The policy wasnt mis-sold  and Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
my final decision
As I am not upholding Mrs Bs complaint Nationwide Building  Society  doesnt  have  to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN52139942Provisional decision
background
Mrs B took out a loan with Nationwide in January  2003. At the same time she bought a PPI policy 
which would have covered the repayments on her loan for up to 12 months at a time if shed been 
unable to work. 
Later that year Mrs B refinanced her loan and took out another PPI policy. The cost of each  policy 
was added  to the loans and Mrs B paid interest on them.
Mrs B says that she wasnt aware that the PPI was added to each loan. She says she didnt need the 
cover.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken these into 
account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not intending to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. Ill 
explain why.
January 2003 policy
Nationwide has provided a copy of the loan application form for this sale.  It shows  that Mrs B was 
given a clear  choice about  taking the PPI and decided  to do so, although  I can understand why she 
might not remember this over 15 years later. 
Nationwide didnt give Mrs B a personal recommendation  to take the policy, so it didnt  need to make 
sure it was right for her. But it did need  to make sure she had enough information to make her own, 
informed, decision about buying it. 
When the adjudicator  first looked at this they concluded that Mrs B wasnt eligible for the cover and so 
they upheld the complaint. Mrs B told this service that she had been a post-graduate  student in the 
months leading up to  the time of sale, and I think its likely she was  although she hasnt  been able 
to provide any evidence of this. Mrs B only started her new job following her studies four months 
before the sale.  Mrs B needed to have been working full time for at least  six months before the sale 
to be eligible for the policy. 
However, while Mrs B was likely a student  I think its also likely she was  working full time at the same 
time. Mrs Bs loan application form states that she was. And from the testimony Mrs B has given us I 
think its likely she was working  more  than 16 hours a week for her employer, as well as studying.  So I 
think she was eligible for the policy. From the information she supplied to Nationwide I think  they 
would have believed  that she was eligible  for the policy. I dont think  Nationwide  couldve done any 
more to ensure  she was eligible for the policy. So I dont  think I can uphold  Mrs Bs complaint on the 
basis she wasnt  eligible for the policy  and Nationwide shouldnt have sold it to her. 
Ive looked at the rest of the sale to see if theres another reason why it mightve been mis-sold. 
Nationwide didnt give Mrs B a personal recommendation  about the policy, so it didnt  have to check 
that it was right for her. But it did need to make sure she got all the information she needed so she 
could make an informed decision for herself. Its possible she didnt get all the details that she 
shouldve done, but this doesnt mean  I should  automatically uphold  her complaint. I have  to consider 
what Mrs B wouldve done if shed had all the information. 
I dont think Mrs B wouldve  acted  differently and not bought the policy. I say this because:
As explained, I think Mrs B was eligible  for the policy;
Ref: DRN52139943I dont  think she was affected  by any of the terms which  mightve made it more  difficult  for her 
to make a successful  claim, such as those related to any existing  medical conditions or her 
employment circumstances;
Mrs B had some contractual sick pay. But the policy wouldve  paid out in addition to this and 
for longer than her full sick pay wouldve  lasted;
Mrs B wouldnt have  been entitled to any redundancy pay, given  her length of service. And 
she didnt have any other means  to meet her repayments if she wasnt working. Mrs B says 
her parents  wouldve helped her out, but this kind of help cant be guaranteed  because  other 
peoples circumstances can change too;
The cost of the policy  was comparable  to other similar policies on the market  at the same 
time. And I havent seen any evidence that the policy  was unaffordable  for Mrs B;
Although the cost of the policy was added to the loan and Mrs B paid interest on it, this was 
clearly disclosed in the application process.  If Mrs B wanted to pay off the loan early  which 
she did  she wouldve  received a pro-rata refund of the premiums.  So she wouldnt  have lost 
out by adding  the cost of the policy to her loan. 
So in relation to the January 2003 policy I dont  think Mrs B lost out as a result  of anything  Nationwide 
mightve done  wrong. Accordingly, I dont intend to award any compensation.
December 2003 policy  
Mrs B decided to borrow more money later in the year. She went  through the same  application 
process and took PPI. So Im satisfied that she realised  on this occasion too that she had a choice  
about taking the policy. The loan agreement makes it clear the policy was optional and Mrs B signed 
this agreement.
Mrs Bs circumstances were  very similar  at this time of sale. She had changed  employers  but 
remained in the same profession and  of course  hadnt been studying in the preceding months, so 
there was no question over her eligibility for the policy.  
Essentially the policy terms and basis of sale, as well as Mrs Bs circumstances in relation to sick pay 
and redundancy pay remained the same, so Im satisfied that this policy wasnt mis-sold either. 
my provisional  decision
I dont think either policy was mis-sold to Mrs B, so Im not intending  to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.  
However I will review any information either party wishes to supply before  I make my final decision. 
Any new evidence  should  be provided before  5 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5213994