K821x#15complaint
Miss D says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  her a mortgage payment protection  insurance 
(MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out with a mortgage in 1997. 
Miss D applied for the MPPI during a meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. I then wrote to Lloyds to explain that I was 
planning on coming to a different outcome to the adjudicator and explained my reasons why. 
Lloyds didnt agree  so now I will issue my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ds case. 
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ds complaint because Lloyds recommended  the policy to 
Miss D but I dont think it was right for her. Ill explain  why.
At the time Miss D took out the MPPI,  she was employed by and agency, and also had a 
second part-time job. I wrote to Lloyds  to explain why I thought this meant the policy  was 
unsuitable for Miss D. It responded  by saying that it was unable  to locate any exclusions in 
regards to agency workers.
The policy document Lloyds has provided includes the following exclusions for 
unemployment claims;
Any period of unemployment which is a normal or seasonal  occurrence in your 
occupation
Unemployment which arises from the completion of a fixed term employment  
contract
The policy also defined being  unemployed as Not engaged in any kind of paid work on an 
employed or self-employed basis  so Miss D would also have had to lose her part-time  
work to be able to make  a claim. 
Looking at these  terms, although they dont include the wording Agency worker I still think 
that they wouldve applied to Miss Ds employment  situation at the time  and it wouldve 
been harder for her to make a claim if she needed to. And I dont think Miss D wouldve 
bought the policy if Lloyds  had made  clear  it wasnt right for her.  
what the business should  do to put things right
Lloyds should  put Miss D in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Lloyds should:
Ref: DRN59695832Pay Miss D the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Miss D made a successful  claim  under  the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Lloyds Bank  PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5969583