K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs T bought the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a store  card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint  and Ive set out my reasons below.
 Mrs T says she didnt know the PPI had been added to her account, and that she didnt 
tick the box to say that she wanted  the cover.  Ive noted everything  Mrs T has said. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mrs T and the 
sales person when the policy  was sold. Im also mindful that these events happened 
many years ago. I accept that its possible PPI wasnt discussed at the time,  but its 
equally likely that it was  although  I can understand why Mrs T may no longer  
remember this. Without anything else to support what Mrs T has told me, I havent 
been able to safely conclude that Mrs T wasnt made aware that she had a choice 
about buying the PPI. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs T so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable  for 
her. That means it didnt  have  to ask about  any employer benefits Mrs T might have 
been entitled to, or other  means  she had to cover her repayments. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But its unlikely Mrs T would have been affected by any of the main  things 
the policy didnt  cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think  better 
information wouldve  stopped  her buying  it.
Mrs T has told us she didnt take PPI in connection  with two personal loans she arranged. 
So I can see why she might think its reasonable to conclude that she wouldnt have taken 
PPI in connection with her store  card either.
But we assess each  PPI complaint according to its own circumstances. So whether or not 
Mrs T bought PPI in connection with other borrowing, this doesnt affect my conclusions 
about the sale in this case. Overall, from what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that the policy 
was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN51227832my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5122783