K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about the advice he received from The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited  to take out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contributions (FSAVC) 
plan. 
Mr H is represented by a third party. For ease of reading,  Ill refer to all submissions as made  
by Mr H. 
background
Mr H met with one of Prudentials advisers  in 1990. At the time, he was 26 years old and 
earned £12,000 working for the Royal Air Force (RAF). Hed been a member  of the 
Armed Forces Pension scheme  (AFPS  75) since he was 19 and expected to work for the 
RAF until he turned 55, which was the standard retirement age in the RAF. 
Prudentials adviser  recommended Mr H take out a FSAVC  plan to top up his benefits  at 
retirement. Mr H contributed £30 a month  until he stopped contributions  in 2006, when he 
left the RAF  he didnt  increase this amount at any point.
Mr Hs representative complained to Prudential in 2017 about  its advice. Prudential upheld 
his complaint, agreeing Mr H wasnt given clear enough information  about  his employers in-
house options. To put things right, Prudential offered to pay Mr H the difference  between the 
value of his FSAVC minus  a windfall bonus and the annual management and member 
charges applied to the plan. 
Mr H didnt think Prudentials offer of compensation was fair so he referred  his complaint to 
our service  through a third party. Mr H had concerns about how Prudential had calculated its 
offer. He also said he would have bought up to two added  years from the AFPS 75 had 
Prudential given him clearer information  when  it advised him to take out the FSAVC.  Mr H 
also pointed out that his employer didnt offer a money-purchase  AVC scheme.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Hs complaint but didnt uphold it. He didnt  think  
Mr H would have bought added years from his employers scheme because:
Its likely  the FSAVC  option would have looked  more attractive as it was expected to 
grow more  than the benefits added years would  provide.
The FSAVC offered the flexibility  to stop making payments. Mr H took advantage  of 
this when he stopped making payments in 2006, over ten years before he reached 
his expected retirement age. 
There was nothing  to suggest Mr H was unable to take any risk, so he wasnt  
persuaded Mr H would have taken the added years option on this basis.  
Mr M disagreed with our investigators opinion so this has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prudential has accepted that it didnt  give Mr H enough information about  his in-house 
options during  the sale of the FSAVC plan. So all thats left for me to decide  is whether this 
Ref: DRN50699992would have made a difference.  In other  words,  do I think  that Mr H would have bought  added  
years rather  than taking the FSAVC  plan, if hed been given all the information. Having 
reviewed everything carefully, I dont  think he would have done.     
Its with the benefit  of hindsight that we know  its possible Mr H might  have been better off 
buying added years instead  of contributing to his FSAVC. But I cant use hindsight when 
making my decision. We now know investment returns achieved  were much lower  than 
expected. But at the time Mr H took out his FSAVC, its likely it was projected to provide 
greater benefits  than contributing to a defined benefit AVC scheme.  
The scheme information Ive seen suggests that at the age of 19, Mr H would have only 
been able to purchase one added year in the AFPS 75. Its likely he could have afforded  to 
buy this year, based on his salary at the time of the sale, and it would have  been  less than 
he contributed to his FSAVC. However, I dont think its likely Mr H would have considered  
this to be the more  cost effective option compared to the projected benefits  of his FSAVC.  . 
In addition, Mr Hs FSAVC offered him greater flexibility than buying  the added  year.  If he 
had bought the added year,  he would have had to give up a set percentage of his salary  until 
retirement, and his contributions would have increased in line with his salary  over the years.  
But Mr H never  increased his contributions to his FSAVC. So this suggests to me that he 
wasnt willing to pay more  than £30 per month into the plan. And looking at the 
representative salaries for Mr Hs role, buying the one year would have meant  that he would 
have needed to pay more than this as his salary increased. So I think  its unlikely  that in 
1990, Mr H would have  chosen to purchase  the added year and commit to increasing his 
contributions until retirement. 
Taking all the available evidence into account, Im not persuaded the FSAVC  was unsuitable 
for Mr H  or that he would have purchased the added year from the AFPS  75 if hed been 
given sufficient information during the sale. . 
But Prudential offered to refund the annual member and management charges applied to 
Mr Hs FSAVC  and its increased its offer since this complaint was referred to our service. I 
understand Mr Hs representative  has concerns about how the calculation  has been  carried 
out. But the only in-house option for Mr H was added  years and given that I dont think he 
would have done taken this option,  and Ive determined the FSAVC wasnt unsuitable, I dont 
think theres any basis for me to ask Prudential to pay additional  compensation. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to do what  
Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5069999