K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint is about  the handling of a claim  under their home emergency 
insurance policy with Acromas Insurance Company Limited. The claim and complaint have 
been dealt with throughout by Mrs F.
Acromas uses  agents to handle claims on its behalf.  All references to Acromas  in this 
decision should be read as including those  claims-handling  agents. 
background 
On 3 March 2018,  Mrs F reported a claim to Acromas after noticing water leaking into a hall 
cupboard containing the boiler and electricity box. Acromas was unable to provide a 
contractor immediately, as there  was particularly severe weather at the time. Mrs F says she 
had to call numerous  times to try and get help, being kept on hold for up to an hour at a time. 
The water was splashing  onto the boiler and they had to use towels  and bowls  to 
continuously mop up the water and collect it. Mrs F says this was extremely  stressful  and 
they were worried about the safety  of the boiler and the electricity box.
Acromas offered that Mr and Mrs F could get their own contractor  and it would reimburse the 
cost but they apparently said they had no one that could  come out. Acromass contractor 
attended around five days  after the claim was made. The contractor carried out some work 
on the roof, which he said would stop the leak in the hall cupboard.  However, Mrs F says he 
worked on an area several feet away from where the water was coming  in and had not 
repaired the leak above the hall cupboard. Shortly after this, there was a period of torrential 
rain and Mrs F says that as the leak was not fixed properly, water poured through  the same 
area into the cupboard and the boiler stopped working. Mr F had to spend all night changing 
bowls, buckets, towels to protect the electricity box. 
Acromas was unable  to send another roofing contractor (and Mr and Mrs F did not want the 
original contractor back again) and so it was agreed, Mr and Mrs F could instruct  their own 
contractor and Acromas would reimburse  the cost. They  found  a contractor who identified  
the leak was coming  from the tiles and leadwork  on the roof around the boiler flue and 
repaired it. Mrs F says the contractor told her it should have  been  easily  identified  at the first 
appointment. 
Acromas initially refused to reimburse the cost of the roof repairs,  as it said that the work 
done constituted normal maintenance work to the boiler flue and not an emergency repair.  
However, it later agreed on a goodwill basis to reimburse the cost of £185.  
Acromas also attended around five times  to fix the boiler. I understand it changed some 
parts and the boiler it was working. However,  Mrs F says it has made a noise ever since,  
whenever the hot water is activated  and regularly needs to be reset. Acromas says that as 
the boiler is working, there is nothing more  for it to do.  
Mr and Mrs F are very unhappy with the handling of the claim, which caused a number  of 
issues for them, as summarised  below:  
the second leak caused water  damage  to their ceilings, including in the bathroom  that 
had recently been redecorated.
They were without  heating and hot water, as a result of the damage to the boiler, in 
extremely cold weather; their son had to stay with relatives, as it was too cold for him. 
Ref: DRN52143222Mrs F spent hours on the phone  trying to get this sorted out. 
Acromas offered £30.00 towards  a heater but Mr and Mrs F are both asthmatic and 
said a blower heater  would aggravate this. They suggested two small oil filled 
radiators (£30 each) instead but Acromas  would not agree to this until Mrs F 
complained. 
One manager at Acromas empathized  and stated "this complaint is as bad as Ive 
ever seen", "colleagues failed to pick up your correspondence in my 2 week 
absence", "we have  a lot of learning  to do". 
There was no work  done on the flue - only to the tiles and lead work around  the flue. 
The claim for this cost was wrongly  refused and even though Acromas has agreed to 
pay it now, it should confirm it is because the claim was wrongly refused, rather  than 
say it is a goodwill  gesture. 
Mrs F has dealt  with the matter throughout but all correspondence and payments 
from Acromas  have  been in Mr Fs name, despite this being raised several  times. 
On recent correspondence,  Mrs Fs bank  account number and sort code were quoted 
at the footer of emails, which is a breach of her data.
She has cover for an engineer to come and look at the boiler to find out why it is still 
not working properly   whether thats  due to the water ingress or not. 
They would have  been entitled to stay in a hotel  for the eight days  the boiler wasnt 
working but didnt  this would have cost Acromas  a lot more. 
Mr and Mrs F want the cost of repairing the ceilings (£465)  to be paid and the boiler to be 
looked at again. 
Acromas says it refused  to pay the cost of the repairs  initially,  as the invoice showed the 
repairs had been  maintenance  of the flashing around the flue, which  isnt covered. However,  
it later agreed to reimburse  this cost (£185).  It also offered a total of £550  compensation in 
total for the trouble caused to Mr and Mrs F and £60 for heaters which are not provided 
under the policy.  In relation to the boiler,  it was left working on 14 May 2018  and so any 
other problems will be a new claim but it only covers complete central heating  failures,  and 
that is not the case.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She said it was fair that Acromas pay the 
costs of the roof repairs. The investigator  initially recommended that Acromas  inspect  the 
boiler again and repair it if the fault is found to be due to water  ingress.  The investigator 
however changed her mind about this after Mrs F told her that engineers  had advised the 
fault was not due to the leak.  Given this, the investigator didnt recommend Acromas do 
anything further  with the boiler. The investigator thought it was likely thered have been some 
damage to the ceilings  even if the roof repairs had been done properly at the outset and so 
she recommended  that Acromas pay half this cost. 
Mr and Mrs F do not accept the investigators assessment. Mrs F says: 
there was no damage to the ceiling after the first ingress of water. This leak was the 
result of snow on the roof melting  and was light in comparison to the second ingress.
She didnt report any damage to the ceiling in phone  calls to Acromas until after the 
second ingress - this is evidence in terms of time stamping,  of no damage  after the 
first ingress and so they are entitled to the entire  repair  costs.  
They have full cover  with Acromas but it is refusing to provide the service or aftercare 
as set out in the terms of their cover. They came  out five times, nothing has changed 
since then but now it is ignoring the issue and refusing to look at the boiler again. 
Ref: DRN52143223As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me. 
Since then,  Mrs F says that the boiler  is still displaying the same fault (making  a banging  
noise and having to reset it when the heating is not on in order  to get hot water) and that she 
reported this within Acromass repair period guarantee, after the last visit for the boiler,  and 
so it should come out again for this reason, even if it is not caused by the water ingress.   
Mrs F wants this considered as a new claim.  
The investigator said this should be dealt with as a new complaint but Acromas doesnt 
agree, as it says it is a continuation of the same complaint. It says Mrs F has made clear 
when referencing the continuing issue she says there is with the boiler that it is due to water 
damage and this is part of the subject matter of this complaint. Acromas  also says that it has 
suggested that Mr and Mrs F can provide a report from their own engineers,  as evidence of 
the fault and its cause  and it will consider this. However, as far as it is concerned, it has  
fixed the problems  that were  caused  to the boiler  by the water  leak and any fault with it that 
is not causing a complete failure of the system is not covered by the policy. 
Mrs F says it is for Acromas to resolve  the issue with the boiler  and doesnt  agree they 
should have to do so. Mrs F also said that she did not ever state  that she was advised the 
boiler was not faulty due to the water damage. She says that the engineer  that came  to 
service he boiler told her that she couldnt say that the ongoing issues  were related to the 
leak, without inspecting  the boiler  properly.  
In my opinion, this is a continuation of the original complaint. Mrs F has said the fault has 
been ongoing since the water leaks. Acromas therefore says it should be dealt with as part 
of this complaint  about whether it is responsible  for damage to the boiler  I agree. And in 
any event, the investigator  has already addressed it. She said that as there was no evidence  
that the boiler noise is due to the failure to fix the roof properly, she wasnt going  to ask 
Acromas to inspect it again and the policy with Acromas only covers  emergencies which 
would include a total failure of the boiler.  I intend therefore to deal with this issue  in this 
decision as part of this complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
roof repairs  
Acromas initially said the repairs  to stop the leak into the hall cupboard  were  not actually 
covered by the policy terms.  Mr and Mrs Fs roofing contractor  said he carried  out the 
following work: 
Re-dress lead works to central heating flue. Stripped back  tiles to flue and redressed lead 
flashing. Re-laid roof tiles and around outlet.
The work required was to effectively close gaps around the flue where it came out of the roof 
and this might well have  been as a result of wear  and tear or routine maintenance, and not 
an emergency event.  In any event Acromas  has agreed to reimburse this cost and I think  
thats reasonable. 
Ref: DRN52143224Mr and Mrs F are adamant  that the damage  to their ceilings and the damage to the boiler 
was solely  as a result of the second  ingress of water  and this wouldnt have happened if 
Acromass roofing contractor had done  this work in the first place. It appears the Acromass 
roofer did carry out repairs  to the roof (there was another leak on a landing elsewhere on the 
property). However, it appears  there  was water ingress in two areas of Mr and Mrs Fs home 
and so I do think they should  have  investigated further why the water was coming into the 
hall cupboard,  which  might have led to this being  resolved  and preventing the second leak. 
However, having said that, there  was clearly  a significant amount of water leaking into the 
property during the first event. Mrs F says this was due to snow on the roof melting and was 
very little compared to the second ingress. However,  Acromass notes of the initial  claim call 
and Mrs Fs account since are that water was bouncing off the boiler  and that she and Mr F 
had to continually  collect the water. There is little convincing independent  evidence  that this 
water ingress wouldnt have resulted in any repairs being necessary to the ceilings at all.   
Mrs F says the fact they didnt report any damage to the ceilings until after the second 
ingress is proof of this but I dont agree  this is conclusive. Overall,  I consider that some 
additional damage will have been caused and this could probably  have been prevented,  if 
Acromass contractors had made  further  investigations during its visit. I therefore  agree with 
the investigator that a contribution of half the estimate for the ceiling repairs is reasonable. 
boiler 
Mrs F also says the boiler is still not working as it should and this is either also due to the 
roofing contractor failing  to fix the leak earlier; or due to Acromass  boiler  engineer not 
repairing it properly. 
Again it hasnt been proven that the problems  with the boiler are solely  as a result of 
anything that contractor did wrong. As mentioned, water was reportedly splashing onto the 
boiler during the first water ingress.  In any event, Acromas came  out several  times to repair  
it and replaced some  parts. It says its final visit in May 2018  left the boiler  working 
satisfactorily. Mrs F says it has continued to intermittently need to be reset and makes a 
banging noise  when the hot water is activated.  Acromas has said this is not as a result of the 
water ingress and I have  not seen any convincing evidence that this is not correct. There  is 
no independent evidence that this is as a result of the water leak.  
Mrs F also says the fault has continued despite  repairs carried  out by Acromas and so it has 
not repaired the boiler properly, in line with its obligations under the insurance policy and so 
should return. 
I agree  with the investigator that there  is not sufficient evidence  this is related to the water  
ingress. Acromas also says it left the boiler  working  and does not consider that there  is 
anything further  it needs to do. 
As Im not persuaded that it has been established any fault with the boiler is a result  of the 
water leak,  I do not consider Acromas is obliged to do anything more.  It has repaired the 
boiler in line with the policy terms following its breakdown after the water  leaks and there is 
no independent evidence that its engineers did not carry out those repairs  properly. 
The policy covers the complete or partial breakdown of the primary heating system which 
results in no hot water and/or no heating.  
Ref: DRN52143225Mrs F does  apparently have both heating and hot water and so there is no obligation  on 
Acromas to come out to repair a noisy boiler  that is otherwise working. 
claim-handling 
Mrs F is very unhappy  with the way her claim was handled throughout.
Mrs F has complained about data breaches and addressing  correspondence  to Mr F. Both 
Mr and Mrs F are policyholders and so both are required  to be a party  to the complaint. So 
while I can understand why this might have caused frustration and annoyance, I do not 
consider that I can reasonably make any award  against Acromas for this. With regard  to 
possible data breaches, any complaint about this would  need to be dealt with by the 
Information Commissioners Office.
Mrs F also says she had to make numerous  telephone calls to get the repairs done  and was 
on hold for considerable lengths of time.  There was bad weather at the time of the claim and 
so Acromas was unable to appoint a contractor for a few days. I note however that it did 
offer the option of Mrs F getting her own contractor out and it would reimburse the costs.    
Mrs F declined this. It is disappointing to have to wait in a situation  such as Mr and Mrs F 
found themselves  in. It also took a few visits before  Acromas says the boiler was fixed 
properly. This was a time of particularly bad weather  and a reasonable  alternative  option 
was offered, if they did not want to wait. Acromas did therefore try and assist  Mr and Mrs F 
but having to wait five days with a leak such as this was not reasonable overall and not the 
service they were entitled to expect. In addition  ,there was then a second leak which  left 
them without a working boiler  and this probably  could  have been avoided. 
Acromas has paid £550 in compensation and £60 for heaters, which are not covered under 
the policy, so a payment of £610  altogether.  I also note that there is reference to an 
additional £100 having been paid in early  correspondence,  which  would make a total of £710 
compensation. Having taken  everything into account, I consider the sum of £610 to be 
reasonable to reflect  the initial  delays, the time without heating and hot water and the extent 
to which  Acromas is responsible for the second leak.  It is in line with awards  made in similar  
cases and I do not intend to ask Acromas to pay any more.   
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require Acromas Insurance  Limited to pay Mr and Mrs F 
the sum of £232.50 in respect of the damage  to the ceilings in their home. I understand 
Acromas has also paid at least £610  in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its handling  of the claim. If any part of that amount has not yet been paid, it 
should also pay that to Mr and Mrs F. 
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 March  2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5214322