K820x#14complaint
Miss S has complained  that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) unfairly refused to switch her from 
her Silver packaged bank  account to a free one after she complained  it had been mis-sold.
background
Miss S complained to Lloyds about the sale of Select, Platinum and Silver packaged bank 
accounts in 2016. Lloyds  agreed it mis-sold the Select account but that it hadnt  done 
anything wrong  when selling the Silver  and Platinum accounts. Miss S was dissatisfied with 
Lloyds response  and referred  her complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators  reviewed 
Miss S complaint and agreed that the Platinum and Silver accounts hadnt been mis-sold.  
Miss S then accepted Lloyds offer of compensation for the mis-sold Select account.
In November 2018, Miss S complained to Lloyds saying that it unfairly refused to switch  her 
to a free account after a written request to do so. Lloyds investigated Miss S complaint but 
didnt think it had unfairly refused a written instruction to switch  Miss S to a free account.   
One of our adjudicators has since looked  at Miss S complaint. She also didnt think  that 
Lloyds had acted  unfairly and so didnt uphold the complaint. Miss S disagreed  and asked 
for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, Im not upholding Miss S complaint.  Id 
like to explain why.
Ive looked at Miss S original letter of complaint from December 2015. Having done so, I can 
see that the final two paragraphs said:
I wish you to investigate  my complaint for my current package and previous account history  
according to your normal complaints history. I believe I have been mis sold these  packages  
not aware or offered  a free bank account with stand alone fee for an agreed overdraft facility.
Please do not automatically upgrade my account without any prior discussion
I accept that the above paragraphs  make  it clear that Miss S is unhappy at having been sold 
packaged accounts. I also think that she makes  it clear that she doesnt want to be sold any 
further packaged accounts in the future. But while I accept these points, I dont agree that 
what Miss S writes in these paragraphs goes as far as saying  that she wants  to be switched 
to a free account. And, in these circumstances, Im not persuaded that Lloyds refused a 
clear written  instruction from Miss S to switch her to a free account.
For the sake of completeness, Id also point out that Lloyds final response of 22 December 
2015 also confirmed  Miss S remained on the fee paying Silver packaged bank account. It 
also explained that Miss S could change her account by going  into a branch  or calling its 
customer service  helpline.  And it also says that if Miss S didnt  switch  accounts in the next 
60 days, Lloyds  would  assume Miss S wished to stay on this. 
Ref: DRN54758682I dont think that this was an unreasonable course  of action for Lloyds to take. I say this 
because Lloyds wont have known exactly which account Miss S wanted to switch to  
Lloyds had a range of current account  and more than one that wasnt fee paying.  And as 
Miss S Silver account included insurance benefits,  which she may have  been  relying  on, it 
wouldve been unreasonable to withdraw this cover   when the account fee was being paid  
without a clear and direct instruction from Miss S to do so.  
I appreciate Miss S says that she called the complaint handler at Lloyds  handling her case 
and that she was told she had to contact  the customer service helpline  to switch the account. 
And I accept  that it might have been helpful for Lloyds case handler to have transferred her 
straight through at that stage. But as I understand it, it wasnt  possible  for Lloyds complaints 
handlers to transfer  call to the customer service team at that time. And as the complaint 
handler directed  Miss S to the number she needed  to call, given the circumstances, I dont 
think that Miss S was treated unfairly.   
Equally, as Miss S doesnt  appear to have  contacted  the relevant department  until 
November 2018,  I dont think that it was unfair  for Lloyds to continue collecting the monthly 
fee for the Silver account until this point either. This is especially as Miss S wouldve been 
able to make  a claim on the insurance  during this time.  
So overall and having carefully thought  about everything, I dont think  that Lloyds  unfairly or 
unreasonably refused  to switch Miss S to a free current account. As this is the case, I dont 
think that it did anything  wrong and it doesnt need  to refund the fees that Miss S has asked 
for. I appreciate that Miss S will find my decision disappointing. But I hope  that shell 
understand the reasons  for it and at least feel that her concerns have been  listened to. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5475868