K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about a car that was supplied to him under a conditional  sale agreement 
with Hyundai Capital  UK Limited, trading  as Kia Motors Finance. 
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr M under a conditional  sale agreement  with Kia Motors  Finance 
that he signed in December 2015. The order form said that the interior fabric would be black  
with yellow  stitching but, when the car was delivered, Mr M says that the fabric  was two-
tone and not what hed ordered. Mr M complained about that to the dealer and about the 
length of time that hed had to wait for the car to be delivered. The dealer offered full interior 
and exterior fabric and paintwork treatments (with  a lifetime guarantee) as a settlement of 
those issues  and Mr M accepted that offer. He made a payment  to settle the conditional 
sale agreement in January 2016.  But he complained  to Kia Motors Finance in November 
2017 about those issues. He wasnt satisfied  with its response so complained  to this service 
in May 2018.  He says that his complaint  is made under section  75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 and that he wants compensation from Kia Motors Finance.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr M 
had accepted the car and the dealers offer of the treatments. And she didnt consider that 
thered been an unacceptable delay in delivering  the car to Mr M. She noted that Mr M had 
paid-off his agreement  in January 2016  and she concluded that it wouldnt  be fair for her to 
ask Kia Motors Finance  to do anything further.
Mr M has asked  for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary,  
that the investigators recommendation  is based on the chronology of events provided by Kia 
Motors Finance - despite the fact that the original participants had left the dealer by the time 
that it became  involved  and that its chronology is different to his.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A new car was supplied  to Mr M under a conditional  sale agreement  with Kia Motors  Finance 
that he signed in December 2015. He says that the car was delivered to him more than 30 
days late and that, when it was delivered, the interior fabric  was two-tone  and not black 
with yellow  stitching as specified on the order form. 
He complained to the dealer and it offered full interior and exterior  fabric  and paintwork 
treatments (with a lifetime  guarantee)  as a settlement  of those issues   which Mr M 
accepted. And he paid £13,365.06  to Kia Motors Finance  at the end of January 2016 in full 
settlement of the conditional sale agreement. 
Mr M then complained to Kia Motors Finance about  those issues in November 2017  nearly  
two years after the car had been  supplied  to him. He said that his complaint was made  under  
section 75. Section 75 doesnt apply to conditional  sale agreements  but the creditor under 
a conditional sale agreement has wider obligations to the debtor than the consumer  
protection that is provided by section  75. 
Ref: DRN55207312But Mr M accepted the car, he accepted the dealers offer of treatments in settlement of the 
issues that hed raised  with the dealer and he settled his conditional sale agreement with Kia 
Motors Finance. And he then made a complaint to Kia Motors  Finance nearly two years later 
about the same issues. 
Although there was a delay in the car being  delivered to Mr M, Im not persuaded that the 
delay was unacceptable or that it was enough  to constitute a breach of contract. And the 
dealer accepted that the interior  fabric of the car was different to the interior  that Mr M had 
ordered. So it offered a settlement to him  which  Mr M accepted. Having accepted  that 
settlement from the dealer, I dont consider  that its fair or reasonable for Mr M to then 
complain to Kia Motors Finance about  those  issues nearly two years later.
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require Kia Motors Finance to pay any compensation to Mr M  or to take any other action in 
response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5520731