K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that MetLife  Europe d.a.c  acted unfairly and unreasonably by not accepting  
his claim under a personal accident  insurance  policy. He wants his claim paid.
background
Mr M had a personal accident insurance  policy with MetLife. Mr M said that he suffered an 
injury at work and fractured a bone  within his left wrist. Mr M said that he was diagnosed 
wrongly at the time as suffering from musculoskeletal pain and issued with a sick note with 
the wrong diagnosis by his GP, and it wasnt until an X-ray was carried out about three 
months later that the fracture was correctly diagnosed. Mr M made  a claim to MetLife, but it 
declined it.
Mr M complained to MetLife. It said that there was no medical evidence supporting what 
Mr M was claiming to have happened and it was relevant  that he hadnt sought further help 
for a three month period after the accident.  MetLife  said that Mr M hadnt shown that hed 
suffered an injury caused by an accident  that met the terms and conditions of the policy; it 
appeared that Mr M had simply been  carrying out his usual work and then felt pain.
Mr M complained to us, saying that he saw his GP at the time and it wasnt  his fault that 
there was a misdiagnosis. The investigators  view was that the complaint  shouldnt be 
upheld. He said that based  on Mr Ms account  of how he suffered his injury,  he wasnt able 
to successfully claim as he hadnt  suffered an accident as defined by the policy.
Mr M disagreed. He said that he was insured in case  he suffered a fracture and should 
receive a payment, particularly when it was borne in mind that he was initially  told that he 
hadnt sought medical attention promptly. But Mr M also accepted that he suffered the injury 
due to constant repetition of the same  movements at work.  The investigator explained that 
Mr M hadnt suffered  an accident and it wasnt unreasonable for MetLife  to believe he hadnt  
promptly sought treatment  given the information  it was given at first.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that MetLife has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The evidence available to me shows that Mr M did see his GP the day he said that he felt 
the pain in his wrist. But the GP, who is a medically  qualified  professional,  found  that it was a 
repetitive strain injury  that caused musculoskeletal  pain, though Mr M said that there  were  
communication issues as his English  was poor.  Mr M said that the pain happened while he 
was undertaking  his usual  duties at work.
The key issue here isnt whether the GP made a mistake or even when Mr M first sought 
medical attention,  but whether Mr Ms injury meets the definition  of accident under the terms 
and conditions of the policy itself. Mr M wasnt insured in case he suffered a fracture  his 
insurance policy was an accident insurance policy so he was only covered  if he suffered an 
accident. The policy says an accident  is a sudden identifiable event operating  by violent 
external and visible means, which happens  by chance and which could  not be expected . 
Ref: DRN57210892Mr Ms own account of how the injury  happened  doesnt meet  this definition  Mr M didnt 
suffer a sudden event  which  couldnt have been predicted and happened  by chance, and the 
event didnt happen through violent and visible means. What Mr Ms account confirms is that 
he did the same task for too long, but this isnt an accident  as set out by the policy.  This 
means that I cant find that MetLife has acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining  Mr Ms 
claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 11 March 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5721089