K821x#15complaint
Ms T says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Ms T took out in 2003. It was added  to her 
account when  she applied for the card in store.
I issued a provisional decision saying I was planning  to uphold this complaint. FICL didnt 
respond. Ms T replied to say she agreed  with my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint because I dont think  FICL gave Ms T clear  information 
about the cost and benefits of the policy. I think this would have mattered to Ms T because 
she had an income  protection insurance  policy that protected her income for up to a year if 
she was unable to work  due to sickness or accident. So she couldve kept up with her card 
repayments for a while without the PPI.
I dont think Ms T wouldve bought the policy if FICL had given her enough information about  
it. So, I think Ms T has lost out because of what FICL did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Ms T in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.FICL should  find out how much Ms T would owe on her credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms T owes  and what  she would  
have owed.
If Ms T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when FICL works out what  Ms T would have  owed  each  month without PPI  Ms T 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms T paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point when Ms T wouldve 
owed FICL something on her credit card. The interest  rate should be 8% a year. 
Ref: DRN51830912C.FICL should  tell Ms T what  its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Ms T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold  this complaint. Financial Insurance  
Company Limited  should put things  right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5183091