K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains Santander have refused to refund a number of transactions  he says he 
didnt consent  to.
background
On 11 September  2017 Mr A received quarterly student loan payments totalling £4,814.76 in 
to his overdrawn account. 
The disputed activity  began on the same day. An initial cash  withdrawal of £250 on 
11 September 2017 was followed by a £300  withdrawal  the following day. Later that day 
several high value chip and PIN authenticated transactions took place leaving Mr As 
account once  again overdrawn.
The unusual nature of the chip and PIN transactions (as well as one on 23 September  2017) 
caused Santander to contact Mr A using the mobile  phone number it had for him to ask that 
he confirm whether transactions were carried out by him. A positive response was received 
from Mr As mobile phone on both occasions.  
Although Mr As PIN was used for a number of transactions which he disputes, on 26 
September 2017 the PIN was incorrectly input three times but was unblocked when 
someone contacted  Santander. Mr A denies  having used the card or confirmed any 
transactions as genuine.
After 12 September  2017, activity on Mr As account  was limited. Due to the overdrawn 
balance several  direct debits were  returned unpaid. Mr A says he made a small cash  deposit 
to the account  on one occasion but otherwise had no part in the activity that took place, 
including two other small cash deposits. 
On 27 September  2017 a new mobile phone number  was added to Mr As Santander profile. 
Then on 26 October 2017 there  was a large credit  to the account  of £7,000 followed  by a 
further credit  of £4,500 both of which were  quickly sent to existing payees via Mr As online 
banking facility. A further credit of £4,500 took place  on 27 October  2017  but an attempt to 
transfer this out of the account was reversed. Santander appear to have called the number 
they held on file to confirm one of the payments  was genuine.  
Mr A called Santander on 30 October 2017  to report the unusual activity  on 26 and 27 of 
October 2017. He reported having lost both his card and his mobile phone.  Shortly  
afterwards Santander  received a call from another  financial  institution reporting one of the 
credits to his account as fraudulent. Mr A did not mention  or dispute the activity prior to 26 
October 2017 at this point.
Santander concluded the transactions were  authorised by Mr A so didnt provide a refund. It 
also decided  to close Mr As account.
On 22 December 2017 Mr A contacted Santander again.  He said hed discovered  further  
fraudulent transactions  specifically all of those  which took place after his student loan 
credits on 12 September 2017.
Santanders position remained unchanged  and Mr A referred the matter to our service. 
Ref: DRN52384662What Mr A has said:
He lost his card and PIN in September and reported this to the bank in branch at the 
time.
He paid in cash at the Bethnal  Green  branch on 21 September  2017 but didnt make the 
other two cash deposits.
He only used his card locally and normally goes to the Bethnal Green branch.
He has an iPhone which didnt require a passcode to open. Hes never lost this phone.
He lives with his family and children   both of whom are under  18.
He doesnt  have any other bank accounts and used his wifes account during  September 
and October 2017, but she isnt willing to provide the statements.
He believes he would  have received  letters or emails about returned direct  debits in 
September or October  2017  but cant remember. 
What Santander  have said:
Theres no record of Mr A having reported  his card lost before 30 October 2017.
The card and PIN were used  to pay in cash at the Bethnal Green branch on 
21 September 2017, but they cant confirm whether the card and PIN were required on 
the other occasions.
Their records demonstrate that they sent text messages on several  occasions  and left a 
voicemail for Mr A on 12 September  2017  about  the unusual  transactions.  On each 
occasion a positive response was received. 
In order to access Mr As online banking on a new device his customer  ID, password and 
passcode would  have  all been  required.
On 26 September  2017, someone was able to call them  and pass  security in order  to 
unblock Mr As card after the PIN attempts had been exceeded.
On 26 October 2017 Mr A said that he recognised the credits into his account but not the 
payments out of his account. He also said he lost his phone  which  had his online 
banking details recorded.
Mr A didnt  report the transactions after his student loan was paid in until 22 December 
2017. This was after his claim  was initially declined. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr As complaint and didnt think that it should  be 
upheld.
She was satisfied that Mr A must have had the card in his possession  in order  to deposit 
funds into the account on 21 September 2017. She wasnt persuaded that Mr A could have 
failed to notice  such significant amounts of money, on which  Mr A seemed to rely, had gone  
missing. 
She also didnt think  there was a reasonable explanation for how someone was able to 
obtain, not just Mr As card and PIN, but a significant amount of other information about  him 
including his online banking  details.  She concluded  that Mr A had likely authorised the 
transactions. 
Mr A didnt agree. He said that hed been  the victim  of identity theft and shouldnt lose out 
because of this.
My findings
Ref: DRN52384663Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding it.
Where the evidence is inconclusive or contradictory,  I need  to make a finding on the balance  
of probabilities, that is to say what I think is more likely than not to have happened.  
Mr A makes  two main  complaints. First that he should receive a refund of payments that he 
says he didnt give his consent to. And, second that he should  have his account restored as 
he had no knowledge  of the activity  that led to its closure.  
Did Mr A authorise the transactions?
The Payment Service Regulations 2017 set out that Santander can only hold Mr A 
responsible for transactions hes authorised. To demonstrate this Santander  need  to show  
that the transactions were  authenticated  correctly  and that Mr A consented  to them.   
The transactions which Mr A disputes  were authenticated  in several different ways. 
Santander have  provided evidence that his PIN was used along with his genuine card to 
authenticate the cash machine withdrawals and point of sale transactions.  The payments 
made from his online  banking were authenticated using Mr A's online banking  security 
information. So, Im satisfied that transactions were authenticated  correctly.
This alone isnt enough for Mr A to be held responsible. Santander also need  to show that 
Mr A consented to the transactions. 
Mr A says he cant remember  when he lost his card. But its evident he used his card to 
credit cash  to his account ten days after the disputed activity began. 
Its also apparent from his previous account usage that Mr A expects  and relies  on his loan 
payments. They  are normally followed by a large cash withdrawal. Im surprised that on this 
particular occasion  Mr A apparently failed to notice  the money had gone missing.
Even if I was to accept  Mr As testimony that he reported the card missing  in a branch  of 
Santander (something for which there is no evidence) this cant have happened until after 
21 September 2017  so doesnt explain  why he made no attempt to access  the money and 
enquire about the missing funds before then. Given that the account  appears to have been 
Mr As main account, Im also surprised that he made no attempts to contact Santander to 
find out where his new card was.
Mr As online  banking  records suggest he was regularly accessing his account,  at least  prior 
to the phone number being  changed,  so Im surprised  he didnt notice the activity he now 
disputes. 
Its also likely (and seemingly accepted  by Mr A) that he would have received 
correspondence from various creditors after his direct debits were returned unpaid.  Yet this 
too doesnt seem to have alerted him to the disputed activity.
The small credits  and other payments which take place after 12 September 2017 appear  
consistent with an attempt to manage  an overdrawn account  not the actions of a fraudster 
or someone  who was unaware of the balance. Its very unlikely a fraudster would credit  
funds to an account that they might not be able to retrieve. 
Ref: DRN52384664I think its more likely than not that Mr A carried out all of the activity on the account  up until 
at least 21 September  2017 himself. And, given that it took him almost two months after the 
initial fraud claim for him to report these transactions its very difficult  to find Mr As account 
of events about this to be persuasive.
After 27 September  2017 it appears that a third party may have been using Mr As account. I 
say this because  a new phone number is added to the account and there are several 
incorrect PIN attempts. But I think its more likely than not that the third party  was doing this 
with Mr As knowledge.
Its likely  that a new device was used to access Mr As online banking after the new phone 
number was added. Santander  have said that in order  to register a new device Mr As 
customer number, passcode and password  would  have  all been required to do this and 
theres no explanation of how someone  other than Mr A would have known these  details  
unless Mr A shared  them. Even if Mr As device  was used, theres no explanation as to how 
his online  banking was accessed. 
Santanders notes  suggest that Mr A originally told the bank  hed lost his phone  with the 
online banking details  recorded on it. But he now says the phone was never  lost  so as well 
as a contradiction  here there doesnt seem to be an explanation for how this information 
could have been known to a third party.
I also note that whoever  had the card had enough information about Mr A, or his account, in 
order to pass security  in order to unblock  Mr As card. 
Theres also no plausible explanation of how Mr As PIN was obtained. Its possible that he 
was shoulder surfed during, or at some point  before, his last chip and PIN transaction  by 
someone known  or unknown to him. But, given  the card was in his possession on 
21 September 2017, a third party would have needed to take the unnecessary  risk of taking 
and returning  the card to him on at least one occasion. Its very difficult to see how, or why, 
an unknown third party could do this.
It might be possible  for someone  close to Mr A to have observed his PIN and subsequently 
taken the card. But I understand  he lives with his wife and children who are both under 18  
none of which hes implicated. 
I think that acquiring Mr As phone, card, PIN and personal information wouldnt be easy,  
and would likely be impossible for anyone but those he knows  personally. 
But Im not persuaded that this could have happened twice   either side of Mr As cash 
deposit and all during a time when Mr A failed to notice the absence of a significant part of 
his income or the deterioration of his financial position for more than six weeks.
Im satisfied Mr A authorised all the transactions in dispute himself either by carrying them 
out or by giving a third party permission to transact  on his account.
the account closure
Mr As account appears to have stayed open  until 14 March 2018 having  had a balance 
exceeding its overdraft  since the transactions in October 2017.  Santander  wrote  to Mr A 
saying that the account would be closed once the overdrawn  balance was repaid. 
Ref: DRN52384665Ive reviewed Santanders terms and conditions and Im satisfied it had sufficient grounds for 
closing Mr As account. Santander  are entitled  to close accounts which they consider 
present a significant deal of risk to them. Given Mr A had been the recipient of fraudulent 
funds and considering the numerous  inconsistencies in his account of events,  I cant say 
Santander have  acted incorrectly or unfairly in closing Mr As account.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5238466