K820x#14complaint
Miss H says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss H bought the policy in 2001 in connection  with a store card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Miss Hs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
 Miss H says she wasnt given any information  about the PPI when she bought it. 
FICL has told us Miss H bought the cover  over the phone  some time after she took 
out her store  card.  
I cant be sure what was discussed between Miss H and FICL when the policy  was 
sold. But I think its unlikely that FICL wouldve added the PPI to Miss Hs account if 
she hadnt agreed to buy it. And from what we know about FICLs phone sales 
processes, I think  Miss H wouldve realised  she had a choice about  whether or not to 
take the PPI. From what Ive seen and been told, I havent been able to safely 
conclude that FICL didnt  make Miss H aware  that the policy  was optional.
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Miss H so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable 
for her. That means  it didnt have to ask about any other  means that Miss H had to 
cover her repayments.
But even if FICL had recommended  the policy to Miss H, it doesnt  look as though it 
was unsuitable  for her, based  on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time. 
Miss H says she wouldve been entitled to statutory sick pay if she couldnt  work 
because of sickness or accident.  Having the policy in place wouldve meant Miss H 
could use her statutory  benefits to pay for other expenses if she was off work sick. 
So I think Miss H wouldve had some use for the policy.
Its possible  the information FICL  gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  But its unlikely Miss H would have been  affected by any of the 
main things  the policy didnt cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit.  So I 
dont think better  information  wouldve stopped her buying it.
Ref: DRN54181812my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5418181