K821x#15complaint
B, a charity,  has complained CAF Bank  Ltd wont refund £1,050 for payments they didnt 
authorise in March and April 2017.
background
B says that their business  debit card was used to make two payments from their account, 
totalling £1,050. They didnt make  or authorise those payments. CAF Bank initially  refunded 
the money and used  the chargeback mechanism. They then got further  evidence  from the 
merchant whod taken  payment for services and believed  B had authorised  these two 
payments.
B brought  their complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that B had authorised the payments and said that CAF Bank  
should refund them,  paying simple interest of 8% a year.
CAF Bank didnt agree.  They  believed B had breached its accounts  terms and conditions  by 
allowing its business card to be used by someone other than the person it was issued to. 
They then thought it was possible that person  had used the card to make  the payments. To 
resolve the complaint CAF Bank offered  to pay half of Bs losses.
B did not accept the offer. B didnt  believe their employee had used the card in this instance 
(although accepted she had done previously). They also noted that after theyd notified  CAF 
Bank of the misuse  of their card details, a further £8,000 of costs were  incurred.
CAF Bank asked an ombudsman to consider Bs complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our adjudicator. Ill explain  why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply but nothing  
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So when we look at 
whether a bank  has acted  fairly  in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed them  to be 
made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt ask the bank  to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both CAF Bank and Mr R, on Bs behalf, have told us. The disputed  payments took 
place on 31 March and 6 April 2017. 
I think the following  issues are relevant to how Ive considered this complaint:
B accepts that occasionally they allowed an employee, other  than the cardholder, to 
use the card to make payments. Otherwise the card was locked away. They  only 
allowed payments  to be made by the employee if Mr R, the named cardholder,  had 
Ref: DRN59834872authorised them. I have looked  at Bs bank  statements and see that the card was 
used infrequently. 
Firstly its clear B is saying Mr R didnt make the payments of authorise the other 
employee to make  the payments.  In fact Mr R has told us neither  of them  was in the 
office the day the first payment was made (31 March 2017).
I have considered whether the other employee could have used the card details 
herself for personal  use but I cant see why this would be the case.
Mr R has told us the other employee  is trustworthy and has worked for B for many 
years. Also I can see the other  employee  would know how closely Mr R paid 
attention to Bs account. This is witnessed by him picking up the first unauthorised  
transaction as soon  as it debited the account.
Mr R immediately contacted CAF Bank  as soon as he noticed the unauthorised 
payment and the card was cancelled. Attempts  to use the card were  made after this 
happened. The other employee would have known  of the card being cancelled  Im 
sure.
CAF Bank has suggested these two transactions could have  been  related to the work 
B has done to upgrade its website. But I dont  think this is the case. Minutes  from Bs 
Trustee meetings  show the website design and development framework hadnt  even 
been finalised by June 2017; quite  a while after the disputed transactions.
Unfortunately it is not too difficult to compromise  card details  rather than the 
physical card. So for example, there are websites full of harvested  card details that 
have been used to pay for items  on merchant  websites.  This is certainly  a way the 
card could  have been  compromised.
I note the merchant quoted back to CAF Bank email details also used with the card. 
These belonged  to Bs other employee.  But I dont believe that signifies  she used the 
card. Email details again are easily found out.
Finally Ive considered  what was being  bought. A trial which then charged after use 
exceeded the limits. More  than £8,000 was spent  on using virtual computer services. 
This sounds exactly like the type of fraudulent use we do see. I cant see any need 
for B to have made this purchase,  even by accident.  
I dont believe B authorised or made these transactions. Nor for the avoidance of doubt do I 
believe Bs other employee used the card for these  transactions  either.
CAF Bank says that B should not have shared the card with another  person, even one from 
Bs own organisation. This is in breach  of the account terms and conditions. CAF Bank has 
suggested B failed  to take all reasonable steps to prevent fraudulent use of the card. It says 
that term 13.64 allows it to hold B liable for the losses because  it failed to comply with 13.18.
Apart from the fact Ive already decided  B (including their other employee) didnt use the 
card, a charge of gross  negligence  doesnt apply in this instance. Ill explain why.
These two disputed transactions were carried out online. This means they were  distance 
contracts. A distance  contract is generally  a transaction that is completed without the 
merchant or consumer being physically present. In this case, unless the consumer 
authorised the payments or acted fraudulently, then generally the bank is automatically liable 
for refunding them in full. 
Ive also gone  on to consider whether this is fair and reasonable. CAF Bank  has suggested 
that the employee may have set up an account  because it was set up in Bs name,  for its 
use, using its correct details and the employees contact information. It may be that the 
employee made a mistake and was not aware  of the charges,  believing that it was a free 
Ref: DRN59834873trial. I dont  believe this was the case as I confirmed above. But in addition neither CAF Bank 
nor the merchant provided any information as to what the charges covered so I cant  safely  
conclude that B has benefitted from those services.
putting matters right
CAF Bank has offered  to refund half of the disputed  amount, but B has declined  to accept 
that offer. After careful consideration,  and on balance, as I find that B didnt authorise the 
payments and it hasnt  acted fraudulently,  then I think CAF Bank  should  refund the full 
amount of £1,050. It should  also add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of 
the two amounts of £350 and £700 from the dates they were  paid to the date of settlement.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  CAF Bank Ltd to:
Repay B £1,050 for the transactions they didnt  authorise; and
Add 8% simple interest to the two amounts from the dates they debited Bs account 
until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.  
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5983487