K821x#15complaint
Mr W says Uncle Buck Finance LLP (Uncle Buck)  irresponsibly lent to him. Mr W says he 
had a gambling addiction and was in debt when Uncle Buck  lent to him and so Uncle  Buck 
shouldnt have lent to him.
background
This complaint is about one instalment loan Uncle Buck  lent to Mr W in June 2018. The loan 
was for £400  to be repaid  in four instalments  of £161.94. Mr W repaid the loan early  
repaying it in full in July 2018.
Two adjudicators looked at this complaint, the first adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint 
but the second and most recent adjudicators opinion  upheld Mr Ws complaint. The 
adjudicator thought that Uncle Bucks checks showed cause  for concern that the loan wasnt 
affordable for Mr W and so Uncle Buck shouldnt have lent to him. 
Uncle Buck  disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Before lending Uncle Buck asked Mr W about his monthly income and expenses. It has also 
provided information to show  that it searched  Mr Ws credit file.
Mr W declared his income as £2,600 and his declared total monthly expenses  were a total of 
£635 including things like utility, transport and food. So on the face of this information 
provided by Mr W, this loan seems affordable.
However, Im mindful of the information  Uncle Buck found when it searched Mr Ws credit  
file. The results of its search  shows that Mr W had three existing short term loans with other 
lenders with a total value of around £1,150, which meant this would be the fourth loan he 
would need to repay in the near future. 
Also, Mr Ws monthly credit repayment was around  £2,214  which  likely included  his 
mortgage and regular credit commitments. This information suggests  that Mr W was 
indebted in a way that meant he wasnt in a position  to sustainably repay this loan. I think 
Uncle Buck  should  have  reacted to the information  it found, and it shouldnt have lent Mr W 
this loan. 
So Im upholding  Mr Ws complaint and Uncle Buck needs to put things right.
Ref: DRN54225562putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr W paid on the loan;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about the loan from Mr Ws credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. 
Uncle Buck  must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im upholding Mr Ws complaint and Uncle  Buck Finance LLP needs 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Tola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5422556