K821x#15complaint
Miss N says Casheuronet  UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid)  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about four payday  loans  that Quick Quid provided to Miss N from May 
2008 onwards.  Miss Ns last loan was provided in April 2009.
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Ns complaint about  loans three and four and thought that        
Miss N shouldnt have  been  provided  with these loans. Quick Quid didnt agree with our 
adjudicator but offered to refund the interest  and charges Miss N paid on loan two. Miss N 
rejected Quick Quids offer. So the complaint was passed to me for me to consider afresh 
and issue a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss N 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ns complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans one and two would more likely  
than not have shown that:
Ref: DRN52312702there wasnt anything  to suggest that Miss N wouldnt have been able to repay these 
loans on time. I say this while  especially mindful  of the fact that loan two was over 
two payment periods which provided  additional time for Miss N to clear her 
indebtedness. I accept that further checks  such as requesting  bank statements- 
mightve have shown the loans to be unaffordable.  But I dont think that proportionate 
checks would have  extended into Quick Quid taking further  steps to verify the 
information provided at this stage.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Miss N, I also think  
that Quick Quid should  reasonably have seen that Miss N was unlikely to have been  able to 
make her loan repayments in a sustainable  manner from loan three onwards. I say this 
because:
by the time of loan three, Miss N had owed Quick Quid  money  for a period of 
approaching seven months.  And Miss N rolled over loan two and paid late fees. So 
Quick Quid ought to have realised that Miss N might have been struggling  financially 
and offered assistance rather than offer further expensive credit. 
In my view, Miss N owing  Quick  Quid money for this period of time, in these 
circumstances, was in itself a clear  demonstration  of Miss Ns inability to settle her 
loans over the life of the credit agreement.  
Miss N paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service an increasing debt to 
Quick Quid over an extended period.
I think that Miss N lost out because Quick Quid provided these loans  because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ns indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of deferrals and the extended  period of time she owed Quick  Quid  money 
was likely to have  had negative  implications on Miss Ns ability to access mainstream  
credit and so kept her in the market  for these  high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Miss Ns complaint about  loans three and four and Quick  Quid  should  put 
things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss N paid on loan three;
the debt Quick Quid sold on for loan four included  interest  and charges that Miss N 
shouldnt have  to pay. So Quick Quid should either contact the third party  debt 
purchaser and pay it an amount  to reduce whats due to the amount of what was 
borrowed, buy back the debt from the third party and do this. Either  way Quick  Quid  
needs to ensure that Miss N paid, or pays, no more in total than the amount she was 
lent. If Miss N has paid more than what she was lent, Quick  Quid  needs to refund the 
extra Miss N paid;
Ref: DRN52312703pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded amounts from the date they were 
paid (if they were)  to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Miss N owed Quick Quid money means  that any information still 
recorded about loans three and four is adverse. So all entries about these loans 
should be removed  from Miss Ns credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Miss N a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ns complaint. Casheuronet UK 
LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Miss N compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2019.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5231270