K821x#15complaint
Mrs Cs husband complains, on her behalf,  that Virgin Money plc was irresponsible when it 
granted her application for a second  credit  card in September 2017 which she couldnt 
afford.
background
Mrs C took out a credit card with Virgin on 8 May 2015 with an initial limit of £5,000. She 
made regular payments  until she defaulted  in May 2018 but her husband said the balance  
never dropped below £3,500. 
In June 2016 Virgin gave Mrs C a personal loan of £8,314. Virgin then gave her a second 
credit card on 22 September 2017  with an initial limit of £5,500. Mr C said at that time the 
balance on the first card was nearly £5,000. The balance on the personal loan was over 
£5,000. And she owed  nearly £9,000 on a credit card with another  lender.  So when Virgin  
granted her application for another  credit card her debt was already  over £19,000. He said 
her annual income was approximately  £12,000. Hes now had to borrow money to clear 
Mrs Cs debt.
Virgin said Mrs C opened both her credit card accounts online. It said the first application 
was automatically approved but the second application was referred to and approved by an 
underwriter. It carried out a search  on her credit record. And it monitored her account  history.  
It said it based its assessment on household income. And it wouldnt have assumed she 
couldnt afford the repayments. 
Our investigator could  see that when Virgin gave Mrs C a second credit card she was only 
making small monthly payments towards the first one. The balance  had rarely  dropped  
below £4,000. And her credit file showed  substantial financial commitments with other  
lenders. He thought that as both credit cards  were in the sole name  of Mrs C, her income  
and not the household income should  have been  considered. He thought  it was clear at the 
time of the second credit  card application she was struggling to manage  her debts. And 
compared to her income, her level of debt was already very high. He made  the point that this 
application was not granted automatically  but had to be approved by an underwriter. So he 
thought this was unaffordable and said that Virgin should refund all interest, and any charges 
Mrs C paid on the second credit card from September 2017 until the balance was paid off. If 
there were charges to be refunded he said Virgin should apply 8% simple interest from the 
date of each charge to the date of settlement. 
Mr C, on behalf of his wife, accepted our investigators opinion. But Virgin  wasnt  happy with 
it. It said Mrs C satisfied its lending criteria at the time of the applications. It was a pre-
approved application. And other  lending  showed  consolidation rather  than new lending.  And 
it said use of household income (and other household debts which  are also included when 
making an assessment  based on household income) is a key assumption within  our 
strategy. Joint debt (i.e. large mortgages)  would  heavily penalise  the low earner within a 
household if we ignored household income  and made assumptions on share of mortgage to 
be applied  to an individual. And it said there were no concerns on existing cards  and no 
concerns with bureau information apart from high unsecured debt level to sole income.
Ref: DRN56532912Our investigator responded by saying that although Mrs C wasnt missing  payments on her 
first credit card, she wouldve struggled  to pay it off if she had to. He thought  that the crux of 
the matter was that Virgin had given another credit card to Mrs C who had a significant  level 
of debt compared to her income.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with our 
investigator that the crux of the matter is that Virgin provided another credit  card to Mrs C 
when she had a significant level of debt compared to her income.
Virgin and Mr C put forward  further points to consider  which I have fully taken into account 
when coming to my decision. 
Mr C thinks this lending was irresponsible.  Irresponsible lending  is whether there  is another  
reason for not giving credit  over and above  the affordability. I dont think  thats the case  here 
so I have looked at the affordability of the credit on Mrs Cs second  credit card opened by 
Virgin in September  2017.
The Standards of Lending Practice set out by the Lending Standards  Board identifies  some 
of the responsibilities  a lender has. And its main responsibility is to provide a borrower with a 
product that is affordable and meets their needs.  Before providing  any form of credit  it should 
assess from the information available whether the consumer will be able to repay it in a 
sustainable manner  without incurring financial difficulty or experiencing adverse 
consequences. 
And lenders must follow the rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  the most 
relevant of which, in this situation, are those  found  in the Consumer  Credit  Sourcebook 
(CONC).  
So Virgin shouldve asked if the credit was affordable  based  on Mrs Cs existing financial 
obligations (including the credit shed applied for) compared with her income. Virgin said it 
assessed the application based on household  income. But in assessing  income  a lender 
should only take into account  the income of another person if it is reasonable to expect such  
income to be available to the customer to make repayments under the agreement. That is in 
CONC 5.2A.12 (2). In Mrs Cs case she was applying for a credit card in her sole name.  So I 
dont think its reasonable in those  circumstances to take into account the household income. 
And, under CONC 5.2A 12 (5), it shouldve assessed Mrs Cs ability to make  repayments  
without them having a significant  adverse impact on her financial situation. It shouldve 
asked if there was enough  disposable  income  after all commitments and living expenses 
were taken into account. And I dont think it did that. Mrs C had significant levels of 
unsecured debt at the time and I dont think it was likely she wouldve been able to repay  this 
new credit  in a sustainable  manner without  incurring financial difficulty.
Ref: DRN56532913Virgin was aware that Mrs C was making small monthly payments on her first card (which 
had the advantage of a promotional rate of interest) from the date it was taken out to the 
date the new card was issued. Virgin  said that minimum payment is a rational customer  
behaviour to maximise  the value of the 0% period  and not an indicator  of financial stress but 
Virgin still had an obligation  to take into account  the history of transactions and the balance  
on that card when considering her application for a new one. It said in its response to the 
investigators opinion  that Mrs C had only reduced  the balance  on the first card from £4,800 
to £4,100 so I think it shouldve  taken  that into account. It shouldve assessed her ability  to 
repay the new credit over a reasonable period of time. And based  on the history of the first 
card, I dont think it did that. And it had an obligation to assess her ability to repay the new 
credit based  on her existing financial commitments. And as Ive already said she had 
significant levels of debt at this time. 
In light of Mrs Cs income, her level of debt at the time of her application  for a second credit  
card and her transaction history on her first card  I dont think  Virgin  carried out a fair 
assessment of Mrs Cs ability to repay the credit  on the second card. And looking  at all the 
circumstances as Ive outlined them I think it was unaffordable. 
So I agree with our investigator that Virgin should refund all interest and any charges Mrs C 
paid on the second card from the date of its issue in September 2017 until the date the 
balance was repaid. If charges were applied  they should be refunded with 8% simple interest 
applied from the date each charge was paid until the date the balance  was repaid. And it 
should pay £250 for the distress its caused  Mrs C and remove  any adverse information from 
her credit record  in connection  with this credit card.
In his final representations to us Mr C said he doesnt think Virgin  shouldve  issued  Mrs C 
with either  card. But as the initial complaint has been about the second credit card account 
Virgin will need to be given an opportunity to respond to the issue about the first credit  card.  
Our investigator will help Mr C if he wants to take this any further  on behalf of Mrs C.
Ref: DRN56532914my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. To put matters right Virgin Money  plc must:
Refund all interest  and charges from the date of opening the credit card account to 
the date the balance  was settled
Any charges  should be refunded with 8% simple interest from the date each charge 
was paid to the date the balance was settled  *
Pay an additional  £250 for the distress this has caused  Mrs C.
Remove any adverse  information relating to this credit card account from Mrs Cs 
credit record. 
*Income tax may be payable on the 8% interest  payment awarded. If Virgin  Money plc 
deducts income tax from this interest,  it should  tell Mrs C how much has been taken off. 
Virgin Money plc should  give Mrs C a tax deduction  certificate if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5653291