K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes their agents.
background
Mr B was visiting  another city when during the early  hours of 23 December 2018, his 
passenger side window was smashed while it was unattended. He claimed on his Admiral 
policy and they directed  him to their window specialist agent to arrange for a replacement  
window to be fitted.
The agent  told Mr B the window  wouldnt be available until the following day. On 
24 December the agent told Mr B the one replacement window they had was scratched. Mr 
B suggested getting the window from somewhere else or the cars  main dealer. But Admiral  
told him he wasnt covered under his policy to go to the main dealer and if he did, Admiral 
would only contribute £50. As Mr B was desperate to return  home  in time to spend 
Christmas with his family  and he was stranded over 100 miles away,  he agreed to have the 
scratched window installed so that he could drive home. When  the engineer  arrived  to fit the 
window he realised he had the incorrect one. So he taped up the cars  window and said he 
would return with Perspex  sheeting to complete the temporary fix. But he didnt return.
As the car couldnt be driven  in that state,  Mr B said he had to beg Admiral to transport his 
car back home, which they agreed to do. Admirals recovery agent took the car during the 
early evening on 24 December. But they said they could only take it part of the way, because  
in line with professional driving  standards regulations he couldn't drive for the full number of 
hours required to complete the journey. The agent said they would have to leave the car and 
asked Mr B if he could then arrange the remainder of the recovery himself.  Mr B said that as 
he couldnt contact  Admiral he had to deal with their recovery agent. Following Mr Bs efforts,  
the recovery agent agreed  to take the car to another business premises where it could be 
safely stored until it could be transported  to Mr Bs home address. The car was delivered to 
Mr Bs home on 26 December.
Mr B was able to get home late at night on Christmas day after paying  a friend £70 to drive 
him. But he missed spending  Christmas day with his family. He said he also had a driving 
trip to Europe planned to start on 27 December which I understand he wasnt  able to do. 
Mr B also said he had to cut short a two week  holiday to two days so that he could return to 
be present for the new window to be fitted.
Mr B complained. He said he and his family  suffered great distress and inconvenience.  He 
said he had to spend around seven  hours  on the phone on Christmas Eve to Admiral and 
their agents.  He also said:
The service he received from Admiral and their agents was poor and he was let 
down.
He was promised  a number of call backs which never happened.
The glass agents manager promised him a call back but that didnt happen.
He was stranded away  from home  because the agent brought the wrong glass.
During his discussions  with Admiral one of their call handlers suggested he could 
return home by taking the bus as that is what she would do.
Ref: DRN50016912One of Admirals call handlers refused six times to put him through  to a manager.
He was misinformed by Admiral  that they would not have covered the cost if he had 
the window replaced  by the main dealer.
Admirals glass  agent  said he would return with Perspex to secure the car but he 
never returned. 
He had to beg for Admiral to arrange  for his car to be transported home.
The recovery agent had to stop half way and couldnt take the car home on 
24 December.
He missed his driving holiday as he couldnt use his car.
Every agent  involved  had broken their commitment,  given  false information and been 
unhelpful.
He was first told the calls relating to his complaint had been listened to but later told 
they hadnt.
His car had been damaged by one of Admirals agents.
His car was devalued by £2,000  because it was resprayed following the repairs  done 
by Admiral because  their agent  damaged  it.
He was told the excess for his window claim was £75 when it was in fact £95.
He suffered loss of earnings because of Admiral and their agents.
Admiral upheld Mr Bs complaint overall  and accepted things had gone wrong and that the 
service should have been better. Admiral offered Mr B compensation as follows:
£200 for trouble and upset.
£50 for telephone calls Mr B made.
£95 policy excess waived.
£70 cost of the lift home on Christmas Day.
£90 for the loss of use of his car for nine days (£10 per day).  A courtesy car was 
provided on 31 December 2018.  
£100 reimbursement of Mr Bs insurance  premium for the days  he was unable  to use 
his car.
£300 compensation offered by Admirals glass agent.
£40 compensation  offered by Admirals  recovery agent.
Mr B didnt think that went far enough  so he brought  his complaint to our service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into it. She felt that Admirals compensation was reasonable so she 
didnt ask them to do anything more. As Mr B didnt agree  with our adjudicator, the complaint  
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr B, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain  why.
In his complaint,  Mr B has made  a number of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  Its 
accepted that Admirals  and their agents service was poor. But the reason the complaint 
isnt being upheld is because I think Admirals and their agents response and compensation 
is reasonable.
Ref: DRN50016913Mr B has raised many specific points and has made  detailed submissions about his 
complaint. I think its fair to say the complaint  is about the poor service he received. And 
Admiral have on the whole accepted the service  provided to Mr B was poor. Although  the 
agents used to replace the window  and to transport the car were  separate businesses, they 
were acting on Admirals behalf.  So, Admiral  are responsible for their actions. I wont  
address each and every  point Mr B has made but I will look at the complaint globally and 
where necessary  I have  addressed specific points.
devaluation of the car
On 30 December 2018, Mr B told Admiral  that he discovered scratches to the left hand  side 
door of his car. He said he suspected one of Admirals agents,  probably the recovery agents 
that transported  his car, caused the damage. Im aware the agents didnt accept liability  but 
Admiral agreed to have  the damage repaired at their expense,  which I think was reasonable. 
I understand they paid over £3,000 for the repairs and part or all of the left hand side of the 
car was re-sprayed.  I also understand the whole car was polished  to ensure the colour 
matched.
I havent seen  any convincing evidence to prove Admirals agents caused the damage and I 
think Admiral could  have  refused  to take responsibility for it. Thats because the door that 
had the scratches  was the same door which had its window smashed when the car was 
vandalised on 23 December. I say vandalised to describe the fact that the window appears 
to have been intentionally smashed. Mr B said he believes the intention of his window being 
smashed was to steal. I think its possible the other damage, namely the scratches, could 
have occurred during that incident. But I accept there is also a possibility that it could have 
happened when  it was being transported. But as Ive said above,  theres  no convincing 
evidence either  way.
The car was returned to Mr B on 26 December. He didnt notice the damage  until 
30 December. I dont  know where  Mr B stored the car during that time. It may be that if he 
kept it outside it could have been damaged while it was in his possession.  But if that didnt 
happen because  it was stored  in a secure  location such as a garage, then it means  the 
damage happened before the car was delivered to him.
The relevance of my comments about  not knowing when the scratches were caused and by 
whom is that I cant say that any loss in the cars  value as a result  of part of it being 
resprayed is Admirals  responsibility. Mr B has provided an email from the cars main  dealer 
that says: When valuing the car knowing that the car bas been repainted  we would take into 
account the sum of £2,0000  (sic) when part exchanging, as the paint is not original from the 
factory.  I think  the value was a typo as Mr B said he believed  the car de-valued  by £2,000. 
By the impression given  by the dealers  email and indeed Mr Bs earlier email to the 
dealership is that the whole car had been  repainted. But my understanding  is that that wasnt 
the case. I understand that not more than the left hand  side of the car was painted and the 
remainder was polished.  So, I think the dealers comments about a devaluation  related to the 
whole car being  repainted.
Admirals engineer commented on the suggestion  that the car had been devalued. He 
concluded that no devaluation occurred as there was no damage to the cars  structure  or 
panels but the damage was cosmetic. And the repair in fact bettered the car as it rectified 
the damage.
Ref: DRN50016914Given the conflicting evidence about whether  re-spraying part of the car would devalue it and 
given Im not convinced  Admiral were responsible for the damage, Im not upholding this part 
of the complaint.
loss of income
Mr B said he is self-employed  and earns  £450 a day. The main trouble Mr B experienced 
was during the 2018 festive period  just before Christmas and leading up to New Year. I 
appreciate he had to also spend time dealing with related issues  until around mid-
February 2019 when  the scratches  to the car were being repaired. I understand Mr B also 
had a two week  holiday from 27 December 2018. That would suggest  Mr B wasnt working 
during the last week of December 2018 and the first week of January 2019. And if he wasnt  
working I dont think he lost any income. But I should say that our adjudicator did ask Mr B to 
provide evidence of his lost income  but he didnt do so. For that reason Im not upholding 
this part of the complaint.
finance refund
Mr B was paying for his car on finance. Mr B suggested that as he didnt have use of his car 
for a period  of time, Admiral should refund him part of his finance  payments. But I dont think 
it would  be reasonable to ask Admiral to do that. I understand he was without his car for 
almost approximately  a month  and a half, perhaps longer. But Admiral provided Mr B with a 
hire car from 31 December 2018 onwards.  So he was without a car for just over a week.  And 
whether he had use of the car for a period of time or not, Mr B was essentially repaying a 
credit lender  which had put up the finance to allow him to acquire  an  asset. Im therefore not 
upholding this part of the complaint.
every agent  gave false information
While I agree with Mr B that the service  he received  was poor and that he was at times given 
wrong information, I havent found  any convincing evidence that he was given false  
information. The word  false suggests an element of dishonesty and that Mr B was 
intentionally misled  or lied to. I dont think that happened. 
compensation
The total compensation offered by Admiral and their agents, as itemised above, amounted  to 
just under £1,000. I note the hire car provided  also ran into several hundred pounds. And the 
cost of repairing  the scratches was over £3,000.
I empathise with Mr B given he suffered great distress and inconvenience at a time of year 
he should have  been enjoying with his family.  And its clear from the calls that he was 
distressed and upset.  But I think the level of compensation  is reasonable and in line with the 
type of compensation our service  awards  for complaints of this seriousness.  Im therefore  
not asking Admiral to do anything  further.
Ref: DRN50016915my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
 
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5001691