K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Loans  2 Go Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
background
Mr S was given a single  loan by Loans 2 Go. He borrowed £700 in August 2018 and agreed 
to repay  the loan in 18 monthly  instalments. It appears that Mr S failed to make  any 
repayments to Loans  2 Go and his outstanding balance was sold to a third party debt 
recovery company.
Mr Ss complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  She didnt think  that 
Loans 2 Go should have  agreed to lend to Mr S  she thought  that when Mr S applied for 
this loan he was having significant  problems managing his finances. So she asked 
Loans 2 Go to put things right for Mr S.
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr S accepts  my decision it is legally binding  on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Mr Ss complaint.
The rules  and regulations at the time Loans 2 Go gave  this loan to Mr S required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what  he 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so Loans 2 Go had to think  about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr S. In 
practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to ensure  that making  the repayments wouldnt 
cause Mr S undue  difficulty or adverse consequences.  In other  words,  it wasnt enough for 
Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back,  it had to consider 
the impact of any repayments on Mr S. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN56796762the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed  to before agreeing  
to lend to Mr S.
Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Mr S before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income,  and his normal expenditure including  what  he was spending on other 
credit. It then increased what Mr S had declared about his expenditure by almost £1,000 
after reviewing his credit  report.
Mr S was entering into a significant commitment with Loans  2 Go. He would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of 18 months. And the clear difference between  what Mr S 
said about his expenditure on other  credit  and what his credit  report showed  was very 
concerning. So I would  expect that Loans 2 Go would  want to gather, and independently 
check, some  further detailed information  about Mr Ss financial circumstances before  it 
agreed to lend to him. I dont think that the checks it did were enough. I think  it would have 
been proportionate for Loans 2 Go to independently  check the full state of Mr Ss finances 
before agreeing the loan.  
But although  I dont  think the checks Loans 2 Go did before  agreeing  the loan were 
sufficient, that in itself doesnt mean  that Mr Ss complaint should succeed. Id also need  to 
be persuaded that what I consider to be proportionate checks would have shown 
Loans 2 Go that Mr S couldnt sustainably  afford  the repayments. So Ive looked at Mr Ss 
bank statements, and what  hes told us about his financial  situation,  to see what better 
checks would have  shown  Loans  2 Go.
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check  that 
Loans 2 Go should have  carried  out. I do think Loans 2 Go needed further evidence to 
corroborate what Mr S said was happening with his finances. And looking  at his bank 
statements is one way of achieving that although  there are of course many other ways that 
level of detail could  be established. But I think that by looking at Mr Ss bank statements 
I can get a good  idea of what better  checks might  have shown.
Looking at Mr Ss bank statements it is clear that he was facing significant  problems 
managing his finances. In the month before taking this loan he had seven other  short term 
loans outstanding and was also repaying two other longer high cost loans. And although his 
monthly income varied, it was rarely anywhere near the amount that hed declared to the 
lender even after taking account  of some benefit  payments he received. It is clear  from the 
bank statements that Mr S was borrowing heavily to support his normal  living costs and 
using new borrowing to service the repayments on loans  hed previously taken.
Ref: DRN56796763Had Loans 2 Go done what  I consider to be proportionate checks  I think  it would have seen 
the problems that Mr S was facing with his finances.  It is unlikely that a reasonable lender  
would have concluded, after seeing  that information,  that Mr S would be able to repay  any 
new borrowing in a sustainable manner. So I dont think Loans 2 Go should have given this 
loan to Mr S and needs to put things  right.
putting things right
Loans 2 Go shouldnt have lent to Mr S in August 2018. I understand that Mr Ss debt has 
been sold to a third party.  If possible Loans  2 Go should take that debt back into its own 
books, but if that is not possible it should  liaise with the third party to ensure the below steps 
are achieved.
Mr S should  not have  to repay  any more  than the principal amount that he borrowed.  So 
Loans 2 Go should;
Remove any interest and charges (including any interest  or charges added by the 
third party)  from Mr Ss outstanding balance.
Treat any payments Mr S has made (either to Loans 2 Go or the third party) as 
reductions to the capital borrowed.
If this results in Mr S having repaid more than he originally borrowed, the additional 
amount should  be refunded to Mr S. Interest at 8% simple  should be added, 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  would have arisen, 
to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mr Ss loan account leaves an outstanding  capital balance  then I remind  
Loans 2 Go that it should take a sympathetic view when  seeking to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr S
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ss credit file in relation to the loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans  2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct  Loans 2 Go Limited  to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 November  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5679676