K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy AXA Insurance UK Plc declined  his cancellation  claim under his travel 
insurance policy. Mr G is also unhappy  with the claims handing and the settlement offers 
made.
background
Mr G was going on a family holiday and had travel insurance provided by AXA. Between his 
house and the airport, his travel documents and money went missing. As a result,  Mr G was 
unable to travel and claimed  for cancellation  under  his AXA policy.
Mr G also claimed  for the replacement cost of his lost travel documents  as well as lost travel 
money.
AXA considered the claim  and said that Mr G was only covered  for cancellation if it was due 
to the reasons listed within  the policy wording. So they declined Mr Gs claim.
AXA was happy  to cover  the cost of the replacement passports  but on a proportionate basis.
AXA admitted  that when  considering the claim for lost documents  and money it had done 
two possible calculations because  they were trying  to see which  one provided most 
advantageous cover for Mr G but the calculations  were not clearly explained and some of 
them were  not correct. AXA accepted that it had got the calculations  wrong  and offered Mr G 
£100 in compensation for the distress caused.
Mr G was not happy that AXA declined  the cancellation claim and he complained  to our 
service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She considered the terms and conditions of 
the policy in relation to cancellation in Section 1 and loss of travel  documents and money in 
Section 6. She said that AXA was justified  in declining the cancellation claim and in limiting 
the travel  document claims to the cost of the unused portion  of the travel document.  She 
also decided  that AXA had offered a fair amount  of compensation because  of the 
inconvenience caused to Mr G in the way they handled his claim. 
Mr G did not agree with the investigators  view as he thought the conditions are limiting  and 
the policy wording  was misleading and confusing so the matter  has come to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked  in detail at Section 1 of the policy documents  on Cancellation  or Curtailment 
charges. Mr Gs point is that the events  listed  in Section 1 cover curtailment but not 
cancellation. 
AXA are relying on Section 1 to decline Mr Gs claim. So in order  to decide this complaint I 
need to consider if AXA have applied the terms fairly.
I have read section 1 carefully.
Ref: DRN57653792The section says:  
We will pay you up to the following amount: if
a)Cancellation  of the trip is necessary and unavoidable or
b)The trip is curtailed  before completion
As a result of any of the following events occurring:
1. The death.  Bodily Injury  or illness or complications arising as a direct result of 
pregnancy
2. Compulsory quarantine, jury service attendance or being called as a witness at a Court  of 
Law 
3. Redundancy 
4. authorised leave  cancelled  for operational reasons,
5. The Police  requesting  You to remain at or return to Your Home due to serious damage 
The insurance company  have  applied  Section  1 to say that cancellation or curtailment will 
only be covered if its for one of the five reasons stated  in the policy  ie pregnancy  related 
illness; jury service , quarantine or witness at court; redundancy; authorised  leave cancelled  
if in certain professions; or request  by the police. As the reason why Mr G cancelled his 
holiday is because of loss of passport and this is not within  one of the five possible  reasons 
given for cancellation or curtailment then his claim has been declined.
Mr G is saying that the five reasons only apply to curtailment and that cancellation is covered 
by the policy  if it is necessary and unavoidable. Mr G thinks  that the conditions  are limiting.  I 
agree that they are limiting because they limit the occasions when AXA will accept a claim 
for curtailment and cancellation to the five reasons  stated above. I think that AXA is entitled 
to limit the cover it offers to specific events and conditions and it has done  so by the way it 
has worded the policy.
Mr G also says that the policy wording is misleading  and confusing. I have considered Mr 
Gs interpretation of the clause  and have read it several times to see if I can draw  out the 
meaning he wants from the clause but I am unable  to. This section of the policy  appears in 
one column and that suggests that the intention is that it should be read together.  The way 
the clause is set out on the page suggests  that conditions  one to five apply both to (a) 
cancellation or (b) curtailment.
So I think that the way the business worded the clause  is clear, it is not misleading and I 
dont think its confusing. A claim for cancellation would only be covered if Mr G could show 
that the cancellation was because of one of the reasons  set out in points one to five. I think  
this is the reasonable interpretation of Section  1 and AXA acted reasonably in declining  Mr 
Gs claim for cancellation.
In relation to the claim for money and travel  documents, I agree with the investigator that 
Section 6 of the policy is clear and that only the cost of the unused portion of the travel  
documents is recoverable. This is to put a claimant back in the position they would have 
been had they not had to make a claim.  Therefore, I think  it is reasonable for AXA to cover  
the claim for money and travel documents according  to the terms of the policy.
Ref: DRN57653793I agree  that AXA made a mistake  in the calculations on the original  complaint. AXA have 
acknowledged this and offered Mr G £100  in compensation for the distress caused. I 
consider this a reasonable amount because the mistake was corrected before the claim was 
settled. I understand  that AXA have issued a cheque  for compensation and it is for Mr G to 
decide whether  to accept this.
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  the complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
I make  no award against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5765379