K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a new mortgage  application  Mrs K tried to make to 
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) as part of a divorce  settlement. The application 
was refused and Mrs K has ended up getting the mortgage elsewhere and repaying their 
existing NatWest mortgage. That meant  NatWest  applied  an early repayment  charge (ERC) 
which Mrs K believes could have  been  avoided if the bank  had given her the right 
information about why her application was turned down.
background 
Mrs K already had a mortgage with NatWest,  held jointly with Mr K. When  they separated 
and began divorce proceedings, they agreed that Mrs K would buy out Mr Ks interest in 
their jointly-owned property by re-mortgaging in her sole name and raising extra money  to 
settle Mr Ks share of the equity. Mrs K approached NatWest  first, but the bank refused her 
application, giving as the reason problems with her credit score and adverse credit data. 
Mrs K asked to appeal the decision,  as she was confident there were no issues with her 
credit record, but NatWest wouldnt change its mind.  
When Mrs K complained, NatWest didnt  tell her any more  about why her application had 
failed so she brought her complaint to us. Initially, we said that Mr K should  join the 
complaint too, but after he confirmed he had no interest in doing  so, we proceeded with just 
Mrs K as the complainant. Her case has been looked at by two different investigators, and 
during the course of our investigation, NatWest revealed to us that the real reason Mrs K 
was turned down  was because the amount she wanted to borrow  exceeded  the banks 
income multiplier. 
In the meantime, Mrs K has gone  elsewhere and completed a new mortgage with a different 
lender for an amount  that allowed her to achieve  her objective of taking  over the property  
and providing  Mr K with an equity  share.  The new mortgage is on a lower interest rate and 
shorter term than the NatWest one would have  been, but repaying the NatWest mortgage  
meant the redemption balance  included  an ERC.
Our most recent view of how the complaint should fairly be resolved was provided  by the 
current investigator in December 2018.  The main  thrust of his findings  was that NatWest was 
reasonably entitled to refuse the application  and had done  so for a legitimate  reason; but it 
had caused Mrs K a great deal of stress and worry by giving her entirely the wrong reason. 
For that, he considered  NatWest should  pay Mrs K £400 compensation. 
On the question of the ERC,  he wasnt persuaded NatWest should refund  it. Mrs K had 
argued that if shed  known the true reason, she could  have  applied  for a lower  amount and 
sourced the extra money she needed  elsewhere,  possibly  from family.  The investigators 
view was that NatWest might still have refused to lend Mrs K a lower  amount if her 
aggregate borrowing from it and another source exceeded the multiplier. He also said that 
the lower lifetime cost of the new mortgage  is likely  to offset the ERC in any event.
NatWest agreed to pay the £400  the investigator  recommended, but Mrs K has asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman. She remains  of the view that, with the right 
information, she could  have obtained  a mortgage from NatWest that meant she wouldnt pay 
the ERC.  Mrs K says the investigators assessment of lifetime  costs is flawed, as it should  
only be compared over the duration  of the initial rate.
Ref: DRN53348432my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mrs K has set out her account of events 
in considerable detail.  I trust she wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his 
complaint in the way that I have.  Ours  is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive 
concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Mrs K, but although Ive read and considered  the 
whole file Ill keep  my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  
point its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think I need  to comment  on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party, and I dont act under eithers  instructions  
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what  questions  should be asked or 
answered.
As a starting point,  no one is entitled to borrow money; even where a lender has lent before,  
its not obliged  to do so again.  But a lender must  treat customers and potential customers 
(here, Mrs K was both) fairly. In the context of an application for lending,  that means  
assessing it fairly in accordance with the banks lending criteria. Lenders criteria  are 
commercially sensitive  and not generally made  public. So if an application is unsuccessful,  a 
lender isnt obliged to say why, but if it chooses to give a reason, as NatWest did here,  it 
must give the right reason. 
Here, Im satisfied NatWest assessed  Mrs Ks application fairly, and that its decision to say 
no was reasonably reached  and in accordance with its lending policy on income multiples. 
Generally speaking, its not the role of an ombudsman  to interfere with a lenders  commercial  
judgement on how much it will lend, and I see no reason to depart from that position here. 
On the second  point,  though, its now common ground that NatWest very definitely  gave 
Mrs K the wrong reason  for turning down her application. In simple terms, it told her there 
were problems with her credit profile when it should simply have said she was trying  to 
borrow more than it was willing  to lend her. It seems to me that the broad effect of this 
mistake was: 
firstly, it caused Mrs K considerable consternation and worry that there might be 
something wrong with her credit profile  that she was unaware  of and couldnt control, 
and which might put her divorce  settlement at risk; and
secondly, it denied  her the opportunity  to try applying for a lower  amount that NatWest 
might have  been willing to lend.
Ill deal with the second point first. I agree with out investigator that NatWests application of 
an income multiplier most likely wouldnt have been  restricted to the amount of money it 
would be lending. If Mrs K had applied for a lower amount, the bank would have still have 
wanted to know  how she planned to raise  the money she clearly needed but couldnt  borrow 
from it. If any part of an alternative strategy involved borrowing elsewhere, NatWest  would 
legitimately still factor  that in when applying its income multiplier.  
Mrs K has said she believes  that if need  be, she could  have  secured any shortfall by way of 
a family  gift rather than loan. The difficulty here is that I have to decide a complaint on the 
Ref: DRN53348433basis of what I consider is most likely  to have happened on the balance of probabilities, 
according to the evidence  I have before me. 
For me to find that NatWest should  refund the ERC,  I have to be persuaded on the balance  
of probabilities that Mrs K could most likely  have put together  a revised proposal for funding  
the buyout of Mr K that involved her total borrowing not exceeding the aggregate amount 
that NatWests application  of its income multiplier would allow. 
I appreciate Mrs K is confident that she could  have done that, but thats not enough for me to 
find in her favour, however much shed  like me to. On the basis  of the evidence before me, I 
think it more likely than not that, but for NatWest  giving  her the wrong  information  on why her 
mortgage had been turned down, Mrs K would still have ended up getting her new mortgage 
elsewhere and paying the ERC.  
But she would probably have been  in a position  to do that sooner than she has been and 
without the worry  of wondering if her credit profile was damaged and whether her divorce 
settlement might be disrupted. For that, Mrs K should be compensated, and in all the 
circumstances, I find £400 to be fair redress. 
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to those matters that I consider have a material effect  on 
the outcome.  I can see from her submissions the intensity  with which Mrs K has brought the 
complaint. Thats a natural, subjective  reaction, and entirely understandable. 
Be that as it may, I have  to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at 
things objectively,  sometimes  taking a step back from the fine detail and instead focussing  
on the broader picture. Thats what Ive done.
Mrs K doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if she doesnt, then neither she nor 
NatWest will be bound  by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mrs Ks right to take legal  action against NatWest over the subject 
matter of this complaint  wont  have been prejudiced by our consideration of it. 
my final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I uphold this complaint  in part only.  In 
full and final settlement,  I direct National Westminster  Bank  Plc to pay Mrs K compensation 
of £400 for trouble and upset caused to her. I make  no other  order or award. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN53348434
Ref: DRN5334843