K822xcomplaint
Mr H, acting on behalf of the partnership L, is unhappy that Metro Bank Plc wont  refund  
£9,000 lost after L was the victim of a scam.  
background 
Mr H sent a request  by email, for Ls financial controller to make  a payment from Ls 
account. That email  was intercepted by a fraudster  and Ls financial controller was provided  
with fraudulent account details instead.  
The receiving bank  contacted Metro when  it noticed  money was quickly withdrawn from the 
account, following  the credit from L. It contacted  Metro after the large majority of the funds 
had been withdrawn from the account. 
Metro didnt get in touch  with L following the contact  from the receiving bank but did place a 
block on Ls accounts.  A few days later,  when  the financial controller at L attempted to make  
further payments  on the account,  the block was discovered. When this was queried,  the 
reasons for the block were explained  and the scam exposed. 
Mr H then complained  on behalf of L to say that he thought that Metro should  refund the 
money lost as part of the scam.  He felt the payment  ought to have been  stopped  by Metro 
because the account name, entered as the payee, didnt match  the account name held at 
the receiving bank. He said had this been checked  which  he thought  it was  it would have 
been clear the payment wasnt going to the intended recipient and the scam could have 
been exposed  before L suffered any losses. 
Metro didnt uphold  the complaint. Metro said it agreed it didnt  meet the standards  of service 
it ought to have done, it said the advisors  were not clear or consistent  in the advice given  
and the calls were prolonged to an unacceptable  level. Metro offered £50 as a gesture of 
goodwill in relation to the calls following the scam.  But said it wouldnt be reimbursing L the 
money lost as part of the scam  as it said its procedures  were followed. Metro  was able to 
recover £20.22  from the receiving bank, the rest of the money  had already been  taken  by the 
fraudster. 
One of our investigators  looked into things. He provided a detailed  summary of the events 
and addressed many of Mr Hs concerns. Ultimately,  he concluded that Metro  didnt need to 
refund Mr H. In summary he concluded:
-the payment  was authorised for the purposes of the Payment Services  Regulations 
(PSRs);
-the unique  identifiers  used to the process the payment included the account number 
and sort code and not the account  name;  
-clearer terms and conditions about the account name not being checked wouldnt 
have made a difference here;
-there wasnt anything  about the scam  payment that ought to have concerned Metro 
that L might have  been at risk of being  scammed so it wasnt unreasonable  for Metro  
to process the payment as it did;
-Metros actions after it had been contacted by the receiving account didnt result in 
any further losses to L; and 
-a more recent redress scheme  is not applicable  to this complaint. 
Ref: DRN58662442Mr H provided  detailed  responses setting out why he disagreed with the investigators 
findings. Whilst he raised several points, in summary, his main concerns were  that Metro  
was at fault in terms of its poor systems and the account name wasnt  checked when it ought  
to have been.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the findings made by the investigator  who set out a comprehensive and detailed  
response to this complaint. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr H who has 
put a great deal of time and effort into providing  information about this complaint and raising 
several arguments about why he thinks Metro ought  to refund L the money it lost to this 
scam. 
Ive considered all that Metro did, and ought to have done, with the appropriate rules  and 
guidance in mind. I find its actions have been fair and reasonable. I think  it acted  fairly  and 
reasonably in releasing the funds from Ls account  when L asked it to. And its attempts to 
recover the funds  would  never  have led to the money being recovered. So I cant  fairly say it 
should now refund L. 
And, although Mr H has raised  a number of points which  Ive considered  in full, Ive limited  
my decision  to what I consider to be most  relevant issues  in this complaint. By doing  so I 
mean no disrespect  to Mr H by not commenting  on each point raised, and I appreciate  that 
the documents hes put together mustve  taken him a lot of time.  
authorisation 
For the purposes of the PSRs this payment is authorised.  Even though the payment went  to 
a different recipient to the one intended  as a result of a scam or a trick, that doesnt  make 
this an unauthorised payment. The financial controller   who had authority to make 
payments on the account - executed a payment to leave Ls account. That is sufficient for 
the purposes of the PSRs for Metro to consider this payment as authorised.
So the starting position here is that Ls financial controller authorised the payment and the 
bank should follow its customers instructions.  
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
account name checking
Mr H has made several arguments about why he thinks the account name ought to have 
been checked. And the fact the payee  name didnt match  the beneficiary account  holders 
name ought to have  been picked up by Metro when the payment was made.  
Ref: DRN58662443As the investigator  explained, when this payment  was made  there was no requirement on 
Metro to check the account name.  Even as part of Metros  duty of care to its customers and 
in exercising skill and care,  Im not persuaded this creates an obligation on  Metro to check  
the account name before executing a payment. The PSRs  set out what a payment service 
provider needs  to do when executing a payment  where the payment is executed in 
accordance with the unique identifiers the payment order is deemed to have been correctly  
executed. The account name is not a unique identifier and therefore  Metro isnt responsible 
if this doesnt  match  when executing a payment.
I appreciate Mr Hs point that Metros  terms and conditions  could  be clearer on this point but 
that doesnt change the fact that the account name  wouldnt have been checked. I also 
agree with the investigator,  that whilst that could have been made clearer,  I dont  think  it 
would have made any difference here. Ls financial controller made payments on a regular 
basis from Ls account and so was familiar with payment  instructions. I also cant see that 
the controller had any reason to be suspicious of this particular payment instruction. And so 
Im not persuaded they would have done  anything  different, even if a warning had been in 
place.
account monitoring
As the investigator  set out, thats the not the end of the story. I also need to consider  
whether Metro acted  fairly and reasonably in its dealings with L when  the transfer of £9,000 
was requested and when  the fraud was reported, or whether it should have done  more  than 
it did.
Metro should,  as a matter  of good  industry practice, be on the lookout for fraud. And that will 
include monitoring transactions on a customers account and looking for unusual  activity 
which might  indicate  a customer is falling victim  to a scam. If it sees  that something looks  as 
though it could be wrong, it should step in.
Ive considered whether the £9,000 payment represented a particularly unusual transaction 
for L and I dont think it did. I say this because:
-there are similarly sized  payments in the same month as the transaction,  including 
two transfers of £10,000 a few days before the scam payment  and £14,009 and 
£11,875 later in the month; 
-the account balance fluctuated regularly, for example in the same  month  as the 
scam, the balance  ranged between -£64,109.53 to £299,357.97 and when the scam 
payment debited the account it left a balance of -£34,826.79; and
-the account was generally busy,  as expected  from a business account, with online 
payments, credits and debits being  made on the account regularly each  month  for 
example in the same month as the scam there were  10 other faster  payments that 
debited the account  and in total 29 transactions on the account, although I accept 
some of those were regular monthly  payments.
Considering the usual  account activity, I dont think  the scam payment was one that Metro  
ought to have been concerned about  and therefore Im persuaded that  executing   the 
payment was a reasonable one in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN58662444Metros actions after the scam payment
I agree  with the investigator that Metro didnt handle things well after the payment. 
It appears it was put on notice by the receiving  bank that something  wasnt  right and that L 
might have been the victim of a scam. But Metro didnt contact Mr H or anyone  at L to 
discuss this. 
But Im not persuaded this had any impact  on Ls losses  or chances of recovering the funds. 
The vast majority of the money had already left the receiving account by the time the 
receiving bank became  concerned. And after this point the remaining funds have  been  
recovered.
I agree  this lack of communication  by Metro will have caused some  distress and 
inconvenience to L and Mr H but it has offered £50 in recognition of this, which I think  is fair 
in the circumstances. Ill leave it to Mr H if he wishes to accept this offer or not. 
offer from Metro
Im therefore  satisfied that the offer of £50 compensation and the recovery of the £20.22 is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint and I will leave it to Mr H decide if 
he wishes to accept  these. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I direct Metro Bank Plc to pay the compensation that has been
offered of £50 and return the £20.22 it recovered  to L. But I do not make any further  award
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H acting on 
behalf of L to accept  or reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Sophia Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5866244