K820x#14complaint
Miss M says Bradford & Binley PLC mis-sold her payment protection  insurance  (PPI).  
background and summary to complaint
Miss M first took out a PPI policy in 1988 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. She 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Miss M for accident and sickness  initially and then in 1991 
Miss M amended the policy to include unemployment cover.  Subject to its exclusions and 
limitations, it offered  to repay £200.00  a month towards Miss Ms mortgage balance  in the 
event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £7.00  a month.  This policy  was then 
cancelled, upon  Miss Ms request, in June  1994.
In January 1996 Miss M applied  for PPI again  via a postal application. At this time, she 
chose to take out injury and illness cover only. This PPI policy  cost £6.96 per month and 
offered to repay  £181.00 a month towards  Miss Ms mortgage balance in the event of a 
successful claim. This policy ended  in September 2003.
In 1988 when Miss M first took out her mortgage and PPI her mortgage application shows  
she was working as a civil servant. Miss M has told us that she left this job in 1990 - and in 
1991 at the time the policy was amended  to include unemployment cover she was working 
as a tax senior.  As a civil servant Miss M says she wouldve had some sick pay, but as a tax 
senior Miss M says she wouldnt  have  been  entitled  to any sick pay. Ive not seen any 
evidence to suggest Miss M had any savings or other means to pay her mortgage 
throughout this period. 
At the time of taking  out the second policy Miss M was employed as a clerk. Miss M hasnt 
told us that she had any sick pay or savings at this time. Miss M says she suffered from a 
medical condition  in 1990.
B&B has sent us evidence to show that the mortgage account closed in 2003.  
Miss Ms representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Ms representative says:
 
B&B failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means B&B should have told 
Miss M about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN50032192The common law duty of utmost good faith also means B&B should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss M and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Miss M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms complaint.
Both sales took place  before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) published  its 
code of practice in June  2000 and before the sale of general insurance  products like this 
became regulated in January 2005.  So, the GISC  Code, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  
Principles for Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable  
to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Ac, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
The first industry codes of practice for sellers of insurance were introduced in 1989,  which  is 
after B&B sold Miss M the first PPI policy. Prior  to this there  were  fewer requirements on a 
business when  selling  insurance  such as this. But B&B doesnt appear to have considered 
Miss Ms complaint any differently  it seems to me they have considered the sale of PPI 
against these  later standards. So, on the basis that it puts Miss M in a more favourable 
position, I have  taken into account the later industry  codes of practice in considering what I 
think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN50032193In particular, The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any 
applicable rule of law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so B&B 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Miss Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If B&B gave advice,  whether it advised  Miss M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether B&B gave  Miss M sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information  to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss M, 
I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN50032194Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss M and 
B&B, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Miss M know she had a choice?
B&B had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Ive seen a copy  of Miss Ms mortgage  application form which included a section  for PPI. In 
this the benefit  amount of £200.00 has been  entered, and the box for accident and sickness 
cover has been ticked. But there is also a box to tick if Miss M didnt want  any PPI cover at 
all. Miss M has told us that she contacted  B&B in 1991 to amend her PPI policy  to include  
unemployment cover.
For Miss Ms PPI policy which was taken out in 1996   Ive seen a copy of a separate postal 
PPI application  form. Again,  Miss M has selected  for injury and illness cover.  But there  is 
nothing here to suggest Miss M had to take out PPI - and she wouldve completed this 
application form in her own space and time, and without any involvement from B&B.. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Miss M knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did B&B  provide advice?
B&B says it didnt provide advice during either of these sales. Miss M initially said she thinks 
she was advised  to take out PPI. But our adjudicator  assessed these as a non-advised sales 
and Miss M didnt disagree  with this in her response. So, as this no longer seems  to be in 
dispute, I have  also considered both these sales to have been non-advised.
 
This means  B&B didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Miss M. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Miss M was given a broad description of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Miss M was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  
Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Miss M would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  B&B gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before Miss M agreed  
to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think B&B gave Miss M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN50032195Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Ms representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Ms. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss M about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Ms representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss M has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards 
of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that B&B ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did B&Bs  shortcomings have  on Miss M? To what extent did Miss  M 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that B&B didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Miss M. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  she suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Miss M would 
have still taken out the policy, had B&B done  things properly. 
Miss M says she would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Miss M had to weigh  up in her own mind  the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Miss M chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable 
to conclude she had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Miss M thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Miss M has suffered any loss or detriment.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Miss M knew  she would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear B&B told her the exact premiums at the point she 
applied for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely  Miss M would have been told the cost 
Ref: DRN50032196before the policy started and she paid for the policy  for a number of years,  so if the costs  
were significantly  at odds  with her expectations at the point of sale,  its possible she might 
have raised that with B&B at the time, or reconsidered  her decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Miss M would  have found the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss M thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to:
o{for the policy taken  out in 1988) any injury  or illness  caused  by a physical 
defect or weakness or a mental  defect or weakness, or both, which  happened  
during the 12 months before the effective  date and for which  Miss M received 
medical treatment; or a recurring injury  or illness which  returned  during the 
first 12 months of the policy;  
o(for the policy taken  out in 1996)  any injury  or illness of which Miss M was 
aware or sought  treatment for during  the 2 years  before  the policy  
commenced; 
The policy taken out in 1996  contained limitations on claims relating to back and 
mental health conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a 
claim on those  grounds;
Both policies limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Miss M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policies would not have paid out for the first 90 days of the policy, and thereafter 
it would  only pay out after 60 days of accident, sickness  or 90 days for 
unemployment;
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Miss M pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the 
policy wasnt as good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss M from taking out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. Miss M was eligible for its benefits and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Miss M has said she suffered from a medical condition 
in 1990. But this was after the sale of the PPI in 1988, so would not be considered a pre-
existing medical condition for the first policy.  Miss M hasnt told us that this condition caused 
her any ongoing  problems, so I dont think this wouldve affected her decision to take out the 
policy in 1996.  I also havent seen any evidence to suggest Miss M wouldve been caught  by 
any of the other significant exclusions. So, I still think she had some  good reasons to take 
the policies out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Miss M 
might reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
Ref: DRN50032197circumstances to Miss M from taking out the policy,  Miss M, in her circumstances, still had 
some good  reasons to take it out.
The policy taken out in 1996  didnt  exclude  back or mental health conditions  or place any 
additional restrictions or more onerous evidential requirements in the event of a claim on 
those grounds than would have applied  to any other  disability claim. 
Miss M says she would not have taken out the PPI had B&B made it clear that the policy  
would not pay out for the first 90 days and thereafter included a requirement that she be 
disabled for 60 days  before being able to make a valid claim and 90 days for unemployment.   
Miss M says she was made redundant in April 2004  and was unable to make  a successful 
claim because  of this provision. But this was a non-advised sale, so B&B didnt have to 
make sure the policy was suitable for Miss M. And I think  Miss M wouldve known there 
would be some qualifying  period and that she would need to be out of work for some time 
before she would be able to claim  on the policy. 
Even though  I think B&B couldve  dont more  to draw this requirement to Miss Ms attention, I 
still think the policy provided valuable cover given:  Miss Ms circumstances, the fact the 
policy protected the mortgage repayments relating  to her home and the potential  
consequences should Miss M be unable to make the repayments on loans secured against  
her. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Miss M would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what its likely she thought  she was getting and provided benefits that would help her 
manage the consequences  if Miss M was made redundant, or unable  to work through  
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that Miss M 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Miss Ms representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss M would  not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss M 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN50032198Miss M believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss M in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude B&B should  pay Miss M compensation,  as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Miss M thinks B&B misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
B&Bs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why B&B failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  B&B gave Miss M, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1988 and in 1996 when  providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Ms representative  says a court might take if it 
were to find B&B negligently misrepresented the contract to Miss M and about  the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that B&B had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Miss M in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it 
should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5003219