K821x#15complaint
Miss B says Elevate Credit International  Limited  trading as Sunny.co.uk (ECI)  irresponsibly 
lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 1 flexi-credit loan and 6 instalment loans which  ECI provided to Miss 
B between  October  2014 and January 2016. Miss Bs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Principal Repayments Settled
1 -
Flex 
Credit12.10.14 Limit  £250  
1
drawdown£55.80  - minimum  contractual  monthly  
repayment27.10.14
2 18.02.15 £150 Highest  total monthly  repayment  £24.73 15.03.15
3 20.02.15 £100 Highest  total monthly  repayment  now
£42.9215.03.15
4 13.05.15 £300 Highest  total monthly  repayment  £50.97 27.08.15
5 09.06.15 £100 Highest  total monthly  repayment  now
£68.2028.07.15
6 14.10.15 £250 Highest  total monthly  repayment  £33.24 27.11.15
7 23.01.16 £100 Highest  total monthly  repayment  £14.23 26.02.16
Miss B said ECI didnt do full diligence checks to ensure the loans  were  affordable.  She says 
the loans sent her into financial  difficulty which caused her stress when she struggled  to pay 
household bills. She concludes the loans were made irresponsibly.
Two of our adjudicators partially upheld Miss Bs complaint and thought  loans 6 and 7 
shouldnt have been given. ECI disagreed with both of our adjudicators views and it asked 
for the matter to be looked at again. ECI made  some points including  the following:
There were  gaps  in the lending;
Miss B only made one drawdown  on the flexi-credit loan;
She had borrowed  from ECI for less than 18 months;
Her income covered the highest and lowest loan repayments;
None of the loans is outstanding.
No-one made any comments about loans 1 to 5 being rejected  so I dont need to look at 
those loans again. So in this decision,  I will only be looking  at loans 6 and 7. Although I will 
also look at Miss Bs full lending history to assess the case  fairly.
Ref: DRN58977482my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
ECI needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that ECI should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that ECI was required to establish whether 
Miss B could sustainably  repay her loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of ECIs lending history with Miss B, with a view to seeing  if 
there was a point  at which ECI should  reasonably  have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so ECI should have  realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further loans. 
Ref: DRN58977483Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Bs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 6. I say this because:
At this point - with the suitable proportionate checks   ECI ought to have realised 
Miss B was not managing  to repay  her loans sustainably. Miss B had taken out 5 
loans within 8 months and Miss B had been  indebted to ECI for just over 12 months. 
So ECI ought to have  realised it was more likely than not Miss B was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her 
finances and that Miss Bs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. I noted the 
gaps in the lending, but I dont think they are significantly  long enough  for ECI to 
have scaled down  its checks. So I do think proportionate checks at this stage would 
have been helpful  to assess  her full financial situation.
Miss Bs first loan was for a maximum of £250 and loan 6 was also for £250.  At this 
point ECI ought to have known that Miss B was not likely  borrowing  to meet  a 
temporary shortfall in their income but to meet an ongoing need over her 15-month 
lending relationship with ECI. ECI said this was a short  lending relationship but I also 
noted that Miss B had taken  out 6 loans in less than a year,  so I think  she had 
become dependent on the short-term  loans over the full 15 months.
From  loan 6 onwards  Miss B was provided with a new loan within  weeks  of settling a 
previous one. 
Miss B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount  she owed ECI. Loan 7 was 
taken out around 15 months after Miss Bs first. And  although it wasnt  for a larger 
amount  Miss B had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service  a debt to 
ECI over what I consider to be an extended  period.
I think that Miss B lost out because  ECI continued  to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards  
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Bs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Miss B borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Miss Bs ability to access  mainstream credit and 
so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
I have thought about all of ECIs arguments,  but they do not change  my mind. So as I agree 
with both of our adjudicators views, I am also partially upholding the complaint about loans 6 
and 7 and ECI should put things right.
putting things right  what Elevate Credit  International  Limited needs to do
refund  all interest, fees and charges Miss B paid on loans 6 and 7 (inclusive);
pay 8% simple interest a year on any refunded interest, fees and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
Ref: DRN58977484the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 and 7 (inclusive) should be 
removed from Miss Bs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Elevate Credit International  Limited to take off tax from 
this interest. Elevate  Credit International Limited must give Miss B a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Bs complaint.  Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right for Miss B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5897748