K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2006 when 
Mr S took out a finance agreement to buy a car. Mr S says Julian Hodge Bank Limited,  
trading as Carlyle  Finance, mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr S has said that he was led to believe that he would  have  a better  chance  of getting the 
car loan if he took out the PPI and so it was implied  that it was compulsory.  But I think Julian  
Hodge Bank made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this after all this time.
Julian Hodge  Bank has told us that the policy  was taken  out in a telephone call. It has said 
that the call would have taken place  after the loan had been  agreed. Julian Hodge Bank 
hasnt been able to provide a copy of the call recording from the sale, which  isnt surprising 
considering how long ago this was, so I dont know exactly what was said during the 
telephone call. So in situations  like this I need  to consider what I think  is most likely to have 
happened.
Julian Hodge  Bank has provided  a copy of the call script which  it says its representative 
would have used  during  the call. Whilst I dont know how closely  the script was followed, I 
can see that the script does direct the representative  to make it clear the policy was optional 
and ask Mr S for his consent for the PPI to be added. And so I think  Mr S would have been 
aware that the policy was optional. 
Ive also seen a copy of the welcome  letter which was sent to Mr S after the call and this 
refers to Mr S choosing to take out the PPI. And this letter  states that the cover could be 
cancelled within 30 days if you think the cover is not right for you. It also refers  to a 
Demands and Needs Statement being  included and this document lists questions asked in 
the phone  call and the answers  provided by Mr S. One of the questions asked if Mr S would 
like to proceed with the Carlylecare Payment Protection Plan  and I can see that a tick has 
been placed in the box to show that he wanted  the PPI. This document  shows  that there  was 
an option to decline  to take the policy. If Mr S had believed  this policy was compulsory, I 
think he would have  questioned this when  he received these documents at the time.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think its more  likely Julian Hodge Bank 
made it clear  that the policy was optional and Mr S agreed to take it out, knowing he could 
refuse it if he didnt want it.
Julian Hodge  Bank recommended  the PPI to Mr S so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him  and based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. I 
say this because  it appears he was eligible  for the cover  and he didnt seem to be affected 
Ref: DRN51714722by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, such as having  unusual working 
arrangements or suffering  from a medical condition of which  he was already aware.
And he seems to have  had a need  for the cover.  Mr S has told us that he wasnt entitled to 
any sick pay from his employer if he was too ill to work  and he had no other means, such as 
savings, with which to make his repayments if he was to lose his job. As this policy offered to 
cover his repayments for up to 12 months in the event he was unable  to work due to 
accident or sickness or if he became unemployed, I think this could  have provided  him with a 
useful benefit  if something  was to go wrong.
Its possible the information Julian Hodge gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Julian Hodge  Bank  doesnt  need to refund 
everything Mr S paid for it. But Julian Hodge has already  offered to give Mr S back some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  I understand Julian Hodge 
Bank has already  paid this to Mr S.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5171472