K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
background 
Mr P took out PPI alongside  a mortgage in 2006.  This policy  protected  his monthly mortgage 
repayments if he couldnt work. HSBC tells us the PPI policy was cancelled  early in 2008.  
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint on the basis that Mr P had an accident and sickness 
policy and a five figure  amount of savings  he could use to pay the mortgage if he wasnt  able 
to work. HSBC disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion so the complaint has been  passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. Ive decided to uphold this complaint. 
HSBC probably sold the PPI to Mr P during a meeting at the bank. Its not clear if HSBC 
recommended the policy  to him. But in these  circumstances, I think  it might well have done. 
So I think the fairest way to assess this complaint is to look at it on the basis that HSBC 
advised Mr P to take out PPI. If a business makes  a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt 
just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable 
steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
The policy provided  cover  for up to 12 months in the event of accident,  sickness and 
unemployment. But I dont  think HSBC gave Mr P clear enough information about the PPI.
Mr P told us that he already had insurance in place for accident and sickness when HSBC  
sold him the PPI to protect his mortgage.  Theres only limited information now available 
about this policy and his savings. It wouldve been  helpful to see paperwork to support what 
Mr P says.  But Ive no reason to think that what Mr P remembers isnt reliable  I dont doubt 
that the information hes been able to give is his honest recollection to the best of his ability.  
And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect him to have kept paperwork from so long ago. 
Mr P told us that he recalls his accident and sickness policy paid out different  amounts for 
different injuries.  And he took it out when he became self - employed (which  was around 
7 months or so before  taking out his mortgage).  So although I dont have any other details of 
its terms, it looks like this policy couldve been used  to pay towards  his mortgage monthly 
repayments if he was off work as a result of illness or disability, at least in some 
circumstances. 
I dont think its likely  that Mr P wouldve felt that paying for PPI was worthwhile if he had 
understood that the PPI effectively duplicated  cover he already had in place, or at least 
substantially overlapped with it. And I dont think that he needed PPI with the mortgage  or 
that its likely  he wouldve thought that it offered him good value overall.
Ref: DRN58050952Ive taken into account that HSBC says that if Mr P had mentioned having  accident and 
sickness cover already set up, it couldve taken this information into account when it sold him 
the PPI. 
HSBC says it isnt fair to uphold this complaint if Mr P didnt tell it about having an accident 
and sickness policy in place when he took out the mortgage. And Ive taken this carefully into 
account in coming  to my decision. 
But without any records of the meeting I dont know what was discussed when HSBC sold 
Mr P the PPI. I dont  know what questions  he was asked or if things were explained so that 
he wouldve understood what information  he was being asked to provide - and that this 
shouldve included mentioning that he had an accident and sickness policy  already set up. 
And I dont  know exactly what Mr P told the advisor. The fact that HSBC  also sold Mr P an 
income protection policy doesnt affect  my view. It appears that this wouldnt have started to 
pay out until after a year  the PPI protected Mr Ps mortgage monthly repayments before 
then, during the period  I think  its likely he had some  other cover already in place. 
Ive taken into account that, as HSBC has pointed out, the PPI couldve helped  Mr P if hed 
involuntarily stopped trading. Ive also taken  into account that the accident and sickness 
cover mightve only paid out a proportion of Mr Ps income. And that Mr P thinks  there  was a 
two week deferral period before it wouldve started  to pay out. But, even though  the PPI 
policy was half price  for the first 12 months,  in his particular situation  and on balance I dont 
think he wouldve wanted to pay for the PPI as well if HSBC had explained the limited extra 
benefit it offered  him.
I havent seen  enough information reasonably  to suggest that Mr P wouldnt have been able 
to manage the monthly repayments  for a year or so by relying on his savings and his 
accident and sickness policy. And after that, the income protection  policy HSBC sold him 
wouldve started to pay out.
So I think its fair and reasonable for me to uphold  this complaint.
putting things right
HSBC should  put Mr P in the position  he wouldve been had he not taken  out the policy. 
So, HSBC  should:  
Pay Mr P the amount  he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, HSBC  can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give 
Mr P a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN58050953my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct HSBC UK Bank  Plc to pay Mr P as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5805095