K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc has registered a marker on the 
database at CIFAS the UKs fraud  prevention service.
background
Mr B says that he had not been  using  his bank account with NatWest. He kept his debit card 
and his PIN in his wallet and hed lost this in March or May 2017.  He says that he knew 
nothing about  credits totalling  £2,000 paid into his account on 4 and 5 March 2017  and 
withdrawn in cash on the same days. Or that his account with NatWest had been closed and 
a fraud  marker  registered at CIFAS until he was unable to open  a bank account with another  
financial business.
NatWest says that the funds paid into Mr Bs account had been  reported as fraudulent and 
that it considered  Mr B had authorised the withdrawals. NatWest  said it had written to Mr B 
to tell him it would be closing his account and had sent him statements. And it said it had 
registered the CIFAS  marker in line with the required  criteria  and would not be removing it.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
-Mr Bs account had not been used since December 2016  but on 3 March  2017 the 
daily cash point withdrawal limit had been increased to £1,500.
-The account had been registered for online banking in February 2017 and had been 
accessed regularly  online  for account  enquiries on 4 and 5 March 2017.
-Mr B had been unable to explain  why he didnt report the loss of his card and PIN 
until December 2017 and hed been  inconsistent about when the loss had taken 
place.
-She thought  it most likely that Mr B had authorised the withdrawals and as a result 
said that NatWest had sufficient evidence to register the CIFAS  marker.
Mr B did not agree.  He said that he had his PIN in his wallet with the card as he had just 
received a new PIN. He did not have  any knowledge of what was happening  with his 
account and did not request the increase  in the daily cash  withdrawal limit. The only time he 
knew what happened was when he tried to open an account with a different financial 
business. Hed then contacted CIFAS and found  out that NatWest had told it that hed 
fraudulently misused  his account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2009 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. 
I also need to consider  whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, NatWest 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show  it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud  or financial crime had been committed  or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported  to the authorities.
Ref: DRN52632392 So I will be thinking about the following areas  in looking at his complaint:
-How the withdrawals were made  and what happened  to the card and PIN?
-Did Mr B consent to the withdrawals  including by allowing someone else to make 
them?
-Did NatWest have sufficient evidence  to apply the CIFAS marker?
the withdrawals
Its not in dispute  that the money paid into Mr Bs account was not due to him. There were 
five payments in total with £1,500 paid in on 4 March 2017 and £500  on 5 March  2017. Ive 
seen evidence that these were reported  as fraudulently  obtained by a different financial 
business to NatWest.
I can see that these amounts were withdrawn at different cash  point machines as the money 
had come in. Im satisfied  that these cash withdrawals must have been  made  with the 
genuine card and the correct PIN for the account.
I need to think  about  whether Mr B consented to these as thats  key here.  Our investigators 
already given a description of the way the account was used which is helpful. As shes said 
the account was only set up for online banking the week before these transactions and the 
withdrawal limit increased the day before  the credits. Mr Bs position  is that he didnt do that 
or find out about  the credits by accessing  his account online himself. So I need to decide 
what is most likely  taking  into account  the available evidence. To find that Mr B didnt 
consent to these withdrawals Id need to think all of the following were  most likely:
-An unknown third party was able to log on to Mr Bs account online during this period  
and make multiple account enquiries  to check when the money was received. The 
evidence Ive seen  is that these account  enquiries were made from the same IP address 
used to register for online banking in the first place.
-That person  was also able to obtain sufficient information to be able to arrange  for the 
withdrawal limit on the account to be increased  which allowed the higher daily 
withdrawals to be made.
-After a period  of not using his account  Mr B decided  to keep both his card and PIN in his 
wallet. And then not to report these were both lost whenever he found out leaving at 
least a seven month gap.
-That third party  was able to obtain  his card and PIN and had access to his account so 
that the money could be withdrawn as it was received.
-Mr B did not receive a copy of the letter  from NatWest about the closure  of his account 
or any statements  it sent to him at the correct address it had on record.
Im afraid that these  are not all findings  Im able to make as most  likely based on the 
available evidence. Im afraid this means  I conclude that either  Mr B made these withdrawals 
or that he authorised someone  else to have full access to his account to do so.
the CIFAS marker
NatWest says that it applied the CIFAS  marker because Mr B received and withdrew 
fraudulent funds and it decided  to close his account.  So Ive looked at whether NatWest was 
fair to apply the marker,  based on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried  out. 
CIFAS guidance says the business  must have carried out checks  of sufficient  depth  to meet 
the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This essentially means that NatWest needs to have 
Ref: DRN52632393enough information to make a formal report to the police. And that any filing should  be for 
cases where there are reasonable grounds  to believe fraud or financial crime has been  
committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Bs account of events and the evidence NatWest has provided, Im 
satisfied that NatWest had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded.  In 
coming to this view,  Ive taken into account the following reasons:
-Mr B received fraudulent funds into his account  and didnt report this to NatWest at 
the time.
-He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control  of who had the 
benefit of this money.
-NatWest had grounds to believe that Mr B had used fraudulently obtained funds  
based on the evidence it had. 
Given my findings I also think that NatWest  acted reasonably in closing  Mr Bs account.  I 
appreciate the impact  of the marker on the ability of Mr B to open  an account or obtain  credit 
elsewhere in future. But I dont have a basis to require NatWest to take any further action.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5263239