K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank Plc registered a default  on his credit  file when itd 
accepted his offer to pay nothing towards  his career development loan for a time. He wants 
the default removed and his credit score updated  and restored. 
background
Barclays said in its final response that it had said in a letter that Mr S current account would 
be closed. But it remained open. It was sorry for any distress  and inconvenience  this had 
caused and itd credited £100 to his account for this. Itd also paid him £25 for matters  
arising from arrears letters sent to him. But its agent  had made  clear  to Mr S on the phone 
that his loan account was being closed and transferred to recoveries. And that would result  
in a default being applied  to his credit file. Its followed its procedures  in this regard and has 
a responsibility to ensure it records accurate information about his account. So it will not 
remove the default from Mr S credit  file.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
On 14 October 2017 Barclays  sent a letter which said it accepted an offer from Mr S 
to pay nothing on his career  development loan for a time. It also said the payment 
plan had been set up following the issue of a notice of default. That notice was 
issued a few days later. And the letter said it may seriously  affect Mr S ability  to 
obtain credit.
He cant establish  what  Barclays mayve said in its initial conversations  but this letter  
fully informed Mr S that a default  was being registered after the agreement that he 
wouldnt pay anything towards  the loan. 
As the loan account was closed upon  the agreement to pay nothing towards it we 
would expect Barclays to register  a default and one was registered correctly.  
If Mr S had been unsure of the impact of the default he couldve reasonably spoken 
to Barclays or sought independent advice. Barclays hasnt  made an error.
Mr S remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review. He says he doesnt 
understand why he was never contacted by Barclays. He thinks the way hes been treated is 
shocking.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
I think Barclays was entitled  to register a default when it reached agreement  for Mr S to pay 
nothing towards his career development loan and it was closed and the matter passed to 
recoveries. It also has an obligation to ensure the information it registers  on Mr S credit  file 
accurately reflects  the conduct of his account.
Ref: DRN52896112Mr S is unhappy with the level of contact he had from Barclays. But it appears to have made 
clear in the letters it sent around 14 and 17 October  2017 that it was registering a default  
and that this might seriously affect his ability to obtain credit. I think that was reasonable.
Taking everything into account  I dont think I can fairly or reasonably now require Barclays  to 
remove the default from Mr S credit  file as hed like.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr S strength of feeling and frustration, I dont  see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5289611