K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained about their home insurer  Admiral Insurance Company  
Limited declining a claim they made  after their ceiling cracked  and the roof sagged.
background
Mr and Mrs B heard  a loud noise and found  the ceiling of their bungalow had cracked.  They 
then found the roof above had sagged. This was in an area of the bungalow that had been 
extended. They contacted Admiral. It initially recorded the event as subsidence and sent an 
assessor to look at the damage. 
The assessor carried out a cursory inspection  of the ceiling and the roof (the latter from 
outside the house). He felt that there was no subsidence, that the problem was caused by 
roof trusses  failing. When his report of the damage  was considered, and taking  into account 
the age of the extension,  Admiral concluded  that the trusses  had likely  failed  due to poor 
workmanship or because  of incorrect design when  the roof was constructed.  It pointed to a 
general exclusion for faulty design  and poor work  and declined  the claim.
Meanwhile Mr and Mrs B had been  left in a damaged  property. They had installed some 
props to support the ceiling  and roof but were too scared to use that area of their home.  
I believe they later had some work done to repair the structure but Im not clear  what,  or if 
any repairs/reinstatement work remains outstanding. Mr and Mrs B complained  to us.
Our investigator noted that Mr and Mrs B had cover for accidental  damage,  he felt the 
damage suffered  at their home could be considered under that cover.  As such  it was up to 
Admiral to show that an exclusion reasonably limited or removed its lability  for the claim. He 
noted what Admiral had said about faulty  design/poor work   but also that it hadnt shown or 
explained why the design was likely faulty  or had been constructed poorly. He said Admiral 
should honour the claim.
Admiral said its experts opinion, that this had likely resulted from faulty design/poor work, 
should be sufficient.  It noted Mr and Mrs B hadnt  provide anything to contradict that view or 
to show the design and work were reasonable.
The complaint was passed  to me. I found I agreed  with our investigators view but noted he 
hadnt commented on compensation. I told Admiral it should pay £500 compensation for the 
upset it had caused. Admiral said it still didnt believe it had made  an incorrect claim 
decision. So, it said, I should find that the claim had been settled reasonably  and that, as 
such, no compensation is due.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  Admirals  recent  
response to my suggested compensation award, to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I think Admiral does need to settle  the claim 
and pay compensation.
the claim
This wasnt subsidence, and Im not really sure why Admiral thought it might be. The 
damage which occurred  and was reported to Admiral, wasnt ever indicative of subsidence. 
Ref: DRN50689742But the report, of a loud noise being heard and a crack appearing, was sufficient, in my view, 
to reasonably trigger the accidental damage cover  on the policy. 
The policy defines  accidental  damage as:
sudden, unexpected and visible loss, or damage which  has not been caused wilfully or
deliberately. 
Admiral says the damage has been  occurring gradually, this, it says, is indicated  by soffits 
bending and the roof sagging without cracking or snapping of any component  materials. 
Whilst I accept  that what Admiral says makes  sense, I bear in mind the report from 
Mr and Mrs B. They say they heard a loud noise  and the crack in their ceiling appeared. Ive 
no reason to doubt them on this. And I havent  seen any sign of water ingress over time 
which might  normally be indicative of roof displacement  or that, for example, the crack, to 
some extent, was likely long-standing in nature  because it had been painted or filled 
previously. Similarly when I consider whether external damage has occurred over time, Ill 
often see an insurer point  to things like discolouration and plant  growth as evidence to 
support its theory that movement has been occurring gradually. I havent  seen  anything  like 
that here.  Im satisfied  the damage here was sudden. 
Mr and Mrs B werent expecting the damage  and the resultant loss, having  seen the photos  
on Admirals report, is clearly visible. The damage, as far as Ive seen, was not wilfully or 
deliberately caused.
So, on the face of it, Mr and Mrs B have satisfied me they have a potentially  valid claim 
under the accidental damage cover afforded  by the policy. As such, responsibility passes to 
Admiral to either accept  the claim or show why it has no liability  for it. Either  because, on 
closer examination, the damage doesnt meet the policy definition, or because a valid 
exclusion exists to limit or remove  its liability. 
Here Admiral has chosen to rely on the exclusion for faulty design/poor work. Its determined  
that the cause  of the damage  was failed trusses. I think its reasonable for Admiral to rely on 
its experts opinion  in this respect. To reach  that conclusion  the expert saw photos  of the 
damage and used his expertise to conclude  what  likely caused that. As an expert  he is able 
to draw that type of conclusion and it carries weight.
But the expert then went  a step further and said that failure had likely resulted from faulty 
design or poor work   even though no internal examination  of the roof had been conducted, 
or even  any assessment undertaken  of the building plans. So he couldnt know what was in 
place and didnt  say what was meant to have been there. In turn this meant he couldnt  
comment on what was in place versus what building regulations say should  be there. His 
view is notable, but by itself, without the further  consideration,  it isnt persuasive. And 
because Admiral is seeking to rely on an exclusion the burden  falls to it first to show  it can 
reasonably rely on that. Only once its done  that would the burden pass back to 
Mr and Mrs B. So it doesnt matter, at this time,  that they havent had an expert opinion  on 
the cause of damage, or to show the trusses  havent suffered from faulty design/poor work. 
Because the burden currently lies with Admiral and, in my view, it hasnt met it.
In short  Admiral hasnt  persuaded me it can reasonably  rely on the exclusion for faulty 
design/poor work to defeat its liability for Mr and Mrs Bs accidental damage claim.  As such, 
it reasonably needs to honour it.
Ref: DRN50689743So Admiral  can do that, Mr and Mrs B will have to show it what  work they had done, and 
what they paid for it. Admiral will have to settle  those bills. It will have to add interest* to the 
settlement from the date of each amount Mr and Mrs B paid until settlement is made.  If any 
work is outstanding  the parties will have to decide if Mr and Mrs B are to complete that, with 
Admiral paying for it, or if Admiral will arrange  to carry that out. If Admiral  offers to do the 
work but Mr and Mrs B wont let it, Admiral will reasonably be able to settle  in cash at the 
price it would have  paid to do the work.
compensation
Mr and Mrs B said this on the complaint form:
This ordeal is affecting my husband, children and I, exceptional stress  and upset  and 
I would appreciate their cooperation in the matter to avoid  further  ill health  and possible 
damage to our home.
I also know that the family had limited access to their home for a time (the damage was in 
their main  open plan living area). They clearly experienced a lot of worry about what was a 
significant structural issue that would require technical expertise and knowledge to resolve. 
I also know they arranged  and paid themselves for some  work to be done to safeguard 
and/or reinstate their home. If Admiral hadnt declined the claim most of this distress and 
inconvenience would have been  avoided.
On that basis I think Admiral should  pay £500  compensation to Mr and Mrs B to make up for 
the upset they suffered due to its failure.  I think this is fair and reasonable.
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited  to honour 
Mr and Mrs Bs claim for accidental damage in line with the comments  I made  above,  
including the provision of interest* and to pay them £500 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 January 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Admiral  Insurance 
Company Limited to considers  that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from any interest  due to Mr 
and Mrs B, it should tell them how much its taken  off. It should  also give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing this if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5068974