K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2000 
alongside a credit card. Mr M says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold 
him the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Barclays needed to make it clear that the PPI was optional and it shouldve only added it to 
Mr Ms account with his consent.  And based  on what  Ive seen and been told, I think  it did. I 
say this having seen a copy of Mr Ms credit card application from which included a section 
for PPI. In this there is a tick to indicate Mr M wanted to take out the policy. But theres 
nothing in this form which suggests the PPI was compulsory. Mr M then signed the 
application form so I think this reflected what he wanted at the time  although I can 
understand if he cant remember this.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the policy  was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr M says he had sufficient other  means  to make  his repayments so the PPI wasnt suitable 
and Barclays shouldnt  have sold it to him. Mr M says he had £10,000 in an ISA and was 
also receiving between  £5000 and £10000 per year from the profits of a family business. But 
the profits from his family  business werent always guaranteed as the company couldve had 
years where it didnt produce any profits. But even  taking  this into account,  I still think  the 
policy was suitable  for him. I say this because  the policy costed £0.79 per £100  of Mr Ms 
outstanding monthly  balance  for up to 12 months,  and this wouldve paid out in addition to 
Mr Ms other  means.  This means  he couldve  used  any extra  funds for other expenses had 
he suddenly been  out of work, and his tax-free  savings wouldve remained protected.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN54406392To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5440639