K820x#13complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr and Mrs W say Yorkshire Building  Society, trading as Chelsea  Building Society  
(Chelsea), mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Chelsea had to make  it clear to Mr and Mrs W that they had a choice 
about it. But Mr and Mrs W say they told Chelsea that they didnt want the PPI.
Chelsea hasnt been able to send us any documents from the sale showing Mr and Mrs W 
chose to take the PPI. But it has shown us that the PPI was taken  out several months after 
the mortgage started. So I dont think Mr and Mrs M can reasonably have thought  they had 
to have the PPI in order to get the mortgage.
Chelsea has said Mr and Mrs W wouldve been sent a policy summary and certificate of 
cover. And I can see the cost of the PPI was shown on Mr and Mrs Ws annual  mortgage 
statements. So, if Mr and Mrs W werent aware they had the PPI or didnt know there was a 
separate cost to the PPI, I think  its reasonable to expect that they would have raised this 
when they received any of those documents.
So, based  on the evidence I have, I think its likely that Chelsea did make  it clear to Mr and 
Mrs W that they had a choice about the PPI. And that Mr and Mrs W chose to take it, 
knowing they didnt  have to.
Chelsea didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, so it didnt  have to check  if it was right 
for them. But it did have  to make sure they got the information they needed to decide if the 
PPI was right for them.
Its possible the information Chelsea gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like they were  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. And the 
policy couldve paid out for longer than theyve  told us they wouldve received sick pay. So it 
would have been useful for them if something went wrong.
Mr and Mrs W have  said they already had a policy  to cover their mortgage, and so didnt 
need this PPI policy. But they havent given us any further information about this policy, such 
as when they took it out or what it covered, despite  being asked to do so. So I dont think 
theres enough evidence for me to say that they had it at the time or that it covered the same  
risks as this PPI policy. So I still think the PPI wouldve been useful to them. It also looks  like 
the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about it would have put Mr and 
Mrs W off taking it out.
Ref: DRN52742742Which means Chelsea  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Chelsea  will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W because: 
Chelsea got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs W about that. Because  Chelsea didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs W, that was unfair.
To put that right, Chelsea has basically  offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Chelsea has to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Chelsea  should also pay back to Mr and Mrs W any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Chelsea should pay back to Mr and Mrs W the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Chelsea should 
also pay Mr and Mrs W 8%* simple  interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs W can claim  back  the tax if they dont  pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society doesnt  have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs W any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5274274