K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs unhappy with the way HSBC UK Bank  Plc (trading as First Direct) dealt with a 
chargeback request he made.
  
background
Mr B bought a car using his HSBC  debit card. Some months  later a fault was discovered 
with it. Mr B tried unsuccessfully to get the dealer  to take the car back. He says hes been 
defrauded by the dealer  as itd concealed  a known fault. As Mr B didnt make progress 
resolving things with the dealer (the merchant) he asked HSBC  to pursue a chargeback 
request. Mr Bs unhappy  as he says HSBC didnt  correctly  action  it and delayed  things. He 
says hes been  caused loss and he wants redress from HSBC  including compensation.
HSBC said in its final response that it was a condition of the card issuers  scheme  on the 
card Mr B used that the goods must  be returned  or an attempt made to return them  to the 
merchant. But here, as the car was still in Mr Bs possession, the card issuer  needed more 
evidence that the dealer had refused its return.  HSBC said itd told the card issuer what  Mr B 
had said about  trying to return the car and itd raised a dispute with the card issuer. But this 
was rejected by the merchant who said Mr B had inspected  the car before a test drive  and 
that it was in good working order when he bought it. The merchant  also said Mr B had used 
the car for some months and driven  several  thousand miles in it before experiencing engine 
problems. The car also hadnt been  returned to the merchant. As Mr B disagreed HSBC said 
itd attempted  pre-arbitration. This was challenged  by the merchants bank. After reviewing 
everything HSBC had decided not to take the case to arbitration  as it didnt think  Mr Bs 
evidence was strong enough  to do so. It hadnt deliberately delayed  matters. Itd followed  the 
dispute process correctly.  But it accepted Mr B had been kept on hold for a considerable 
amount of time and sometimes had to be called  back. He was also given some incorrect 
advice. In recognition  of this HSBC said itd credited £100 to Mr Bs account.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  In summary he said HSBC  had dealt 
with Mr B fairly. Itd attempted a chargeback and when that was declined it went  to pre-
arbitration within the correct timeframe. But after this was also declined, HSBC  decided not 
to go to arbitration also within the correct  time frame. HSBC  has attempted  to help Mr B, to 
its best endeavours, in this situation.  The chargeback process has been reasonably 
exhausted. HSBCs payment of £100  for its lapse  in customer  service is fair and reasonable.
Mr B doesnt  agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. He says his issue is that 
HSBCs decision  is incorrect  and legally invalid, not that it didnt follow  the chargeback 
process. HSBC required  him to commit an unlawful and criminal act to comply with its stated 
purpose. That isnt acceptable or lawful. Its placed him in jeopardy which  is a valid reason in 
the card scheme  rules for returning a product.
The investigator responded that we cannot look into the legalities surrounding Mr Bs 
complaint. We can only look at whether HSBC has followed the correct process for a 
chargeback.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN58637662Theres clearly  a dispute between Mr B and the merchant about the cars condition  when it 
was sold to him. But its not for me to investigate the underlying  dispute or determine the 
merits of either parties case  or what the state  of the car was when Mr B bought  it. Im also 
not deciding whether the chargeback should be successful or not under the card scheme 
rules which are set by the card issuer and not HSBC.
I can only look at whether HSBC has followed the correct process when making  Mr Bs 
chargeback request.
As the investigator  has said a chargeback isnt a legal right.  Its a voluntary scheme  operated 
by the issuer of Mr Bs HSBC card. And its subject to the card issuers scheme rules which  
arent set by HSBC. A chargeback also isnt guaranteed to recover  money  and HSBC  isnt 
obliged to make or pursue a chargeback  request just because a customer asks it to do so.
HSBC is entitled  to consider at each stage  in the chargeback process whats happened,  all 
the available  evidence and the card issuers rules  to decide if it wants to pursue or continue 
the chargeback  process.
In Mr Bs case  HSBC reasonably made  the chargeback request. This was declined  by the 
merchant as it said Mr B knew about  the car before he test drove it and hed used it for 
several months and driven 6000  miles  before  there was a problem. The merchant also said 
the car hadnt  been returned  and wasnt in its possession. 
Following the rejection  of the chargeback request HSBC proceeded with pre-arbitration  
which was also reasonable. But this was also declined  on the basis  that the car was still in 
Mr Bs possession  and there  wasnt proof of its return to the merchant. And after considering 
everything HSBC determined it wouldnt take the matter to arbitration  as it considered  the 
evidence Mr B had provided  wasnt enough  and didnt show the merchant had agreed  to the 
return of the car.
Mr B says this decision is incorrect and legally invalid.
I understand Mr Bs frustration. But HSBC clearly considered all the evidence  put forward  by 
both parties at each  stage  of the chargeback process. There  was a significant  dispute 
between the parties  about the condition of the car when it was sold and whats  happened.  
And as the investigator has pointed out Mr Bs evidence doesnt prove the whether the 
merchant agreed to take the car back or not despite his communications with it and attempts 
to get it to do so. HSBC  was also entitled to take account of the card issuers rules on 
chargebacks which  say, amongst other  things,  that the goods should have been returned  to 
the merchant. But its not for HSBC to carry out a detailed investigation into the underlying 
dispute under the chargeback scheme  rules.   
Overall I think  HSBC  reasonably followed and pursued the initial  steps of the chargeback 
process. And I dont  think it unreasonably delayed doing so as has been suggested. After 
the pre-arbitration stage of the process wasnt successful, HSBC  didnt think Mr Bs evidence 
was enough to go on. And it decided not to take the chargeback to the next arbitration stage 
of the process,  as I think it was reasonably entitled to do. 
Although Mr B disagrees with HSBCs decision,  I dont think  HSBC exercised its discretion 
unfairly or unreasonably when deciding not to go to arbitration, as its done. 
Ref: DRN58637663Mr B also says HSBCs  decision not to go to arbitration is legally invalid. But thats not 
something we can determine.
Taking everything into account,  although  I recognise  Mr Bs strength  of feeling, I dont think  
on balance that HSBC has done anything  wrong as it has correctly followed and acted in line 
with the chargeback process. And I dont think I can fairly or reasonably now require HSBC  
to pay Mr B any more compensation as hed like.
Overall I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5863766