K820x#14complaint
Miss D, on behalf of Mrs D and the estate of Mr D, complains that an appointed 
representative (AR) of JPSL  Financial Services Ltd (JPSL) provided unsuitable advice in 
relation to an equity  release mortgage and subsequent investments.
background
Mrs D and the late Mr D took out an equity release mortgage in 2001 when a different 
business was responsible  for the advice given by the AR. JPSL became responsible for any 
advice given by the AR as from 2005  and up until 2012. Another business then provided  
advice after JPSL stopped being responsible for the AR. Miss D had complained on behalf of 
Mrs D and the late Mr D in respect  of the advice of all the businesses involved. But her 
complaint is based  on the equity release mortgage being unsuitable.
 
JPSL didnt uphold the complaint and in its final response letter  made the following points:
In 2005 Mr and Mrs D met with the adviser at which time one of their investments 
had stopped providing the income they wanted and it was agreed  they should  
surrender this and reinvest.
The new investment provided them with the income they wanted  and was in 
accordance with their balanced risk profile.
There was a meeting  in 2009 when there was a discussion about  an inheritance that 
had been received  of around £80,000.  Mr and Mrs D said they didnt want to tie up 
the money, so repayment of the equity release mortgage wasnt  appropriate. They  
said they had enough income  so were recommended to invest  some of the money in 
an account for five years  with interest  at 5.25% with the rest held on deposit.
In 2011 there was a discussion with the adviser when Mr and Mrs D made him aware 
that some of the money held on deposit  form the inheritance had been spent, which  
wouldnt have been possible  if this had been used  to pay off the mortgage.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. He said the advice given in 2005, when 
Mr and Mrs D were advised to surrendered their existing investment and reinvest, was 
suitable. He also didnt think the adviser did anything wrong in 2009 when he advised Mr and 
Mrs D to invest part of the money they had inherited  and keep  the rest for short  term 
spending. He noted there  was a further  fact find completed in 2011 but that nothing appears 
to have happened resulting from that.
Miss D didnt agree with the investigator. In short  she made  the following points:
The adviser Mr and Mrs D was the same one who sold them  the equity release 
mortgage in 2001  and advised them to invest in the failing investment portfolio in the 
first place,  and JPSL should have a responsibility because  the adviser was the same.
Mr and Mrs Ds capital had reduced significantly which meant  that the dividend of 
7.5% which the adviser had said they would  get was wrong and the adviser knew  this 
was costing compound interest  at 8% in relation to the mortgage.
JPSL should still have a responsibility  because the adviser  was the same  as in 2001.
The adviser waived  his fee which shows he felt guilty.
She cant believe the adviser  took a fee when Mr and Mrs D had lost £20,000 of 
capital since 2001.
The adviser tried to undermine the bank when advising Mr and Mrs D about what 
they should do with their inheritance.
Ref: DRN51180342The adviser admitted  himself that Mrs D didnt understand what  she had signed.
The lack of transparency encouraged  by the adviser kept Mr and Mrs D isolated, and 
throughout the time he provided  advice her own finances were healthy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator that the adviser didnt do anything wrong for 
reasons I will explain.  Before doing  so I want to make clear that I understand that Miss D is 
very upset  about  what has happened  as a result  of the equity release mortgage being taken 
out in 2001 and the position  that Mrs D is now in as a result  of that. But whilst I sympathise 
with the situation that she has found  herself in this doesnt mean that JPSL  has done 
anything wrong.
JPSL isnt responsible for the initial advice to take out the equity release mortgage in 2001.  It 
first became  responsible for the AR in 2005 and provided advice at that time.  The fact that 
the adviser was the same  person who had advised  Mr and Mrs D to take out the equity 
release mortgage  in 2001 doesnt  mean he shouldve advised them to repay the mortgage.
The fact find the adviser  completed lists those areas that Mr and Mrs D could  identify as a 
priority, and although reviewing or repaying  an existing mortgage is one of the areas shown 
this isnt shown  as a priority. The only priority identified in the fact find is advice on existing 
capital. So Mr and Mrs D didnt ask for advice on repaying the equity release mortgage.  
When advising on investments the adviser  does have to consider the suitability  of the 
advice. I have considered whether the advice was unsuitable because  the adviser didnt 
consider paying  off the equity release mortgage.  Having  done so I dont think  it was. That 
isnt what Mr and Mrs D wanted  advice  on and they wouldnt  have been  able to receive  the 
additional income they wanted. The equity release mortgage had no impact on their 
outgoings as no payments  needed  to make  towards it. So it didnt affect the affordability of 
the investment  he recommended they invested in as an ordinary mortgage mightve done.
I have not seen a statement for 2005  but from my own calculations  the amount owing on the 
mortgage by 2005 wouldve been around  £96,000  based on the interest being 
compounded at the agreed fixed rate. So surrendering the bond  to use towards  the 
mortgage would still have left a substantial  amount  owing and accruing interest anyway. 
Even if repayment was limited to the amount of the mortgage used for investment it wouldve 
been around £68,000. It is also of note that as with many such  mortgages  there  is an early 
redemption charge in the first five years  of 5% of the amount repaid 
I have also considered whether the advice  to surrender the existing investment bond and 
reinvest the money in a different bond as otherwise suitable. From the information  available, 
although Mr and Mrs D continued  to take money  from the existing investment bond, bonuses  
had stopped being applied some time ago, in 2003, so the withdrawals were  eroding the 
capital. 
I note Miss D has referred to the amount of capital lost through the original investment 
recommended in 2001. But any issue about the suitability of that investment relates to the 
business who was responsible for the adviser  at the time he recommended  that investment 
Ref: DRN51180343in 2001, which isnt JPSL. The adviser  also did nothing wrong because he charged a fee for 
the advice he gave in 2005  as he was entitled to do so.
There was a penalty payable on surrender which reduced the amount payable.  But this was 
to some extent counteracted by the adviser  waiving most of the commission payable and the 
increased allocation  of units in the new investment bond. Overall  I dont think  the advice to 
move out of an investment that wasnt  paying  bonuses into an investment where a return 
was being achieved - so that Mr and Mrs D could continue to receive  an income without 
eroding their capital being eroded to the same extent - was unsuitable.
I have also considered the risk of the new bond.  Mr and Mrs D were identified as balanced  
risk investors. The only choices in the fact find are cautious/balanced/adventurous. It isnt 
clear how a balanced risk profile was arrived at and Im mindful  of their age (people tend to 
be more cautious  as they age) and they had limited investment experience.  
But Im also mindful that the suitability letter shows they wanted the maximum possible 
income from their investment. A cautious  risk investment  is unlikely to have provided the 
returns they needed to provide the income they wanted and is likely to have led to a greater 
erosion of their capital.  So Im not satisfied  a balanced risk investment, which  could provide 
the income they wanted with more  prospect  of avoiding significant capital erosion, was 
unsuitable.
From what  I have  seen the adviser  gave some advice  in 2009 about  what  Mr and Mrs D 
should perhaps do with the inheritance they received. The file note I have seen refers to a 
meeting on 26 October 2009. This records  a discussion about £80,000 that had been 
received by Mr and Mrs D. It refers to them not wanting to tie up the money and refers  to the 
adviser saying they could  possibly invest in a five year fixed term account but keep  up to 
50% back for short term spending  such as for a new kitchen and updating the house. There 
is also mention of them not having  used their ISA allowance.
I am not satisfied that the adviser shouldve advised  Mr and Mrs D to pay off part of the 
equity release mortgage at this time with the inheritance money. At this point the amount 
owing wouldve been over £132,000 by my calculations.
If repayment was just of the amount used for investment then this wouldve amounted  to 
around £94,000 so the inheritance couldve  paid most of this off.  But  there is nothing  to 
indicate at that time that Mr and Mrs D were interested in doing this. The note indicates they 
didnt want to tie up the investment money. So even if he advised all of the inheritance  
money be used in this way I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs D wouldve done  this. I think  they 
are more likely  than not to have  wanted to keep  the inheritance and used it for other  
purposes.
There is evidence of a further discussion with the adviser in 2011 when Mr and Mrs Ds 
objective is again identified as advice  on existing capital.  It doesnt  appear they actually 
invested anything  at the time and it isnt clear what advice, if any was given But again  I dont  
think the adviser shouldve advised  them to pay off the mortgage at that time either  as there  
is no suggestion they were interested in doing  so.
I will comment briefly  on various points  made  by Miss D in response to the investigators  
opinion which I have  not already commented on. I have  seen  no persuasive evidence  that 
the adviser sought to undermine the bank. The adviser waiving his fee isnt evidence he 
Ref: DRN51180344believed he had done something  wrong. I have seen no evidence  that the adviser 
encouraged a lack of transparency that kept Mr and Mrs D isolated.
In summary  I have seen  no persuasive evidence that the adviser provided unsuitable advice 
during the time that JPSL was responsible for the AR, or did anything  else wrong.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D on behalf  
of Mrs D and the estate of Mr D to accept  or reject  my decision before 7 March 2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5118034