K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says Countrywide Principal Services Limited  mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
background
Mrs P took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in late 2011. Mrs P paid for the PPI with a 
regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered her in case she lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.  
While I know this will disappoint Mrs P, having  thought carefully about the case I dont think 
this policy  was mis-sold  Ill explain my reasons.
Mrs Ps mortgage application had a section for insurance, where it records the discussion 
Mrs P had with the adviser. It records that adviser  asked Mrs P about her circumstances in 
some detail and about  what sort of protection she might want,  then they made a 
recommendation to buy PPI. This was only a recommendation, and not a requirement. 
Indeed, its recorded that Mrs P turned down the recommendation as she felt she didnt need 
accident or sickness cover, and that she instead chose just the unemployment cover.  So it 
looks like she was aware she didnt  have to buy what was recommended.
Then in order to get the PPI, it seems  Mrs P wouldve applied for it separately to applying  for 
the mortgage itself,  with a separate company to her mortgage provider   it wasnt  part and 
parcel of the mortgage. The PPI illustration set out the PPIs cost separately  to the 
mortgages cost  again, it wasnt automatically included  and reminded Mrs P she could 
cancel it if she changed her mind. And the key facts document  reiterated  that Mrs P didnt 
have to buy any insurance from Countrywide  or the lender if she didnt want to. I cant  see 
anywhere in the documents that indicated Mrs P had to take PPI, and I havent seen any 
evidence which shows she was put under unfair  pressure to buy it. So taking everything into 
account, I think its most likely that Countrywide made Mrs P aware  she had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time.
Countrywide recommended the PPI to Mrs P, so it had to check  it was right for her. And 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, Mrs P 
doesnt seem to have  been affected  by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. The 
PPI was relatively inexpensive  and wasnt bad value considering what  it could  pay out in a 
claim, and it looks like it wouldve been affordable for Mrs P.
Ref: DRN55381812According to the record  of her discussion, Mrs P told the adviser that she got sick pay 
through work, but had no other protection, savings, or investments in place. So it seems 
reasonable that she took out protection in case she lost her job. Mrs P says she was entitled 
to redundancy  pay and had an endowment policy,  which may well have been the case, 
though they arent mentioned in the evidence  from the time. In any case, the PPI wouldve 
paid out in addition to Mrs Ps redundancy pay, so she couldve used it for other things  the 
payout wouldve  been needed  to cover all her costs; not just the mortgage. And the 
mortgage was a significant,  long-term commitment: there was no guarantee that Mrs P 
wouldve had the same benefits  or work situation in the years to come.  The PPI couldve 
also helped  protect  the endowment, so that Mrs P wouldnt have to sacrifice one asset to 
pay for another if she lost her job. Its worth  bearing  in mind that this mortgage was Mrs Ps 
sole responsibility, and if she fell behind on her payments she risked  losing her home. So it 
looks like the PPI couldve been useful for her in protecting  her home  and giving some peace  
of mind.
The cost of the policy was set out clearly on the PPI illustration. So I think Mrs P wouldve 
understood how much she would  need  to pay for it if she chose it.
Lastly, its possible that Countrywide didnt  point out all the main  things the policy wouldnt 
cover. But as I explained above, Mrs P doesnt  seem to have been affected  by any of those 
things. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Ps complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5538181