K821x#15complaint
S complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited (LV=) has added a title to their 
name.
background
S has an insurance policy with LV= and has been  a customer  for a number of years.
For several years Ss policy documents didnt include a title in their name  because  S had left 
the title field blank when they originally applied for the policy.  Nor did letters  LV= sent. 
However, LV= started  referring to S as Ms S in letters and policy documents  in 2018.  S 
was unhappy  with this and called  LV= to ask what was going on. LV= said that it was unable  
to leave the title field blank, had to record a title as part of its identification  process and that it 
didnt have the facility to remove titles.  LV= also said that if S wasnt happy  with this they 
could cancel their policy  and wouldnt be charged  a cancellation fee. S was very unhappy 
with LV=s  initial  response and so complained.
LV= investigated Ss complaint but didnt uphold it. LV= said that it had a new system  and 
couldnt leave  the title field blank  any more. LV= also said it was sorry for any upset caused. 
S complained to us.
One of our investigators  looked into Ss complaint. LV= told our investigator that it had 
recently implemented a new policy management system and as part of a desire to simplify 
the quotation process for customers had reduced the number of titles they can select on 
application and renewal. LV= said that this was in line with many other insurers in the 
industry and hadnt  been  intended to cause  offence.  LV= also told our investigator  that 
customers had the option of male, female and none when selecting gender.
Our investigator said that LV= should  have anticipated removing the option of selecting no 
title would cause  problems for some customers and that businesses were moving away  from 
requiring titles or gender. They recommended £200  in compensation. LV= disagreed  with 
our investigators recommendations and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2018 LV= moved to a new system that means its customers have to choose from one of 
the following  titles Mr, Mrs  Ms, Miss or Dr. That meant  customers  who had previously 
chosen to leave the title field blank  as S had done  could no longer do so. LV=s new 
system chose the title Ms for S without any input from S. LV=s new system meant its 
customers also had to choose from male,  female or none when selecting their gender.
S didnt  explain  to LV= why they dont  use a title, but they did explain their reasons to me 
when I spoke to them. Ive told LV= that Im not going to share Ss reasons for not using a 
title  theyre very personal  but Im satisfied  S has found this whole experience  distressing.  
LV= has accepted  that the experience has been  distressing for S, which Im pleased  to see, 
and understood  why I didnt think it was appropriate to share Ss reasons.
Ref: DRN53812652Ive discussed  this complaint in detail with both parties. Ive also sent both parties a paper 
published by the Government Equalities  Office in November 2015 about  good practice when  
it comes to providing goods and services to people  who are transgender. The paper doesnt  
just talk about transgender customers  it talks about people  who are non-binary too. More 
importantly, it also talks about titles and gender.  The paper, for example, says that making  a 
customer choose a title  or a gender   that they dont identify with doesnt help businesses 
to get to know their customers. Thats relevant because LV= told S when they initially  
complained that its new system asks for a title as part of its identification  process. The paper 
suggests other better ways in which businesses can get to know  their customers   for 
example, asking for their date of birth,  their employer,  their current  address and how long 
theyve lived there etc. So I asked LV= why it collects  the information it does, not least 
because the Equality Act 2010  means  that its unlawful for an insurance company to price  or 
rate a policy based on sex and information about sex is particularly sensitive meaning, 
amongst other things,  that businesses need to have a reason to collect  it under GDPR.
Following our involvement, LV= has told us that its planning to launch  a multi-product 
platform that will no longer require customers to select a gender  and where the title field will 
be optional. LV= has also told us that it found  the Government Equalities  Offices paper very 
helpful and that it makes  some really interesting points that were helping to shape the 
debate its having internally and with others in the industry. S was pleased  to hear that LV=s 
thinking has moved on when I let them  know.
I agree  with our investigator that LV= should  have anticipated the changes  it was going to 
introduce could  have an impact on some  of its customers. LV= should  have thought  about  
this in more detail before introducing the changes. Had it done so, I think  LV= would have 
realised that some of the information  it was collecting wasnt  necessary for its own purposes, 
and not helpful when  it comes to identifying customers.
LV= has told us that it doesnt price its policies on sex. There used to be an exemption to the 
Equality Act 2010 that allowed insurers to price based on sex but this was found to be 
unlawful and has since been removed. That means  insurers who still price  based on sex risk 
breaching the Equality Act 2010. So LV= is right not to price on that basis.  LV= couldnt  
initially explain, given  that it doesnt  price based  on sex, exactly  why it continues to collect  
this information.  The fact that its multi-product platform will no longer require gender and the 
title field will be optional suggests the information isnt necessary for LV= to offer insurance 
products. On reflection LV= was able to give examples  of instances where this information is 
helpful, but as Ive also already mentioned its clear its thinking  has moved on.
Ref: DRN53812653Our investigator recommended £200  in compensation for the distress LV= has caused S  
given the change it made and the lack of empathy in LV=s  initial response.  I asked S to 
comment on that award. They suggested £350 would be more  appropriate and explained  
how theyd reached  that figure. LV= has since offered S £350. So thats the award Im going 
to make as I feel thats a fair outcome to this complaint given all the other  steps LV= has 
agreed to take and is taking. That response has, to LV=s credit,  been a positive one.
my final decision
My final decision is that the steps  Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited has taken 
and plans to take  including  paying S £350  in compensation  are a fair outcome.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.  
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5381265