K821x#15complaint
Mr C says Harvey  & Thompson irresponsibly lent to him. Mr C says the lending was 
unaffordable and made his financial situation  unmanageable. He says he had other  pay day 
transactions, and this was evident  from his bank statements.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 28 April 2020.  A copy of my provisional  decision is
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I think  the 
complaint should  be upheld.  
I said that in the particular  circumstances of Mr Cs complaint  the length  of time over which 
loan one was to be repaid, and the total amount that was to be repaid  I thought 
Harvey & Thompson should have looked to build a bigger picture of Mr Cs financial 
circumstances. If it had, it would have seen that Mr C was having problems managing his 
money and it wouldnt  have lent to him.
I also concluded that all information about  loans three and four was adverse and should be 
removed from Mr Cs credit file.
Harvey & Thompson didnt agree  with my provisional decision. It said that earlier  in a 
borrowing relationship  shouldnt involve the detailed checking that would take place later in 
the lending relationship or is in place  today. It said I had applied  retrospective measures 
when reaching  my provisional decision.
Mr C accepted my provisional  decision.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, I agree with what Harvey & Thompson  has said in that the earlier in the 
borrowing relationship  less thorough checks by a business might be reasonable and 
proportionate. 
But we also look at each  case  on its own particular merits. And I maintain that because  of 
the longer term for loan one (22 months) and the high cost of this type of credit  (Mr C would 
be repaying a total of £1,700 on a loan of £600), in this particular case  
Harvey & Thompson should have done more to ascertain Mr Cs financial circumstances at 
an earlier point than it did. 
If Harvey & Thompson had carried out more  and in this case  I consider what would have 
been proportionate checks  it would  have seen Mr C was already using other short-term 
credit providers and making other debt repayments  which totalled around  two thirds of his 
income. And this was before  taking into account his essential  monthly  outgoings. So, I 
reiterate what I said in my provisional  decision in that I dont think  the repayments for loan 
one, and subsequent loans, would  prove  to be sustainable for Mr C.
Ref: DRN59772192As a consequence, I dont think Harvey & Thompson should  have  lent to Mr C.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint. Harvey  & Thompson should put things 
right as set out in my provisional decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN59772193copy  of my provision decision
complaint
Mr C says Harvey & Thompson irresponsibly lent to him. Mr C says the lending  was unaffordable  and 
made his financial situation unmanageable.  He says he had other pay day transactions, and this was 
evident from his bank statements.
background
This complaint is about  four loans Harvey & Thompson provided to Mr C between March 2012 and 
February 2014. Mr Cs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid
Instalments Amount
1 24/03/2012 22/03/2013 22    £600.00
2 05/01/2013 27/08/2013 12    £750.00
3 23/08/2013 27/02/2014 12    £750.00
4 26/02/2014 27/08/2015 20 £1,000.00
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Cs complaint and thought the loans  from loan three onwards 
shouldnt have been given. 
In response, Mr C agreed with the adjudicator  that loans  three  and four should be upheld but 
maintained that he shouldnt have been given  loans one and two as well because  of his other pay day 
borrowing. 
Harvey & Thompson didnt reply to the adjudicator.
As the complaint remains  unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
and high cost lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good industry  practice - on our 
website. 
Harvey & Thompson needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr C could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Harvey & Thompson should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a consumers income  (reflecting  that it could be more difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN59772194the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Harvey & Thompson was required to establish  
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis  might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being  without undue  difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Cs complaint. After doing so, Ive provisionally  decided  to uphold Mr Cs 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr C didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion that loans one and two shouldnt be upheld because  
of his other borrowings.  He asked for the outcome to be reconsidered. 
Ive said above that the earlier in the borrowing  relationship less thorough checks  by a business  might 
be reasonable and proportionate.   But in this case, I note that the repayment term for loan one was for 
22 months which would generally  be considered at the end of the longer-term range of borrowing 
when considering the way in which I would expect to see high cost credit used for. 
High cost credit, by its nature, attracts higher interest rates than mainstream lending.  And for this 
loan, which was for £600,  Mr C would be repaying  a total of around £1,700 if the agreed term of the 
loan had been  kept to. So, bearing in mind the length of time over which  the loan was to be repaid, 
and the total amount that was to be repaid, I think Harvey & Thompson should  have looked to build  a 
bigger picture of Mr Cs financial circumstances  at an earlier stage in their borrowing  relationship than 
I would normally expect to see.
Finding out more about  a consumers financial situation can be done by a variety of ways  and could 
include asking for copies of pay slips, bills and receipts etc. In this case, Mr C sent us copies  of his 
bank statements from around the time of the borrowing which Ive reviewed. 
Its clear from those statements that just prior to loan one being granted, Mr C was having problems 
managing his money.  I see he was making monthly repayments to two debt collection agencies, was 
using at least  two other short-term credit providers  and also made  a large monthly repayment to a 
mainstream credit  provider. For February 2012 these totalled in the region of £1,150 and from what I 
can tell from the bank statements, Mr Cs monthly income  was around £1,500. 
So, I dont think it was reasonable  for Harvey  & Thompson to have agreed to lend to Mr C. The 
repayments due on loan one were to last 22 months, and bearing in mind  Mr Cs then current  
outgoings on debt  and without  taking  into account  Mr Cs essential monthly expenditure such as 
housing costs and food  I dont think  the repayments would prove to be sustainable. And I think it 
most likely Mr C would have  had to borrow further to maintain those  repayments. 
Ref: DRN59772195In fact, Mr C repaid his loan a year after taking it out. And while I appreciate repaying a loan early can 
save the consumer interest charges, it can equally  be an indication that someone is juggling their 
finances to make ends meet. And I note that while  loan one was still running  Mr C took loan two in 
January 2013, and which  was for the larger sum of £750. Again, I would suggest  that having  more 
than one loan at a time could have been a suggestion of someone struggling  with their finances.  
Ive reviewed the bank statements Mr C has given us from the time of the borrowing  at loan two and 
they still show  frequent use of several short-term credit providers so Mr Cs financial situation hadnt 
improved at all. So, Im of the opinion  this borrowing shouldnt have been given either. 
Ive also looked at the overall  pattern of Harvey & Thompsons  lending history with Mr C, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point  at which Harvey & Thompson should  reasonably  have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so, Harvey & Thompson should have realised  
that it shouldnt have provided  any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan three.  I 
say this because:
At this point Harvey  & Thompson ought to have  realised Mr C was not managing  to repay  his 
loans sustainably. Mr C had been  indebted  to Harvey  & Thompson for 17 months and would 
be for another 12 months if loan three ran to term. So, Harvey & Thompson ought  to have 
realised it was more likely than not Mr C was having to borrow further to cover  the hole 
repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Cs indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
Mr Cs first loan was for £600 and loan three was for £750.  At this point  Harvey & Thompson 
ought to have known  that Mr C was not likely  borrowing  to meet a temporary  shortfall in his 
income but to meet  an ongoing need. 
Mr C was provided with a new loan, loan four, the day before loan three was repaid,  and for a 
larger amount.  This had happened when  loan three was granted  as well. New borrowing was 
taken on 23 Aught  2014  and loan two was repaid two days later.  This could be a strong 
indication that Mr C borrowing unsustainably, and he was having  to juggle his finances  to stay 
on top of his repayments.
Mr C wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Harvey & Thompson. Loan four 
was taken  out 23 months after Mr Cs first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr C had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to Harvey & Thompson over an extended  
period.
I think  that Mr C lost out because Harvey & Thompson continued  to provide borrowing from loan three 
onwards because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit  intended for shorter-term use over an extended period of time.
the length  of time over which Mr C borrowed was likely to have had negative  implications on 
Mr Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-cost 
loans.
So, Im provisionally upholding  the complaint  about loans one to four and Harvey & Thompson  should 
put things right.
Ref: DRN59772196putting things  right  what Harvey & Thompson  needs  to do
refund all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans  one to four;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges  from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans  one and two from Mr Cs credit  file;
the number of loans taken from loan three onwards means any information recorded  about  
them is adverse. So, all entries  about loans  three and four should  be removed from Mr Cs 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Harvey & Thompson to take off tax from this interest. Harvey & 
Thompson must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im proposing to provisionally uphold  Mr Cs complaint.  
Ref: DRN5977219