K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained about CIS General  Insurance  Limiteds handling of his car insurance 
policy.
Reference to CIS includes their agents.
background
Mr D first took out car insurance  with CIS in September 2017. The policy was taken out 
online through an insurance broker.  When asked  Mr D said he was the registered keeper of 
the car but it was in fact a leasing company. Mr D renewed his policy in September  2018 on 
the basis of the same  information as before, namely that he was the registered  keeper.
In January 2019, Mr D was involved  in an accident that was the other  drivers  fault.  The 
other drivers  insurer  agreed  to deal with Mr Ds cars damage. Mr D informed CIS of the 
accident. When CIS did some checks they discovered that the registered keeper was a 
leasing company.  CIS cancelled the policy because they said had they known the registered 
keeper was a leasing  company they would have never insured Mr D.
Mr D complained. He said CIS should  either:  reinstate  his policy;  or they should refund  all his 
premiums since  September  2017  when he first took out the policy. CIS said they wouldnt do 
either. Mr D said he was treated unfairly  for a simple error  and as he now has to disclose the 
cancellation going forward his premiums will be higher for years to come.  He also said CIS 
failed to acknowledge his complaint within the necessary time scales. CIS accepted they 
hadnt properly  acknowledged his complaint within their timescales and they apologised.
Mr D brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into it. He felt that 
CIS had dealt with Mr D fairly. As Mr D didnt agree with our investigator,  the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 6 May 2020.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold it in part. Ill explain  why.
I have seen CISs underwriting criteria. Each insurer sets their own underwriting  
criteria which are the rules they follow to determine whether or not they will provide 
someone with cover.  CISs rules  say that they wont provide insurance to anyone 
where the car being insured is registered  to a leasing company. Im therefore 
satisfied that if CIS knew that the registered keeper of Mr Ds car was a leasing 
company at the outset they wouldnt have  insured  him.
CIS have  suggested  that Mr D not telling them about  his car being registered  to a 
company amounted to, what is known in the insurance industry,  a careless 
misrepresentation. Mr D has accepted  that he made an error when taking out his 
policy in 2017.  He said he simply put the wrong registered keeper  nothing  else. It 
was the wrong  drop down box ticked. And after the policy was taken out in 
September 2017 and on renewal in 2018,  CIS sent Mr D policy documents that said 
they based their decision  to insure  him on certain facts, including  the fact he was the 
registered keeper.  The policy documents included a warning  that asked Mr D to read 
Ref: DRN58759142the information carefully and to correct any errors. But Mr D didnt correct that error. 
CIS have  made it clear they accept  it was an error  and there  was no dishonest  intent.
Theres specific legislation - the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  that sets out what insurers may do where 
there has been a careless misrepresentation. It says that insurers  may void the policy  
(treat as though  it never came into existence) if they wouldnt have provided cover 
had the correct information  been  given by the policyholder when applying for the 
policy. And where an insurer voids a policy they must return  the premium.
CIS have  said they made a conscious  decision to not void the policy but to cancel it 
instead. They said a voidance on his insurance record would have had a more 
damaging impact on Mr D and his future premiums. And they said they didnt refund 
his premium because  they didnt void his policy. Under the policy  CIS were  entitled to 
cancel the policy in the event Mr D carelessly  gave incorrect information, which is 
what he did. But the policy also said that if CIS cancelled the policy they should make 
a pro-rata refund for the time he wasn't  on cover. Or, in other  words,  he would only 
be charged for the days he was insured. His policy started in September  2018 and 
was cancelled on 25 February 2019. I therefore think  CIS should have made a 
refund. CIS cancelled  the policy that started  in September 2018 only. So they dont 
have to make a refund of the premium for the previous  year. I therefore intend  to 
uphold this complaint.  I intend to require CIS to make a pro-rata  refund to Mr D for 
the period of time he wasnt insured following the cancellation of his policy.  Simple 
interest should be added to that refund at a rate of 8% a year from the date of 
cancellation until the refund is made.  As this matter  has been  a source of distress 
and inconvenience  for Mr D Im also intending to require CIS to pay him £150 
compensation.
In relation to Mr Ds complaint that CIS didnt respond to his complaint properly, I 
think CIS apology is sufficient so Im not intending  to ask them to do anything further. 
Mr D was also unhappy with the tone of CIS letters as he found  them  threatening. 
But having  read them I dont agree. Given the serious nature of what  was being  
written about I can understand why Mr D was upset. But I dont think  CIS did 
anything wrong.
The parties were invited to comment on my provisional findings. Both Mr D and CIS 
accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and given both parties 
have accepted my provisional findings, my decision remains the same.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require CIS General Insurance 
Limited to:
Make  a pro-rata premium refund  to Mr D for the September 2018 policy for the period 
he wasnt on cover. CIS should  also pay simple interest at a rate of 8% a year on the 
refund from the date of cancellation of the policy until the refund is made.1
Ref: DRN58759143Pay Mr D £150 compensation for the inconvenience he experienced. This should  be 
paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr D has accepted my final decision.  If 
they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from the date of 
my final decision to the date of payment  at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept
or reject my decision before 20 June 2020.
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman 
1 If CIS consider that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr D how much they have taken off. They  should  also give him a certificate  
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN5875914