K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Ferratum UK Ltd irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 18 loans Ferratum provided  to Mr S between May 2016  and January  
2018. The loans  ranged from £100 to £1,000 and the final instalment loans were  to be repaid 
over four repayments.  The loans all formed  one chain of lending.  Loan 18 remains  
outstanding. 
An adjudicator reviewed Mr Ss complaint and thought  Ferratum  did enough when it provided 
Mr S with loans 1-4. However,  she didnt think  Ferratum did enough when it provided loans 
5-7 as proportionate  checks  wouldve shown Mr S was not managing his finances properly. 
And she thought  loans  7-18 shouldnt have  been given as Mr Ss pattern of borrowing
suggested Mr S had become persistently reliant  on short  term loans.
Ferratum made an offer in response  to the adjudicators  opinion.  This included a refund of
interest and charges paid on loans 7-18. This offer was outlined to Mr S, but he chose  not to 
accept it.
As no agreement could be reached  the case was referred to me  an ombudsman   for a
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Ferratum needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Ferratum  should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN54304102There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Ferratum was required to establish
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Ferratum needed  to more when it approved loans  1 to 4. Mr S
didnt disagree  with this so I wont  be making further  findings on these loans, but I have
considered them when looking at Mr Ss borrowing history and his financial situation overall.
The adjudicator explained that had Ferratum considered Mr Ss situation  carefully  and
carried out proportionate checks for loan 5 it would have shown Mr S was not able to
sustainably repay  further borrowing. I agree with this and Ill explain why.
When Mr S applied  for loan 5 he had already taken out 4 loans with Ferratum. I can see that 
Ferratum carried out checks on Mr S, but by loan 5 it shouldve been  looking  to build a 
clearer picture of Mr Ss financial situation.  I think full enquiries were necessary at this point 
and these wouldve  revealed Mr S was having  problems managing his money. Mr S had a 
number of loans  with other short-term lenders. These loans were  running at the same time 
as his loans with Ferratum and were  over an extended period of time. Mr S was also 
consistently relying on his overdraft of £4,000. All of this information shouldve alerted 
Ferratum to the financial issues Mr S was having  and it ought  to have seen that in the 
circumstances it was unlikely Mr S wouldve been  able to sustainably repay this loan  and
any subsequent  loans
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Ferratums lending history  with Mr S with a view to
seeing if there was a point at which Ferratum should reasonably have seen that further
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Ferratum should  have  realised that
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think  that this point  was reached by
loan 7. I say this because:
At this point Ferratum  ought to have realised  Mr S was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr S had taken out seven loans in seven months.  So Ferratum
ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Mr S was having to borrow  further
to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving  in his finances and that 
Mr Ss indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
Ref: DRN54304103Mr Ss first loan was for £200  and his subsequent loans varied  in amount 
considerably. But most  importantly there  didnt seem to be a downward  trend  in the 
amount Mr S was borrowing.  And by loan 16 he was borrowing significantly more for 
his instalment loans.  Ferratum ought to have  seen that Mr S was not likely borrowing 
to meet  a temporary shortfall  in his income but to meet an ongoing need.
Mr S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Ferratum. Loan 7 was 
taken out around seven  months  after Mr Ss first. And often Mr Ss loans were often 
taken out within  a few weeks of each  other.  Mr S had paid large amounts of interest 
to, in effect, service  a debt to Ferratum over an extended period. 
I think that Mr S lost out because Ferratum continued to provide borrowing from loan 7 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr S borrowed was likely  to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Ss ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 5 to 18 and Ferratum should  put things 
right.
putting things right  what Ferratum UK Ltd needs to do
Ferratum UK Ltd shouldnt have given Mr S loans  5-18.
If Ferratum has sold the outstanding  debts  it should  buy these back if it is able to do so
and then take the following steps. If Ferratum is not able to buy the debts  back  then it should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results outlined  below.
A) Ferratum should  add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards  interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld  loans  without an outstanding balance,  not including  anything 
it has already refunded.
B) Ferratum should  calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr S 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Ferratum should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance  on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr S as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr S having made 
overpayments then you should refund these overpayments  with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Ferratum should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan [and any principal Ferratum 
has already written-off].  If this results in a surplus  then the surplus should be paid to Mr S. 
Ref: DRN54304104However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Ferratum  should try to agree an 
affordable repayment  plan with Mr S. Ferratum shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made 
up of principal it has already written-off.
E) Ferratum should  remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation 
to loans five and six. The overall pattern of Mr Ss borrowing for loans seven through to 
eighteen means any information  recorded  about them  is adverse, so it should remove these  
loans entirely from Mr Ss credit  file. Ferratum does not have to remove loan eighteen from 
Mr Ss credit  file until this has been repaid,  but you should still remove  any adverse 
information recorded about this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  you to deduct tax from this interest.  Ferratum  should give Mr S a 
certificate showing  how much tax its deducted,  if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ss complaint. Ferratum Limited should put 
things right for Mr S as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Mr S to accept  or reject my decision before 
25 April 2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5430410