K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Trusted  Cash Limited, trading as Trusted Quid,  lent to him irresponsibly.
background
I sent both parties  my provisional  decision on 28 January 2019  a copy of it is attached and 
it forms part of this final decision. I explained why I wasnt planning to uphold this complaint 
and asked Trusted Quid and Mr W to let me know if they had anything  to add.
Neither Mr W nor Trusted Quid sent me anything else to consider.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent  been  sent anything else to consider,  I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. 
My final decision is therefore  the same  as my provisional decision, for the same  reasons.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  Trusted Cash Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN55792722COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr W says Trusted  Cash Limited, trading  as Trusted Quid, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr W had two loans with Trusted Quid, both for £250 and with terms of six months.  The first loan was 
approved on 21 July 2017 and the second on 9 October 2017.  There  was a gap of three days 
between the loans.
An adjudicator considered Mr Ws complaint  but didnt recommend it be upheld.  They  thought  Trusted 
Quid had carried out proportionate checks before lending  and those checks  showed  the loans  were 
affordable.
Mr W didnt  agree with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive taken into account the law, good industry  practice and any 
relevant regulations at the time.
Relevant regulations and guidance include  the Financial  Conduct  Authoritys (FCA) Consumer Credit 
sourcebook (CONC). CONC contained rules  and guidance for lenders about  responsible lending.  
Among other things, CONC said lenders should  carry out affordability checks which  are proportionate 
in the circumstances  of the loan. The regulations also said repayments should  be sustainable (i.e. 
repayable from the borrowers income or savings) and that lenders shouldnt  allow a borrower to enter 
into consecutive credit agreements where  it would be unsustainable to do so.
From what Ive seen, the checks Trusted Quid carried out included  asking Mr W about his income  and 
expenditure (I&E). It also says it obtained information from credit reference agencies.
For both loans, Mr Ws income was recorded as £2,500 a month. His total declared expenditure when  
he applied for the first loan was £1,160. His declared expenditure increased to £1,350 for the second 
loan. The information Mr W provided about his expenditure included  both general living costs and his 
existing credit  commitments.  On the basis of this information, Mr W had disposable income  of £1,150-
£1,340 each  month.  
I think  it was reasonable for Trusted Quid to accept what Mr W said about his income and general 
livings costs. However, Im not currently persuaded that it was reasonable  for Trusted Quid to rely on 
everything Mr W said about his credit commitments  Ill explain why.
Trusted Quid  says it carried out credit checks (although it hasnt shown  us the results of these) so 
I think  its fair to assume it wouldve seen some information about Mr Ws other financial 
commitments. In the absence of any information from Trusted Quid, Ive considered a credit report Mr 
W has provided.
From his credit  file I can see two loan commitments which existed at the time of Mr Ws applications  to 
Trusted Quid. These had repayments of about £300 and £200 a month. I cant see that these loans 
were taken into account when  Trusted Quid approved the loans.  I say this because  there do not 
appear to be any figures for loans in the credit  commitments section of Mr Ws I&E forms for either  
loan one or two.
It would of course have been reasonable for Mr W to tell Trusted Quid about these  commitments. But 
equally, it would be reasonable for Trusted Quid to take the results of the credit check it carried out 
Ref: DRN55792723into account.  So I think Trusted Quid ought reasonably to have taken into account that Mr Ws credit 
commitments were likely  higher than it has recorded on Mr Ws I&E forms.
But this alone doesnt  mean I should uphold the complaint. And from what Ive seen so far, 
I think  if Trusted Quid had taken the additional £500 of credit commitments into account, the loans 
would still have looked affordable to it. Deducting  £500 from Mr Ws declared  disposable income of 
£1,150-£1,340 still leaves £650-£840  from which Mr W would have to make repayments of no more  
than £110. So on balance, I think both loans would  still have been approved.
Ive also noted from Mr Ws credit report that he opened a number of other short-term loans in very 
close proximity to the loans with Trusted Quid. But I cant say, given the timeframes, that its likely  
Trusted Quid  would have been  aware  of them from a credit check. It would  likely be reliant on Mr W 
letting it know about these commitments and it appears he didnt  do this.
Mr W has also said that a review of his bank statements  wouldve shown that he had no disposable  
income at the time and was in a vicious circle  of debt. I can understand why he says this, but Trusted 
Quid wasnt required to look at his bank statements.  In some circumstances, it might be proportionate 
for a lender to do this. But given the size of the loans,  the amount  of the repayments and all the other 
factors, I dont think that applies here.
In summary, although Im not persuaded Trusted Quid took into account  all of the information it had 
about Mr Ws financial  circumstances,  I dont think taking this information  into account  wouldve 
changed its decision to approve  the loans.
my provisional  decision
Im not planning to uphold this complaint about Trusted Cash Limited.
Ref: DRN5579272