K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement  with 
Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers  Motor Finance, wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr T under a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers 
that he signed in December 2016. The car was more  than six years  old and had been driven 
for about 47,000 miles. The cars automatic gearbox  failed in May 2018. Mr T paid £27.60 for 
diagnostic testing and a repair of the transmission was recommended  for which he paid 
£2,117.99. But that didnt  resolve the fault and further work with an estimated cost of £2,502 
was recommended. Mr T complained to Close Brothers but wasnt  satisfied with its response 
so complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that while  the 
diagnostic report doesnt clearly state  that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of 
sale, it was his opinion  that theres enough evidence to suggest that the nature of the fault 
wouldve been developing prior to Mr Ts ownership  of the car. So he recommended that 
Close Brothers should: pay for the repairs to be completed; refund Mr Ts monthly payments 
from May 2018 due to his time without a car and the cost of the diagnostic report  and repairs  
(all with interest); and pay him £700 due to the trouble and upset caused, his impaired usage  
of the car and his travel  and additional  costs through not having a car. 
Close Brothers has asked  for this complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in 
summary, that:
if a faults develops with a car outside  the first six months of an agreement starting, 
the burden of proof to evidence that faults  were  present at the point of sale falls to 
the customer; 
if evidence is provided that the fault was present  when the car was purchased, the 
dealer would be liable;
it struggles how it can get the dealer to accept liability for something that has 
developed through the customers  ownership/ driving and something it could have 
never prevented  because  it has only just developed one year and five months  later; 
the car mustve been fully functional for the last year and half, prior to this issue 
stopping it from functioning;
the mileage shows  that Mr T has had fair use of the car; and 
the car passed  an MOT test in January 2018  when its mileage was 53,773  with only 
advisories on the tyres which  shows that there  was no fault present during  the 
ownership of the car until the failure  date.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Close Brothers, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring that the car was of 
satisfactory quality. That will depend  on a number of factors,  including the age and mileage 
of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mr T was more than 
six years  old, had been driven  for about 47,000  miles and had a price of £14,000.  
Ref: DRN58466672Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within  the car 
must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that time is will 
depend on a number of factors. 
The cars gearbox failed  in May 2018.  Mr T took the car for a diagnostic  test  for which  he 
paid £27.60. The diagnostic report said that a mechanical failure inside  the gearbox was 
suspected and a strip down by a gearbox specialist was required. The cars mileage at that 
time was 55,032.  Mr T took the car to a garage which inspected the car but it wasnt  
equipped to deal with the type of gearbox on Mr Ts car so he was referred to another 
garage. It replaced  the valve body in the automatic transmission in June 2018 and Mr T paid 
£2,117.99 for that repair. But the repair didnt resolve the fault and it estimated in July 2018 
that it would  cost £2,502 to remove, recondition and replace the automatic transmission. The 
cars mileage at that time was 56,428.  
The car hasnt  been  repaired so Mr T hasnt been able to use it since  then. Hes not been 
provided with a courtesy car so has had to rely on public  transport.  But hes continued  to 
make the monthly  payments under the agreement to Close Brothers.
The garage that repaired the car said in a written statement dated in July 2018 that:
  the retaining clip for holding the front transmission cover in place had failed, this 
failure caused the front cover to be forced out of its housing  thus resulting in total 
loss of forward and reverse  drive. It is of my professional opinion that this failure is 
unexpected and should not have occurred on a vehicle  of the age and mileage.  And 
it is also of my opinion that on inspection of the transmission there  were  no signs  that 
this failure could have  ben the result of misuse or any form of driver error or misuse.
And the garage  that inspected the car before  it was repaired said in a written  statement in 
August 2018 that:
 the fault was traced  to a failure of retaining  circlip within the transmission. This is 
a part failure  which would  not be expected for the age and mileage of the vehicle,  
and in our opinion would not be down to driver error  or misuse.
This is a finely balanced complaint. Mr T had been  able to use the car for about  17 months 
before the gearbox failed and in that time he was able to use it to drive about  8,000 miles. 
And the car passed an MOT Test in January 2018. But its clear  from the statements  from 
the two garages  that a failure of this type wouldnt be expected on a car of this age and 
mileage. And other evidence shows that the clip that failed would reasonably  be expected  to 
have lasted for the lifetime of the gearbox  as its location within the car makes  it a very 
difficult part to reach and its required for the proper operation  of the transmission.
And for those reasons,  I consider it to be more  likely  than not that the car wasnt  as durable  
as it was reasonable for Mr T to expect it to be. So I consider that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr T. And I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable in these  circumstances for Close Brothers to arrange and pay for the cars  
gearbox to be repaired.  
Mr T has already paid £2,117.99 for gearbox  repairs and £27.60 for a diagnostic report. And 
he hasnt been  able to properly use the car since the gearbox failed in May 2018 but hes 
continued to make the monthly payments to Close Brothers and hasnt been  provided with a 
courtesy car. So I find that it would also be fair and reasonable  for it to pay £2,145.59 to Mr T 
Ref: DRN58466673to reimburse him for the costs that hes incurred  and that it should  refund to him the monthly 
payments that hes made (or will make)  under  the agreement since  the gearbox failed in May 
2018 until its repaired (all with interest).
These events have caused  considerable distress and inconvenience to Mr T  and hes had 
impaired usage  of the car and has incurred additional travel costs as a result of not having  a 
car. I find that it would  also be fair and reasonable for it to pay him £700 to compensate him 
for that.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint. And I order Close  Brothers 
Limited, trading  as Close Brothers Motor Finance,  to:
1.Arrange and pay for the cars gearbox to be repaired.
2.Pay £2,145.59  to Mr T to reimburse  him for cost of the repairs and the diagnostic 
report.
3.Refund to Mr T the monthly payments that hes made (or will make)  under the 
agreement since the gearbox failed in May 2018  until its repaired.
4.Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple  from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
5.Pay £700 to Mr T to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused, the impaired usage  of his car and the additional travel costs that hes 
incurred.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Close Brothers to deduct tax from the interest  payment 
referred to at 4 above. Close Brothers  must give Mr T a certificate  showing  how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5846667