K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with how Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) handled his home 
emergency insurance claim. He said it didnt fully repair  the problem with his drain,  and he 
thinks its unfair that it has closed the claim.
background
In early December 2018, Mr B contacted  Great Lakes to report  a blocked toilet and sink. 
Great Lakes arranged for a contractor to attend Mr Bs property the following day. 
The contractor unblocked the drain  but recommended that a CCTV survey of the drain  be 
carried out as there  was possibly a break in the line and a massive amount of sand when 
jetting.
Nine days later, Mr B reported  that the problem had recurred. Another contractor attended 
the property and cleared the blockage. Notes  show the contractor  also recommended  a 
CCTV survey  be carried  out as there are multiple defects in the pipework. 
Great Lakes said to Mr B it wouldnt continue with the claim as a CCTV survey  isnt covered 
under the policy.  
Mr B complained to Great Lakes.  He said the first engineer didnt adequately fix the blocked 
drain as the problem happened again  a short time after the visit. He said the policy doesnt 
exclude having a CCTV survey  carried  out and so Great  Lakes should pay for this. He added 
that the drain still needs repairing or replacing and feels this is covered under the policy.  
Great Lakes said the contractors had restored full flow of the drain on each visit, and so it 
had satisfied its obligations under the policy to provide  assistance  in an emergency situation. 
It said a full camera survey isnt covered as Great Lakes provide emergency  cover,  and this 
doesnt extend to investigative works. It also highlighted that cover isnt provided  where  a 
customer has been advised to take preventative  or maintenance works  but hasnt  it said 
Mr B hadnt  had a full CCTV  survey carried out even  though this was recommended.
Mr B disagreed and so brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at the 
complaint and thought Great Lakes had acted fairly. She said Great Lakes had met its 
obligation to provide assistance in an emergency  situation by unblocking Mr Bs drain, and 
so it didnt need to do anything else. She explained that home  emergency  cover isnt 
designed to provide cover for general maintenance or preventative works but instead to 
provide an emergency response to a sudden, specific and unforeseen emergency situation 
in the home.  
Our investigator also said that Mr B had signed the first contractors report  and by doing  so 
had confirmed he was satisfied with the work  carried out and agreed to the recommendation 
of a full CCTV survey.
Mr B disagreed and so his complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ref: DRN57911602Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Based on the information Ive seen, Im not upholding this complaint, and Ill explain why. But 
before I do, I need to explain that Ill only be considering events up until the date of the final 
response letter. If Mr B is unhappy  with events after this, hell need to make a separate  
complaint to Great Lakes.
Mr B complains the first contractor didnt adequately fix the blocked drain as it recurred 
shortly after the visit. Ive looked at the terms and conditions  of the policy  to see what the 
contractors obligations  were and whether these were met. 
The policy terms say:
We will assist you in the event of an incident  to your internal plumbing  or external 
drainage system. Cover includes [] clearing blockages
Its important to keep  in mind that this assistance is in the context of an emergency 
situation which is defined  in the policy as a sudden and unexpected event. The blocked 
drain being the event in Mr Bs situation.
The contractors report from the first visit and system notes  from the second visit, show that 
full flow  of the drain was restored  both times.  So I dont agree with Mr B that the first 
contractor hadnt  adequately fixed the problem, as the blockage had been cleared and the 
emergency situation resolved.
Mr B is unhappy that Great Lakes wont  continue  with the claim and complains it hasnt 
repaired or replaced the drain. As well as setting out whats  covered, the policy  document 
sets out whats excluded. Amongst other things it says that cover isnt provided  for: 
general maintenance; incidents  where a customer has been  advised to take 
preventative or maintenance work and this has not been carried  out;. additional 
repair work, for example a blocked  drain  will be left running clear  but if the drain 
needs to be realigned to avoid the problem recurring  this will not be covered  
Both contractors recommended a full camera survey be carried  out in order to identify the 
cause of the blockage and prevent it recurring. Im satisfied this falls under additional  repair 
work. And as the policy makes it clear this isnt covered, I think Great Lakes acted fairly by 
not covering the cost of a full camera survey or replacing or repairing  the drain, as this is 
outside the scope of the policy.
For the reasons  set out above Im satisfied that Great Lakes has acted  fairly  and so I wont  
be asking it to do anything. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Ref: DRN57911603Nicola Beakhust
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5791160