K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc acted unfairly and unreasonably when 
providing the mortgage illustration for their mortgage. They  want compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs R had a mortgage  with HSBC which was in two parts. They  were offered  the 
opportunity to apply  for a new product and interest  rate for each part, and were told over the 
phone that the amount theyd pay for both parts of the mortgage would be £1,469.  But the 
offer letters didnt clearly  state this sum  each one referred  to a different figure. HSBC 
accepted it hadnt set out in one document the correct monthly mortgage illustration for both 
parts when Mr R pointed it out. Mr R said HSBC  wasnt able to give an accurate mortgage 
illustration, and he was concerned about  the legal status of the mortgage, especially  as 
HSBC sent Mrs Rs copy of the offer to Mr R and vice versa.
Mr R complained to HSBC. It said due to changes in the law, it had changed its standard  
mortgage illustrations  and it issued two to Mr and Mrs R, one for each part of his mortgage 
(and treating the other part as being  on the standard variable rate, which  wouldnt be the 
final position). It said that it wasnt allowed under the rules  to illustrate more than one 
regulated mortgage  contract in one illustration. HSBC said that the total due each month  
would be £1469.56, and noted  this was the total of the two monthly illustrations for the fixed 
interest rate for each  part given  to Mr and Mrs R. It accepted that the position  might be 
confusing for consumers and paid £100  compensation  for any trouble or upset caused.
Mr and Mrs R complained  to us. The investigators  view was that HSBC had acted correctly 
when issuing the mortgage offer as it complied with the relevant mortgage rules. He 
accepted that the mortgage  illustrations  were confusing, but said £100  compensation was 
fair and reasonable. Mr R disagreed and said the mortgage illustrations didnt  meet the 
purposes for which they were designed. He pointed out that consumers werent told to 
ignore greyed out information (information in grey boxes). Mr R also said his complaint 
about HSBC sending information  for Mr R to Mrs R and vice versa  should be dealt with. The 
investigator said this hadnt  formed part of Mr and Mrs Rs complaint to HSBC,  but he had 
considered it when looking at compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I cant look at Mr and Mrs Rs complaint 
about the alleged sending  of information  for Mr R to Mrs R and vice versa as they didnt 
bring this complaint to the business  first. But I would point out as Mr and Mrs R are joint 
parties to the mortgage and live together, it would be difficult to see any loss has occurred. 
And data protection issues are a matter for the Information Commissioners Office.  
HSBC is required to comply with the law, including the mortgage rules from the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  In particular, the Mortgage  Conduct of Business rules must  be followed, 
and rule MCOB 5A.5.6 says: 
A firm should not illustrate  more  than one MCD regulated mortgage contract in the same 
ESIS, for example  by using one ESIS to compare  alternative products, repayment methods 
or repayment terms.
Ref: DRN57527492Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage is in two parts, or rather consists of two regulated  mortgage  
contracts. I entirely appreciate their frustration that HSBC  didnt  simply set out in one 
mortgage illustration  the total monthly  payment once the new products were in place for 
each part of the mortgage. In order to find out the correct monthly illustration, Mr and Mrs R 
had to add together part of one illustration  to another part of the second illustration. Even 
HSBC accepts that this isnt helpful and can cause confusion. But legally HSBC  had no 
choice but to set out the information the way that it has (the format is set by the regulator), 
so I cant say its at fault.
I think HSBC couldve  sent a covering letter explaining the situation better to Mr and Mrs R, 
or in some other way explained which parts of the illustration were relevant and which could 
be ignored. HSBC agrees  it should  made matters clearer. I think  this is unfair and 
unreasonable. Money never truly compensates for trouble and upset, but I think £100 is fair 
and reasonable.  Mr and Mrs R were given  information  which  was confusing, which HSBC 
was required to give in that way, but were told in a timely way the reason for it and how to 
establish the position when they questioned HSBC.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to accept or reject my decision 
before 16 October  2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5752749