K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about how Santander UK plc dealt with an international  transfer of 
money into their account and the exchange rate it used.
background
Mr W says he sold stock in the United States of America and instructed the seller  to send the 
money to his Santander account. He says the money came through quicker than he 
anticipated but was for less that he expected.  Mr W says he didnt receive any notice  from 
Santander that the money had arrived in his account  and wasnt  told what the exchange  rate 
Santander intended to use before the currency  exchange took place. He says if he had 
known what the rate was, then he would have considered alternatives.  Mr W estimates  his 
loss to be about £490 to £758 and says Santander  should pay him compensation for the 
mid-range of abut £624.
Santander doesnt accept making  a mistake and says it has acted in line with the account 
terms and conditions. It says those terms and conditions state that it uses its own exchange 
rate and that Mr W should have contacted it before  the exchange was carried  out to check  
that rate if he had concerns about it. Santander says it sent Mr W a letter confirming details 
of the transaction after it took place.
Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold it. The 
investigator thought  Santander had acted in line with the account  terms and conditions and 
had sent them a letter confirming details of the transfer. The investigator  also thought that 
each bank would set its own exchange  rates and so Santander hadnt made a mistake.
Mr W says in response that other banks tell their customers in advance  what  their exchange 
rate will be and seek customers approval before continuing.
The investigator thought that the sending bank  could have given that information to Mr W 
and that he couldnt comment on other banks processes.
Mr and Mrs W have  asked that this complaint be considered by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed  by my decision.
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Ws account terms and conditions, which I think they would have 
agreed to when the account was opened.  And Im satisfied Santander explain in those terms 
and conditions how it treats international payments into an account.  And that Santander will 
apply its own exchange rate, which  is available  to view in branch or online. So I dont think 
Santander made a mistake or acted  unfairly by using its own exchange rate when Mr W 
instructed the seller  of his stock to send the proceeds to Santander. Im also satisfied that in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions Santander didnt make a mistake  by not calling Mr 
W first to tell him the exchange rate to be used  and seeking his approval.
I appreciate Mr W says other businesses do provide such  a service and also record  calls. 
But I can only look at Santanders actions and for the reasons Ive explained I dont find it 
Ref: DRN51412712made a mistake.  I also make clear to Mr W that we are not the regulator  of banks or building  
societies and so I cant order Santander to change  its processes.
Im satisfied that Mr W instructed  the seller of his stock to send the money to Santander. So I 
agree with the investigator that Mr W could have  raised any questions  with the sending bank 
and could have  contacted  Santander if he had any concerns about the exchange rate to be 
used or the process before making  the decision to proceed.
I have looked  at Santanders  records and Im satisfied it sent Mr W a letter  confirming the 
transaction details.  I appreciate Mr W may not have received that letter  but I cant  fairly hold 
Santander responsible for that.
Overall Im satisfied Santander hasnt  made  a mistake or acted unfairly and so in those  
circumstances I cant fairly order it to compensate Mr and Mrs W as they would like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5141271