K822xcomplaint
Mrs O complains that a car she has been financing though an agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS) has not been of acceptable  quality 
and their offer to resolve the situation is inadequate.
background 
Mrs O has been represented at times by her husband but for ease I will refer to Mrs O 
throughout this decision.
Mrs O took receipt of a new car in October  2018. She financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with VWFS. 
But Mrs O experienced  problems with the car. There was an oil leak from the engine  and a 
further leak from the sump that were identified in the first few months. These  were  repaired 
but in February  the car developed a judder and Mrs O asked VWFS to allow  her to reject the 
car. 
They initially  refused and Mrs O referred  her complaint to this service. VWFS eventually 
offered to allow Mrs O to reject the car and terminate the agreement with them. They said 
they would  pay her £950 to compensate her for the issues shed experienced. Mrs O 
accepted their offer but reserved her right to continue  to process her complaint with this 
service as she thought  the redress should  be more. 
Our adjudicator noted Mrs O had made six payments towards the agreement and had used 
the car trouble free for the first month. He understood that shed then not had much  use of 
the car but he noted a courtesy vehicle had always been supplied. He understood this 
vehicle wasnt of the same quality as the one Mrs O was hiring  so he thought it would be fair 
for VWFS to compensate her for that and he also thought they should  compensate  her for 
the distress and inconvenience  shed  experienced. However, when he took all this into 
account he thought VWFSs offer had been reasonable and he didnt think  it would be fair to 
ask them  to take any further  action.
Mrs O was disappointed  with the adjudicators suggestion. She explained that she had been  
very stressed by the issue and that shed missed work as a result. She said she had to make 
a lot of calls to VWFS  to get this resolved and her husband explained this had adversely 
affected his employment too. Mrs O accepted  that courtesy cars had been  provided but she 
said these were always dirty and scratched and one had its engine management light on. 
She therefore asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mrs O so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN58858762Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs O acquired  her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
I can see that VWFS have now taken responsibility for the problems and have attempted to 
compensate Mrs O for the issues shes experienced. For the avoidance of doubt I would 
explain that I agree with their decision to reject the car. I think the faults reported were  most 
probably present  at the point the vehicle was supplied to Mrs O as they happened so soon 
after delivery. In those circumstances the relevant legislation allows  VWFS one opportunity  
to repair  the car. Im persuaded that opportunity was in January 2018 when the oil leaks  
presented themselves. When the car failed again  the relevant legislation didnt  allow VWFS 
to attempt a further repair and the correct action was to allow  the car to be rejected and to 
terminate the finance  agreement.
In those circumstances we would usually expect  a business to consider the lack of use and 
the distress and inconvenience  the issues had caused.
Mrs O explained that she had driven  1,000  miles in the car when it failed. She paid for the 
car but didnt  have  use of it for the following five months. But a courtesy  car was provided 
during that period. So when I look at loss of use I wouldnt refund  all of Mrs Os monthly  
payments; Id refund a portion of them as she was kept mobile and had some, limited, use of 
the car.
I think its clear  Mrs O was also inconvenienced by this issue  and shes  explained that she 
was distressed by matters. I can understand that it took many calls to get to a resolution  and 
Ive read that she had frequent  conversations with the garage. So Id expect VWFS  to 
consider this when  providing redress.
But having  considered all of the issues in the complaint  I am not persuaded that this service  
would have offered  any more  than VWFS did. They refunded half of the payments that had 
been made and I think, in the circumstances, their offer has been a reasonable one. Im not 
asking them to take any further action  although  Mrs Os initial complaint has been upheld.
I note that Mrs O asked for her deposit back.  Ive not seen how VWFS responded to that but 
its usual in these  circumstances to refund the deposit and to add simple interest to 
compensate the consumer for being  deprived of the deposit whilst funding  an unsatisfactory  
car. So Im asking VWFS to do that, unless  they already have.
Ref: DRN58858763my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited, if they havent already done so to:
terminate the finance  agreement and collect the car;
pay Mrs O £950  to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused and 
the loss of use shes had from the vehicle she financed;
refund  Mrs Os deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5885876