K820x#14Complaint
Mrs B has complained that Lloyds Bank  General  Insurance Limited  (Lloyds)  refused to fully
settle the contents claim made against  her property insurance following a fire at her home
address.
Background
Mrs B had a building and contents  policy for her home address with Lloyds.
Mrs Bs suffered a fire at her home  address, which caused extensive damage to the building  
as well as the contents. Mrs B made  a claim against her insurance  policy.
Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster to handle Mrs Bs claim.
The claim initially progressed with the attendance of contractors four days after the fire. They 
assessed the damage which included  taking photos  of the damaged areas.
A forensic  investigator was also contracted by Lloyds, who attended the address nine days  
after the fire. The investigator produced  a report into the possible causes of the fire and this 
report included photos of the address.
There remains a claim for contents that Lloyds wont settle. Their loss adjuster  informed  Mrs 
B in July 2017  that they thought shed  exaggerated her contents claim. They explained that 
they were relying  on the fraud condition in the terms of her insurance policy and wouldnt 
settle the claim. The reasons they gave were that the claim was being made to replace 
carpets on the stairs and bedrooms  and radiator covers that they didnt believe were in the 
property when the fire happened. They  were  relying on photographic evidence  after the fire, 
corroboration from the fire fighters that attended, and an absence  of proof of the existence of 
carpets from Mrs B.
Lloyds told Mrs B that no further payments  would  be made  on her claim. Because  they 
thought it was fraudulent, they said they could take legal action to recover  payments theyd 
already made.
Mrs B didnt think this was fair, maintaining  that the statement she provided was accurate 
and there  were carpets  in those rooms.  She provided Lloyds with some  photos of the stairs 
and landing  with carpets in place  to support her claim. She couldnt  explain why the carpets  
werent in the photos that Lloyds had, but suggested they had been removed or stolen 
between the fire and the photos being  taken.
She brought  her complaint to us, as she felt that the claim should be settled in full.
My provisional findings
In my provisional findings I said:
In cases where fraud has been alleged, our role is not to make  a finding of fraud,  but to 
decide whether  the business  acted  fairly  and reasonably in the decisions they reached.  We 
understand that accusing someone of fraud  is a serious matter.  Its important that a business 
has enough weight  of evidence to make  their decision fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN58939272Mrs B has told us that Lloyds were  incorrect and that she did have carpets in the areas she 
claimed. The explanation Mrs B provided  to us is the same as the statement she gave to 
Lloyds loss adjuster.  She has been consistent from the outset about having carpets on the 
stairs and in the bedrooms and that she had radiator covers.
The photos  that Mrs B provided of the house stairs werent dated so its not clear  how long 
before the fire they were taken. The photo of the stairs shows a similar stair lift to the one in 
her property after the fire, and the layout  looks the same as Mrs Bs property. One of the 
photos shows a bedroom that has a radiator cover. Mrs Bs representative told our 
investigator that the carpets concerned were beige  caramel in colour.  Whilst it can be 
difficult to tell colours accurately in photos,  the pictures that Mrs B sent to Lloyds have 
carpets that appear  very dark grey.
Lloyds outlined the reasons for their decision to Mrs B and have shown us the evidence they 
were relying  on. I will address that as follows:
Photographic evidence. 
Their initial  contractor was appointed  and attended prior to the forensic investigator.  They 
were there to assess the damage, but they also took photos. I consider that the contractor  
attendance occurred as soon as was reasonable and Im inclined to agree that significant 
weight can be attached to that evidence. The photos indicate that there werent  carpets in 
some of the places claimed for.
I think that the photos obtained by the forensic investigator were also within  a reasonable 
timeframe. They look like photos of a fire scene with smoke  and fire damage. The pictures  of 
the lounge show  the items  of furniture still in place and the laminate flooring still on the floor. 
The stairs and bedroom  areas show that there are no carpets and show a radiator with no 
cover on it. They show furniture and items  on the wooden  floorboards. The pictures dont 
create the impression that any efforts had been  made to tidy or dispose of items at that 
point. I think its also fair to attach significant  weight to those photos.
Report from contractor
Lloyds have a report from the contractor that explains that work didnt commence on clearing 
and decontaminating until the first week of August 2014. This is after the photos were  taken. 
The list of lounge items recorded as beyond economic repair  includes many  items that can 
be seen in the forensic investigator photos.  The contractor report  shows that a skip was 
hired in order to clear  damaged items in that first week of August. I think it likely  that no 
items were removed by contractors before the photos were taken.
Testimony from Mrs B.
Lloyds have lists of contents that Mrs B claimed  for. The lists state there were carpets on the 
stairs and upstairs  bedrooms and that there  were  radiator  covers in all the rooms.  A 
statement was also taken  from Mrs B. In it she explained that the list of contents was 
accurate. Therefore Mrs B clearly made the claim for the items that were questioned. The 
statement provided to Lloyds said the carpets  had been in place for about six months. We 
were told that the beige carpets  on the stairs had been in place just before the fire. Mrs B 
mentioned in her statement that squatters may have  been at the house from the first or 
second day after the fire. In relation to the carpet,  her statement suggests that they may 
have been cleared by the contractors putting  things in the skip.
Ref: DRN58939273Corroboration from the fire service
In August  2016  Lloyds obtained  corroboration from firefighters that attended  the fire at 
Mrs Bs address. They declined to provide  statements  but were sent the photographs 
obtained from the forensic investigator. They stated that the photographs showed the 
property as it was after the fire. They describe the first floor bedrooms as having  a great deal 
of hoarding. The email  stated that there was no carpet on the stairs and that the ground floor 
living room  was as it was after the fire.
The account  from the fire and rescue  service  was brief, and there was a delay in obtaining it. 
Witness evidence obtained so long after the event may carry less weight,  but for the 
purposes of this investigation I believe  it was reasonable of Lloyds to have taken it into 
consideration. This is not the key evidence that they relied on, but I believe that it was 
reasonable to have  asked  the fire crews if the condition of the premises  had changed 
between their attendance and the photos being taken. Had this been obtained sooner it may 
carry more weight, but I consider the fire crews as independent witnesses. As corroboration  
of the photos I consider it supports the case that Lloyds put forward.
Having reviewed the evidence provided I think that it was reasonable that Lloyds loss 
adjuster looked  into Mrs Bs claim more closely. The discrepancy in the claim was raised  to 
Mrs B in writing by Lloyds  in April 2015.  Lloyds explained the issue  and requested proof of 
purchase from Mrs B to support her claim. I think their letter  made it clear that Lloyds wanted 
dated photos, and purchase  receipts  for the carpets. Mrs B did not provide this information.
I considered whether it was reasonable that Mrs B was asked to provide dated  photographs 
and receipts of purchase. Given the evidence that Lloyds had that indicated  the carpets 
werent there, I think it was reasonable to require something persuasive to support Mrs Bs 
claim. Dated  photos would have helped. The photos  provided  werent  dated  though.  Finding 
receipts of purchase  and fitting can be difficult,  especially following a fire. But in these 
circumstances, and with Mrs B saying the carpets  had only recently  been  fitted,  I think  the 
request was reasonable.
I have considered Mrs Bs account  and whether its reasonable to suppose that squatters or 
some other person removed the carpets  prior to the photos being taken. Im not persuaded 
by this argument though.  I think the dates  of the photos and the contractor report mean they 
didnt remove any carpets before the forensic investigation. I have no other evidence that 
supports Mrs Bs account that squatters occupied the house in the few days  prior to 
contractors attending.  Whilst  people may have entered  the house,  I think it unlikely they 
could or would have removed  the carpets. The conditions of the house  in the photos make it 
seem unlikely. There was clothing  and other items on the floor of the stairs and bedrooms. 
Removing the carpets would require this to have  been placed back there  afterwards. The 
account from the attending fire fighters  becomes useful  at this point. Despite being obtained 
two years after they attended, they confirm that the carpets werent there.
For the above reasons I think that Lloyds  decision  that the claim for replacement carpets 
was fraudulent was a fair and reasonable interpretation of the evidence. I think  that Lloyds 
have fairly  applied the fraud term of the insurance  policy in this case.
In the General Conditions part of the insurance  policy schedule, the first condition is about  
fraud. That condition  says that where  a claim is false or fraudulent in any respect Lloyds 
can cancel the policy. It explains  that Lloyds also have the right to keep the premium and 
recover any payments already made.  I think that the wording of this term is clear  and that its 
Ref: DRN58939274been correctly  and fairly applied in this case.  For this reason I think that Lloyds decision to 
cancel Mrs Bs policy and decline her claim was fair and reasonable.
The response  to my provisional  findings
Mrs Bs representative has responded to my provisional  decision  by sending us a receipt for 
the supply and fitting of carpets  at Mrs Bs address. This was offered as proof  of purchase of 
the carpets that were disputed.
Lloyds had no comments to add to my provisional  finding. Lloyds were shown the receipt  for 
the carpets that Mrs B had provided to us. They considered the additional evidence  and said 
that it did not influence their original decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the impact of the additional evidence that Mrs B provided our service  
following my provisional decision not to uphold  her complaint. This receipt was handwritten 
on a piece of paper from a carpet  company. The receipt reads  carpet supply and fit living  
room, landing and stairs  £590.00. Mrs B explained that the receipt  wasnt provided to Lloyds 
before because she was under a lot of distress due to the fire. I have considered this and the 
fact that Mrs B did have  other serious  family  matters affecting  her. Mrs Bs representative 
was able to find and send photos that she said showed the carpets, so I think they could 
have produced this receipt then, if they can do so now. Producing it at this stage has denied 
Lloyds the opportunity to investigate or consider  it which doesnt seem fair.
Ive looked again at the contents  claim  that Mrs B made  following  the fire. The claim is for 
laminate flooring in the lounge and carpets  on the hall, stairs, landings  and bedrooms. This 
doesnt match the receipt and Mrs Bs representative now says there  was carpet  over the 
laminate in the lounge. I cant see that this was said at any other point in the claim or 
complaint process  though. I think that this is something that casts doubt  on the value of the 
receipt as evidence.
The receipt was dated a month before the fire occurred. The statement that Mrs B gave 
Lloyds said that there were carpets  on the stairs that had been down for about six months . 
I think that this is a detail  that is quite significant.  The receipt implies the carpets had been 
down for weeks, not months. I think it was fair to expect Mrs B to get this kind of detail right 
so soon after the fire, so further undermines  the receipt as evidence.
Lloyds say its more  likely  than not, that the carpets  claimed for, werent there before the fire 
happened. Even taking the receipt  into account,  I think that the balance  of all the evidence 
still supports that view.  So I still think that Lloyds have acted fairly in the way they dealt with 
Mrs Bs claim.
I can see that Mrs B has undoubtedly  suffered a great  deal of loss as a result of the fire. Her 
home was damaged, and she and her family have lost a lot of their possessions.  I know that 
Mrs B and her family will be disappointed with this decision. But for the reasons I have given 
my decision  remains the same and I cant uphold her complaint.
Ref: DRN58939275My final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Gary Lane
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5893927