K820x#14complaint
Miss M and Mr L complain that Leeds  Building  Society didnt tell them  when their fixed  rate 
mortgage product  was coming to an end which meant that their interest rate increased. Miss 
M and Mr L would  like compensated  for the extra interest that they paid.
background
Miss M and Mr L have a buy to let mortgage  with Leeds which  they got through  a mortgage 
broker in April 2016. The broker  recommended a fixed rate mortgage  product which  lasted 
until 31 July 2018  at which point the mortgage  went onto a higher rate at a 1% discount on 
the standard variable rate (SVR). Leeds  says that it wrote in June 2018 to Miss M and Mr L 
telling them of the impending change in the interest  rate. Miss M and Mr L say that they 
werent aware of it until they got the 2018 mortgage statement in February 2019. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld  as he didnt feel that 
Leeds had done anything  wrong. Miss M and Mr L disagreed saying in summary that Leeds 
has sent them multiple letters about  other matters but not an important matter  such  as this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Leeds issued  a mortgage offer to Miss M and Mr L in 2016 which  set out the terms of the 
mortgage product  which they accepted. This meant that two years  later the interest  rate 
would increase. This is what  happened. Miss M and Mr L didnt realise  that this was 
happening and feel that Leeds  should have done more  to remind them. 
The problem is that Miss M and Mr L should have had enough information already to know  
that this was going to happen. They would have  had the mortgage offer which  sets out the 
terms of the mortgage.  Miss M and Mr L would have  had the annual  mortgage statements 
telling them when  the current mortgage product would come to an end. They  indeed  would 
have been paying more  for their mortgage  after July 2018 than they were  doing before and 
that should have alerted them to the increase in the mortgage rate long before February  
2019.
Leeds appears to have  sent a reminder  about the ending of the mortgage product in June 
2018 which Miss M and Mr L didnt  get. That was unfortunate as Miss M and Mr L seem to 
have got a number of communications  from Leeds that werent  very relevant. I have to look 
at what service Leeds was providing and what Miss M and Mr L could reasonably expect 
from the lender.
Leeds provided the mortgage product and the information as to when the interest rate 
changed. It didnt  offer to continue to monitor the interest rate in the future. Miss M and Mr L 
were operating a buy to let and one of the costs of the buy to let is the interest they pay. The 
primary responsibility for monitoring the interest rate rests  with them. I would  have expected 
them to acquaint themselves with the details of when that interest rate changed  and to act 
accordingly. I dont believe that it was Leeds  fault if that opportunity was missed. I appreciate 
that Miss M and Mr L didnt get the reminder  letter but that was only intended to assist  them  
Ref: DRN55303932and I cant fairly find Leeds  at fault by trying  to do so. It doesnt  seem to me that Leeds has 
done anything  wrong. On that basis I dont hold Leeds at fault and I cant fairly  uphold this 
complaint.    
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M and Mr L 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5530393