K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) declined her claim for legal 
expenses insurance.  She also feels she was led to believe she was covered when speaking 
to their legal  helpline. 
Where I refer to IPA, this includes their agents  and claims  handlers. 
background
Miss T took out insurance for certain legal expenses which  was provided  by IPA. This was 
an add-on to an Unoccupied Property Insurance policy. 
Around this time Miss T was in dispute  with a storage company. After  failing to resolve the 
dispute to her satisfaction with the company directly   Miss T wanted to take legal action. 
So, she contacted  IPA, initially to take advice and then to pursue a claim. Miss T spoke to an 
agent of IPA on the legal helpline which was a benefit of her policy.  She says she was led to 
believe that she would be covered. So, she was disappointed  when  IPA told her there  was 
no cover  available  for her under the policy she had.
Miss T complained, but IPA maintained their stance, so the matter  was referred to our 
service. One of our investigators agreed with IPA that the policy didnt cover the claim Miss T 
wished to make. But she did think the call handler led Miss T to believe that contract 
disputes were included in her cover.  She thought this raised Miss Ts expectations and 
recommended that £50 compensation be paid. 
Neither Miss T nor IPA accepted this outcome so the complaint came  to me for a decision. 
Im aware Miss T has raised a separate complaint  against the business  which  sold the policy 
that is also with our service. This decision is limited to considering the acts or omissions of 
IPA and their agents. And as they didnt sell the policy or provide the policy  schedule,  it 
would be inappropriate  for me to comment on those points here.
In February 2020  I issued  a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold it. Let me explain  why.
Ill deal with the two main  points of Miss Ts complaint separately.
Is the claim covered?
No insurance policy  will cover every  possible eventuality. There  are always  terms and 
conditions to the cover. The policy documents are what  set out the cover  available, so Ive 
looked carefully at these.
There is an issue which relates to the separate complaint  about  the sale of the policy and the 
provision of different  versions of the policy schedule around two different headings  of cover.  
Ref: DRN53402322These were  Property Infringement and Consumer Infringement. But irrespective of what 
the heading was, the cover under those terms was identical  and was defined as: Advisers  
Costs to pursue  Legal Action  for a nuisance  or trespass against the person or organisation 
infringing Your legal rights in relation to the Insured Property
I dont think this can fairly be considered to assist Miss T for cover in her intended legal 
action against  the storage company in relation to her damaged items. 
The next section  of cover relates to Property  Damage, but again  this relates to damage to 
the Insured Property. Insured Property  is defined  in the policy  as The property insured 
under the underlying policy to which this insurance  attaches. Ive looked at the policy 
documents for the underlying Unoccupied Property  insurance. Even  if I were  to very broadly 
interpret property to mean possessions, rather than the building  (which I dont). Then the 
cover available for contents is still restricted to Loss of or damage to Contents whilst 
contained within the home. So overall, I dont  think the legal cover can fairly be said to cover  
Miss Ts possessions outside  the home, within  a storage facility. 
The final part of cover available relates  to identity  fraud, which is clearly not applicable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. So looking at things as a whole, I dont think  IPA are being  
unfair when  saying that the policy doesnt cover  Miss Ts claim.
was the phone call misleading?
IPA have a duty to treat their customers fairly.  So although I accept  the claim isnt covered, 
they should still deal appropriately  and fairly  with Miss T. And having  very carefully listened 
to the call, overall I think they have. 
I think the best way to illustrate this is an excerpt of what was actually said.  Within the call 
IPAs representative  says:
you would have  cover  for a breach of contract situation. What  we would need to do firstly 
though is look at sending out a claim application to you if you do decide to go down that 
route, because we just need [IPA] who are your managing agents to confirm that cover. 
They make all of the final decisions  so they look at your policy to see if there is any reason 
why you wouldnt be covered. If everything  seems to be ok theyll then appoint a solicitor  for 
you.
So whilst it was said that contract disputes  would  be covered  I think  it was still made clear 
that further assessment of the claim was required before this could be confirmed. I think  
Miss T herself  understood this at the time, as towards the end of the call she said:
If [IPA] say yes Ive got cover and the claim gets sent on to a solicitor, is that free of charge 
or do I pay a certain amount?
Overall, Im not persuaded that IPA unfairly  raised  Miss Ts expectations or confirmed that 
cover would be in place. And whilst  the call handler was incorrect  to say that contract 
disputes were covered   even if they were  it was always going  to be subject to further  
terms and an assessment by IPAs  claims handlers.  So, Im not persuaded the impact  of this 
is sufficient to tell IPA that compensation needs to be paid.
IPA didnt provide  any comments  in response to my provisional decision.  Miss T responded 
with some additional comments. She also said that there had been  several  calls with the 
Ref: DRN53402323legal helpline  where theyd confirmed she was covered, not just the one referred  to in my 
provisional decision. So I asked IPA to provide  all the calls between their legal  helpline  and 
Miss T. Having listened to them, I wasnt persuaded to change from the outcome Ive 
outlined above.  I felt that all the calls all made clear that further  assessment  was required 
before cover  would  be confirmed. My thoughts and these additional calls were shared with 
Miss T. Now both parties  have had the opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final 
decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded to 
deviate from the outcome I set out in my provisional  decision. Ill explain why.
IPAs agents who staff the legal helpline are there to provide general legal advice (which was 
a benefit under the policy). They have  no responsibility for making decisions about a claim. It 
was always made clear that any decision in relation to a claim would be made by another 
company A who manage claims on behalf of IPA. Ive considered  Miss Ts submissions 
which include the parts of the calls where she feels she was led to believe she was covered. 
But overall Im still of the opinion that IPA didnt unfairly lead Miss T to believe her claim 
would be accepted. 
Miss T also said that she understands my reasoning  for saying her claim wasnt covered 
based on the information quoted within my provisional decision. But she says as she wasnt  
provided with the policy  documents,  my conclusions are based on invalid information. Im 
satisfied that the terms Ive quoted  from are those of Miss Ts policy.  So whether or not 
Miss T had full knowledge of those terms, doesnt impact  on whether or not they are 
applicable. And her point  about being provided  with the correct documentation is addressed 
in the separate complaint  about the broker who sold the policy. 
Miss T also said that the policy definition of property referred to above  was unreasonably 
narrow. For clarity, I dont think IPAs terms were inherently unfair or unclear. Overall, for the 
reasons outlined above I dont think Miss T has been treated unfairly  by IPA, so Im not 
upholding this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5340232