K820x#14complaint
Mr M has a motor  insurance policy with The National  Farmers Union Mutual Insurance  
Society (NFU).  He complains that after he was involved in an accident in 2015 NFU settled 
the claim in a way it shouldnt have done.
  
background
Mr M said the other driver  was wholly at fault.  He told NFU he had photos to support his 
version of events. He said a witness would confirm that only the driver and one female 
passenger were in the other  car. So a second females personal injury claim was false.  NFU 
said Mr M didnt  provide that evidence to it, despite  requests. The other driver said Mr M 
caused the accident. NFU didnt have any independent evidence to show the other driver 
was wholly  at fault, so it settled the claim on the basis  of split liability.  NFU said it didnt pay a 
personal injury claim made  by a second  female.
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ms complaint. He thought the evidence showed that 
NFU had carried out a reasonable  investigation of the incident. He noted that Mr M hadnt  
provided any evidence  to it, despite its requests. He said NFU had shown that no payment 
was made  to a second female. In response  to the investigators view, Mr M insisted that that 
NFU had paid a fraudulent claim.  He said it had lied to him and hadnt  sent him letters  it 
claimed to have sent in 2016  asking  him to send  in his evidence.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NFUs claims  file shows that in August 2015 Mr M agreed to send in photos  hed taken  at the 
scene, plus the details of a witness. In September 2015, NFU got a report from a claims 
inspector. The inspector  had taken photos  of the accident location and interviewed Mr M. His 
view was that if Mr Ms version of events  was correct, the other driver would have been at 
fault. But he noted that as Mr Ms phone wasnt working, his photos of the accident werent 
available. Mr M told the inspector hed get his witnesss details and pass  them on.
The claims file shows that NFU chased Mr M for his evidence  in October 2015. In 
January 2016  it did so again. A month  later, NFU chased Mr M again,  but he said his phone 
was still broken. NFUs notes show a record of a long telephone conversation with Mr M in 
July 2016, when one of its advisors  rang him to chase  up his evidence. Mr M said he 
wouldnt provide  it until court  proceedings were started. NFUs notes show that the advisor 
told Mr M if he didnt  provide the evidence, NFU would have to deal with the claims on the 
best possible terms. NFU has provided  a copy of a letter  it says it sent to Mr M after that call, 
plus a letter it says it sent in October  2016 asking for a reply  from him within  seven days. 
Under the policy, NFU has the right to settle  any claim as it sees  fit. We only interfere with an 
insurers right to decide how to deal with a claim if we think it hasnt acted reasonably.  I think 
theres enough evidence to show that NFU tried to persuade Mr M to pass  his evidence  to it.   
Even if Mr M didnt get NFUs two letters, the file notes show  that NFU made  him aware of 
what it needed, and why. Without  Mr Ms photos and his witnesss  statement, the facts 
Ref: DRN53632022around the collision remained  uncertain. NFU only had Mr Ms account of events and the 
conflicting account of the other  driver.   
The claims file shows that NFU initially resisted the claims made by the other  parties. The 
other drivers  solicitor  threatened legal action in April 2016.  NFU responded to say it had 
doubts about all the claims.  It said it had particular concerns about the personal injury  claim  
made by a second female. That claim wasnt settled.
I think it was fair for NFU to decide  that it wouldnt be able to defend Mr M successfully in 
court in terms of his liability. It didnt think it could show the other  driver  was wholly  at fault. 
The claims file shows that in 2017 NFU settled two of the personal injury  claims  after it got 
medical evidence  in support of them. I think that was reasonable. Mr M didnt find out about 
the settlement  until 2018. But NFU had made him aware much  earlier  that it would have no 
option but to settle as best it could unless it got further evidence  from him. So I dont  think it 
should have been a shock to discover  the outcome.   
One of Mr Ms concerns is that NFU made  inaccurate statements to him. I havent seen any 
evidence of that. Mr M said it told him a second female  had made a claim and then said she 
didnt. I think there  may be some  confusion on that point. From  the notes on NFUs  file, its 
clear that a second  female did make a claim.  But it seems that claim was later withdrawn. 
NFU only paid the claims for the driver and one female  passenger.
As I dont think NFU acted  unreasonably  in dealing  with the claim, I cant  uphold Mr Ms 
complaint.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5363202