K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained about the way Kensington Mortgage Company Limited  has dealt with 
his mortgage account. The mortgage  is in the joint names of Mr and Mrs A, who are now 
separated. Mrs A agreed  to join in the complaint.
The complaint is as follows:
Kensington proceeded with court action in 2017  without taking Mr As circumstances 
into account;
Mr A is unhappy about fees and charges added to the account.
background
In 2003 Mr and Mrs A took out a mortgage through another lender, borrowing £91,800 over 
a 25-year term. The mortgage was later transferred to Kensington. It was originally  an 
unregulated credit agreement but is now subject to mortgage regulation.  
Unfortunately the mortgage fell into arrears and in a possession order  was made.  In 
November 2016  Mr and Mrs A applied to court to vary the possession  order. A suspended 
possession order was made on 23 November 2016 where it was agreed  Mr and Mrs A would 
pay the contractual monthly payment plus £30 off the arrears.
The property was sold in October 2017.  
In 2017 Mr and Mrs A complained to Kensington that it had treated  them  unfairly in 
proceeding with court  action when  it knew of Mr As medical condition.  They  also complained  
about fees and charges applied to the account  since  November 2011 (six years  before the 
complaint had been raised with Kensington). A final response letter was issued by 
Kensington on 29 December 2017, rejecting the complaint. The letter  explained that Mr and 
Mrs A had six months from the date of that letter  so until 29 June 2018   to bring their 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman  Service.
In April 2019 Mr and Mrs A complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service  about  the way 
Kensington had dealt  with the mortgage account.  Mr A, who has dealt with the complaint 
throughout, was unhappy that Kensington continued  with court action  in May 2017, after hed 
made it aware of his circumstances. He was also unhappy about the fees and charges 
added to the account since  inception.
Kensington didnt  agree  to us looking at parts of the complaint. Kensington said that the 
complaint about  court  action had been brought more than six months  after the final response 
letter dated  29 December  2017, and so was out of time. The investigator was satisfied  that 
this part of the complaint was out of time and there  were no exceptional circumstances to 
explain the delay.
Kensington also didnt agree to us looking at fees and charges added  to the account more 
than six years before the complaint had first been raised in April 2019.  The investigator 
looked at the time limits  that applied here, and concluded that we could not consider fees 
and charges applied more  than six years before the complaint was first raised. He found no 
exceptional circumstances  to explain the delay.
Ref: DRN53166392In relation to fees and charges applied since April 2013, Kensington agreed to reimburse 
£540 in fees. The investigator thought  Kensington  should reimburse an additional £170 in 
fees and charges, making a total of £710. The investigator also thought interest applied on 
those charges should be reimbursed.
Kensington agreed to do this, but Mr and Mrs A didnt agree. Mr A thinks the Financial 
Ombudsman Service should consider all fees and charges added to the account since 2003.  
He says he didnt  complain about  these  earlier because he didnt know about the Financial 
Ombudsman Service until 2016.  Mr A also says there are exceptional circumstances to 
explain the delay  in bringing  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also looked at the time limits that 
apply to part of this complaint. 
I note that this was originally an unregulated  credit  agreement  and so would not originally 
have fallen within the scope of the Financial Ombudsman Service. It is not clear  when 
Kensington took over the loan, but Kensington is in our compulsory jurisdiction. Historically 
Kensington has generally taken over responsibility for complaints that may relate to previous  
lenders when it has acquired  another lenders mortgage book. There is nothing in this 
complaint file to suggest otherwise.
Time limits
Under our rules,  if the business  doesnt  consent (as is the case  here), we cant consider a 
complaint brought more than six months  after a final response letter, unless there  are 
exceptional circumstances  to explain the delay.
Mr and Mrs A complained about fees and charges and court  action in 2017 and received a 
final response letter dated 29 December 2017. The complaint wasnt  brought within  six 
months of the date of that letter, and so on the face of it is out of time.
Our rules also say that we cant consider a complaint if its been brought more  than six years 
after the event,  or, if later,  more than three  years  after the consumer first knew, or ought 
reasonably to have  known,  they had cause to complain.
In relation to the complaint raised  in April 2019, Kensington hasnt agreed that we can look 
at fees and charges applied more than six years earlier and that we can only consider fees 
and charges applied after April 2013.
Mr A says the complaint wasnt brought to us sooner  because he didnt know about the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  until 2016.  But Im satisfied the fees and charges are set out 
on the annual  statements  and if Mr and Mrs A were unhappy about those fees, they could 
have complained to Kensington about them at the time. 
Our rules dont say that the time limits  run from the date when the consumers first knew 
about the Financial  Ombudsman Service; the time limits run from when Mr and Mrs A first 
thought they had something to complain  about and that it was Kensingtons fault. 
Ref: DRN53166393In the circumstances, Im satisfied that the complaint about fees and charges is limited  to 
those fees applied within six years of the date was first brought to the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service in April 2019.
Ive looked at what Mr A has said about  his circumstances, which  he says are exceptional  
and which  he says prevented him from complaining within the time limits. I wont  set out the 
details here to protect his privacy, as our decisions are published. 
I appreciate Mr A has had health issues over a number of years,  but Im satisfied that there 
are no exceptional  circumstances  which would have prevented  Mr and Mrs A from 
complaining to us within  six months  of the final response letter sent on 29 December 2017 or 
about fees and charges applied to the account  before April 2013.
Fees and charges
Ive reviewed the account history and noted  the refund Kensington  originally offered of £540. 
I agree  with the investigator that a further £170  should be reimbursed. As the property has 
now been sold, the fees and interest  cant be removed from the account, but should be paid 
to Mr and Mrs A. As they are now separated, the payment should be divided equally 
between them. Interest  at 8% simple per annum  should also be paid, from the date the 
charge was applied to the date of payment.
Mr A has also raised concerns about legal fees added to the account. Ive reviewed these  
and Im satisfied they have been  fairly applied, in accordance with the account terms and 
conditions. Ive seen  copies of the solicitors invoices, which  I am entitled to treat as 
confidential, as they are between Kensington and its solicitors.  After reviewing these, Im 
satisfied that the charges are itemised  and proportionate to the work carried  out by the 
solicitors on behalf  of Kensington.
I appreciate Mr A remains unhappy  about the fees and charges on the account, but for the 
period which  I am looking at (after April 2013),  Im satisfied that only £710 needs to be 
reimbursed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement I require 
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited to reimburse fees and charges of £710 to Mr and 
Mrs A, together with interest  at 8% simple per annum from the date the charge was applied 
to the date of payment.*
I make  no other order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 November 2020.
Jan OLeary
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN53166394* If Kensington  Mortgage Company Limited considers that it should deduct income tax from the 8% interest 
element of my award it may do so, but it must  give Mr and Mrs A the necessary  tax certificates so they can 
reclaim the tax from HMRC  if they are entitled  to do so.
Ref: DRN5316639