K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC made  a mistake  when  it failed to send an online 
payment he made and is unhappy that it has not provided an adequate explanation of what 
actually happened.
background
Mr C wanted to send  an online  payment  on 26 August 2018 to his daughter  for her birthday. 
He maintains he sent £200. He then sent a separate payment of £70. Only the second 
payment was received - and it did not show as being  taken from his account until two days  
later. He is unhappy  with the way Lloyds investigated his complaint and thinks  it treated him 
like an idiot.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
-Lloyds had started a two stage authorisation process for payments made online in 
October 2017. 
-The audit  trail it provided shown Mr C had first set up his daughters account as a 
payment recipient and had then sent her £70. There had been a call to his landline  
and a text message  about this to confirm the recipient. There was no field to enter an 
amount to send  when  the recipient was set up. 
-The payment  was sent as a faster payment and could be expected to be received in 
two hours. But it would not show  on Mr Cs account until the next working day - which 
given the Bank Holiday was 28 August 2018.
-A separate payment  to his credit card could be made straightaway as it had already 
been set up.
-The member of staff who dealt with Mr Cs complaint had remained professional and 
Mr C had been able to send a payment for £200 on 3 September  2018.
Mr C did not agree. He said that Lloyds was misleading him and this service. He had been 
routinely transferring money without any problems  and this was not a new recipient.  He had 
been able first to enter £150  in the amount box and he then went back and changed this to 
£200. He did not imagine  this. And he immediately  went  on to pay £70. He does remember 
receiving a text but did not register what it said. It is possible he received a call but after 
three rings his phone  diverts to answerphone.  He thought that the staff member  had made  a 
ridiculous suggestion  to delete  the recipient and add it again during a heated conversation. 
He did later try this with a dummy recipient and was presented  with completely different 
screens. He wants to be compensated and for a proper investigation to be carried out by 
Lloyds information  technology team.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully understand  that Mr C was upset that the payment  he intended to send for his 
daughters birthday of £200  was not received in time. And he needed to send it again.
Ive read his previous comments and, in particular,  his letter  sent for my review. I dont doubt 
that he wanted to send  this payment and genuinely thought he had. I know  that Lloyds has 
provided him with the audit trail for his online banking  activity that afternoon  and he just does 
not agree  that this is an accurate reflection of what happened.
Ref: DRN54493812The issue  for me is that this is all Lloyds says is available about  the payments. I dont rule 
out the possibility of the computer error that Mr C suspects. Or for example that he was able 
to enter  the amount  he wanted  to send  and then change this  even if this was not 
reflected in the audit as it was not accepted by the system.  But as I think  Mr C agrees  thats  
just not what Lloyds evidence shows. And that audit is the basis  to support all the payments 
that go through its online banking system.
It seems  most likely to me that unbeknown to Mr C, what  first happened  was that the 
recipient was set up. I say unbeknown because if he was simply establishing a payee I dont 
think hed have added the text I can see on the audit trail of Happy Birthday. I accept he 
thought hed entered an amount. But thats not shown here so was not part of what  Lloyds 
thought hed authorised. And Mr C is less clear  in his evidence about  the nature of the text 
message thinking  it unremarkable and then deleted so I dont  think  hes saying this 
confirmed a payment  of £200 had been made.
As I see it the reason he was then able to make a payment of £70 was because the payment 
recipient had already been  set up  at the time when he thought that he was sending  the 
payment of £200.
I dont see any intention  by Lloyds to treat Mr C as an idiot. On its account its systems had 
changed and there was a new process  to go through.  Lloyds is the expert here. And I think 
it was trying to find a way to help Mr C navigate through its new different process.  Given    
Mr C believed hed sent the payment I can see why he found  its explanation impossible to 
accept.
Im reaching an impartial view on this complaint. And I hope Mr C will understand the 
reasons why Im going to find that I dont have sufficient evidence to say that Lloyds made  a 
mistake here. That is no reflection as Ive said on what I accept to be his recall of what 
happened or on the consistent and clear  way hes brought this complaint. Im afraid though  
Im not in a position to require Lloyds  to do anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5449381