K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly cancelled  their home insurance 
policy.
 
background
In November 2016 Mr and Mrs S renewed their AXA home insurance policy.  In June 2017 
Mr S called AXA to let it know building work would be starting  on their home. A few days 
later he received a letter telling  him the policy was being cancelled. 
In response to Mr and Mrs S complaint AXA said the policy had been cancelled as the 
planned work was outside  its underwriting criteria. So it was no longer willing to provide 
cover. It said the cancellation had been  made  in line with the terms of the policy.    
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy as they told AXA about the building work before the policy 
renewed. They say they lost out as they ended up paying significantly more  for a policy that 
did cover  them during the building  work.  They say AXA should  reimburse  that extra cost. 
They also want compensation to recognise the unnecessary  distress  and inconvenience 
AXAs caused them. 
Our investigator didnt  say AXA had done  anything wrong  by cancelling the policy.  But he 
thought its communications with Mr and Mrs S werent good  enough.  So he recommended it 
pay £150 compensation to recognise  this. AXA didnt agree to pay the compensation. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt  accept the investigators assessment. So the complaint  has come to me 
for a final decision.   
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA cancelled Mr and Mrs S policy mid-term. Its only reasonable for an insurer  to do that 
when the nature of the risk changes so fundamentally  that the subject matter of the 
insurance is completely  different. 
AXA says the time the building works were going to take was outside  its underwriting criteria. 
So it cancelled the policy. I havent  decided if the nature of risk did change  fundamentally. 
So I havent decided  if the cancellation was fair. Thats because even if I decided  AXA 
shouldnt have cancelled,  I wouldnt  say Mr and Mrs S had lost out financially. As even if the 
policy had run to the end of its term, in December 2017, Mr S probably  would still have  had 
to have taken  out a more expensive policy.
It seems  unlikely  AXA would have renewed Mr and Mrs S cover - so they still would have 
needed to find a different insurer that would cover them during the building  works.  It seems 
likely they would have  had to take a policy with the more expensive insurer  that did agree to 
provide cover. 
Mr and Mrs S should, during the November 2016  renewal, have been given better  
information about the possibility of the policy being cancelled  because  of the building  work.  
But again  I dont  think they lost out financially because  of that. If it had been  explained the 
policy might  be cancelled  they probably would  have looked for a different insurer.  But again  
Ref: DRN52642222it seems likely they would have ended up with the more expensive  policy.  So it wouldnt be 
fair to make AXA reimburse the extra they paid for it.  
Whilst Mr and Mrs S didnt lose out financially because of anything  AXA did wrong,  I think it 
caused them  some  unnecessary trouble  and upset. AXA accepts it should have let Mr S 
know, during the renewal, that cancellation was a possibility.  It says information in the policy 
terms was enough  to make up for not doing  that. But I dont agree. Its reasonable for Mr S 
to rely on what he was told during the call. I wouldnt expect him to have to, or feel a reason 
to, check the policy  terms in case he hadnt been given clear information.   
If the possibility  of cancellation had been made clear to Mr and Mrs S, its likely they would  
have made  further  enquiries and looked  elsewhere for a more suitable policy.  They  probably 
would have had to pay the increased  premium as Ive said.  Finding a suitable insurer  proved 
difficult and probably  still would have. But they would  have had about  twenty  days  to do that 
 and would  have been doing it with six months  until the building  works  were due to start. 
Instead because  of AXAs mistake they found themselves in a much more distressing  
situation. They only had seven rather than twenty days  to find a new insurer   and with 
building work  starting imminently rather than in six months. 
AXA says finding  insurance isnt a distressing  act. I agree it shouldnt be in more usual 
circumstances. But because of its mistake Mr and Mrs S only had a short  time to find 
specialist cover. Something it seems  Mr S wasnt experienced with and found difficult. They  
had contractors turn up to work  when they still hadnt found  a new insurer.  Eventually they 
did find one after a referral from the insurance brokers association. Mr S says all this caused 
him anxiety  and left him struggling to sleep for several days. Considering  their age, the 
imminent building work and the short time they had to arrange  cover I can understand why 
this would have  been distressing. So I think AXA caused additional and unnecessary 
distress. £150 would be a fair amount for it to pay to recognise  this.
AXA says finding  a different insurer, at some point,  was unavoidable anyway. I accept thats 
probably correct. But that fails to recognise that its mistake meant Mr and Mrs S had to do 
that in, as Ive explained  above, unnecessarily distressing circumstances.  
Mr and Mrs S are concerned  a record of the policy  being cancelled by the insurer  might 
affect them when  taking out insurance. But AXA recorded the policy as being cancelled  by 
them. It says the cancellation  will not be on any databases so they will not need to declare it.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, AXA Insurance UK Plc needs  to pay Mr and Mrs S £150 to 
recognise the unnecessary trouble and upset it caused them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5264222