K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the errors  he says Scottish Equitable  Plc (trading as Aegon) made 
with respect to his pension policy.  He says that it made errors in the valuation  of his pension  
and it the way it sought to correct that. He says this took a long time to rectify  and then in 
2018 Aegon made a further adjustment (a reduction  in plan value)  without notifying  him. He 
disagrees with the values  Aegon has used and the deduction  it made. 
 
background
My understanding is that Mr W made two partial transfers from his Aegon  pension plan  
one in April 2017  of £50,000 and one of £110,000 in August  2017.  Aegon made some 
errors with respect  to the partial transfers. In brief, my understanding  is that the receiving 
scheme requested  a full transfer in April 2017,  rather Mr Ws intended partial transfer  so 
that transfer had to be unwound. It was later completed in June 2017 and in July 2017 
Aegon received a compensation payment from the receiving  scheme  of about £10,000. 
There were some issues with the correct  application of this payment but I understand that 
the situation was resolved to Mr Ws satisfaction  in April 2018. However, later in 2018 Mr W 
noticed that Aegon had reduced the value  of his pension by about £10,000. 
Aegon responded to Mr Ws complaint or complaints at various  times.  In summary, in one of 
its later complaint responses, it acknowledged that Mr W had previously made complaints 
and that it had made a mistake when adding  money to his plan. It said that when it received 
money back from Aviva it didnt add this back to his plan correctly. It added  it to a fund which 
was closed and it should have added  it to a cash fund. It should then have given Mr W an 
opportunity to switch  this money to another  fund if he wished.  It said that it had now 
corrected this error, invested  the money in the cash fund and backdated  this to make sure 
Mr W was not disadvantaged. It gave Mr W the opportunity  to switch fund. It paid Mr W £500 
for the inconvenience  caused. 
Aegon then later reviewed the complaint in response to Mr Ws concerns about the £10,000  
deduction. It said that the issue  arose because it had deducted the wrong  value(s)  from his 
pension plan when  he made transfers in 2017. It said it paid out £160,000 but only deducted 
about £150,000 from his plan. It had corrected this. It said the plan value was now correct. It 
offered Mr W £300 for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr W disagreed  with Aegons findings.  He said that Aegon had paid out £160,000, not the 
(approximate) £150,000  it said. Aegon responded and said that Mr Ws pension value was 
now correct, but offered  him £250 because it had failed to inform him that it was making the 
correction. 
Mr W referred his complaint to this service and it was considered  by an investigator.  He 
didnt believe that Aegon needed to do any more  to resolve the complaint.  He set out that 
Aegon had now provided a pre-correction plan history. This showed that in June  and 
August 2017 Aegon had deducted values of about £46,600 and £103,000 respectively from 
his pension for transfers that actually amounted to £50,000 and £110,000. So, essentially, 
Mr Ws pension  value was about £10,000 higher than it should have been  which  is why 
Aegon later made the 2018 correction to the plan value. So the investigator believed the 
2018 correction  was appropriate.  He thought  that the £250 paid by Aegon  was fair 
compensation for not informing Mr W that Aegon  was making  the correction. 
Ref: DRN51270542Mr W was provided  with the information Aegon had provided and he then made some further 
submissions. In summary Mr W provided screenshots of backdated  values that he said 
were taken in December 2018 and showed that Aegons values were wrong. He made 
comments about Aegons transaction history which he said showed  that Aegon  had made  
withdrawals from his pension plan of the full amounts of the transfers  not the lower 
amounts it said. He also questioned the reinvestment of some of his money into a cash fund.
Aegon was given the opportunity to address Mr Ws points.  In summary, it clarified that the 
differences between  its transaction  history  and Mr Ws was because  plan corrections were  
carried out on two separate  occasions (March/April  2018 and July 2018). Mr Ws transaction  
history shows  the situation prior to the corrections but Aegons history was prior to the 
correction in July 2018. Aegon said that the errors with insufficient funds being drawn from 
the plan to cover the amounts transferred to Aviva and Fidelity arose during the first set of 
plan corrections, not when the original transfers took place. So, it was the first correction 
which generated the valuation error,  not incorrect amounts transferred.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Materially Mr W has complained about the plan value adjustment (a reduction  of about 
£10,000) that Aegon made in 2018.
 
I have considered carefully the submissions that Mr W has made and those of Aviva. It is 
clear that, over time,  errors  have  occurred with respect to Mr Ws plan value  the genesis of 
which was incorrect amount being transferred and returned in 2017.  Aegon has attempted  
over time to rectify this issue  not always with success. But what is crucial now is whether 
Mr W has the correct  plan value.  Having considered all the evidence I think  it is more likely 
that Mr Ws plan value  is now correct.  
I believe it is more likely  that Aegon  is correct when it says that rather  than it deducting 
incorrect amounts originally for the transfers, it over-inflated  his plan value when it carried 
out its first set of corrections  and the value it supplied in April 2018 was incorrect.  I am 
persuaded the discrepancies  Mr W has highlighted,  especially in his more recent responses, 
are due to the corrections  that Aegon carried out over time, and that some of the records  
now reflect  what should have  happened,  rather than what  actually happened at the time.  
Some of the transaction histories that have been  supplied also pre-date the plan corrections 
that were carried out to rectify the correct plan value. Because of the corrections that have 
taken place, and the inconsistent messages about plan values and why adjustments have 
been made, it can appear that Mr Ws plan value is lower than it should have been. And I 
can see why Mr W does not have  any confidence  in the value  he is being supplied  with. But I 
can see that Aegon has now explained why the discrepancies  occurred and I am persuaded 
that it has now more  likely  calculated  the correct policy  value. 
Aegon shouldnt  have  adjusted the plan value  in July 2018  without informing Mr W, but I 
dont believe  it did so arbitrarily or without  reason.  I believe it did that to correct pervious 
errors it had made with respect to the plan value.  I dont  believe Mr W has lost £10,000,  his 
plan value has only been adjusted to that which it should have been.  
Ref: DRN51270543I note Mr W raised  an issue that some of the money  that was returned to Aegon  in 2017  had 
been deemed effectively held as cash between June 2017  and April 2018. This rectification 
was carried out because the money  was directed to a closed fund which could not accept 
new contributions. Aegon recalculated the plan value as if the money was held in a cash 
fund. I think Mr W is right to have  concerns  about  this  but Aegon has confirmed that the 
money achieved  a greater return in the cash fund than it would have done in the fund where 
it should have  been held.  So I dont  not believe a financial loss has been caused in this 
respect. 
It is clear that Mr W has been significant  inconvenienced by Aegons  errors over time and 
having to pursue this. It is clear that he has not received the service that he should  have.  But 
I note the payments that Aegon has made to Mr W over time to recognise this and I believe 
they are fair in the circumstances.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 March  2021.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5127054