K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Santander UK Plc reported adverse information on her credit file, and 
failed to warn her about how an arrangement  to pay would  be reported on her credit  file.
background
Miss H had a current account with Santander, which was overdrawn by around  £1,950.  In 
February 2018, by which time the account was with Santanders collections and recoveries  
department, Miss H discussed  her options  in a phone call with Santander. The result  of the 
phone call was that she entered  an arrangement to pay. Some time later,  when her 
mortgage was not renewed,  she discovered  adverse information  about her account  on her 
credit file. She complained to Santander, and subsequently to this Service, blaming 
Santander for the decision  not to renew  her mortgage. She said that if she had been  made  
aware of the implications  of having  an arrangement to pay, she would not have chosen one. 
Instead, she would have got a credit card, or asked her mother to pay off the entire debt.
Santander said that its affordability checks  had shown  that Miss H could not have afforded to 
use a credit card to repay  her debt. As Miss H had also not been able to afford the 
arrangement to pay on her own, she had told Santander  that her mother  would pay her half 
of each monthly payment. Santander had agreed to that in principle, but had told her that the 
arrangement to pay would initially last for only two months. It had told Miss H that after the 
second payment,  she would  have to contact Santander so that Santander could  confirm  that 
she could still afford  the arrangement and that her mother was still helping  her. But Miss H 
had not got in touch, and so she had broken the terms of the arrangement;  also she had 
made some late payments. So the account had been reported  to her credit  file accurately.
However, Santander accepted that it could  have given  Miss H more  details about the impact 
the arrangement  to pay would have on her credit  file. It offered her £100 as a gesture of 
good will.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She listened to the call recording, and 
concluded that Santander had made  it clear  that the arrangement to pay would only last for 
two months, unless Miss H contacted Santander to confirm the payments were still 
affordable. If she did that, then the arrangement would be extended. Otherwise,  the 
arrangement would expire and the account would be defaulted.  The call handler had also 
mentioned that there would be some negative  information on Miss Hs credit file, but the 
investigator thought  that this could have  been explained more clearly.  She thought £100 was 
fair compensation for that, however, since Santander had also told Miss H, in the phone  call 
and in a letter, that it would report the account.  The investigator concluded that the 
information Santander had reported on Miss Hs credit file was accurate and a true reflection  
of the history  of the account. Miss H had made two late payments, so these had to be 
included in her credit file. These late payments also meant that the arrangement  to pay 
markers might not be the only reason why her mortgage had not been renewed. 
The investigator also said that Santanders  income and expenditure check  had shown that 
she could not afford  a credit card, and said there was no evidence that Miss H told 
Santander that she could ask her mother to pay the whole  debt.
Miss H pointed out that although she had not contacted Santander (as she hadnt 
understood it was important), she had still continued to make monthly payments. She 
Ref: DRN52013262insisted that she would  never  have agreed to the arrangement to pay if she had been told 
how it would  be reported. She asked for an ombudsman tor review her case.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened  to the call recording.  The call handler  mentioned  that in the previous month 
Santander had gone through Miss Hs income and outgoings and found  that she was left 
with a deficit of £152.  The call handler asked  Miss H if this was accurate, and she agreed,  
although she added that her partner  had been helping her with her bills. Miss H went on to 
say that she wanted to set up a payment to get this debt cleared.
The call handler asked  her what she could afford  to pay, and Miss H replied  It definitely 
needs to be less than £100  a month. The call handler said that would not be enough to 
clear the debt within 15 months,  being the maximum period that Santander would allow for 
the debt to be paid. The call handler  suggested instead that Miss H make token payments of 
£1 a month. This would mean the account  would be defaulted, and this would be reported on 
her credit file for six years. 
That did not appeal  to Miss H, and she asked  how much  she would need to pay each month 
to clear the debt in 15 months. The answer was £130.17. Miss H said she would rather pay 
that. The call handler asked her how she could afford  it, and Miss H said that she would ask 
her mother  to pay half, having  already  spoken to her about it. The call handler accepted that, 
but said that because Miss H would be receiving help from her mother she would have to 
call Santander back after her second  payment. This was to confirm that the arrangement 
was working, and then the arrangement would be reset. The call handler  added:  if you 
forget to call us back then it will expire,  so please remember  to call us. Otherwise the 
account would be defaulted. A minute  or so later, the call handler  repeated  that after the 
second payment,  due in April, it would be necessary for Miss H to call Santander again. This 
was repeated again near the end of the call.
I think that the need to call back  after two months, and the consequences  of not doing so, 
were explained  clearly, and Miss H appeared to indicate that she understood what  she was 
being told. Its not in dispute  that she didnt make that call, so I dont think Santander  made 
an error by reporting  the account  as in arrears in April and May. (The arrangement was 
reinstated again after that, and was reported  as such from June. Another  call she was 
supposed to make in November  was not made, and so this was reported again in 
December.)
To conclude  my summary  of the call, the call handler told Miss H that charges and interest 
would still be frozen (the account had already been in collections). She added  that there 
would already have been some negative  impact Miss Hs credit file while  the account had 
been overdrawn, and then she implied  that this would  no longer be the case  now that the 
arrangement was in place.
I dont think that was a helpful comment to make, because it implies that a record  of an 
arrangement to pay is not adverse information  when recorded  on a credit file, which is not 
the case. This is the reason for Santanders  offer of £100. The letter which  was subsequently 
sent makes it clear that an arrangement to pay may be reported to a credit reference 
agency, although it does not explain that a lender may regard this as negative information. 
Ref: DRN52013263Miss H makes the point  that £100 is not enough  compensation  for her mortgage not being 
renewed, but I do not know  whether  the reporting of the arrangement to pay would have 
been enough, by itself  if no payments had been late  to result in the decision not to renew  
her mortgage. That may have been  the result of the late payments.
Miss H argues that she would not have  agreed to the arrangement to pay in the first place if 
she had understood how it would look on her credit file, and so the issue  of late payments 
would have been moot. She has told us that she had considered  applying  for a credit  card 
and carrying out a balance transfer  as an alternative solution, but that Santander  had 
advised her that she could not afford this. That was not discussed in the call I have listened 
to, but there is an entry in Santanders collections notes indicating that it was discussed  in 
January, when Santander went  through  her income and expenditure. There  is no record  of 
her ever telling Santander that her mother might  pay the whole debt as an alternative. 
However, there is a note to the effect  that Santander offered to convert the debt into a loan,  
but that Miss H declined  this offer. She might  have accepted it, if she had known  that a loan 
would look better than an arrangement to pay. But I think the loan repayments would 
probably still have  been made late, for the same reason that the payments under the 
arrangement were late. That might well still have been enough to result in the decision  to 
decline to renew  her mortgage.  So I cannot  be satisfied, on the balance  of probabilities, that 
Santander is responsible for that decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. I leave  it to Miss H to decide whether to 
accept Santanders  goodwill  offer of £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2021.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5201326