K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Melton Mowbray  Building Society  mis-sold them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy for their mortgage.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out for a mortgage in 1984. It was paid for with a 
regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Melton  Mowbray disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
Having done that, I think  its most likely that Mr and Mrs Hs PPI policy  was mis-sold here  
Ill explain  why.
Its not clear whether  Melton Mowbray recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Melton Mowbray if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Melton  
Mowbray Ive assumed it did not. That means  Melton Mowbray  didnt have  to check  the 
policy was right for Mr and Mrs H. But it did still have to give them information about the PPI 
that was clear, fair, and not misleading,  so that Mr and Mrs H could decide for themselves 
whether the policy  was right for them.
Based on the evidence  I have, I cant see that Melton Mowbray  gave  Mr and Mrs H clear 
enough information about the policys key exclusions. Melton Mowbray says it wouldve 
given them a copy of the policy document. The example document  it provided  doesnt seem 
to be dated, so its not clear whether its actually relevant to this sale.  But in any case, even if 
I assume that Mr and Mrs H were given it before agreeing  to PPI  and not after  it doesnt 
highlight the important exclusions or bring them to the customers  attention prominently.
It looks like this wouldve mattered to Mr and Mrs H. From what  theyve told us, Mrs H had a 
medical condition  which wouldnt  have been covered. She said it needed constant 
monitoring and regular  treatment, and had caused her to take quite a lot of time off work not 
long before the point of this sale. So this was likely  to have been a significant concern  for 
Mrs H at the time. But the policy  excluded all claims  resulting from her condition, so she 
couldnt have  claimed on the policy for everything she mightve  expected to be able to.
I do appreciate that given  the length  of time since Mr and Mrs Hs sale, its reasonable that 
Melton Mowbray dont  have the original documents. And I have taken this into account:  for 
example, Melton  Mowbray  hasnt  been  able to show that Mr and Mrs H even agreed to PPI, 
but I gave it the benefit of the doubt there. But from what  both sides  have given me, I cant  
be reasonably  satisfied that Melton  Mowbray gave Mr and Mrs H clear enough information 
about this policy.  And if it had done, then it seems  likely they wouldnt have bought it. So it 
follows that I think its most likely this PPI policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN54832942putting things right
Melton Mowbray should put Mr and Mrs H in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt 
taken out this PPI policy. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  already, 
and Melton Mowbray  should:
Pay Mr and Mrs H back the amount they paid each  month  for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of simple interest is 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Melton  Mowbray can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.   
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Melton Mowbray  to take off tax from this interest.  Melton Mowbray  
must give Mr and Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one. Mr and 
Mrs H can claim  back  the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Melton Mowbray Building Society should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 July 2019
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5483294