K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that National Westminster Bank Plc failed to prevent an authorised push 
payment fraud.
background
In August  2017  Mr F visited a branch of another bank, where  he had an account,  and 
instructed the staff there  to make a CHAPS  payment  of £120,000 to a NatWest account. He 
believed that the NatWest  account  belonged to his solicitor, but the solicitors  email had 
been intercepted  by a fraudster who had changed  the account  details. When this came  to 
light a few days later, Mr F immediately contacted  his own bank. His bank contacted 
NatWest, but the money had already been withdrawn or spent, and there  was nothing left to 
recover.
Mr F complained to NatWest, and later to this service, that NatWest had been negligent in 
allowing the payment to go through. He said that NatWest should have spotted  that the 
name on the receiving  account did not match the name on his written  payment instruction. 
He said that NatWest had not carried out proper checks, even  though it had had time to do 
so (because the payment had cleared a few hours  after he requested  it). He also complained 
that NatWest had not carried out proper anti-money laundering checks  on the payment, or 
on the withdrawal  of the money from the NatWest account.
NatWest said it didnt  have the ability to check the name on the payment  instruction, and it 
had complied with the relevant rules.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that NatWest  had been  under no 
obligation to do more than check the account  number and sort code. It hadnt  had to check  
the name on the account.
Mr M, who works at a claims management  company acting for Mr F, asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. He argued  that NatWest should have identified that there  was 
something suspicious about the fraudsters  account  being credited with £120,000, followed 
by six withdrawals of £20,000  each over the next six days. He also argued that new anti-
fraud measures announced in 2016  should have  been implemented sooner. So this 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
The Financial Ombudsman  Services jurisdiction does not extend to all complaints  that may 
be made to it. We are subject to rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority, which state 
that we may only consider complaints brought by eligible complainants,  such as customers  
of the respondent. Mr F is not a customer of NatWest, but he is another  kind of eligible 
complainant  a payment  service user, meaning that he made a CHAPS  payment to a 
NatWest account. However,  under the rules I can still only consider  his complaint to the 
extent that it arises from this payment. That means  that I cannot  consider his complaint 
about what NatWest  did before  or after the payment  was made.  Specifically, I cannot  
consider his or Mr Ms arguments  about  whether NatWest should have opened the account, 
or whether it should have been  suspicious of the withdrawals after the payment was made, 
Ref: DRN50544022or whether it should have frozen the £120,000 in the account. I can only consider the 
payment itself.
I do take Mr Ms point about the payment being so large that it should have triggered anti-
money laundering measures. But that would not necessarily have prevented the payment 
from going through. Rather, that is something  which (if it happened) would not necessarily 
take effect until after the funds were paid into the account, at which point my jurisdiction 
ends. So I am unable to consider this argument further.
The legislation which applied to CHAPS  payments at the time was a statutory instrument 
called the Payment Services Regulations 2009. These regulations  set out what NatWest was 
required to do when  processing a payment. In summary, NatWest was only required to 
consider the account number and sort code  collectively called the unique identifier in the 
regulations.
Regulation 74, entitled Incorrect  unique identifiers,  said that if a person making a payment  
provided his bank with the unique identifier for the wrong account, then each bank involved  
the sending bank and the receiving bank  would  not be liable for sending the money to that 
account instead of to the right account.  If the person provided  any additional information, 
such as the name of the intended account  holder, then this would not affect the banks 
liability  they only had to see that the money went to the account identified by the unique  
identifier.
I recognise that that may sound harsh,  but the reason  for that rule is that the CHAPS system  
did not allow sending  banks to check whether the name  they had been given for the 
destination account matched the name actually on that account. Nor did it allow  receiving 
banks to know the name which  had been given to the sending bank.
As Mr M has pointed out, there are plans  to change this, but NatWest is not responsible for 
the fact that this did not happen in time to help Mr F. NatWest  cannot unilaterally change  the 
way that the entire banking industry  operates. The change had to be led by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (the regulator) or by the Bank  of England (which operates  the CHAPS  
clearing system).  So I cannot  say that NatWest has done anything wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019. But if we dont hear from him, then we will 
presume that he rejects it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5054402