K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Santander UK Plc (trading as Abbey) mis-sold Mrs S payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1997. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Mrs Ss comments. However, Ive decided  not to uphold this 
complaint. I will explain  why:
Mrs S has said she felt pressured into taking the PPI. However this did all happen about 
22 years  ago, and I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened  
so long ago. So I cant be sure exactly what was said by Santander at the time, and 
whether this was beyond what  was acceptable in selling  the insurance. Without stronger 
evidence, it wouldnt be fair for me to say that Santander acted wrongly  in that way.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mrs S, but it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable, 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Being unable  to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at the 
same time as Mrs S received any employer  sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would 
have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it seems 
Mrs S didnt  have savings to fall back on. So this all would  have put Mrs S in a more 
secure position, if she eventually lost income due to long term sickness or 
unemployment. And Ive not been told anything to suggest she couldnt afford the PPI 
when she took it out. So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful. 
Its hard to know how well Santander explained the costs and benefits of the policy.  But I 
dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have affected  
whether Mrs S took the PPI.
Its possible Santander didnt  clearly point out the main  things the policy didnt cover.  But 
its unlikely Mrs S would have been affected by any of these. Its likely she were eligible 
for the policy, and shed be paying for it monthly, so she could cancel it at any time 
without further  cost if their situation  changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN51590952Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5159095