K822xcomplaint
Mr W has complained that Zurich Assurance  Ltd wont allow him to transfer his pension  with 
them to an overseas pension plan as hes not able to provide a UK National Insurance 
number, or confirmation  that HMRC is unable to issue him with one.
background 
Mr W, who isnt a UK citizen, took out the pension with Zurich  in 1990 while he was working  
in the UK. The plan mainly received employer contributions totalling £2,250 plus £240 of 
employee contributions  to which tax relief was added.  Mr W then left the UK to work 
overseas and subsequently returned  to his home  country.
Whilst Mr W was briefly working  in the UK, it appears he was issued with a temporary  
National Insurance number (NINo) which was used  to pay his wages via PAYE,  but he didnt 
apply for a permanent  number. The temporary number was in a different format to 
permanent NINos issued  in the UK. 
When the Department of Social Security,  now the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) 
informed Zurich that the temporary NINo wasnt valid for Mr Ws plan to qualify  to receive 
National Insurance rebates, Zurich says it asked  its adviser to obtain  the correct  one in 
September 1991 but didnt bear back from him.
Several decades later Mr W asked Zurich  to transfer his pension to a Qualifying Recognised 
Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS)  and as part of approving this Zurich  asked him for 
his NINo. Mr W complained about this requirement  in May 2018 and Zurich  responded:
 in line with the guidance notes  at www.gov.uk a list of the requirements  to transfer a fund 
to a Qualifying Recognised  Overseas Pension  Scheme (QROPS) includes:
Their National Insurance number or, where  applicable, confirmation in writing that they do not 
qualify for a National Insurance number.
It said another HMRC  reference Mr W had provided  didnt match the conventional format of 
NINos, so it was unable to proceed without the matter being clarified with HMRC. 
Mr W disagreed  with this. He said hed given all the information he could reasonably  be 
expected to provide, bearing  in mind the time gap of some  thirty years.  He wasnt happy that 
Zurichs adviser  had never told him that the NINo hadnt been  accepted  in 1991. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. He asked Zurich  to explain how relief had 
ever been  processed  on Mr Ws pension if the NINo wasnt  valid. He also noticed that 
Mr Ws annual  statements  had read DI SC RE P where Mr Ws NINo  would be displayed,  
and asked why Mr W personally  hadnt been contacted about this problem. 
Separately, he spoke to HMRC  who confirmed that Mr Ws situation wasnt  unheard of and 
he would  need  to obtain a valid NINo for the transfer to take place. This wasnt something 
that Zurich would be able to do on Mr Ws behalf.
Zurich responded  that as Mr Ws plan was part of a Group Personal Pension arrangement,  
the employer was responsible for administering  tax relief  and it disputed  that the invalid 
NINo meant  that Mr W was ineligible to contribute to the pension. It also confirmed that it 
had records of initiating contact directly with Mr W about this issue.  It appears that it had only 
assumed that it would have notified its adviser  at the time:
Ref: DRN50459172the Business  naturally asked its representative  to contact his client to establish the correct 
number. There's  no reason  to doubt that [adviser] attempted to do so, but there's no evidence 
a response was ever received.
Our investigator reached the view that ultimately Mr W would need to resolve  the issue of 
the NINo directly with HMRC. He provided  Mr W with the contact  details for him to do this.
However, because  of the significant period of time over which Zurich failed to highlight the 
discrepancy, it was likely Mr W was going  to be caused greater upset than would otherwise 
have been the case. He recommended that Zurich  pay Mr W £250  to compensate for this.
Zurich agreed to the offer and Mr W initially thought it was fair. But after contacting HMRC 
he was made aware he might have to attend  the UK for an interview, because a person must 
be in the UK to obtain an NINo. He estimated  it would cost him €200 in travel expenses  to 
attend a same-day interview in a part of the UK nearest his home, or €450 if he had to travel 
to London. He was also concerned that he might not be granted  a NINo as he isnt actually 
resident in the UK.
In the meantime Zurich provided Mr W with a cheque for £250 which it said was in full and 
final settlement of the complaint. Mr W rejected this cheque as he does not hold a Sterling 
bank account  and didnt consider the matter  to be settled. As agreement couldnt  be 
reached, the complaint  was passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there is some concern  that Mr W wasnt  eligible to contribute to his pension,  Id like to 
clarify that the former  Inland Revenue Guidance Notes (IR76)  were simply that Mr W had to 
be under  age 75 with relevant earnings   defined as income which  is chargeable to UK tax. 
As the contributions paid to Mr Ws pension were mainly by his UK employer, and by him 
when he worked  for that employer, there is little doubt that he was eligible at the time he paid 
those contributions.
From what  I can see, the query about  Mr Ws tax code was actually raised by the DWPs 
predecessor  (which  administered the collection of National  Insurance contributions),  rather 
than the then Inland Revenue (now HMRC). The use of a temporary NINo wouldnt, as far as 
Im aware, have prevented Zurich from claiming tax relief on the small amount of Mr Ws 
contributions as part of the bulk claims from HMRC which  scheme administrators make  for 
all their customers. Providing  Zurich  was satisfied that Mr W was paying  UK tax on sufficient  
earnings to justify his employee contributions, which it was, it was correct  to apply for the tax 
relief.
Im puzzled  that Zurich  makes reference to a net pay arrangement  where Mr Ws former  
employer would claim the tax relief.  Its true that the bulk of the contributions  to Mr Ws plan 
were employer contributions which didnt qualify  for tax relief (but which  the employer wrote 
off as a business  expense). However  the employer  couldnt claim tax relief on employee 
contributions as this was the scheme administrator Zurichs role  as IR76 makes clear:
GROUP PERSONAL PENSIONS
4.36 An employer (or group of employers) may arrange with a personal pension provider for 
their employees to make individual  arrangements under the same scheme.  The employer is 
Ref: DRN50459173not a party to the contract, but for convenience may collect contributions on behalf of all the 
employees involved. This is acceptable  provided  the employers and each  employees 
contributions are separately identifiable  and the employer does not apply  the net pay 
arrangement to the employees contributions. The net pay arrangement is described in PN 4.3 
and is only applicable for contributions to occupational pension schemes
EMPLOYEES
5.4 Employee contributions are paid net of basic rate tax under  The Personal Pension 
Schemes (Relief at Source) Regulations 1988 (SI 1988/1013). For example,  an employee 
who wishes  to pay £100 a month will only pay the net amount (£78 a month for the year 
ended 5 April 2001).  
The scheme administrator  will recover the basic rate tax by making a claim to Inland 
Revenue.
The section of IR76 dealing with contributions after 6 April 2001  whilst  not strictly relevant 
in this case  does also shed some useful light on the use of temporary  NINos:
Individuals who are unlikely to have a National Insurance number
14.37a Scheme administrators may find it useful to know that the following individuals are 
unlikely to have a National Insurance Number (NINO):
 a married woman who has not worked since  1975
 a person who had always lived abroad and who has not paid NICs or claimed benefits
since arriving in the UK,
 a non-resident individual who is a partner in a UK partnership
 a person who was not the subject of a child benefit claim  immediately before their 16th
birthday and who has not claimed benefits,  worked or paid NICs since,
 foreign  nationals  who are exempt from NICs in the UK as they are continuing to pay
National Insurance contributions in their country of origin.
Where any of the above applies,  the scheme administrator should allocate a dummy identifier 
beginning with "NC"  followed by six numbers based on the individual's date of birth and 
ending with "M" for male or "F" for female. For example, for a man born on 18 June 1950, the 
scheme administrator  should allocate a dummy  identifier of "NC180650M"
Im noting  this for completeness as Mr W did not fall into any of these categories, and Zurich 
therefore did not use this notation for his NINo. But IR76 continues (with  my emphasis):
14.37bSome individuals are given a temporary NINO  substitute by their employer, usually 
where they have recently commenced employment and have  lost their NINO, or where  they 
have returned  from a period abroad. Temporary NINOs are usually in the format TN999999M 
or 99Y999999.
Individuals who only have temporary NINOs should  complete the application form as if they 
did not have a NINO.

An individual who is not within any of the categories  at 14.37a and does not have  a 
NINO should apply to their local DWP  office for an appointment to apply for a NINO.
Im not in a position to establish, so many years  after the event, what  the precise  procedure  
was in 1990. But the temporary NINo entered on to Mr Ws application form and the other 
HMRC reference Mr W has found from later in 1993 fit the TN999999M and 99Y999999 
formats. And IR76 appears to confirm that:
-Having a temporary NINo wasnt a barrier to Mr W taking out a personal pension;  and
-The onus  was on Mr W to apply for a permanent NINo.
Ref: DRN50459174The problem in Mr Ws case was that it would always have been an inconvenience for him to 
potentially attend  an appointment in person at a DWP office to get a permanent  NINO, 
because he had left the UK. But that in my view would  not have been Zurichs  fault.  It hadnt  
done anything  wrong in allowing Mr W to take out a plan with a temporary NINo, and by 
doing so Mr W benefited from £2,500  of employer contributions. Clearly its unfortunate that 
Mr W or his employer  didnt obtain a permanent NINo  I understand this may partly be 
because the employer ceased  trading soon after Mr W emigrated.
However I do agree with the investigator  that Zurich  hasnt  demonstrated  that it made 
enough, or in fact any, effort to remind Mr W when it became aware that he hadnt obtained 
a permanent NINo.  It merely  assumes, without any evidence, that it would have asked the 
adviser to get in touch with Mr W. Theres evidence that Zurichs adviser was in touch with 
Mr W overseas  in November 1992, but with no mention being made of the NINo issue.  As 
Zurich has retained other file papers  going  back this far I would  expect to see mention of 
something this important. On balance,  I find it unlikely  that Zurich  did in fact contact the 
adviser and it is even less likely still that the adviser contacted Mr W.
Should this mean Zurich  needs to do anything  further to assist  Mr W now in his attempts to 
transfer to a QROPS? The fact remains that Zurich  would  be sanctioned by HMRC for 
allowing a transfer  without one of the following:
 a valid NINo, or
 written confirmation that the consumer is not entitled to a NINO
So from what I can see the HMRC  regulations do make allowance for Mr Ws situation, in 
that they recognise that there may be people  who have taken out pension  plans but who do 
not, for whatever reason, have a NINo.  Nor do the regulations appear to be saying that Mr W 
requires a NINo  in order to transfer.  But he does need, at the very least, written confirmation 
from HMRC/DWP  that hes not entitled to a NINo. 
Despite Zurichs potential contribution to the length  of time this matter  has been unresolved, 
I dont think its unreasonable for it to expect Mr W to now obtain  the confirmation  he was 
always expected  to obtain. That may involve him travelling to an appointment in the UK. To 
the extent that those  are HMRC/DWPs rules I think that may always  have been  a 
requirement. The Financial Ombudsman Service has no control over UK Government 
departments, but Ill set out below what the gov.uk website currently says in the introductory  
text to form CA5403 (which is normally used  to find a misplaced NINo where a permanent  
one was once  issued):
Do not fill in this form if youve never had a National Insurance  number before.
Instead you should contact  one of the following:
 if youre a UK citizen  telephone the National Insurance Registrations Helpline on 0300 200 
3500
 if youre not a UK citizen telephone Jobcentre Plus on 0800  141 2075 or go to Apply  for a 
National Insurance number
The QROPS  application form Mr W completed also indicates he would need  to contact 
Jobcentre Plus, where it said, If you have contacted Jobcentre Plus and are not entitled to a 
NINo, please state the reasons and give any HMRC reference number that you have 
received.  At the time of his application  Mr W referred to historic tax information in this box, 
but what Zurich  would reasonably expect to see here is the result  of a recent enquiry to 
Jobcentre Plus.
Ref: DRN50459175Mr W may need  to be patient until the COVID-19 restrictions are lifted. But if, ultimately  he 
isnt satisfied that HMRC  is able to either  give him a NINo or provide  written confirmation he 
doesnt need one, HMRC  has a complaints process at gov.uk which he may need  to follow.  
I recognise this is very inconvenient for Mr W. I notice he has an adviser  based  in his home 
country who was assisting him with transferring to a QROPS, and who may be in a position 
to assist. But as it would always have been Mr Ws responsibility to obtain a permanent NINo 
(or confirmation that he is not entitled  to one), I have concluded that it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to consider making  a specific award for any costs he might  incur. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr W, but all I consider it would be appropriate  for me to award in this 
case is a payment to recognise that what would  always have been an inconvenient situation 
has been made worse  by Zurichs failure to highlight this issue to Mr W over 25 years ago. 
Zurich agreed to pay Mr W £250 originally, but in view of Mr Ws difficulties in accepting a 
Sterling payment it has now agreed to pay €300  (more than the equivalent amount) by bank 
transfer. I consider  this to be a fair and reasonable settlement in view of the added  distress 
and inconvenience  Zurich has caused,  but recognising that there are still steps that only 
Mr W can take to achieve  what he is looking to do with this pension.
 
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint  in part. I require Zurich Assurance Ltd to pay him the sum of €300  
by bank transfer in compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience  it has caused.  
To enable  it to do so, Zurich says Mr W will need to provide it with his International Bank 
Account Number (IBAN) and SWIFT code. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2020.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5045917