K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Santander UK plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out with a mortgage in 2002. 
Mr and Mrs W applied  for the MPPI  at a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint because I dont think Santander gave them  
clear enough  information  about  the policy. I say this because the policy  wouldnt pay 
disability benefit  in connection  with medical  conditions that the customer had at the start date 
of the policy. 
I think this would have  mattered to Mrs W because between applying for the PPI and the 
policy start date she developed  a medical  condition which  wouldnt have been covered.  So 
she couldnt have  claimed on the policy for everything she expected to be covered.
I dont think Mr and Mrs W would have bought the PPI if theyd had enough information 
about the policy. So, I think Mr and Mrs W have  lost out because  of what the business  did 
wrong. 
Ive taken into account Santanders comments,  including what  it said about Mrs W not 
having the medical condition when she applied for the policy  in May 2002. Mrs W has told us 
her condition didnt  arise until June 2002.  
But the policy didnt  start until July 2002 when Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage completed.  Mrs W 
had the condition by then,  and the policy terms meant she wouldnt have been covered for 
disability benefit  in connection  with that condition. 
Santander says the policys exclusions for pre-existing medical  conditions  wouldve been 
discussed with Mr and Mrs W when they applied for it, and that the policy summary  included 
the same  information.
Im mindful, however, that the PPI summary  was likely to have been  presented  in addition to 
information about Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage   which was likely to have been  extensive.  So I 
havent been able to safely  conclude  that Santander drew  the exclusion for pre-existing 
Ref: DRN52055102medical conditions  to Mr and Mrs Ws attention. And theres  nothing  in the mortgage 
application to suggest that a discussion about the exclusion  took place.
On balance, I think its unlikely that Santander  pointed out the policys  exclusions to Mr and 
Mrs W when they applied  for the cover.  So I dont  think  they wouldve realised Mrs W wasnt  
covered in connection with her medical  condition when the policy  started in July 2002.
So I still think I should uphold the complaint.
what Santander should do to put things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs W in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs W the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs W made a successful  claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs W a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Santander  UK plc to pay compensation to 
Mr and Mrs W in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 March  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5205510