K821x#15complaint
Miss A has complained that Tesco Underwriting Limited unfairly avoided her car 
insurance policy after she submitted a claim for the theft of her car.
background
In February 2018  Miss A took possession  of a car that her son had arranged  for her on a 
personal contract hire plan. She took out a policy to cover it with Tesco. A couple of months 
later the car was stolen. Miss A made a claim for the theft under her policy. However, Tesco 
avoided her policy (treated it as if never existed) and refused her claim. Tesco pointed out 
that there were  several inconsistencies in Miss As original application for insurance.  The 
main issue  being  that she wasnt the registered  keeper of the car at the time she took out 
the policy. Miss A was able to satisfy Tesco that most of the inconsistencies were genuine 
mistakes. But there remained the issue of who the car was registered  to at the time the
policy was taken out.
Miss A explained  that the car was initially registered  to her son in error, but that she had 
subsequently transferred  the registration to herself. Miss A chased  the DVLA  for the 
registration document (V5). On receipt of it, Miss A sent a copy  to Tesco in August 
2018. Tesco  refused to change its stance. The avoidance remained in place and it 
refused to pay Miss As claim. Miss A has said this made it too expensive  for her to 
arrange alternative insurance,  so she couldnt drive  any cars that were  available  for her 
to use.
Miss A referred the matter  to us. One of our investigators enquiries revealed that the copy 
of the V5 received by Tesco contained  only the first page and this was barely readable.  The 
investigator arranged  for Tesco to have a full copy of the V5. At the end of October 2018
Tesco accepted  that Miss A was the registered  keeper  of the car when she took out 
the policy. It agreed  to reinstate her policy and pay her claim.
The investigator thought that Tesco  should  have done more in August  2018 and requested  
another copy of the V5 then. He said, if it had, the matter would  have been  resolved 
months earlier. The investigator said that Tesco should pay Miss A £750 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  shed  experience  because of its poor investigation. He also 
recommended Tesco  pay 8% simple interest (per annum) on the amount due on her claim 
from the day it received  the updated V5 document.
Tesco accepted  this outcome. But it accidentally paid Miss A the £750 twice. Originally, 
Miss A accepted the outcome as well. However, she has now explained  that she isnt happy 
with it. She has said that the impact of this event  on both her health  and her finances 
havent been adequately  taken into consideration. Miss A says that she suffers from, and 
receives treatment for, post-traumatic stress disorder  (PTSD).  She says that this matter  has 
had a devastating effect on her mental  health  and caused her to feel depressed.  She says 
she used annual leave  instead of sick leave, because she didnt want  to get in trouble at 
work for taking time off sick. Miss A says that her ability to earn overtime was also reduced 
because her mental health  and transport issues
Miss A says that all of this has also affected her ability to conduct her day-to-day activities.  
Miss A works nights and has had to use public transport, but this made her feel unsafe. She 
says her son had two cars she could use over a period  of seven  months. And, as she 
couldnt get insurance to drive  them,  they were made available to Miss As friends  and 
Ref: DRN51178152family to drive her around. At least one of these vehicles has received parking tickets, 
which Miss A thinks Tesco should  pay. Shes said she has also used taxis when no one 
was able to give her a lift.
Miss A has said that if all of this had been  taken into consideration, she would have been  
offered more compensation. With that in mind, Miss A asked for her complaint  to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 October. In this decision I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I currently intend  to 
uphold it.
All issues in respect  of possible misrepresentations that Miss A made  when she took out 
the policy have  been resolved and the policy has been reinstated.  And Tesco  has now 
settled Miss As claim.  If she is concerned in any way about the amount Tesco  has paid in 
settlement, she can make  a new complaint about  this.
This means  it remains for me to decide  whether Tesco was wrong to avoid Miss As policy 
and maintain its decision to do this when she complained. I also need to consider the way 
Tesco handled any misrepresentations under the policy it says Miss A made. This is 
because she made it quite clear in her complaint letter to Tesco she disputed  all the 
inaccuracies and felt they all contributed to Tescos  decision to avoid her policy. If I think 
Tesco got things  wrong, I also need to consider  what Miss A should receive for any 
financial losses, distress and inconvenience as a result of this. And also anything  else I 
think its appropriate for Tesco  to do to put things  right.
Miss A sent a copy of the first page  of the V5 document  to Tesco  with her complaint letter in 
August 2018.  And shed already explained to Tesco what had happened when her son 
bought the car for her about registering it. But, instead of asking for a full and clear copy of 
the V5, so it could check that Miss A was the registered keeper when she took possession 
of the car, Tesco maintained its decision to avoid the policy.  Bearing  in mind it had by this 
time resolved the other issues around  information  provided by Miss A when she took out the 
policy, I think it was wrong to maintain  its avoidance  and it should  have asked  Miss A to 
provide a full copy of the V5. It then would have realised it needed to reinstate the policy,  as 
the V5 did show Miss A as the registered keeper at the time she took possession of the car.
I can see why Tesco avoided  the policy originally, as despite  what  Miss A had said;  it did 
look like her son was the registered keeper when she took out the policy.  But, that doesnt 
alter the fact it should have been  in a position  to reinstate it and consider her claim by the 
14 August when it decided to maintain its avoidance. And I think Tesco should also have 
removed any reference of the avoidance  of Miss As policy from its records  and any 
external databases  in August 2018.
This means  until Tesco reinstated the policy and paid her claim Miss A was without  a car, 
despite payments  for it continuing, and suffered a great deal of distress and inconvenience. 
And I think  this was all as a result of Tescos error in not following up on the V5 when Miss 
A complained in August  2018.
Compensation to Miss A for the loss of use of her car
Ref: DRN51178153I would  have expected  Miss As claim to have been settled within two weeks  of Tesco  
agreeing to reinstate  her policy.  So I think it should  have reinstated her policy and paid 
her claim by the end of August 2018.
I accept Miss A was without a car she could drive  due to not being able to afford 
insurance with an avoided policy her record. So, she had no option but to take lifts, taxis 
and public transport.  She's sent receipts for some  of the taxi's  she's taken (total  £186), 
but - understandably - not for all of them. And I wouldnt expect her to have receipts for 
public transport.
So overall, I think  it's fair to allow something  for the loss of use of her car. In this case,  
bearing in mind Miss A's situation, I think an amount per day is fair, less the taxi costs  
Tesco has already paid, as I dont  think its appropriate for her to have both a payment for 
loss of use and an amount  for taxi fares. I also think that Miss A should be allowed an 
additional fourteen days to allow her to source,  arrange finance and purchase a 
replacement after the settlement amount was paid to the finance company.
So I think Tesco should pay this compensation for loss of use from 1 September 2018  to 
14 days after the date it paid the settlement to the finance company, less the £186 it has 
already paid for taxis.  It looks like Tesco paid the finance company in early December 
2018, which is just over two months  later than it would  have done if it had handled  Miss As 
case appropriately.
Its difficult to know  the exact amount it should pay per day, bearing in mind  the various 
ways Miss A travelled  around.  I note, however, Tesco has already made two payments of 
£750  and one of these was in error  - after our investigator said it should  pay her this 
amount as compensation for distress  and inconvenience. Loss of use is effectively  an 
inconvenience payment and  bearing in mind  the number of days Miss A was without a car 
as a result  of Tescos  error, I think a payment  of £750 is fair. So, I think  Tesco should allow  
Miss A to keep the additional £750 its paid her.
Parking tickets
At least one of the cars Miss A was able to use with the help of a driver attracted  parking 
tickets. I can understand that Miss A wanted to park these cars as close to home  as 
possible. She did have the option  to park further  away but instead took the risk of getting a 
parking ticket. Tesco  is obliged to compensate Miss A for any losses  that are a direct  
result of the way its handled  things  but Miss A is also expected to take reasonable steps 
to minimise those losses. So I dont think  it would be appropriate  for Tesco  to cover the 
cost of parking tickets.
Overtime
Miss A has supplied bank  statements and payslips for the ten months from March until 
November 2018.  They show that some months  she earned overtime  and others  she didnt. 
It is hard to know  for sure that any loss of overtime was just down to what  Tesco did wrong. 
Clearly, it would have  been a distressing time for Miss A. So, I have allowed for this in my 
overall award for distress  and inconvenience.  But I dont think a separate  award  for the loss 
of overtime  is appropriate.
Annual leave
Ref: DRN51178154I have seen that Miss A took a lot of annual leave days  off over a period of months after the 
theft of her car. And I have noted what she has said about this. However, I dont think 
theres sufficient evidence to show that she had to take annual  leave instead of taking time 
off sick. So, I dont  think its appropriate  to award  anything for this.
Compensation for additional finance  payments made on the car (plus interest at 8%)
The investigator thought that eight percent simple interest (per annum) on the amount due 
on Miss As claim from the day Tesco  received the updated V5 document  should be paid 
to Miss A. This was worked out to be £430.02  and has been paid by Tesco. Its very 
difficult to work out what Miss A has lost as a result  of finance payments continuing. So - 
overall Im satisfied eight  percent simple  on the claim payment is fair and reasonable way 
of compensating  her for the financial consequences of the late payment of the claim. And 
Im satisfied Tesco has paid an appropriate amount of interest.
I understand Miss A thought shed get eight percent of the claim payment. But this isnt what  
the investigator suggested  and that would only be right if Tesco had paid her claim a full 
year late. The idea of the interest is to compensate Miss A for being without money  she 
should have had for the period she was without it and for any additional interest  on finance
payments in the period  between when her claim should have been settled and when it was 
settled. I appreciate  payments for the car continued. Although with the agreement being in 
her sons  name, it doesnt look like Miss A was responsible for these payments. Plus, part 
of them  was to pay off the amount borrowed for the car. And this means Miss A and her 
son received the benefit as a result  of a lower settlement figure  from the finance company 
when Tesco settled  the claim.  And if Tesco paid the right amount  on her claim it will have 
stopped there being anything further due to the finance company. As Ive already 
explained, Miss A will need to make a new complaint about  what Tesco paid if shes  
unhappy about this and we can then look into this for her.
In summary, overall  Im satisfied the payment made by Tesco for interest is appropriate.
Additional premium for the wrong value  of Miss As car at inception
Tesco said when Miss A took out the policy she put the value of her car at £5,000  when it 
should have been £50,000. And when she made her claim and it discovered this it charged 
her an additional  premium of £795.  But Tesco has now explained that if Miss A provided 
the correct registration number their system  should have automatically worked out the 
value of her car. It seems she did give this over the telephone, albeit she may not have  
done when she first got a quote from one of the comparison sites.  So, I dont understand 
why Tesco  charged  Miss A an additional premium  if it already knew  the correct value of her 
car when  she took out the policy or should have  done. If Tesco offered covered at a 
premium knowing the correct value of Miss As car, I dont think  it was fair for them to 
charge her an additional premium when it later worked out it had got this wrong.  It entered  
into a contract with her knowing  the value her car and agreed  a premium, so it should 
honour that premium. So, I think Tesco should waive any extra premium it charged.
Tesco has queried  whether this issue  was part of Miss As complaint. But, as Ive already 
said, she complained  to Tesco by letter  about  all the discrepancies  it identified. And she 
sent us a copy of this letter when she asked us to consider her complaint. This means  I think 
we did need to investigate  this issue and I need to consider  it.
Ref: DRN51178155Tesco not wanting to provide a quote  for a new policy to Miss A.
When it reinstated Miss As policy Tesco said it wasnt willing to provide another policy for 
her. But its now said it will if I think it was wrong to avoid her policy. As Ive explained, I think 
its original decision to avoid was reasonable in the circumstances, but its decision not to 
reverse this when it dealt  with her complaint was unreasonable. So, bearing in mind Miss A 
has now shown she was always  meant to the be registered keeper of the car her son bought  
for her, I would expect Tesco to provide her with a policy moving forward  if she wants  it to, 
subject to its normal underwriting criteria. Again I think  this is part of the general concern 
shes raised about the way Tesco treated her after it avoided her policy, so I do need to 
consider it.
Compensation for distress  and inconvenience
I can see that the avoidance  of her policy by Tesco and them turning down her claim has 
been protracted process. Miss A has told us that she suffers  from PTSD and I have seen 
documentation to confirm that in August 2018 she was starting a course of treatment to help 
with this. Miss A said that this issue has had a devastating effect on her mental  health.  She 
has also told us that she has been  feeling depressed  and guilty. Miss A also says felt there  
was a stigma attached  to her because she had lost her independence and needed  to rely 
on friends and family. Also, Miss A has said the fact she had to use public transport had a 
very negative impact on her. This was not only inconvenient, but left her feeling unsafe and 
vulnerable.
I accept that Tescos inappropriate decision to maintain its avoidance of Miss As policy,  as 
a result of an inadequate  investigation, has had a very negative  effect on her and her ability  
to function as she had done before it happened. And, taking all this into consideration, I 
think it has had a much more significant  impact on Miss A because  of her mental health 
issues. Therefore, I think Tesco should  pay her a substantial amount of compensation. And I 
agree with our investigator that £750  is appropriate  based on the individual circumstances of 
Miss As case and the substantial impact Tescos  refusal to reinstate the policy  until 
December 2018  had on her. Im aware  that Tesco have already  paid £750  twice and Ive 
already explained that one of these  amounts can now be used to cover loss of use. So 
Tesco wont  need  to pay Miss A any further  compensation.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above,  Ive provisionally decided to uphold Miss As complaint 
and require Tesco Underwriting Limited do the following:
Remove any record of the avoidance  of Miss As policy  from internal and 
external databases  if its not done so already.
Waive the additional  premium it charged  Miss A for having  the wrong value for her 
car when she took out her policy and refund anything shes  paid towards  this.
It has already paid her an additional  £750 in error, so she should be allowed to keep 
this amount as the payment for loss of use.
Provide Miss A with a new insurance policy if she would like this, subject to its 
normal underwriting criteria.
I am satisfied the £750 and £186  payments Tesco Underwriting Limited has already paid for 
distress and inconvenience and taxi fares are fair and reasonable. And Im also satisfied 
Ref: DRN51178156that its agreement  to reinstate Miss As policy and settle her claim, plus interest  at eight 
percent simple on the claim  settlement amount  is fair and reasonable.
I gave both parties until 25 October to respond to my provisional decision. Tesco hasnt 
responded. Mrs A has responded  and made  the following points:
When she took out the policy  she was asked if she intended to be the registered  keeper 
of the vehicle she was insuring. And she answered  this question correctly,  as she did 
intend to be the registered keeper. And she wasnt asked to provide a copy  of the V5 
document at this time.  So, she doesnt  think Tesco should  have avoided her policy  in the 
first place.  Shes suggested this means  as a result of Tescos error   she was without a 
car for around 10 months. 
Her policy was voided as opposed  to avoided and she has described how this caused 
her problems  when  she was trying to obtain insurance for other cars. 
What Ive suggested as compensation for the additional finance payments her son made  
doesnt reflect the financial loss. And shes queried  why she has to make  a separate  
complaint about this. She also thinks she should get eight percent of the claim payment 
as it took Tesco  around a year to settle  her claim. 
Shes unhappy with my finding on the outstanding parking fines and feels she had little 
option but to park the cars near her home  for safetys sake, because of the high crime 
rates in the area. 
I have not awarded a separate  amount for the overtime she lost and I havent taken into 
account all the time she had to spend  as a result of Tescos allegations.
The amount  Ive awarded doesnt  reflect her financial  losses  or the level of distress and 
inconvenience she experienced. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mrs As comments about what she was asked when she took out the policy. And I 
can see why she said she intended  to be the registered keeper of the vehicle. But, my point 
is that this wasnt what  was on the V5 when  she made her claim. And  I still think   in view 
of this  Tescos original  decision  to avoid her policy was understandable. So my view 
remains that Tescos decision to avoid the policy originally was justified, but it did not act 
appropriately when  Mrs A provided  the revised V5 and  had it done so  it would have 
reinstated the policy at this point.
Tesco followed the relevant legislation when it avoided Mrs As policy  and this refers to 
avoiding a policy, as opposed to voiding it. Tesco may have  used the words voided  or void, 
but to all intents  and purposes it means the same thing to an insurance company. So 
whether her policy was referred to as voided or avoided,  it made  no difference to how Mrs A 
was treated or viewed by other insurers or insurance  brokers.  
I remain satisfied that the interest Tesco has already paid is appropriate  as compensation for 
any losses as a result of continuing  finance  payments. My reference  to Mrs A making a 
Ref: DRN51178157separate complaint is only if shes unhappy  with the way that Tesco  settle her claim. That is 
what it pays and/or how it pays it. It has nothing to do with the extra finance payments her 
son has made. Ive dealt with that as part of this complaint and I think what  Tesco  has paid 
in interest is fair and reasonable to cover any losses she has suffered.
I dont agree with Mrs A that Tesco is responsible for parking fine. And the reason  she and 
those helping her parked  cars in a controlled zone without the right permit doesnt change  
my view on this. 
I dont think its appropriate for me to make  a separate award for the overtime Mrs A has said 
she lost as a result  of the issues flowing from Tescos errors. I have allowed a significant  
amount in compensation for distress and inconvenience and this takes into account the 
frustration Mrs A experienced  in not being able to do as much  as she would have liked. But, I 
dont think it is fair to make Tesco pay anything  specifically  for loss of overtime, as I dont 
think it can be clearly shown  to be directly linked to the errors it made. 
I remain satisfied what Ive allowed in compensation for distress,  inconvenience  and any 
financial losses Mrs A has suffered is fair and reasonable for the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision. And, while Ive noted  what Mrs A has said, my view on this remains the 
same. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above  and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Miss As complaint 
and require Tesco Underwriting Limited do the following:
Remove any record of the avoidance  of Miss As policy  from internal and 
external databases,  if it has not done  so already.
Waive the additional  premium it charged  Miss A for having  the wrong value for her 
car when she took out her policy and refund anything shes  paid towards  this. This 
means it will need to refund this if shes paid either  as lump sum or in instalments.
Allow Miss A to keep the additional £750  paid in error as compensation for loss of 
use.
Provide Miss A with a new insurance policy if she would like this, subject to its 
normal underwriting criteria.
Just to clarify, I am satisfied the £750  and £186  payments Tesco  Underwriting Limited has 
already paid for distress and inconvenience  and taxi fares are fair and reasonable. And Im 
also satisfied that its agreement to reinstate  Miss As policy  and settle her claim, plus 
interest at eight percent  simple on the claim settlement  amount  is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5117815