K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Secure Trust Bank plc, trading as Moneyway, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr D under a hire purchase agreement with Moneyway that he 
signed in July 2017. The car was about  seven years old and had been driven for nearly 
70,000 miles. Mr D says that he returned  the car to the dealer within 30 days because it was 
overheating. The dealer says that the car wasnt returned to it until September  2017 when it 
was repaired under warranty - but Mr D says that the faults continued. He complained to 
Moneyway in March  2018 about  the issues with the car but wasnt satisfied with its response  
so complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She said that there had 
been two attempts to fix the car which had proved  unsuccessful so she said that Mr D had 
the right to reject the car. And she recommended that Moneyway should  collect the car, end 
the agreement, refund  Mr Ds monthly payments from July 2018 and his deposit (all with 
interest) and pay him £250  for the trouble and upset caused.
Moneyway has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  It has provided  
the dealers response  to the adjudicators recommendations  which  says, in summary and 
amongst other things,  that:
the first fault occurred  over two months  and 2,530 miles after purchase;
the fault was fixed in September 2017;
if the car was unfit for purpose it wouldnt be capable of doing 2,530 miles over two 
months and a further 5,709 miles over the following eight months;
it wasnt asked to and didnt service the car; and
Mr D wasnt  advised not to drive the car. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr D and the dealer give very different 
accounts of what  has happened. Where the evidence  is incomplete, inconclusive  or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in 
other words, what I consider is most  likely to have  happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Moneyway, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring  that the car was of 
satisfactory quality. That will depend  on a number of factors,  including the age, and mileage 
of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mr D was about 
seven years old, had been driven  for nearly  70,000 miles and had a price  of £4,595. 
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within  the car 
must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that time is will 
depend on a number of factors. 
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that the car was overheating within  a few months of 
being supplied  to Mr D. He returned  the car to the dealer  in September  2017  and it was 
repaired under  warranty. The dealer  has provided an explanation of that repair  - but Mr D 
says that it didnt remedy the fault and the car continued to overheat.  
Ref: DRN57451912He complained to Moneyway in March  2018  and he says that he stopped using the car in 
April 2018. He says that he was told by another garage that he should no longer use the car 
 but Ive seen  no other evidence to show that he was told not to use it. He then made a 
statutory off-road notification about  the car in July 2018 and hasnt used it since. 
Moneyway arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent  expert in December  
2018. The inspection  report  shows  that the cars  mileage at that time was 77,572 miles. The 
report concludes that:  this car is overheating with or without  air con. With air con it does 
rise slightly quicker but this is just down to a heavier draw needed from the engine  to also 
run the air con unit.
So Mr D returned the car to the dealer because it was overheating within a few months  of it 
being supplied  to him. The car was repaired but Mr D says that the car has continued to 
overheat so he complained to Moneyway in March  2018. He says that he stopped using the 
car in April 2018 because it was overheating  and he made an off-road declaration in July 
2018. Im not persuaded that its likely that he wouldve done so unless  there was a 
significant issue with the car. 
The car was inspected in December 2018 and the report concludes  that the car is over-
heating. I consider it to be more likely than not that there was a fault either  present or 
developing with the car when it was supplied to Mr D that has caused it to overheat.  Its 
continued to overheat despite the repairs that have  been made and the inspection  report  
confirms that its still overheating. So I consider it to be more likely than not that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory when it was supplied to Mr D.
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Moneyway to accept 
Mr Ds rejection of the car. So I consider that it should end the hire purchase agreement and 
collect the car from him. The invoice and agreement show  that Mr D paid a cash  deposit of 
£500 for the car. I consider that it should  refund to him that deposit and the monthly  
payments that hes made under the agreement since the car was declared off-road in July 
2018 (all with interest). Mr D was able to use the car from July 2017  and hes driven nearly 
8,000 miles in it. I consider that Moneyway can keep the payments that he made from July 
2017 until he made the off-road declaration for the use that hes had from the car.
These events have caused  Mr D considerable distress and inconvenience as hes not been 
able to use his car and hes been paying  for a car that he hasnt used. I find that it would be 
fair and reasonable for Moneyway to pay him £250  to compensate him for that distress and 
inconvenience.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint. And I order  Secure Trust 
Bank plc, trading as Moneyway, to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected from Mr D  
both at no cost to him.
2.Refund to Mr D the deposit  of £500 that he paid for the car. 
3.Refund to Mr D the monthly  payments  that hes made under the agreement since 
July 2018.
Ref: DRN574519134.Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple  from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
5.Pay £250 to Mr D to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Moneyway to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 4 above. Moneyway must  give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5745191