K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains about a hire purchase  (HP) agreement  she took out with  
Black Horse  Limited (Black  Horse).
Mrs J is represented in this complaint by her husband Mr J. However, for ease, I will refer to 
any submissions made  by Mr J as if they had been  made by Mrs J.
background
Mrs J submits that:
On 19 October 2018 she, Mr J and her extended family went  to a caravan park,  run 
and managed by a company that I will call P, with their touring  caravan for a 
holiday. 
On 23 October 2018 she and Mr J attended  the site office  to enquire about acquiring  
a static caravan.
On 25 October 2018 she and Mr J found a static caravan they were interested in 
acquiring.
On 25 October 2018 Mrs Js son paid £1,000 to P. Mrs J says this was required by P 
to hold her and Mr Js choice of static  caravan  and to clear, in due course,  the 
outstanding finance  on her and Mr Js touring caravan which  they were  looking to 
part exchange  against  the static caravan.
On 1 November  2018 she and Mr J returned to the site to drop off their touring 
caravan in part exchange for the static caravan. And when doing so they were 
presented with various documents  to sign and which  they were  told would be given to 
them on 10 November 2018.
On 10 November 2018 she and Mr J went back to the site for a first weekend in their 
static caravan where they were  given copies of all the documents  she and Mr J were 
asked to sign on 1 November 2018.
Black Horse  submits that:
On 24 October 2018 P generated a HP agreement for the acquisition of Mrs Js (and 
Mr Js) choice  of static caravan, but this document wasnt at this point in time signed.
On 5 November  2018 Mrs J telephoned it to clarify a few things so the HP agreement  
could be approved.
On 5 November  2018 the HP agreement  was approved and a further copy sent to 
Mrs J dated 5 November 2018.
On 6 November  2018 it released the HP agreement finance  to P.
On 7 November  2018 Mrs J called it to change  the HP agreement  payment date to 
25 of each month, a request that it agreed to.
Ref: DRN51648522On 10 November 2018 Mrs J (and Mr J) were  given a welcome pack by P which 
included, amongst other things, details of their right to cancel their static caravan 
acquisition within 30 days.
Based on what both parties  have provided:
A HP agreement was signed by Mrs J dated  1 November 2018.
A second HP agreement was generated (but not signed) dated 5 November 2018.
A document was signed  (but not dated) by Mrs J and P to confirm that Mrs J had 
been provided with:
oa pre-contract credit information document
oa pre-contractual explanation document
odetails about  her financial obligations  under the HP agreement
A customer proposal form and an income and expenditure details form was signed 
(but not dated) by Mrs J.
A holiday home purchase agreement was signed by Mrs J, Mr J and P dated 
10 November 2018.
A holiday home pitch agreement was signed  by Mrs J, Mr J and P dated 
10 November 2018.
A confirmation of the small print document was signed by Mrs J, Mr J and P dated 
10 November 2018.
A confirmation of holiday and recreational use document was signed Mrs J, Mr J and 
P dated 10 November  2018.
In late December 2018 Mrs J complained  to Black Horse that:
She was pressured  into signing the HP agreement (and holiday home purchase 
agreement) by a salesman who no longer works  at the site.
The HP agreement  is in her sole name. This is incorrect and something she never 
agreed to.
One or more of the documents produced as evidence have been tampered  with.
P misled her resulting in her being unable to withdraw from the HP agreement  and/or 
holiday home purchase agreement.
She was advised  by P that there  would  be no site fees,  or charges, until 2020. This is 
incorrect and she is required to pay 2018/2019 site fees of approximately  £7,000.
Affordability checks werent carried out and the monthly HP agreement  repayments 
are more  than she can afford.
Ref: DRN51648523There was a delay  in the finance  on the touring caravan she and Mr J had part 
exchanged for the static caravan being settled.
There were  a number of issues with the static caravan which  havent been  
addressed, or repaired, by P.
P sent her details  pertaining to another holiday home owner. 
Black Horse  considered Mrs Js complaint and said, in summary, that it had found no 
evidence to support  her various claims.
After receiving Black Horses response to her complaint, not upholding it, Mrs J referred it to 
our service  for investigation. 
Mrs Js complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that it shouldnt 
be upheld.
Mrs J didnt agree with the investigators conclusions so her complaint has been passed to 
me for review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Its clear Mrs J has very strong feelings  about this complaint. She has provided detailed 
submissions in support  of her view which I can confirm  Ive read and considered  in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mrs J will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every  point  raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also like to point  out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive  or 
contradictory, I make my decision on the balance of probabilities - that is, what  I consider is 
most likely to have happened given the evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Mrs J has made a number of complaint points, which for ease I will address in the same 
order as they have been listed  earlier in this decision.
Mrs J was pressured into signing the HP agreement (and holiday home purchase 
agreement) by a salesman who no longer works  at the site
Based on what both parties  have said and submitted Ive simply seen insufficient  evidence to 
conclude that Mrs J was pressured into signing any of the documents that she did. I say this 
given, amongst other things, the time between Mrs J first showing an interest in acquiring the 
static caravan she ultimately  did and the date on which the various documents were signed 
and dated and the  HP agreement funds  being  released by Black Horse  to P.
I would also add that I dont find the fact that the salesman now works at a different  site, run 
and managed by P, to be particularly suspicious or unusual.
Ref: DRN51648524the HP agreement is in Mrs Js sole name. This is incorrect and something she never agreed 
to.
I accept that the purchase agreement is in the joint names of Mrs J and Mr J and the 
HP agreement is in the sole name  of Mrs J. But this isnt unusual.  Furthermore,  I think that in 
the particular circumstances  of this case it could  and should have been apparent to Mrs J 
that she, and only she, was asked to sign the HP agreement and that the agreement  was 
headed up in her sole name, and not the joint names of her and Mr J.
one or more of the documents produced as evidence have been  tampered with
Based on what both parties  have said and submitted Ive simply seen insufficient  evidence to 
conclude that any of the documents that have been produced as evidence have been  
tampered with. However,  I accept  that its entirely  plausible that a number of documents 
dated 10 November  2018 were signed  by Mrs J (and where relevant Mr J) on 
1 November 2018 and the recorded  date of 10 November 2018 reflects  the date the same  
documents were  signed by P.
P misled Mrs J resulting  in her being unable to withdraw from the HP agreement and/or 
holiday home purchase agreement
First Ive seen insufficient  evidence to conclude that Mrs J was misled by P in such  a way 
that she was unable to withdraw from the HP agreement and/or  the holiday home purchase 
agreement. 
But even if I wasnt of the above  view,  the signing of a customer proposal form and an 
income and expenditure details form by Mrs J, whenever the same  was completed, didnt  
commit her to either acquiring  the static  caravan  or financing the same by way of an HP 
agreement. And in my view Mrs J should  have reasonably been aware this was the case.
So this leads  me to conclude  that the earliest Mrs J could have reasonably understood she 
might be committed  to both the static  caravan  acquisition and a HP agreement for the same 
(despite the HP agreement not coming into effect until 5 November 2018 and the holiday 
home purchase agreement not coming into effect until 10 November 2018) was on 
1 November 2018 when she submits that she was asked to sign a number of documents.
But given that Mrs J says she was aware of the full extent of what  she had signed  on 
10 November 2018, it follows she still had the opportunity to withdraw from the HP 
agreement under the 14 day right of withdrawal.
I will now turn to Mrs Js (and Mr Js) right to withdraw from the holiday home purchase 
agreement.
Now I accept I cant say for certain that Mrs J wasnt given her 30 day withdrawal rights from 
P. But having considered what both parties  have said and submitted very carefully Im 
satisfied that on the balance  of probabilities  that she was and that she was provided  with 
these rights on 10 November 2018.  
So as well as concluding that Mrs J could and should have reasonably  been aware on 
10 November 2018 that she could withdraw  from her HP agreement she should have also 
reasonably been aware that she could  withdraw  from the purchase agreement.
Ref: DRN51648525Mrs J was advised by P that there would be no site fees, or charges,  until 2020. This was 
incorrect and she was required  to pay 2018/2019  site fees of approximately  £7,000
Having considered the various documents that have been provided,  in particular the holiday 
home purchase agreement, Im satisfied that Mrs J would  have  been  fully aware that there 
were 2018  and 2019 site fees to be paid and the cost of these were rolled up into the overall  
price of the caravan.
Mrs J says that the first time she saw the detailed costs of the caravan acquisition (including  
site fees for 2018 and 2019) was 10 November 2018 when  she was provided  with the 
various documents she had signed on 1 November 2018. 
But even if I was to accept what Mrs J  says on this point, its my view, given what Ive 
concluded elsewhere in this decision, that she could  have queried these and in the event 
she remained unhappy cancelled  both the purchase  agreement and the HP agreement.
affordability checks werent carried out and the monthly HP agreement  repayments are more  
than Mrs J can afford
Black Horse,  under the relevant regulations and guidance, needed to take reasonable steps  
to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried  
out proportionate checks to make  sure Mrs J could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
I dont under estimate Mrs Js strength of feeling on this particular point. I also want  to make 
clear that Ive considered very carefully everything that she has submitted regarding her and 
Mr Js financial  position at the material time including what  was her and Mr Js income, what  
their respective outgoings were and in to which bank account various income  was paid and 
why.
But ultimately I think that Black Horse  carried out sufficient checks to satisfy  itself that it was 
entirely appropriate to make the advance that Mrs J was seeking, checks that (amongst  
other things)  didnt  identify any adverse  records or any undeclared credit outgoings against, 
or in the name of, Mrs J. And that the monthly cost of the finance  being applied for was only 
approximately £60 more  than the existing  credit outgoing declared  by Mrs J and which,  
everything else being equal,  was to be cleared very shortly and against which (for at least six 
years) there  had been no missed payments.
there was a delay  in the finance  on a caravan Mrs J and Mr J part exchanged  for their static 
caravan being  settled
Its my understanding that this point isnt in dispute.  But Ive seen no evidence that this delay 
caused Mrs J a financial loss, or at least a loss that hasnt been compensated for 
retrospectively. So although I accept that this issue would have caused Mrs J a degree of 
distress and inconvenience Im not persuaded it would be appropriate for me to direct Black  
Horse to do anything in this respect.
Ref: DRN51648526there were a number  of issues with the caravan which havent been addressed, or repaired, 
by P
Its my understanding that this point isnt in dispute,  but these issues  have now been 
addressed or repaired. So although  I accept that this issue  would have caused Mrs J a 
degree of distress and inconvenience Im not persuaded it would be appropriate for me to 
direct Black Horse to do anything  in this respect.  
P sent Mrs J details pertaining to another holiday home owner
I accept that Mrs J has provided our service  with a document pertaining  to another  customer 
of P. But even I if was to accept this was sent to Mrs J by P this doesnt constitute a breach 
of her personal data.  Furthermore, I dont think it would be fair or appropriate  to hold Black 
Horse liable for this in any event.
Given what I say above, Im satisfied that in the particular circumstances of this case  
Black Horse  has done nothing wrong.  But having  said that, I would remind Black Horse  of its 
obligations to treat Mrs J positively and sympathetically if she is now in financial difficulties.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2020.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5164852