K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs C bought the policy in 1997 at the same  time as taking out a charge card.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint because:
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Cs application form. Its not of the best quality, but mostly 
legible. Section  5 is headed  PAYMENT  PROTECTOR. Theres  a statement that, it 
appears, states; We strongly recommend you take cover  by ticking the box  the 
box has been ticked and Mrs C has signed the overall application   so I think  this 
indicates what she wanted.
Mrs C has said;  I completed the form in store and was strongly  advised  to take out 
the cover  without any questions relating to my financial situation Whilst I accept 
that Mrs C may have ticked the box because of the above statement, I cant fairly  say 
that the PPI wasnt  presented as optional  and separate to the credit Mrs C was taking 
out. 
Ive also noted  that in Mrs Cs initial complaint to the business, in a questionnaire 
dated 17 June  2018, Mrs C has answered  DONT  RECALL  to a series of questions  
relating to her recollections of the sale. It was later that Mrs C has provided a lot 
more detail to her recollections. In an email dated  28 January 2019,  Mrs C has given 
a detailed recollection of the sale including that this was the approach 
communicated by the member of Staff in the M & S store at the time. 
On balance, I think its more likely  than not that Allianz made Mrs C aware that she 
had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that she chose to take it. Given  that this sale 
took place over 20 years ago, it wouldnt be reasonable to expect  Mrs C to clearly  
recall every  detail from the sale now. 
Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did still have to give Mrs C good  enough information about  the PPI so that 
she could decide if she wanted  to take the policy out. 
For example, its possible  the information Allianz gave Mrs C about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But Mrs C doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her 
Ref: DRN56665092circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been useful to her. So I dont think  
better information wouldve stopped her buying  it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Cs comments,  including what shes said about  not needing PPI 
because of her existing means  for making  her repayments if she was made unemployed or  
was unwell and unable to work. 
But the PPI policy would  have paid out for longer than Mrs Cs savings would likely have 
lasted if Mrs C was relying  on them to make her repayments - given the details that have 
been recorded about her salary on her application form. 
Ive also noted  what Mrs C has said about  being in a secure  job. But nobody  can accurately 
predict the future and having  the PPI policy would help protect  Mrs Cs financial positon if 
she was to experience  an unexpected change in circumstances such  as being made 
unemployed.
As our adjudicator has already explained,  Allianz arent a lender and any complaint about 
commission paid needs to be raised  with the lender of the credit.
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5666509