K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Santander UK Plc didnt do enough to help her when she lost money 
as the result of a scam.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a
brief summary here. In January 2019 Mrs S was unfortunately the victim of a scam.  She was 
in the process  of purchasing a property and received an email from her solicitors   who Ill 
refer to as A, requesting a deposit  payment of £40,600. 
On 14 January 2019 Mrs S made five payments totalling £40,600 from her bank  account  
with bank N to the account  details provided in the email. Mrs S was unaware  at the time As 
email had been intercepted and the account details changed. The funds credited a 
scammers account, rather  than As account as she intended. The receiving bank account 
was a Santander account.
As soon  as Mrs S became aware of this, she informed A and N  both of whom contacted 
Santander in an attempt to recover the funds from the beneficiary account. But by the time 
this happened, all of Mrs Ss funds had already been transferred out of the account.
Mrs S was unhappy and thinks  Santander should  refund  her as it; 
did not check account details on receipt of funds;
allowed a fraudster  to open and operate an account;
did not identify  the payments as unusual;  
failed to freeze the account on receipt of her funds; and 
failed to pro-actively  contact N to make  enquires given the suspicious nature of the 
account operation.  
Mrs S with the help of A raised a complaint with Santander and having not received a 
satisfactory response later brought her complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
thought there were  limits as to how much of the complaint we could consider under the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) rules. And for what we can consider, he didnt think the 
complaint should  be upheld.  
Mrs S didnt accept this and so the complaint came to me for a decision.
Part of Mrs Ss objections were about  our services  jurisdiction, I wrote to Mrs S explaining  in 
some detail the limits on which parts of her complaint we can consider and why. 
In short,  I said the changes made  to our rules on 31 January  2019  that allow me to consider  
a wider range of complaints  about  the actions of a business receiving payments like this, 
dont apply in Mrs Ss circumstances as her payments were made before the rules  came into 
effect.
I clarified Im limited  to considering only those  aspect of her complaint which  relate to 
Santanders obligations under regulation  90(3) of the Payment Services  Regulations 2017. 
This regulation says:
The payees payment  service provider must co-operate  with the payers  payment service
Ref: DRN58899932provider in its efforts to recover  the funds, in particular  by providing to the payers payment
service provider all the relevant  information  for the collection of the funds.
Following this Mrs S agreed  for me go ahead and consider the aspects of her complaint I do 
have the power  to look into. Taken as a whole, the impact of the above  regulation  means 
that I can consider  if Santander have co-operated with N, to try to help it recover  the funds 
on behalf of its customer  Mrs S. So below I have considered whether it did.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, there is not much I can 
add to what the investigator  has already  said about how Santander  co-operated with N in its 
efforts to recover Mrs Ss funds. 
Santander have  shown all the funds Mrs S paid into the beneficiary  account were removed 
by the beneficiary  on the same day they arrived  14 January 2019. And that by the time N 
made it aware there  was a problem on 21 January 2019 none of Mrs Ss funds  remained to 
be returned. 
I can also see in an attempt to recover Mrs Ss funds Santander did contact the second-
generation bank  to whom the funds  were paid away by the beneficiary  but it was informed 
no funds remained.  
Taking all of the above into consideration, I dont think there is evidence to support that 
Santander failed  to co-operate with N. And in this case, even if there were evidence of such 
a failure, Im not persuaded it would have made a difference to Mrs Ss ability to recover her 
funds as they had already been withdrawn prior to Santander being  made  aware there was a 
problem. Im satisfied that Santander have acted fairly in the circumstances. So Im not 
upholding this complaint or making  an award.  
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 July 2020.
Sonal Matharu
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5889993