K820x#14Complaint
Mrs C complains that J.P.Morgan Europe  Limited  (trading as The Post Office) wont  refund 
disputed transactions  made on her account.  Mrs C says she didnt carry out the transactions.
Background
Mrs C had an account with The Post Office.
Between 31 December  2017 and 29 January 2018, Mrs Cs card was used to withdraw 
£6,075.00 from her account.
Mrs C has said that on 24 December 2017  she went to the Post office. As she wasnt  feeling 
very well, she authorised a family member (who  Ill refer to as X) to draw money out of her 
Post Office  account  while she stayed in the car.
To do so, Mrs C gave X her Post Office card and her PIN. X gave Mrs C the money theyd 
withdrawn. Mrs C told the Post Office she couldnt  be sure whether  X gave her the card 
back.
Some weeks later, Mrs C went  to use her Post Office card - but discovered it was missing.  
So, she contacted  the Post Office. They said a large  number of withdrawals had been  made  
leaving her account  with less than £100  balance.
Mrs C complained to The Post Office. The Post Office said it wouldnt refund Mrs C because 
it considered shed been grossly negligent in allowing  somebody  else to use her card (to 
make the original authorised withdrawal).
Mrs C contacted the police. X admitted theyd taken the money.  Following a criminal 
prosecution X was found guilty of the offence  and is awaiting sentencing.
Mrs C was unhappy with the Post Offices response, so she contacted our service.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She said The Post Office should refund 
Mrs C because Mrs C hadnt been grossly negligent.  She thought it was reasonable to ask a 
family member to get money  for Mrs C if she wasnt feeling well.
The investigator said the Post Office should refund  Mrs C the money  that was taken out of 
her account,  award  interest on that money and £200 for the upset caused by not 
investigating things  properly.
The Post Office didnt  agree. In summary, it repeated its view that Mrs C had been grossly  
negligent because  she couldnt be sure she had got her card back  and she hadnt checked 
for nearly  a month if she still had the card. The Post Office also disagreed  with Mrs C being 
awarded interest as the account  didnt  pay interest.
The investigator responded to The Post Offices concerns, she said:
She thought  it likely that Mrs C had got the card back with the money because she 
would have remembered if she hadnt  as it would have been an unusual occurrence.
She thought  that if X had kept the card, they would have used it on the 27 December 
2017 instead of waiting until 31 December  to start using it.
Ref: DRN54778742Mrs C had no reason to check to see if the card was still in her purse as she had put 
it there and had no reason to believe that X would  have taken the card.
X was staying with Mrs C from October 2017  until January 2018 so had the 
opportunity to withdraw cash  during  January 2018.
The interest award was there to recognise  that Mrs C had been deprived of her 
money.
As there was no agreement the matter has come  to me to decide.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
Generally, the Post Office  can hold Mrs C liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence  
suggests its more  likely  than not, she made or authorised  them herself.
I am satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mrs Cs genuine card and PIN were 
used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is 
not, on its own enough to enable The Post Office to hold Mrs C liable. So, I also need to 
think about whether  the evidence suggests  its more  likely than not Mrs C consented to the 
disputed transactions  being made.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its reasonable for The Post Office  to conclude Mrs C 
authorised the transactions. I say this because:
Mrs C told the Post Office that she couldnt  remember whether her card was returned 
to her by X on 24 December 2017.  But in her evidence to us she has said that her 
card was returned to her and she put it back in her purse which  was kept in her bag. I 
think its most likely  that the card was returned  to Mrs C as Id expect her to notice  if it 
wasnt. I also think that X would have  started using it sooner had they had the card in 
their possession  from 24 December 2017.
Mrs C has always maintained that she didnt authorise the transactions,  her story has 
been consistent and plausible throughout.
Mrs C reported the card as lost without delay when she went to carry out her regular 
cash withdrawal.
She suspected  X and reported  them to the police.
X have  admitted they carried  out the withdrawals and have been prosecuted  and 
found guilty of the offence
As Ive mentioned,  I think  it more likely that Mrs C got her card back. And the card was taken 
later by X without Mrs Cs authority in order to carry out the fraud. So, I am satisfied  that Mrs 
C didnt authorise  the transactions.
The Bank has said Mrs C is responsible for the loss because she allowed X access to her 
card and PIN.
The Payment Service Regulations (PSRs) place  an obligation on the customer to keep their 
security credentials safe. These obligations should also be outlined  in the terms and 
conditions of the account. I have checked the terms and conditions of Mrs Cs account and 
Ref: DRN54778743these obligations  are outlined in 2.1 (a) and 2.2 (a), so I am satisfied that she was aware of 
them.
Mrs C has told The Post Office and our service  that she gave X her card and PIN. Mrs Cs 
said that she has never given her card or PIN to anyone  before and she only did it that time 
because she was feeling too unwell  to go into the Post Office herself.
The PSRs  say a business may be able to hold a consumer liable for transactions they didnt 
authorise if they failed  with intent to comply with their legal  obligations and that has allowed 
the disputed transaction to take place.
In this case when  Mrs C gave her PIN to X, she failed to keep her security credentials safe 
and this made it possible for X to carry out the fraud  on the account at a later date. Because  
of this The Post Office  are entitled to hold Mrs C liable  for the disputed  transactions.
I realise Mrs C was in a difficult situation when she felt unwell on her visit to The Post Office  
and I understand  why she provided X with her PIN. I am very sorry that Mrs C has found 
herself in this situation.
I appreciate this will be a very big disappointment  to Mrs C. but looking at all the evidence  I 
think Mrs C has failed with intent to look after her security details. And shes  breached the 
terms and conditions of her account. It follows that The Post Office is entitled to hold Mrs C 
liable for the disputed transactions.
So subject to any further representations by Mrs C and The Post office I was minded to 
reject the complaint
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs C has said she felt the bank could have looked into the disputed transactions 
sooner had it noticed the location of the withdrawals were not in line  with her usual  
activity.
The Post Office have  said they have nothing further  to add. 
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in the light of Mrs Cs response to it.
I would like to thank  Mrs C for her comments, and I appreciate that this is a very difficult  set 
of circumstances  for her. 
I want to reassure her that I have  taken into consideration her comments. I agree that 
Mrs Cs usual pattern was to go into a particular branch of The Post Office  to withdraw her 
cash and that X used  other venues and ATM withdrawals mainly, to access  Mrs Cs money.  I 
have considered whether the Post office  should have done more. I think it isnt realistic  to 
expect their system to trigger  concerns if a withdrawal  is made  at a different location or an 
ATM different  to one usually used by a customer.  Also, I am aware the amounts withdrawn  
each time were small.  So, although I agree the withdrawals  were not a usual pattern for 
Mrs C, I can see why they wouldnt  have  triggered any alerts. So, I dont  think  there is 
Ref: DRN54778744anything the Post Office could have done in this case to prevent X from making the 
withdrawals. 
For all these reasons and the reasons  outlined  in my provisional  decision, my view on what 
the fair and reasonable outcome on this case  is, remains  the same as set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5477874