K821x#15complaint
Mr D says Elevate Credit International Limited trading as Sunny irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about five payday loans Sunny provided to Mr D between  February  2018  
and June 2018. Mr Ds borrowing  history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 02/02/2018 29/06/2018 6 £100.00 £31.75
2 11/02/2018 29/06/2018 6 £150.00 £76.37*
3 08/04/2018 29/06/2018 6 £50.00 £92.14*
4 01/05/2018 29/06/2018 6 £50.00 £108.81*
5 29/06/2018 outstanding 6 £250.00 £83.33
*Please note that this represents the highest  contractual repayments due when these loans 
were opened  alongside  previous outstanding loans.
An adjudicator reviewed the case and didnt think Sunny needed  to do more  when it gave  
Mr D loans 1-3. But she thought that loans 4 and 5 shouldnt have been  given  to Mr D due to 
his existing borrowing. Sunny disagreed with the view but made a good will offer for loans 4 
and 5. However this offer didnt include 8% simple interest. The offer was put to Mr D but he 
chose not to accept  it.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the case was passed to me  an ombudsman   for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mr D could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages
of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. But certain factors might point  to the fact that Sunny should  fairly and
reasonably have done more able for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ref: DRN56290722the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Sunny  needed to do any more  when it lent Mr D loan 1 to 3. Mr D 
didnt disagree  with this so I wont  be making further  findings on these loans, but I have 
considered them when looking at Mr Ds borrowing history and his financial situation overall. 
I can see Sunny has made  an offer on loans 4 and 5, but this offer was not completely in line 
with the adjudicators recommended  steps for putting  things right. I think  Sunny  shouldnt 
have given Mr D loans  4 and 5 and should put things right as set out by the adjudicator.  Ill 
explain why.
Sunny says it carried out adequate checks on Mr D when he applied for loans  4 and 5. This 
included verifying  his income. It also says that the highest amount Mr D was given was £250 
and Mr D was left with sufficient disposable  income. 
I can see from evidence submitted by Sunny that it did carry out checks  on Mr D. However,  I 
think if Sunny had properly considered Mr Ds financial situation and the lending I think  it 
would have seen  that loans 4 and 5 shouldnt have  been  given. 
I say this because  Mr D had 3 existing loans with Sunny when he applied for loan 4.  Loans 
1 and 2 were taken  out in quick succession and then loans  3 and 4 were taken out within a 
month of each other. When Mr D applied  for loan 4 I think  Sunny ought to have been looking 
to build up a clearer  picture of Mr Ds financial situation before lending to him again. 
Especially as each  loan was to be repaid over six instalments.
By loan 5 Mr D was requesting a significantly larger amount - £250 - and it looks  as though  
Mr D was consolidating his previous loans when  he took out this loan.  This shows  Mr D was 
having issues managing his finances and he was not in a position  to take on this borrowing 
and repay  it sustainably. And this is supported by the fact loan 5 remains outstanding.
Ref: DRN56290723putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do 
Sunny shouldnt have given Mr D loans 4 and 5.
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back  if it is able to do so
and then take the following steps. If Sunny is unable to buy the debts back then it should
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results outlined  below.
A) Sunny  should  add together  the total of the repayments  made by Mr D towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld  loans  without an outstanding balance,  not including  anything 
Sunny has already refunded.
B) Sunny  should  calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual  payments made by Mr D 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr D originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Sunny should  remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on any upheld
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr D as though they had been
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr D having made 
overpayments then Sunny should  refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest*
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the
date the complaint is settled. Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus
then the surplus  should be paid to Mr D. However  if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Sunny should  try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr D.
E) Sunny  should  remove any adverse information  you have recorded on Mr Ds credit file
in relation to loans 4 and 5. If Sunny has sold any of the loans it should ask the debt
purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  you to deduct tax from this interest.  Mr D should give Mr D a 
certificate showing  how much tax Sunny has deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ds complaint.  Elevate  Credit  International 
Limited should put things right for Mr D as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Mr D to accept or reject  my decision 
before 26 April 2020.
Chandni Green
Ref: DRN56290724ombudsman
Ref: DRN5629072