K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Lloyds Bank  plc (trading  as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 2009, in connection with a 
mortgage that Mr and Mrs O arranged in 2005. The policy provided cover  for Mr O if he 
couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider  is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Os case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
- If Lloyds gave  any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Os needs?
- Did Lloyds give Mr and Mrs O the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether Mr 
and Mrs O are worse  off as a result.  That is, would  they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs O say they dont remember taking out the PPI, and that they didnt know  it had 
been added  to their account. Ive noted everything  theyve said.
But Lloyds has provided a copy of the application form that Mr O completed  and signed  to 
apply for the policy. So it seems Mr O was aware of the policy, although  I can understand he 
might have forgotten about it as its a number of years since the sale.
Im also mindful that the PPI was sold several  years after Mr and Mrs O arranged  their 
mortgage. So I think they wouldve realised the PPI was optional.
Overall, from what Ive seen, I think Lloyds made Mr and Mrs O aware that they had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that they decided to take out the cover.
Ref: DRN58124022Lloyds advised  Mr and Mrs O to take out the policy and it doesnt  look like it was unsuitable  
for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
- Mr O was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
- Mr O was self-employed so he wasnt entitled to any sick pay. But he says he and 
Mrs O had some savings.  Having  the policy in place wouldve meant Mr and Mrs O 
could use their savings  to pay for other  expenses. So I think Mr and Mrs O wouldve 
had some use for the policy,  despite  their existing  arrangements.  
- Even though  Mr O was self-employed,  it wouldnt have been any more  difficult  for 
him to make  a successful unemployment claim on the policy than it wouldve been for 
someone who was employed.
Mr O has also told us hed been  treated  for a medical condition shortly  before he 
bought the policy. So he might not have been able to make  a successful disability 
claim in connection  with that condition. But I understand Mr O hadnt taken any time 
off work because of his condition, and that it wasnt affecting his day-to-day living. So 
I dont think this point  meant Lloyds  advice to take out the policy  was unsuitable.  
- I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated  to Mr and Mrs O 
before they agreed to buy it. But Mr and Mrs O took out the policy  knowing they 
would have  to pay something for it. It seems the policy was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs O would have made a different 
decision if better information about  the cost had been  provided.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs O about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been. And as Ive already said, Mr O might have been  affected by the policys  
exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions. But given the nature of Mr Os condition and 
the way in which it was being  managed,  I think  Mr O wouldve considered the likelihood  of 
him taking  time off work in connection with it was relatively low. So I think  it unlikely Mr and 
Mrs O would have made  a different decision if better  information  had been  provided  
overall, I think they would  still have taken out the policy.
Ref: DRN58124023my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 June  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5812402