K822xcomplaint
Mrs C complains about the way Allianz  Insurance Plc has dealt with a claim she made on 
her pet insurance  policy. 
background 
Mrs Cs dog bit another  dog while  out on a walk. The other dog needed emergency surgery, 
so Mrs C phoned Allianz to make  a claim.  
Allianz said they needed Mrs C to contact her home insurer as home  insurance policies 
usually provide cover for public liability claims of this type.  Allianz said Mrs Cs pet insurance 
policy contained an exclusion which meant it wouldnt make payment  for a claim for which 
any other insurer may provide cover for. 
Mrs C contacted her home  insurer but was told it wouldnt provide  cover as the pet insurance 
should do so. Mrs C gave  details of her home  insurer and policy to Allianz however it wasnt  
able to successfully  speak to the home  insurer. To move matters forward  Allianz  said that 
Mrs C needed to get her home insurer to confirm in writing  that it wouldnt be dealing with 
her claim and she needed to give authority to the home insurer  to speak with Allianz directly. 
Mrs C was unhappy Allianz were not moving  the claim forward,  so made a complaint.
Allianz looked into the matter and agreed  that it could have explained more clearly  why the 
home insurer needed to be contacted and potentially involved in the claim. It reiterated that it 
would need Mrs C to make contact with her home  insurer  to move the matter forward.  
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought  Allianz should pay £50 compensation 
for the confusion it had admitted causing.  He didnt think  Allianz had done anything  wrong  in 
asking Mrs C to contact  her home  insurer and confirmed her pet insurance policy did have 
the exclusion Allianz had referred to.  
Mrs C didnt agree with the investigators findings. She said shed already contacted the 
home insurer and had been  told it wouldnt cover  the claim. She didnt think the 
compensation amount went far enough  to make  up for the amount of money shed had to 
pay out to cover the vet fees for the other  dog. She asked for the complaint to be looked at 
again by an ombudsman. 
further developments
The case  was passed to me to decide. And, having reviewed it I let both parties know  that I 
didnt think Allianz  had acted incorrectly in asking  Mrs C to contact her home insurer. I 
explained that it was common for home  and pet insurance policies to provide  cover for public 
liability, but to restrict that cover where  it is also held elsewhere.  
Having obtained  a copy of Mrs Cs home  insurance  policy I was able to confirm to the parties 
that it does provide public  liability cover and has an equal exclusion to that of the one in 
Mrs Cs pet insurance policy. In this circumstance,  it would  be normal for each insurer to 
contribute to 50% of the claim costs if it was successful. 
Ref: DRN51965102I could see from the file that Allianz had tried to speak directly  with the home insurer on 
several occasions but had been told information  couldnt be shared  with it without Mrs Cs 
permission. As such, it would be for Mrs C to contact the home insurer  to insist a claim be 
registered and provide  the necessary authority for Allianz to deal with it directly. 
Allianz confirmed it would wait to hear further  from Mrs C. Mrs C said that while she now 
understood what needed to happen,  she didnt think the compensation that had been 
awarded by the investigator was enough  to reflect the amount of money she has had to pay 
out. I agreed that I would  review this matter  further.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont see any reason to 
change my decision that Allianz  has acted reasonably in asking Mrs C to contact her home 
insurer. From my review of the file, I think it has done what it can to move the claim forward 
itself but has been  unable  to obtain any information  from the home insurer  directly.  
Its clear that Mrs C doesnt feel the compensation awarded is enough to reflect  the 
inconvenience shes been put to. So what  I now need to decide  is if this amount is fair and 
reasonable. 
Having reviewed everything and taken into account  what Mrs C has told me, I wont  be 
asking Allianz to make any additional  compensation payment. I agree Allianz  could have 
been clearer in how it initially explained the situation to Mrs C and why the home insurer  
needed to be involved. So, it did cause some  confusion. But the main reason  Mrs C hasnt 
yet been able to have  her claim for costs looked at, isnt due to this confusion. I appreciate  
this matter has been going on for quite some  time,  but I dont  think Allianz is responsible  for 
that delay. 
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint against  Allianz Insurance Plc and require it to pay Mrs C £50 
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2020.
Alison Gore 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5196510