K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complained that Ageas  Insurance Limited  settled a claim made  against  her motor 
insurance policy by a third party. 
Mrs A was represented in her complaint by her husband, Mr A.
background
Mrs A was in a collision which she felt was the third partys fault, but they said that she was 
to blame. When Ageas settled the third partys claim against her, she said they hadnt 
considered the issue properly and without sufficient recourse to her. 
The adjudicator thought  that Ageass decision to settle the claim against  the policy,  rather  
than go to court, was reasonable and in line with their rights under the policy.  Mrs A 
disagreed and so the case has been referred  to me to decide. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A was unhappy about the claim and how it was settled. She didnt feel she should  be 
held to be at fault. The third party said that they were proceeding on the main road when 
Mrs A came out of a car park and hit them. But Mrs A said that although she was about to 
exit the car park she was stationary and was still on the payment adjoining the exit onto the 
main road. She said that the main road was clear, and that the other driver hit her car. 
However she could  not say whether  the third party had come from, but suspected it was 
from another car park exit opposite  Mrs As car park.  
This service does not decide which party is liable for causing an accident. That is a matter  
for the courts. But we do consider whether a business has acted as they are allowed to do 
under the policy  terms, and whether they reached  their decision in a fair and reasonable 
way. In this case,  Mrs As policy gives Ageas discretion to Carry out the defence or 
settlement of any claim. If there  is little or no prospect of success, a business  may decide to 
limit their potential financial outlay for legal and associated costs, by agreeing a settlement 
out of court. This applies  whether the consumer agrees  with it or not. Insurers  have 
experience of handling numerous claims and sound knowledge of court  proceedings, so this 
discretion is a usual  part of motor insurance  policies. 
Mrs A said she had sent Ageas a diagram of the accident scene, map details and 
details of the road conditions. She felt they should have shown her the third partys  
statement and was upset  that theyd decided  the matter without recourse to her. 
Ageas said that they took her view of events and information into account, and they 
also looked at that the impact damage to both cars, though that was not conclusive as 
to what happened. 
Mrs A said that there were two witnesses to the accident, but neither  party  asked them 
for their details at the time. So as there  was no evidence  from independent  witnesses, 
or other independent evidence such as CCTV footage,  it was one persons word 
against another. 
Ref: DRN57614332Ageas took the view that because Mrs A had acknowledged that she was coming out of 
a car park, it was her duty to ensure the way was clear. But although Mrs A said that 
the way was clear, she couldnt say where  the other driver had come from, and had 
merely assumed that the third party must  have  exited  from the opposite  car park and 
been speeding. This made Ageas think that they would be unlikely to succeed  if the 
matter went to court and so they exercised their discretion  to settle it, and this didnt 
require her agreement.  
I can see that Mrs A has found  the situation  upsetting. But based  on the available  
evidence, I think that Ageas did not act unfairly or unreasonably in settling the claim as 
they did. I also think that they conducted  a sufficient investigation into the claim and I 
can see that they did explain their decision to Mrs A, and so I dont ask them to do any 
more.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, it is my final decision that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5761433