K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P say The Co-operative Bank  Plc (trading at the time as Britannia) mis-sold 
them payment protection insurance  (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a PPI policy in 2003  to protect their mortgage repayments.  It was in 
Mr Ps sole name and gave him accident,  sickness and unemployment  protection. They  
re-arranged their mortgage in 2005  and 2007 and increased the monthly  PPI benefit but 
opted only for unemployment cover then. The bank refunded premiums for accident  and 
sickness cover between  2005 and 2007  as the policy  amendment  wasnt processed in 2005. 
Mr and Mrs P paid a monthly  amount for the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
The Co-operative Bank had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs P that the PPI was optional  and 
they had to agree to take it out. Mr P recalls they were told they would stand a better chance 
of getting the mortgage if he agreed  take out PPI. The bank disputes this. I cant know  what 
was said in the meeting so Ive thought carefully about Mr Ps comments and looked at the 
available documents from the sales. In 2003 Mr and Mrs P indicated that they wanted PPI on 
their mortgage application  form. The form also gave the option to sign if they didnt want the 
cover. They  then completed and signed  a separate PPI application  form, answering  a 
number of eligibility questions. In 2005 they received a quote  for amending  the cover  to 
unemployment only that clearly stated This PPI is optional. In 2007 it seems Mr P contacted 
The Co-operative Bank to amend the policy, again  increasing the level of cover and it wrote 
to confirm the change.
So, overall, I think The Co-operative Bank  made it clear the PPI was optional  and Mr and 
Mrs P agreed to take it out for Mr P. 
Mr P says The Co-operative Bank  recommended the policy to them, but it disagrees.  I 
havent found any evidence that it reviewed their individual circumstances before providing 
advice to them, or made a personal  recommendation  for Mr P to have it. Based  on that, and 
what we know about how The Co-operative Bank  sold PPI at the time, I think its most  likely 
it didnt make a recommendation. This means  it didnt have to check  the policy  was right for 
Mr P.
Ref: DRN58266282However, even if it had recommended the cover  based on Mr Ps circumstances at the time 
it seems it wasnt unsuitable. Mr P was entitled to six months full pay and six months half 
pay if he was sick, and three months  redundancy pay. The PPI wouldve paid out in addition  
to his work  benefits  and for up to 12 months.  Mr P had other insurances (life, critical illness 
and a death-in-service  benefit) but these cover different events and wouldnt help with 
monthly mortgage repayments in the same  way as PPI. Mr P told us he had substantial 
savings held in shares,  but he cant recall the value at the time of each sale. As the value  of 
shares changes money might not be available when  needed, so based on the information  
provided I cant fairly conclude this meant  he didnt need PPI. The PPI wouldve also allowed 
him to use any savings to cover other  living expenses whilst not working,  or to keep them  
intact for their future needs. Mr P also said he would have had family support but that isnt 
suitable alternative protection, its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change.  
Mr P told us he had vehicles he could sell but the PPI would prevent him from having to take 
such an extreme measure at an already difficult time  and the value and demand may not 
have been there as needed. They were borrowing quite large sums over a long period, 
secured on their home.  And the effects of not keeping up the repayments could have been 
serious for them. So, overall,  I think the PPI would  have been useful for Mr and Mrs P if Mr P 
was sick or lost his job. 
The Co-operative Bank had to give Mr and Mrs P enough information so they could make an 
informed decision about whether to buy PPI. Its possible the information  The Co-operative  
Bank gave  Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should have been. But I dont 
think they wouldve  been put off taking out the PPI if theyd received better information. I say 
this for the same reasons  I found the PPI was suitable, and because:
Mr P was eligible  given his circumstances at the time and the PPIs  terms and 
conditions.
Mr P wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the PPIs main  benefits. As he 
couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover,  I think  it unlikely he needed 
better information about the exclusions and limitations.
I dont know when  The Co-operative Bank first made  clear  the cost of the PPI. But on 
each occasion  it was competitively priced  and apparently affordable.  
Ive also thought about whether The Co-operative Bank needs to give Mr and Mrs P some of 
the commission they paid back.  The Supreme  Court  ruling  and new rules and guidance dont 
apply to certain types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and 
Mrs Ps mortgage became a regulated mortgage  before  6 April 2008 they dont apply. So the 
bank doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs P paid for the PPI they had 
with that mortgage.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs P have lost out because  of any problems with the sale of 
their PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Ref: DRN58266283Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5826628