K820x#14complaint
Mrs Y is unhappy with the service provided  by Sainsburys  Bank  Plc in respect of her home 
emergency claim.
background
In December 2018 Mrs Y contacted Sainsburys to make a claim under her home emergency 
insurance. She contacted Sainsburys again later to complain about  the way the claim  had 
been handled.
Sainsburys advised that it wasnt responsible for the way the claim had been handled and 
advised Mrs Y to get in touch with the home emergency  team  for the insurer. As part of the 
claim involved the way that one of their advisers had spoken to Mrs Y, Sainsburys  reviewed 
that phone  call. It apologised for the poor service given in respect  of that phone  call and paid 
Mrs Y £30 compensation.
Mrs Y was unhappy with that and referred  her complaint to this service. Our investigator  
explained that the way the claim was handled  was the insurers  responsibility and suggested 
she register a complaint with the insurer.
Mrs Y agreed to a complaint being registered  with the insurer but insisted that she wanted 
an ombudsmans decision in respect of Sainsburys.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ys complaints are that she reported  her home  emergency, a leak damaging the ceiling, 
but it was difficult to navigate the options.  She was told a tradesman  would get back  to her. 
She phoned in to complain a week later when  no-one had got in touch. She spoke on the 
phone to one of Sainsburys advisers and felt that they were  one of the rudest and least  
helpful customer operatives she had come  across.  Sainsburys  paid her £30 for the way the 
person concerned had spoken to her.
As our investigator has explained, anything to do with the way Mrs Ys claim was handled 
was the responsibility  of the insurer and as such  should be addressed  to it. From this 
services point of view this is important as Sainsburys  is regulated to sell and administer 
insurance policies  but not to deal with claims.  So even if Mrs Y spoke to someone on the 
Simsburys bank number  they were  acting as an agent for the insurer  in respect of handling 
the claim.  Any direction I make against Sainsburys would be ineffective as I dont have the 
power to make it do anything its not regulated to do.
On the point of the way the customer adviser  spoke to Mrs Y and she felt was rude to her 
Sainsburys has paid her £30 and I think thats reasonable.
The rest of the complaints should be addressed  to the insurer  and I understand the 
investigator has arranged  for this to be set up.
Ref: DRN53285282my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2020.  
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5328528