K820x#14complaint
Mrs I is unhappy with the service she received from Milton Keynes Financial Advice  Limited, 
an appointed representative of Paradigm Financial Partners  LLP (Paradigm). For 
convenience Ive just referred  to Paradigm below but that should  be taken to include  Milton  
Keynes Financial Advice Limited as applicable.  
background
On 17 August 2018 Mrs I used an IFA (independent financial  adviser)  search website. In her 
message she said she was considering taking a transfer value from a former employers 
defined benefits  pension scheme. Shed got a CETV (cash equivalent transfer value) of 
£103,000 which expired  on 16 October  2018.  As that was over £30,000 she needed  to show 
shed had financial advice  before  a transfer could take place.  She referred to the declaration 
a financial adviser  had to sign to confirm  he or she had given advice and was fully qualified  
to do so. 
She added that she had an existing SIPP (self invested personal pension) and her own view 
was that taking the CETV and gaining  flexible access  to her pension  fund was her best 
option. She queried if the adviser  would still complete the declaration if the advice was not to 
transfer. And she asked  for a quote  as to how much  the advice would cost and how long the 
work would take to complete.
According to Paradigm,  its adviser  telephoned  Mrs I. She says she didnt get a telephone 
call. But theres  no dispute that Paradigms adviser  emailed  Mrs I. As theres a dispute  about 
what was agreed,  Ive set out the initial exchange of emails  in full.
The advisers email sent to Mrs I on 20 August 2018
Thank you for your inquiry.
Our charge for analysis  of your pension, assessing  your attitude to risk, household  cashflow 
planning and a Transfer Value Analysis  Report (TVAS) is £295.
A recommendation will be made to transfer  after the above is completed if the conclusion 
proves the transfer is suitable.
If it is not suitable, we cannot progress as we do not process transfers for insistent clients.
If a transfer is processed our fees are 3% of the first £100,000 and 1% of the value above  
this.
I would recommend coming  in to meet with me.
There is no charge for the first appointment and we can go through  your options.
We reject  many transfers at these initial meetings as we have experience  with what  looks  
like a good case and what doesnt.
Obviously, we still have  to categorically prove that the transfer is in your interest with the 
above analysis  and reports.
Our advice  process  takes between 2 and 3 weeks.
Mrs Is reply on 21 August 2018  
Thank you for your message.
The terms, briefly outlined  in your email for this work, do seem very reasonable.
I am not surprised that you do not process transfers for insistent clients  but could you clarify  
exactly what this means  in this case.   It is my understanding that I only need to demonstrate  
to the scheme  administrators that I have taken advice, not the results of this advice, via the 
Ref: DRN52998032completed financial declaration.  It is a possibility that I would wish to proceed with the 
transfer even  though  it is not recommended. 
So, would you complete the required financial declaration  that advice has been taken, when 
the transfer analysis phase  is complete whether  the outcome is negative or positive? 
And secondly, if advice  is positive  would I be free to action the transfer  myself?
The advisers response the same day 
That form can only be signed  by an IFA with level 6 qualifications and part 4a permissions.
By signing that form the IFA then accepts the liability for the transfer  forever .
There is nothing we can do to stop you taking legal  action  against us at anytime  in the future 
if we sign that form, so therefore we will only sign it if a recommendation to transfer is made.
If the advice  is positive our fee is to sign the form so you cannot proceed  on your own.
All transfers  are at the pension  trustees  discretion and they can still refuse  to transfer.
If there is no IFA taking the liability for the transfer, the responsibility lies then with them and 
it is unlikely they will authorise  any transfer that an IFA has not recommended or accepted 
liability.
The exception to this is an insistent client.
This is where the recommendation  is not to transfer  but you sign a waiver and pay our fee 
anyway to complete  a transfer that we did not recommended.  Some IFAs will do this but we 
will not, again because  it would be extremely hard to defend ourselves legally if we conduct 
transfer that we recommended  you not to do, but did it anyway for a fee.
So in a nutshell:
You will need an IFA to take responsibility  for the transfer whether the recommendation is to 
transfer or not.
We will only do so if the recommendation is to proceed.
From your initial email I think it sounds like a good  case but we obviously need more  
information and analysis.
On 28 August 2018 Mrs I asked the adviser to set up the initial meeting hed offered. Mrs I 
and her husband met with the adviser on 31 August 2018. About that meeting Paradigm 
says Mrs I asked  for the transfer to be to her existing SIPP. And that the adviser  explained 
that he wouldnt conduct a transactional defined benefit transfer. Any transfer would be to a 
SIPP hed conducted  due diligence on and using risk rated  low cost index tracker portfolios. 
Mrs I asked if she could move  it to her own SIPP after transfer.  The adviser explained that 
wasnt recommended  but he couldnt  stop her doing that. Shed get confirmation that was 
against his advice. Mrs I says those discussions didnt take place and those details didnt 
become clear until the meeting on 11 September  2018 by which  time shed  already  invested 
a substantial amount  of time and shared a lot of information.
An invoice for £295 was sent to Mrs I on 31 August 2018 which she paid. She was then sent 
a questionnaire which she completed on line. She also provided some  further  information  
about her former employers pension scheme. There was a second meeting on 
11 September 2018 following which the adviser  emailed Mrs I a copy of the cash flow report 
and details of the charges for the new SIPP. He also mentioned  the initial charges of 3% 
sub £100k and 1% above the threshold. He asked for a scan  of the transfer  pack and Mrs Is 
latest annual pension statement. He attached the key features of the SIPP.
Mrs I replied the next day. She said she didnt receive annual statements and shed shared 
information about the CETV and the pension payable at early  and normal retirement dates 
with the adviser  at the meeting. She added:
Ref: DRN52998033It was clear at our meeting yesterday that the advice to transfer was positive. However, your 
email later yesterday, and rereading your original email,  we see that the advice stage is 
actually closed out with a TVAS report and recommendation.  This does make perfect sense, 
as we will then have  a complete picture  before proceeding with the transfer. 
The adviser replied  that day. He said he couldnt  complete  the TVAS without the information 
from Mrs Is employers pension scheme.  And he needed Mrs Is signed  client  agreement 
and her ID documents. He said a copy of the TVAS and a written recommendation to 
proceed would be provided at the meeting to submit  the application to the new provider. 
The recommendation to transfer  letter and discharge forms were  then included in the pack 
sent to the receiving provider. The adviser added:
I can give you a verbal  confirmation that it looks very likely that I will make a 
recommendation to proceed but we need a formal  agreement to proceed  last this point. Any 
recommendation to transfer will be made clearly to procced on the basis of using a provider 
and investment strategy of my recommendation.
 
Mrs I sent copies of the ID documents requested, the signed client  agreement and some  
information about her former employers pension scheme. She confirmed she understood 
the recommendation was specific to a transfer to the provider the adviser had recommended 
and his recommended  investment strategy.
The adviser suggested a meeting the following  week. Mrs I replied saying when she was 
available and asking  for a copy  of the TVAS  to study in advance  of the final meeting. She 
added it was important  to her to review all the information prior to a meeting where shed be 
signing  papers  and giving the green  light to the transfer.
On 13 September  2018 the adviser texted Mrs I to say he was no longer prepared to act for 
her and hed refund  the £295. He said hed never had a client  refuse to speak  to him before. 
This followed a text message hed left for Mrs I asking her to call him. The adviser  says hed 
wanted to check  some information  Mrs I had given and had tried to contact  her by telephone 
without success.  Shed  replied to the text message saying she preferred to continue to 
communicate by email.  
Mrs I says there was no information that needed  checking and the adviser had no reason to 
think she wouldnt provide  anything that was needed  as shed done earlier. She says he 
wanted to end the arrangement because Paradigm wasnt going to get its fee. 
The adviser emailed  Mrs I a few minutes after hed sent his text. He said, after discussions 
with his senior partners,  Paradigm had decided  not to continue advising Mrs I on the 
potential transfer.  He repeated the fee would be refunded and apologised for any 
inconvenience. He then emailed the TVAS report to Mrs I. He said statutory revaluations  had 
been used as the information provided didnt  include scheme  revaluation rates. Mrs I should 
ensure the revaluation rates used were  correct before making  any decisions based on the 
information provided.
Mrs I emailed in reply  the same day. She said she was flabbergasted the adviser had 
decided to stop advising her without telling  her why. Her time had been wasted and it wasnt  
in her interests for the advice process to be abandoned  abruptly  and so close  to the end. 
She said she hadnt refused to talk to the adviser  but she preferred communications  via 
email or in face to face meetings. Ive summarised Mrs Is main points:  
Ref: DRN52998034The £295 had been for the advice phase. The advisers email  of 20 August 2018 set 
out what the charge covered: analysing Mrs Is pension,  her attitude to risk, cash  flow 
planning and preparing the TVAS.  The adviser  said a recommendation will be made  
to transfer after that was completed if the conclusion proved the transfer is suitable. 
There was no suggestion the advice phase was dependent  on moving  to the 
transfer phase with Paradigm. The TVAS had been  sent 15 minutes  after the adviser  
had told her, without  justification, he no longer wished to act for her. Instead of 
ending the advice phase properly hed refunded the fee. She didnt understand why 
he couldnt make a recommendation based  on the information provided and the 
discussions theyd had. 
She was happy  with the advice so far, which was uniformly supportive  of the 
proposed transfer. She just wanted  to see all the information  before proceeding. That 
was reasonable  and what any reputable IFA would expect to provide.
Shed  now been blocked from entering  the transfer phase of the process with the 
adviser because  of his abrupt withdrawal from the advice phase.  
From  the outset shed  been clear the outcome she wanted  was a transfer to her 
existing SIPP. She was surprised the transfer value needed to go through  a newly 
set up arrangement with a different  provider  with her then immediately free to move 
those funds to her existing SIPP herself.  The adviser had told her shed  get a stern 
email advising her against transferring to her existing SIPP  which she should  ignore. 
The convoluted route proposed was of no benefit to her. 
The adviser had said transferring to the new platform was the only option hed 
consider as he could  only calculate  projected growth  and give advice for funds under 
his control. The fee for transferring to the new platform  was just over £3000.  Shed  
mistakenly assumed  from the advisers email of 20 August 2018 that fee was for a 
transfer direct to her existing SIPP and not an unnecessary intermediary transaction.  
The adviser had cut her off as a client as he thought it unlikely shed transfer the 
money in the way hed advised  and so he wouldnt get that fee. 
The adviser had avoided providing a written recommendation despite  all the time and 
information shed  shared  with him. The legal requirement to receive appropriate  
advice cant be extended to mean,  but this advice can be provided only if the client  
does (and pays for) exactly whatever the IFA says. She wanted  the adviser to say 
what his advice was about the suitability of the transfer. 
It would  cost her more time and money  if the recommendation  was withheld and 
prevent her from transferring. Shed need to engage another  IFA and she might lose 
the CETV offered as time was running out to restart  and complete  the transfer 
process before the deadline.  
The matter could  be resolved if the adviser provided his written  advice as had been 
agreed and completed the financial advice declaration to say that had been done. 
Between 17 and 20 September several  emails were  exchanged between  Mrs I and one of 
Paradigms partners. Paradigm offered to sign the advice declaration form. But it seems only 
to say the matter  had been discussed  with Mrs I and no advice given.  Mrs I said that wasnt  
sufficient as advice  (in respect of a transfer  to a new platform  not her existing SIPP)  had 
been given. 
As agreement couldnt be reached Paradigm suggested Mrs I refer the matter  to us which 
she did. She said her complaint comprised three  issues. Ive set those out with a summary of 
Mrs Is main points  in relation to each. 
The adviser planned a transfer that was clearly  not in the clients  interest.
Ref: DRN52998035The adviser hadnt offered impartial advice and had engineered a transfer to an 
investment platform that wasnt  in Mrs Is interests  but would have benefitted 
Paradigm by payments of thousands  of pounds. 
Mrs I cited  several statements made by the adviser or Paradigm that she didnt agree 
with. Ive set them  out:
You will need an IFA to take responsibility  for the transfer whether the 
recommendation is to transfer or not.
All transfers are at the pension trustees discretion  and they can still refuse to 
transfer. If there is no IFA taking the liability for the transfer the responsibility  lies then 
with them  and it is unlikely  they will authorise  any transfer that an IFA has not 
recommended or accepted liability.
I can give you a verbal  confirmation that it looks very likely that I will make a 
recommendation to proceed but we need a format  agreement to proceed  past this 
point. Any recommendation to transfer  will be made clearly to proceed on the basis of 
using a provider  and investment strategy of my recommendation.
[The adviser], however,  was giving you holistic advice  where  he recommended the 
best provider in his opinion for the transfer.  He could  not recommend  [Mrs Is SIPP 
provider] as they do not deal with advisers directly.
To transfer  to [Mrs Is SIPP provider] you should first transfer to [Paradigms 
recommended SIPP  provider] and then transfer  out to [Mrs Is SIPP provider]. 
She didnt understand why she couldnt  have been advised on a transfer to her 
existing SIPP. Shed said from the outset  thats  what she wanted  to do. She thought 
shed get independent and impartial advice but the adviser stood to gain substantially 
from the advice  given. It was a very expensive way to achieve the transfer  to her 
existing SIPP provider.  
It wasnt the case that an adviser  must  somehow take liability  for the transfer. The 
implication was that shed have to do what the adviser wanted which  entailed  
unnecessary charges.  That model didnt result  in impartial, best advice for the client.  
She suggested what had happened was corrupt and amounted to attempted  theft. 
The adviser refused  to provide the advice declaration form and recommendation (positive or
negative)
The advice phase was separate from the potential transfer  undertaken by Paradigm. 
But the advice  declaration form and any recommendation would only be released as 
part of a transfer under Paradigms control.  That effectively locked her into the 
advice/recommended approach of the IFA and payments that wouldnt benefit her. . 
The advice and execution  phases were deliberately muddled. She was prevented 
from using the advice shed paid for in a way that most  suited  her requirements. 
What the adviser had said about  providing  the TVAS and a written recommendation 
at the same time was an attempt to coerce  her into an expensive investment strategy 
she didnt need.
Paradigm didnt try to resolve things in a way that would enable  her to facilitate  the 
transfer to her own SIPP. Paradigm offered to sign the advice form saying the matter 
had been discussed  and no advice  given. 
The adviser withdrew from advice process  abruptly with no credible  explanation .
Dumping the client  at the first sign they wont be taking the more lucrative (for the 
adviser) recommendation leaves the client in disarray, particularly  with a defined  
benefit transfer and a CETV with a deadline to secure that value. 
Ref: DRN52998036Shed  obtained  quotes  from several independent  financial advisers.  All appeared to 
be linked  to a transfer to funds managed by the IFAs themselves with associated  
hefty management fees. The only quote  she managed to obtain just for providing 
advice was £5,000. She accepted the need for appropriate financial advice. But 
those wishing to transfer were  being  held to ransom and are being  ripped off by 
IFAs. 
To put matters right Mrs I said it was clear shed received  appropriate financial advice in the 
form of a cash flow planning  analysis, TVAS,  assessment of her attitude  to risk and a 
positive recommendation to transfer to an investment platform. But she was blocked from 
transferring as the adviser refused to sign to confirm that shed been advised.  She didnt 
want to go through  the process  again  with another adviser. The adviser  should  release the 
declaration so she could transfer as she saw fit. She didnt think it was enough for the 
adviser to rectify his actions in her particular case. She said it was a corrupt  practice that 
needs to be investigated to ensure the same approach wasnt tried with new customers.
In response to the complaint Paradigm said:
About  the initial telephone call the adviser had said Mrs I was concerned about 
paying fees only for the advice process to result  in a recommendation not to transfer.  
The adviser offered  a triage service for £295 (cash flow planning and a TVAS) which 
would give him a strong  indicator of whether a transfer would or would not be 
recommended. He was very clear during the call that he wouldnt be making  a 
recommendation for
the £295 payment; there was no guarantee it would lead to a recommendation to 
transfer being made; and he wouldnt process the transfer on an insistent client  basis 
He followed that up in his email on 20 August 2018. It clearly states a fee of 3% of 
the first £100,000  and 1% of the balance if a transfer was processed after the triage 
stage.
In response to Mrs Is query  about  signing the advice declaration form the adviser  
was clear in his email  of 21 August  2018 that the full fee becomes due on signing the 
form and Mrs I wont be able to process  the transfer herself without an IFA. 
At the initial meeting Mrs I asked for the transfer  to be to her SIPP. The adviser 
explained the transfer would be to a SIPP provider hed conducted due diligence on 
and using risk rated low cost index  tracker portfolios. Mrs I confirmed she wanted to 
proceed. She did ask if she could move the transferred fund to her own SIPP.  The 
adviser explained he didnt recommend that but there was nothing he could do to 
prevent Mrs I from doing that although  hed confirm  to her that it would be against his 
advice. 
The adviser later became concerned  that Mrs I wasnt providing all the information  
needed. He tried but was unable to contact  her by telephone to discuss his concerns. 
That led to the text exchange  and the advisers  decision, supported by Paradigms 
partners, not to continue to act for Mrs I and to return  her fee. 
The transfer wasnt engineered to take advantage of the client.  It was explained to 
Mrs I multiple  times that a recommendation would  only be made  to a pension and 
investment strategy of the advisers  selection as Paradigm would be liable for the 
transfer. She didnt  raise  any concerns  and said in an email she understood that. 
Mrs I didnt want to pay the full fee for a defined  benefit transfer although  it had been  
clearly explained  to her what the £295  fee was for. And that the advice declaration  
would only be signed as part of the full recommendation  when  the full fee would 
become due. There was no offer to sign the advice  confirmation  as part of the triage.  
Ref: DRN52998037The adviser withdrew when Mrs I sent a text refusing to talk to him, something  the 
adviser had never before experienced with a client. Good financial  advice  is built on 
two way trust and an adviser has to be certain he can base his advice on the 
information given.  If not its sensible to withdraw from a process where the adviser  
will become liable  
What Mrs I has said in her complaint  reinforces  the advisers assumption that she 
intended to present  the information from the triage process as advice without paying 
the full fee and without  receiving a recommendation. 
The process, from Mrs I paying the fee to the adviser withdrawing,  was just nine 
working days. She received  the cash flow report as promised and the TVAS.  And her 
fee was refunded as a gesture of goodwill. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She understood Mrs I was disappointed that 
Paradigm wasnt willing  to facilitate the transfer. But in summary she said:
Paradigm had said it would provide a triage  service which  meant it would go through  
the cash flow and complete a TVAS report which would give a good indication  
whether or not it would be able to give Mrs I positive advice. It would  charge  £295 for 
this service and if Mrs I went ahead with the advice process it would charge a further 
3% of the transfer value.
Paradigm wasnt able to recommend the SIPP Mrs I already had. Some advisers will 
only recommend certain products  having  carried out due diligence  on the particular 
product. 
Paradigm had made a commercial decision to withdraw from the advice process as it 
had discovered  that Mrs I and her husband  hadnt disclosed  certain  information.  The 
adviser had attempted to speak to Mrs I several times about it. But shed said she 
wasnt prepared to speak to him and all further  communication needed to be by 
email. 
Paradigm wasnt obliged to transfer the benefits, nor could we require Paradigm to 
do so as it would be liable for the risks associated with the transfer. 
Paradigm had refunded the £295  fee as a goodwill gesture. 
Mrs I didnt agree. She said wed misunderstood her complaint.  She reiterated shed raised 
three issues. Her main  points were: 
Paradigm could and should have advised  on a transfer to her existing SIPP  provider. 
Instead of advising  on a transfer  to an investment platform  with a financial  benefit to 
Paradigm. There was an inbuilt conflict of interest. 
Paradigm did advise on a transfer to the new platform. Paradigm  should declare that 
such advice was given.  
The transfer was only the first step of the transfer advice given. A second,  off the 
record step, was recommended to be actioned by Mrs I herself  transferring the 
funds from the SIPP  provider recommended to her existing  SIPP. Paradigm had said 
it couldnt recommend  a transfer  to her existing SIPP provider.  But Paradigm was 
happy to tell her how she could  get round that once her funds were with new platform 
and shed paid £3,000  fee for no benefit to her.  
Wed ignored the statements shed highlighted  as untrue, misleading and aimed at 
coercing the customer  into making  unnecessary payments. 
Wed said Paradigm wasnt obliged to facilitate  the transfer. But that wasnt  her 
complaint  which was that Paradigm had refused to declare  it had advised  her on 
the issue.
Ref: DRN52998038Mrs I referred  to COBS 19.1.10G (which Ive set out and considered below).  
Paradigm had said it was providing a triage service.  But that word wasnt  mentioned  
in the documents or communications with the adviser when agreeing the service  to 
be provided. Triage would indicate  something  more preliminary and cursory than 
what was actually  offered as set out in the advisers email of 20 August 2018.   
There was no reason to tie up signing  the paperwork  for the transfer to the new 
platform with signing the financial  advice declaration except to ensure  she only got 
the declaration  if she paid for a transfer she didnt  want. 
She was offered an advice phase for £295  and a transfer  phase  for 3% of the 
transfer value.  The advice phase  had been  completed. The 3% charge was for the 
transfer only. The transfer phase was completely  separate  from the advice phase.
We hadnt checked Paradigms claim that she and her husband hadnt provided 
accurate information  about being company directors.  What  Paradigm had said wasnt  
correct.
She hadnt said she no longer wished to speak to the adviser. Just that shed prefer 
to be contacted by email. She and her husband had two lengthy meetings  with the 
adviser and she wanted  a clear and accurate record of what  was said.  All prior 
communication had been by email. Paradigm had withdrawn not because of some 
issue about directorships (which  are matters of public record and can be checked) 
but because she didnt want or need  to pay for an unnecessary transfer.  
She hadnt asked  for a refund. Just because  her money had been returned  didnt 
mean she had no valid complaint. She received financial advice and she needed the 
declaration to show that.  
Mrs I later confirmed the proposed transfer had been blocked because  she couldnt  provide 
the signed declaration saying shed had financial advice. 
In response to the adjudicators view Paradigm said:
It was very clear to Mrs I what shed get for the £295 fee. Shed questioned that in an 
initial email before paying it. The adviser  had clarified she wouldnt be able to transfer 
without paying  the subsequent fees to an IFA with the level 6 qualification  and part 
4a permissions. 
Mrs I was going through  the process in the hope  shed be able to present the triage 
documents as evidence of advice, without paying for the full process. She had plenty 
of opportunity to check and has clarified in her complaint that she never had any 
Intention of paying the full fee for the advice.
The fact that the word  triage wasnt used doesnt affect what was clearly offered for 
the fee. 
Mrs I asked the adviser if she could move  the pension fund to her own SIPP  after the 
transfer had been  completed. The adviser  explained  she could but this would be 
against his advice and Paradigms liability would  end. That was confirmed  in writing. 
It wasnt a staged transfer or facilitated  to circumnavigate the regulations.  
The adviser was mistaken  about  Mrs Is company  being active.  But if Mrs I hadnt  refused to 
speak to the adviser the misunderstanding would  have  been resolved. Regardless of that 
Paradigm would have stopped the process anyway.
my provisional findings
Ive repeated here my provisional  findings.
Ref: DRN52998039To make our role clear, we investigate individual  complaints. Were not the regulator  (thats  
the Financial Conduct Authority   FCA) and we dont fine or punish firms for regulatory 
breaches or other shortcomings.  Nor do we have power to require a business to alter its 
business practices generally. 
What we look at is whats  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the particular 
complaint. In doing so well take into account relevant laws and regulations;  regulators  rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where  appropriate) what  we consider to 
have been good industry practice at the relevant time. If we find a business  has done 
something wrong, well look to see if the consumer has suffered financial loss and/or non 
financial loss, such as distress and inconvenience, in consequence.   
Its clear from what Mrs I has said that she thinks theres widespread malpractice  in the 
industry generally in providing advice  which the consumer is required to take - in 
connection with pension transfers.  Shes mentioned corruption, coercion and attempted 
theft. Although Ive borne in mind her comments in considering her complaint, those wider 
issues arent matters for us. Even  if I agreed with Mrs Is comments  (and I dont agree with 
all shes said), I wouldnt be able to direct  Paradigm to make the sort of changes  to its 
business practices that Mrs I appears  to be seeking.  Mrs I is free to refer her concerns to the 
FCA although it isnt for me to say what  action, if any, the FCA might be prepared to take.  
Id also explain that, although Ive considered all the evidence and representations Mrs I and 
Paradigm have made, Ive limited my findings  to what  I consider to be the main points. So I 
havent commented on each and every  point raised.  And I havent  set out my (provisional)  
findings under Mrs Is three complaint  headings.  But I hope Ive covered all three issues. 
First, Mrs I is clearly unhappy  that any recommendation  to transfer was to be to a new 
platform and not to her existing SIPP.  She says she misunderstood the advisers initial email 
of 20 August 2018 as meaning the fee of about £3,000 was for a transfer to her SIPP.  I 
agree the email doesnt refer to a named provider or give any indication the adviser would 
only be prepared to recommend a particular  platform  or provider. 
But that was discussed at the initial meeting. The adviser made it clear that any 
recommendation would be on the basis of the provider and the funds he selected. And Mrs I 
knew that  there was a discussion about  whether, if she transferred to the new platform,  
she could then transfer again  to her existing SIPP. And in her later emails Mrs I 
acknowledges that whats been  considered is a possible  transfer to the new platform. 
I can understand why that approach didnt suit Mrs I. Shed run her own SIPP successfully 
for over ten years so shed naturally have wanted to consolidate the transfer value in that 
arrangement. But I dont think the adviser was obliged to advise on a transfer to Mrs Is 
existing SIPP. An adviser may only be prepared to recommend products or providers the 
adviser has conducted due diligence on and has confidence in.
Suitable advice  about  transferring will involve considering the costs of the new scheme and 
the suitability of the intended underlying investments. So any advice had to be on the basis 
Mrs I would be investing the transfer value  in the vehicle and funds  that the adviser 
recommended. But, and as I think the adviser  recognised, if Mrs I then wanted  to transfer 
away from the new platform, the adviser couldnt prevent that. I think what the adviser  said 
simply reflected that. 
Ref: DRN529980310If Mrs I didnt want to proceed on the basis that the adviser couldnt look into a transfer to her 
existing SIPP she didnt  have too. Shed only had an initial meeting and hadnt paid any fee 
so she was free to decide not to proceed with Paradigm at that point. 
By then some  six weeks or so had passed  since the CETV had been issued. Mrs I may have 
been concerned  about  whether the transfer   about  which she was required to take financial 
advice  could  be completed in time. Shes said that shed contacted several advisers.  It isnt 
Paradigms fault that she didnt contact it until about  mid August 2018, a month after the 
CETV had been  issued.  If what the adviser was offering didnt suit Mrs I for whatever reason 
she didnt have to agree to go ahead. 
As to what Mrs I thought  was being offered, I note that in her email  of 21 August  2018 she 
asked specifically about when and in what circumstances the adviser would sign the 
financial advice declaration. I dont think the advisers reply  was particularly clear. But I think 
it was aimed at clarifying that Mrs I wouldnt be able to transfer without paying the 
subsequent transfer fee and that the advice declaration  form would only be signed  at that 
stage. And later on the adviser said (in his email of 12 September 2018) that a copy of the 
TVAS and a written recommendation to proceed  would be provided at the meeting to submit 
the application to the new provider. So I think the adviser was only contemplating signing the 
advice declaration at the point of transfer  and not before. Arguably  Mrs I should have 
realised that. But in any event, as Ive explained  below, I think the advisers  approach was 
flawed. 
Before I go on to deal with that Id comment that I dont think  all of what the adviser said in 
his email of 21 August  2018 was right. I agree the advice  declaration  can only be signed by 
an adviser with the appropriate qualifications (a pension  transfer  specialist). But I dont  see 
that the adviser on signing  the form necessarily accepts liability  forever.  In August 2018 
COBS 19.1.10G said, about the statutory advice requirement:
Where a firm has advised a retail client in relation  to a pension transfer, pension conversion 
or pension  opt-out, pension transfer or pension conversion, and the firm is asked to confirm  
this for the purposes of section  48 of the Pension  Schemes Act 2015, then the firm should 
provide such confirmation  as soon as reasonably practicable.
Theres nothing to say the form should  only be signed if the advice is positive.  Just that, if a 
firm has advised a client about a pension transfer and is asked to confirm  that (ie that advice 
has been given), then the firm should do so as soon as reasonably practicably. With effect 
from 4 October 2018 a new subsection was introduced which  read: 
(2) The firm should provide the confirmation  regardless  of whether it advised the client to 
proceed with a pension transfer or pension  conversion or not. 
I dont think that changed  the existing position, just made things clearer.  So where advice  
has been given  the declaration should  be completed whether the advice is to transfer or not. 
Its the fact of giving  advice that creates  the obligation to sign the declaration,  not whether 
the advice is in favour of a transfer or not. 
Further, where the advice is not to transfer,  its difficult to see how the adviser can be held 
liable. Difficulties can arise where an adviser advises against a particular transaction  but 
then processes it on an insistent client basis. Thats why, as Mrs I clearly recognised, many 
firms wont be prepared to undertake transfers for insistent clients.  
Ref: DRN529980311The adviser went on to say that scheme  trustees wont be prepared  to allow  transfers out 
without positive advice  or there being an IFA in place.  Again Im not sure I agree. Trustees  
will of course want  to make sure that they are protected  if a transfer out is permitted. Hence 
they will want to satisfy  themselves the scheme  member has taken the required financial 
advice. But I dont think the outcome of that advice is usually the trustees concern (although 
particular difficulties can arise  for example  if the trustees suspect the receiving scheme is 
part of a pensions  liberation exercise). Nor do I think trustees  can always  insist  on the 
transfer being undertaken through a financial adviser. Although  that said, I have some  SIPP  
operators being unwilling to accept a transfer value without an adviser in place. 
But, regardless of that sort of debate,  Paradigms  position is that it didnt advise  Mrs I and so 
signing the declaration to say that advice had been given (whether in favour of the transfer 
or not) didnt arise.  
I accept Paradigm didnt  think  it was providing advice to Mrs I but instead a triage service 
which was in effect a precursor to any advice. Mrs I has pointed out the word triage wasnt  
mentioned at the time. But if the service actually provided, properly analysed, was a triage  
service, then I dont think it would matter that it may not have been  described or labelled as 
such at the time. 
Ive set out what above what COBS  19.1.10G said in August 2018 and October 2018. With 
effect from 1 January  2019 a new provision  was introduced. COBS  19.1.11G  deals 
specifically with triage services. It says:   
Triage services
The table in PERG 12 Annex 1G includes examples  of when a firm is and is not advising on 
conversion or transfer of pension benefits when it has an initial triage conversation with a 
potential customer.  The purpose of triage is to give the customer  sufficient information about  
safeguarded benefits and flexible benefits  to enable them to make  a decision about whether 
to take advice on conversion  or transfer  of pension benefits.
Ive looked at the examples in the table in PERG 12 Annex 1G. Theres  a distinction  drawn  
between giving information (in a neutral way)  and saying something which may be perceived 
as likely to influence the customers decision to transfer or remain  in the scheme   which  will 
constitute advice.  And I note that the last example given  - of providing a transfer value 
comparator (which is likely to be advice as its prepared using personal information  and is 
objectively likely to influence the customers decision to transfer  or remain  in the scheme)  is 
particularly pertinent  here. 
As Ive noted COBS  19.1.11G wasnt introduced until after Mrs Is involvement with 
Paradigm. But I dont think that means  it isnt relevant. It was guidance as to how existing 
provisions should  be interpreted and applied and in particular  what  might amount to advice 
and what wouldnt.  The Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) at the time (31 August 2018) 
included the following:
PERG 8.28 Advice or information
PERG 8.28.1G In the FCAs  view, advice requires an element of opinion on the part of the 
adviser. In effect,  it is a recommendation as to a course of action. Information, on the other  
hand, involves  statements  of fact or figures.
Ref: DRN529980312PERG 8.28.2G (1) In general terms, simply giving information without making any comment 
or value  judgment  on its relevance to decisions which an investor may make  is not advice.
(2) The provision of purely factual information  does not become regulated advice merely 
because it feeds into the customers own decision-making process and is taken into account 
by them.
(3) Regulated advice  includes  any communication with the customer which, in the particular 
context in which it is given, goes beyond the mere provision of information  and is objectively  
likely to influence the customers decision whether  or not to buy or sell.
(4) A key to the giving  of advice is that the information:
(a) is either accompanied by comment or value  judgment on the relevance of that 
information to the customers investment decision; or
(b) is itself the product  of a process  of selection involving a value judgment so that the 
information will tend to influence the decision.
(5) Advice can still be regulated advice  if the person receiving the advice:
(a) is free to follow or disregard the advice; or
(b) may receive further advice from another person (such as their usual financial adviser) 
before making  a final decision.
I think that sets out the hallmarks of advice. And that was the position  before the introduction 
of COBS 19.1.11G  giving specific guidance  about triage services and what might  constitute 
advice in that arena. 
Here I think its clear  that the adviser  did provide advice. Not only did he provide the TVAS 
but there were two meetings  as well. The emails  appear to confirm  that advice was given.  
For example and very early on the adviser  said (in his email of 21 August 2018) that from 
Mrs Is initial  email he thought it sounds like a good  case but we obviously need  more 
information and analysis. Thats an expression  of opinion, albeit qualified. And in Mrs Is 
email of 12 September 2018 she referred to it being clear at our meeting yesterday that the 
advice to transfer was positive.  So it would  seem that the discussions included advice. I 
note the advisers  reply   that he could  give Mrs I verbal confirmation that it looks  very likely 
that I will make a recommendation to proceed . And Mrs Is reference in her email of 
13 September 2019 to the advice  so far, which was uniformly supportive of the proposed  
transfer wasnt challenged. 
Im satisfied that what the adviser said went beyond simply providing (neutral) information. 
He gave his opinion that Mrs I should  transfer  or endorsed her view that she should do so. 
That amounts  to advice.  Even where  it stopped short  of a full written recommendation or 
suitability letter giving  detailed  reasons for recommending  the transfer. 
I dont think the adviser intended that. He described his fee of £295  as being for analysis of 
Mrs Is pension, assessing  her attitude to risk, preparing a cash flow report and a TVAS.  And 
he went on to say that a recommendation  will be made to transfer  after the above is 
completed if the conclusion proves the transfer  is suitable. I think he saw two distinct  stages. 
An information gathering process which, if the indications were that transferring was suitable,  
would lead to a formal recommendation to transfer. But, regardless of what  the adviser may 
have intended,  if what he said (during what was ostensibly at least an information gathering 
process) amounted to advice then thats really an end to the matter. 
Mrs I saw two distinct phases too  an advice phase and then a transfer phase. I tend to 
agree with her reading of the advisers email  of 20 August 2018  that a recommendation 
was promised once  the adviser  had analysed her pension,  assessed her attitude  to risk and 
completed the cash flow planning and TVAS. I think the adviser did try to explain that the 
Ref: DRN529980313advice declaration form would only be signed  if Paradigm acted on the transfer (and so the 
further fee of £3,000 would be payable). But I dont think the explanation was clear.  And in 
any event, I dont think approach works when advice had clearly  been given. 
Paradigm may have  charged a very modest  fee on the basis that its service stopped short  of 
advice. But that doesnt alter the fact that, if advice was given, Paradigm should recognise 
that. It isnt Mrs Is fault if Paradigm failed to ensure it was adequately remunerated for the 
work it did and any potential liability. And I dont think it was open  to Paradigm to in effect 
seek to make that up by only being  prepared to sign the advice declaration  once Mrs I had 
paid the fee to transfer and when shed already had advice.  
I note but dont agree with what Mrs I says about  advisers fees generally. Advising on final 
salary pension transfers is complex and requires a specialist adviser. Not all financial  
advisers have the requisite qualifications. And not all qualified advisers are prepared  to 
advise on final salary  pension transfers.  Some are worried about being held liable for poor 
client outcomes, or having to seek to justify  their advice later.  But there are advisers who will 
advise. Although, as I think  Mrs I has discovered,  the fee can be substantial. But I think that 
reflects the complexity of the issue, the qualifications required and the amounts at stake. 
In view of my findings I havent really gone into whether  the adviser acted reasonably  in 
saying he was no longer prepared to continue to act for Mrs I or whether his concerns were 
justified. Sometimes the client/adviser relationship breaks down. Regardless of where 
responsibility might lie it becomes unproductive to continue  and it is probably  in both parties 
interests for the service or advice process  to end. 
One of Paradigms partners did offer to try to work with Mrs I to try to resolve matters. But 
the stumbling  block was that, although Paradigm  offered  to sign the advice declaration,  it 
was just to say Mrs I hadnt  had advice. Given its clear in my view that she had received  
advice, Paradigm should have signed  the advice declaration and which  presumably would 
have enabled  Mrs I to have gone ahead  with the transfer. 
For the reasons  Ive explained Im upholding  Mrs Is complaint.  
But unfortunately for Mrs I that doesnt  mean I can make the direction she seeks  that 
Paradigm must sign the advice declaration. 
When Mrs I referred  her complaint  to us the CETV  hadnt expired. But, as the transfer didnt 
go ahead  and the CETV deadline has passed,  the scheme trustees  wont  be prepared  to 
honour that CETV now. If Mrs I gets a new CETV (the amount of which might be higher or 
lower than the original  CETV) then the advice she got from Paradigm wont be relevant to 
that new CETV. Shell need to get further advice about transferring based  on any new 
CETV. So theres no point  in asking Paradigm to sign the advice declaration  now. 
Any new CETV she gets may be more or less than the one she got in July 2018. So its 
unclear anyway if she has lost out financially by not transferring  then. 
But even a new CETV is less I dont think  it would be fair to say Paradigm should be 
responsible for any financial  loss Mrs I has suffered because she wasnt  able to complete 
the transfer before 16 October 2018 when the CETV  expired and even though  that was 
Paradigms fault.  
Ref: DRN529980314Thats because,  where things have  gone wrong  and even though it isnt the consumers fault, 
wed generally expect  the consumer to try to mitigate any loss or take steps to put things 
right. Here  Mrs I knew by about  20 September 2018 at the latest that Paradigm  wasnt  going 
to sign the advice declaration to say shed had advice.  Mrs I knew  the CETV  was only valid 
until 16 October 2018. I appreciate that was only a month or so away  but she did have some 
time to see if she could find another adviser to enable the transfer  to go through  before the 
CETV expired. 
Indeed it seems she recognised that. She told Paradigm it was going  to cost her more time 
and money if it withheld  its recommendation as that would  prevent her from transferring her 
pension; shed need to engage  another IFA; and when time was running  out to restart and 
complete the transfer process  with another IFA before the quotation deadline.
It seems  Mrs I was reluctant to do that either at the time or subsequently. Shes said she 
didnt want to go through the process again  and with a different adviser or pay for more 
advice when shed  already had advice from Paradigm. It seems she may have lost faith in 
IFAs generally or found advice prohibitively expensive. Or it might even be that shes 
changed her mind about transferring. 
I can understand Mrs Is position.  But I dont think that means its fair to say that Paradigm 
should be responsible for any loss she may have suffered by not proceeding with the original 
CETV and when she hasnt pursued  a transfer  anyway.  
Although I dont think that Paradigm is responsible for any financial loss Mrs I may have 
suffered Mrs I has suffered distress and inconvenience for which  Paradigm  should pay her 
£300.  
Mrs Is comments  in response  to my provisional decision 
Paradigm didnt comment further. Mrs I did. I note what she said about me having 
paraphrased her complaint. But I dont think its practicable to set out all shes said. So what 
follows is again a summary. 
The IFA planned a transfer that was clearly not in the clients interest.
She didnt agree  with statements made  by Paradigms adviser (which I hadnt set out 
in my provisional decision but which  Ive included above) which  showed the coercive 
nature of her exchanges with the adviser.  
I hadnt agreed with much of what Paradigm had said.  Despite  that Id failed  to draw 
any conclusions or impose penalties for that. That ignored  the advantage the adviser  
sought when making  exaggerated and misleading statements  to clients.  Her aim in 
bringing this to our attention was to prevent future  transgressions.  
I hadnt found fault with Paradigms business practice   only offering a transfer to its 
recommended platform, despite  her preferred destination being her existing SIPP. 
The unnecessary  transfer would have  gained Paradigm a hefty  fee and wouldnt 
have benefited  her at all. Paradigm would  then officially advise against any 
subsequent transfer.  But the understanding was the funds would be held in cash and 
ready for transfer  to her chosen  platform.  That wasnt  in line with industry  standards 
or what she should reasonably expect. She hadnt known there was no possibility of 
transferring straight to her existing SIPP until the second meeting.  
Ref: DRN529980315The IFA refused to provide the advice  declaration  form and recommendation (positive or 
negative).
In my summary  of her issues Id made no reference to her key supporting 
statements. These should be included. When the decision is published the 
correspondence wont be available.  
Id said advice was given and the adviser  incorrectly tied the signing of the financial 
declaration to the setting up (and paying for) the transfer to its recommended SIPP to 
ensure a large payment  for the advice given. The financial  advice  document  could 
and should have been signed  on the basis of the advice given, regardless of whether 
it was positive or negative. She told Paradigm it was free to put its recommended 
SIPP as the platform  for which  shed received advice.
The IFA withdrew from advice process abruptly with no credible explanation.
Not looking into whether the adviser  acted reasonably in saying he was no longer 
prepared to act for her understated  the importance and impact  of having the adviser 
bail on her when  everything was so close  to completion. Avoiding  investigating  that 
aspect of the matter  wasnt acceptable.  
Id said it wasnt her fault if Paradigm failed to ensure it was adequately remunerated 
for the work it did and any potential liability. And that it wasnt up to Paradigm, in 
effect, to seek to make  that make that up by only signing the advice declaration once 
shed paid the fee to transfer  and when shed already had advice. 
Id said the ending of the engagement was somehow in both parties interests. It 
clearly wasnt  in her interests.  Paradigm cant come up with any credible  reason  as to 
why the engagement was ended. Paradigm did so purely  because  the lucrative 
transfer wouldnt take place. That completely disregards the interests of the client.  
Theres no evidence the relationship  broke down, because it didnt. The evening  
before withdrawing  the adviser had written to arrange the final meeting.
My findings  regarding the impact/inconvenience
What Id said about her not having tried to mitigate her position and not having  
pursued a transfer anyway was speculation.  Shed put considerable effort into trying  
to put things right. She understood she had to prove  shed received financial advice. 
She took steps with the scheme trustees  to action the transfer,  providing  them  with 
copies of the advice from Paradigm. Communications with the trustees  went well 
beyond the CETV deadline. 
In late September/early October  2018  shed finalised  the transfer documentation with 
her existing  SIPP provider. On 9 October 2018  the transfer package was delivered to 
the trustees. On 12 October 2018  the trustees said everything  was in place, except 
the financial declaration. On 15 October 2018 (she provided a copy  of that email with 
complete documentation  available on request) she advised the trustees  that advice 
had been given but Paradigms adviser  had refused  to sign the declaration. She 
wanted the trustees to proceed  with the transfer as they could see from the 
documentation shed  sent that advice had been given. 
On 19 October 2018 the trustees  said theyd  raise the issue with their Professional 
Excellence Team. She chased  the trustees on 31 October 2018. The trustees 
confirmed on 5 November  2018 that they were unable to proceed without the signed  
financial declaration.  On 27 February 2019  the trustees wrote to say the case files 
were being closed. Her complaint to us was made  on 10 October  2018,  in tandem. 
Ref: DRN529980316She took all possible  steps to ensure  the transfer  went  through  smoothly. She 
couldnt have  known the trustees  had no leeway. She shouldnt  be penalised 
because she took that route rather than going through the same advice procedure  
(which Id accepted  shed completed  with Paradigm) with another  adviser.  If wed 
dealt with the matter  urgently we could  have got the declaration signed in time.  
The time window  for completing everything  is restricted at the best of times. Selecting 
an advisor and going  through the complex  analysis involved takes time. Completing 
that twice over in the time window  was a real stretch. Paradigm had ended  the 
engagement right at the end of the advice  phase for purely self serving reasons 
having realised  she didnt want to transfer her funds to Paradigms preferred 
platform. Paradigm  knew the predicament shed be put in in terms of completing the 
transfer on time but that wasnt its concern. 
Id not asked Paradigm to do what it should  have done all along  sign the financial 
declaration  because time has run out. Id decided the client   despite the 
considerable work done to execute the transfer   should bear the brunt  anyway.   
In her final comments Mrs I said £300 wasnt sufficient  to recognise the distress, 
inconvenience and losses shed suffered or the inappropriate  way Paradigm had behaved 
towards her. Although  this service isnt the regulator, outcomes should deter bad behaviour.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my conclusions  remain 
the same  as in my provisional decision. Ive made some  additional  comments. 
I note what Mrs I says about it not being  until she received my provisional decision  well 
over a year and a half after shed  brought her complaint to us  that she found  out a key 
element of her complaint  was outside  our remit. Shed said it wouldnt be acceptable to let 
[Paradigm] off the hook simply by rectifying their actions in this particular case. This is clearly 
a corrupt practice that needs to be investigated and it must be ensured they do not try this 
approach with new customers. It was only now shed been  told we couldnt  do anything  
about that. 
Although I can understand Mrs Is disappointment, the position is as Ive explained. We deal 
with individual  complaints. Wed hope,  where a complaint is upheld, the firm concerned will 
draw lessons from that. But we cant insist on a change to how a firm conducts its business. 
As Ive said,  we dont  impose fines or other  sanctions for regulatory breaches.  Any redress 
we direct will be specific to the particular complaint. 
If Mrs I doesnt  accept  my decision then it wont become final and binding  on her or 
Paradigm and shell be free to continue to pursue  the matter through any other channels she 
considers appropriate. 
Ive noted above what Mrs I has said about  her complaint having been paraphrased. But it 
isnt practicable to set out everything  she or, for that matter Paradigm, has said in full. As 
Paradigm hasnt expressed unhappiness at how its position has been presented, I dont 
think its necessary to include the further  details Mrs I has pointed  to  for example what  
Paradigm said in its email  of 17 September 2018. 
Im satisfied Ive included sufficient detail as to Mrs Is complaint without quoting all shes  
said. Ive read everything. Ive now included the statements shes pointed to. Ive considered  
Ref: DRN529980317them but I dont  agree with her comments.  Ive explained why I dont think Paradigm could 
proceed as it did. Essentially Paradigm  wasnt just offering a triage  service.  Advice  was 
given. But I dont think that necessarily means there  was coercion on Paradigms part. 
Rather that the basis on which  Paradigm  was prepared  to proceed was flawed.  
Mrs I doesnt agree  with some of what I said in my provisional decision   she says not 
everything Paradigm  said was correct. The summary Ive set out above reflects what Mrs I 
says happened. I dont  think  much  turns on some of the discrepancies  shes pointed  to, such  
as if the adviser  telephoned her in response to her initial enquiry and which wasnt  made 
direct to Paradigm  but through a web search  facility. 
And, in summarising  the adjudicators view, I said Paradigm had said Mrs I hadnt disclosed 
certain information. I deliberately didnt refer to the exact nature of the information it was 
alleged had been withheld. Adjudicators views arent published. But final decisions are. We 
anonymise the consumer.  We wont include any information that might mean a consumer 
can be identified. We wont usually mention a consumers occupation or anything  else which 
could, even remotely, lead to the consumer  being  identified. 
Mrs I says, contrary to what  Paradigm says, it wasnt until the second meeting on 11 
September 2018 that she was told there was no possibility of transferring to her existing 
SIPP. But I think Mrs Is position would have been  the same  even  if shed found  out earlier.  
By the time she met with Paradigms adviser  on 31 August 2018, shed had the CETV for 
about six weeks. It expired in about  another six weeks  or so, on 16 October 2018. She was 
already about  half way through  the three month  window. Time was already ticking. I think 
shed have continued with Paradigm anyway (as she did when she did find out any 
recommendation would be to a different platform) rather than trying to find a new adviser.  
I accept that Mrs I did her utmost to ensure the transfer went  through  by trying to show the 
trustees shed had the requisite advice  and so persuade them to allow the transfer to go 
ahead. 
And she did refer her complaint to us in tandem with her negotiations  with the trustees. She 
contacted us on 11 October  2018. The CETV expired just a few days later, on 16 October 
2018. Unfortunately it was never  going to be possible for us, and being fair to both parties, to 
investigate Mrs Is concerns and come to conclusions including,  if we considered it 
appropriate, recommending  (and Paradigm could challenge an adjudicators view) that 
Paradigm sign the advice  declaration in sufficient time for Mrs I to accept the CETV and for 
the transfer to go ahead.   
Mrs I knew definitively  on 5 November 2018 that the trustees  were  unable to agree  to the 
transfer. She didnt  then,  or since, revisit the transfer  by requesting a new CETV.  As I said in 
my provisional decision, I can, to a certain  extent, understand her reluctance to go through 
the process again and which would likely cost more than the fee she paid to Paradigm 
(which has been  refunded).  But I cant now assess what, if any, financial loss, Mrs I has 
suffered by not transferring in October  2018.  Any later obtained CETV may have  been  
higher. Or it may be that, in the end, shed  have decided against  transferring. The regulators 
position is that a firm should  start by assuming that a transfer out wont be suitable  - see 
COBS 19.1.6G (2). It may be, if Mrs I had gone to a different adviser, shed have been 
advised against transferring. Although shed have got the advice declaration she needed, 
advice against  may have  made her think again about transferring anyway. 
Ref: DRN529980318Paradigm did give advice in 2018  and so should have signed the advice declaration. But 
theres nothing to be gained by directing Paradigm to sign it now. The CETV has long since  
expired and the declaration wont be acceptable to the trustees and it wont  result  in the 
transfer going ahead.  
I note all Mrs I says about why the adviser terminated his relationship  with her. And that it 
came too late for her to obtain  advice elsewhere and before the CETV expired. But even if I 
agreed with Mrs I that the advisers actions werent justified, I still wouldnt require Paradigm 
to sign the advice declaration. Theres no point in doing that. Reaching  further findings about 
the advisers decision to terminate  acting  for Mrs I wont change the outcome. 
All in all my views remain as set out in my provisional decision and recapped above. I think 
the award for distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Is complaint. Paradigm Financial Partners LLP should  pay her £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience shes suffered as a result of the shortcomings  Ive identified 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5299803