K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains about the increase in premium  charged by AWP P&C SA for a 
mechanical breakdown  insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference  to AWP includes its agents. 
background
Miss W had a manufacturer warranty on her car. When the warranty was coming to an end 
AWP wrote  to Miss W to offer to renew her warranty. Miss W said she contacted AWP and 
was quoted around £400 to renew  her policy. Almost three  months later Miss W contacted 
AWP again to purchase the policy. She was then quoted around £900 for a policy  which 
didnt provide as much  cover as the original renewal quote had. 
Miss W didnt think this was fair and complained,  she said during this time her father and 
aunt had passed away. Because of this she wasnt  thinking about her renewal  as she was 
dealing with two close family bereavements.  Miss W also said during her contact  with AWP 
they hadnt returned a call and had sent her details to a third party  incorrectly.  
AWP reviewed  Miss Ws complaint and said because the policy  was no longer a renewal it 
was higher risk and this was the reason for the price increase. AWP also apologised for 
incorrectly sending her information to a third party and the way shed been treated by them.  
Because of this they paid her £200  compensation. Miss W didnt think  this was good enough 
and brought her complaint  here. 
Our investigator reviewed  Miss Ws complaint  and didnt  recommend it was upheld. She 
found that AWP had shown  it priced  her policy in line with how it did for other customers. 
She also thought  £200 was fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
AWP sending Miss Ws data to another person and how theyd treated her . 
Miss W disagreed; she said AWP werent following the Financial  Conduct  Authoritys (FCA)  
rules on treating customers fairly. She also said AWP  hadnt  justified why her car was a 
higher risk when it was only a few weeks older  than when her policy  expired. 
As Miss W disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W has made a number of detailed  points. Were an informal dispute resolution service,  
set up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting  on every issue  in turn. This 
isnt intended  as a discourtesy to Miss W. Rather  it reflects the informal  nature of our 
service, its remit  and my role in it. 
Ref: DRN53328682Miss Ws manufacturers warranty was due to finish around the end of October  2018. 
Because of this AWP wrote to Miss W to let her know she could purchase an insured 
warranty with them, and to do it before  the 30 October 2018. She then contacted AWP on  
22 January 2019  to purchase the insured  warranty and was told the price  had increased to 
around £900 as it was no longer a renewal policy. 
Its not our role to make judgements about the way an insurer  chooses to assess risk. But 
we can ask and insurer to tell us how its assessed  the risk and ensure it has done so in line 
with its criteria. 
AWP said because Miss Ws policy wasnt being  renewed and had lapsed, her car poses a 
higher risk. AWP said because of this a higher premium would be charged, theyve also 
shown us this would  be the same  for all customers in a similar  situation.  I understand      
Miss W was going through a difficult time when her policy  lapsed  and therefore didnt get 
around to renewing  it until a bit later. Im sorry to hear this and understand renewing the 
policy wouldnt have been something she was thinking about at the time.  As Im satisfied 
AWP are treating Miss W the same as all other customers it wouldnt be fair for me to 
intervene with their decision on what to charge. 
Miss Ws also complained about AWP sending  information  to the wrong  e-mail address  and 
not returning a call. Our role isnt to determine  if a business has breached an information 
rights law or penalise it for it. But we can consider  the impact  a data breach has had on  
Miss W. AWP admitted it sent an e-mail  to the wrong address. Miss W said she doesnt 
know what information AWP  sent or who to, but since  shes  experienced an account 
takeover on her mobile phone, bank and credit  accounts. 
I understand this must be very distressing.  However, to hold AWP responsible for these Id 
need to be satisfied theyre  directly related to AWPs error.  While AWP agreed they sent an 
e-mail to an incorrect address Im not satisfied this is directly  related to Miss Ws account 
takeover. I say this because there are numerous  ways someone could get hold of another  
persons data and without  knowing  this is most  likely directly  linked to AWPs error it wouldnt 
be fair and reasonable to hold them responsible. But I do think  they should  compensate  her 
for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience sending the email  caused and for not 
returning her call. 
I say this because  Miss W has had to spend  time chasing AWP for a response and has had 
the worry of her personal data being shared along while also having  an account takeover 
happen. This is on top of what was already a difficult time for Miss W. AWP has already paid 
Miss W £200  compensation,  Im satisfied this is a fair amount for the unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience  caused. So, I wont be instructing AWP to pay anymore. 
Ref: DRN53328683my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February  2020.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5332868