K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, lent to him in an
irresponsible manner.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 
28 November 2019, an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I 
wont repeat  that information here.  
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I thought that Sunny shouldnt  have given  Mr M 
loans five and six and what I thought it should  do to put matters right. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr M accepted my provisional decision.  Sunny didnt. It said,  in summary:
It checked the information  Mr M provided before giving him loans five and six. 
Information about other short-term loans may not show on the credit reference  
agency checks it carried out. 
Based  on the information it had, Mr M could afford  to repay the loans.
It isnt reasonable  to assume that Mr M was having problems repaying these loans as 
he made repayments on time, he could afford  the repayments and theres no 
evidence that he was having  difficulty managing his money at the relevant time. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain of the view that Sunny should have  done more than it did before loan five. I dont 
think that relying on its credit checks was sufficient at that stage. As Sunny says, those credit 
checks dont provide up-to-date information.  For the reasons I set out in my provisional  
decision, before loan five, Sunny should have verified what Mr M said about his finances. 
Im satisfied that proportionate  checks before loan five would have likely shown that Mr M 
was having problems managing his money. The fact that Mr M made repayments on time 
doesnt necessarily  mean  that he could afford to repay the loans in a sustainable way. The 
onus isnt on Mr M to say that he was having difficulties. Sunny had a duty to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  Based on what  Ive seen, it didnt 
do that in relation to loans five and six.
Ive noted what  Sunny says but I remain of the view that Sunny shouldnt have given Mr M 
loans five and six. 
Ref: DRN57347572my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part. I now require Elevate Credit  
International Limited, trading as Sunny to;
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans  five and six;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded  interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans five and six from Mr Ms credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN57347573extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr M complains that Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr M took out six instalment loans with Sunny between April 2018 and July 2018.  The loans 
were repayable in six, monthly repayments.  Mr M repaid all the loans. A summary of Mr Ms 
borrowing from Sunny  is as follows:
date £ amount
borroweddate repaid
118 April 2018 200 27 September 2018
230 April 2018 100 27 May 2018
302 May 2018 300 05 November 2018
410 May 2018 200 31 July 2018
510 June 2018 200 05 November 2018
631 July 2018 350 31 December 2018
Mr M says that Sunny didnt identify that hed become dependent on short-term  borrowing
and that he couldnt afford to repay the loans.  Mr M wants a refund  of interest  and charges, 
with interest and adverse information  removed  from his credit file.
One of our adjudicators  assessed Mr Ms complaint. He said that Sunny shouldnt have 
given Mr M loans four to six. The adjudicator set out what Sunny should do to put matters 
right. Sunny didnt respond to the adjudicators  view.  As there was no agreement between 
the parties, the complaint  was passed to me, an ombudsman, to consider.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant  rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable  steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should  have carried  out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These  factors  
include:
    the lower  a customers  income  (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
Ref: DRN57347574    the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher  repayment from a particular  level of income);
    the greater  the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period 
of time during  which a customer has been given  loans  (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending  itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably  repay  his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. Of 
course, the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular, the customer  should be 
able to make  repayments while  meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet  the repayments . And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence and information  provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
I dont think that Sunny  was wrong  to give Mr M loans one to four. Given  the repayment 
amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ms circumstances at the time and his history  with 
the lender at that point,  I dont think it wouldve been  proportionate for Sunny to ask Mr M for 
the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  There wasnt 
anything in the information Mr M provided  or the information Sunny shouldve been aware 
of, which meant  it wouldve been  proportionate for it to start verifying what  Mr M said at that 
stage.
I appreciate that when  Mr M applied for loan four, he hadnt yet repaid loans one to three 
but I dont think that the cumulative repayments  on those loans were such  that Sunny 
should have done more  than it did at that stage.
For loan five, I think Sunny shouldve  taken steps to build a more  detailed picture of Mr Ms
financial situation. Thats because  by then, Mr M had taken five loans in just under two 
months. And he hadnt yet repaid  loans  one, three  and four. I think  that proportionate checks  
before loan five would have included Sunny verifying what Mr M said about his finances.  If it 
had done that, I think  it would  likely have seen,  as I have, that in addition to the outstanding 
loans Mr M had with Sunny, hed also recently taken  out short-term  loans amounting  to 
£950 with two other lenders. In those circumstances, I think proportionate checks would 
have shown that Mr M was having problems managing his money. So, I dont think  its likely 
that Mr M would have been  able to repay further borrowing sustainably.
Ref: DRN57347575The position  was similar at the time of loan six. Mr M had only just repaid loan four and 
hadnt yet repaid loans  one, three  and five. Proportionate checks  before loan six would likely 
have shown that Mr M had recently taken out short-term loans amounting to £1,100  with two 
other lenders.
I dont think that Sunny  should have given  Mr M loans  five and six as proportionate 
checks would have  shown  that he was having  problems  managing  his money  and that he 
couldnt afford to repay further borrowing.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Ms lending history with Sunny. I dont think  that 
the pattern  of lending, in itself, indicated that Mr M couldnt sustainably repay the loans. All 
six loans were taken out in a little over three months. On balance,  I dont think  the pattern of 
lending here was such that Sunny shouldnt have  given  Mr M the loans for that reason. But, 
as Ive said, I dont think it should  have  given Mr M loans five and six for the reasons Ive 
set out above.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ms case,  I intend to uphold  his complaint in 
relation to loans  five and six.
putting things right   what Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans  five and six;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans five and six from Mr Ms credit 
file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I intend  to uphold  Mr Ms complaint in part. I intend to require 
Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, to pay Mr M compensation as set out 
above.
Ref: DRN5734757