K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains about the delay over the transfer of his occupational pension  scheme (OPS) 
to a Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP), which resulted in his OPS  paying a lower  Cash  
Equivalent Transfer  Value (CETV) than the one he had been originally quoted. Tavistock 
Private Client Limited (Tavistock) acted as Mr Hs advisor in the transaction and he feels  it 
caused or contributed to the delay. He has also questioned whether the fees he was 
charged were charged as agreed with Tavistock. 
Background
Mr H first engaged with an advisor, who was a personal friend,  about  his pension transfer in 
March 2017. Mr H was primarily  interested in transferring out of his OPS scheme, but also 
held two personal pension schemes.  At the time of these initial  discussions  the advisor was 
not working and was waiting to join Tavistock. He was not authorised  to provide financial 
advice until he joined Tavistock. Tavistock was formally appointed to advise Mr H on his 
transfer in early July 2017. 
Tavistock advised Mr H to transfer  his OPS, and one of his personal pensions, to a SIPP. It 
advised Mr H to keep  his other personal  pension where it was. Mr H accepted  this advice,  
and the transfer  of the OPS and personal pension took place, concluding in late 2017 and 
early 2018  respectively. Mr Hs complaint, essentially, is that the transfers of his OPS took 
longer than it should have, and this caused  him a loss on the transfer. He also says he 
understood a 3% fee was payable on the OPS transfer and a 1% fee payable on the 
personal pension  transfer, but he was charged 3% on both. 
Mr H had requested a CETV for his OPS scheme  around  the time he first engaged with his 
friend about the transfer. The CETV was around £449,000, and valid until 16 May 2017. 
Once Tavistock was appointed as his advisor  it says it tried,  without success, to get an 
updated CETV from the administrator of the OPS.  Tavistock  then asked Mr H to request a 
new CETV direct in August 2017  and this was issued in October  2017.  The new CETV was 
for around  £387,000 and was guaranteed  until 25 December 2017. This is the amount Mr H 
received when the transfer completed. 
Tavistock did not uphold  the complaint, but noted it had agreed to waive the £300 fee 
payable for obtaining the updated CETV and had not done so. It said it would refund £300 to 
Mr H and pay him a further  £200  as a goodwill gesture.  
Our adjudicator initially concluded the complaint should not be upheld.  He said,  in summary: 
It was not fair or reasonable for Tavistock to be held responsible for events that 
occurred before Mr Hs friend  joining it and so it wasnt responsible for anything that 
happened before  then.
The delay in getting a new CETV was down to the administrator of the OPS, not 
Tavistock. Once the CETV had been  received Tavistock took steps  to ensure the 
transfer completed before it expired. 
The signed fee agreement clearly states a 3% initial fee and a 1% ongoing  fee would 
be charged. The suitability reports provided to Mr H also confirmed this. 
Ref: DRN54296162Following further investigation  our adjudicator  reconsidered the timeline of events and 
changed his view, concluding  Tavistock was responsible for a delay of 27 working days in 
obtaining a new CETV.  So he asked it to work  out what the CETV  would  have been  had it 
been obtained without this delay,  and to pay £300 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Tavistock asked the OPS administrator what the CETV would have been, had it been 
obtained 27 working days earlier. The answer  showed Mr H had not suffered a loss as the 
CETV would  have been significantly  lower  that what he received  around £363,000. 
Tavistock said that as Mr H had made  a gain,  rather than suffering a loss, it thought  £300  
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused was excessive. It offered £150.  Mr H was 
nor prepared to accept this lower  offer  he thought  Tavistock should  pay the £300 the 
adjudicator recommended. As an agreement could  not be reached, the complaint was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H initially said,  as part of his complaint, that he had not been  charged fees as agreed.  
However, like the adjudicator, I think Tavistock  made it clear to Mr H what  fees would  be 
charged and I have seen no evidence to show fees were charged other than as agreed.  I 
also note Mr H does not appear to have disputed the adjudicators findings on this point. So I 
think it is sufficient for me to confirm here that, like the adjudicator,  I do not think it would be 
fair and reasonable to ask Tavistock to do anything else on this point. It seems the fees were 
paid as agreed between it and Mr H at the outset. 
Turning to the time taken to complete the transfer, although I have only set out a brief 
summary of events above,  I have carefully  considered the full timeline of the events 
surrounding the transfer. 
Like the adjudicator,  I do not think Tavistock can be reasonably held responsible  for the 
events which  took place before the advisor,  Mr Hs friend, joined it. Mr Hs friend  could not 
give advice until he had joined Tavistock and had been registered with the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Mr Hs friend did not join Tavistock until early June, the registration with the 
FCA did not happen until 29 June 2017, and Tavistock  was not appointed until early  July 
2017. So Tavistock wasnt  involved until the original CETV, which had been obtained in 
March 2017, had expired. Prior  to that Mr H can only have  been  dealing with his friend in a 
personal capacity. So the key point  to consider is whether, once it was appointed,  Tavistock 
caused a delay in obtaining  the new CETV and, if it did, whether that caused  a loss. 
The timeline provided by Tavistock  confirms the following key dates/events: 
3 July 2017- Tavistock  engaged, letters of authority signed by Mr H. 
12 July 2017- client agreement signed by Mr H
14 August 2017  OPS administrator received request from Mr H for a new CETV.   
8th September 2018 - Mr H paid the OPS administrators CETV Invoice 
10th October 2017  new CETV  received from the OPS administrator (dated 25th 
September) 
Ref: DRN54296163I also note that in an email dated  14 August to his advisor at Tavistock, Mr H said:
I spoke with [OPS administrator] this morning, they said they are not obliged to provide 
TVAS (??) or yield information  they explained  they do not even get this information  as it is 
calculated by a 3rd party. I did explain however that your position was to enable full and clear  
advice you believe the yield value is required in this situation they are willing  to ask for this 
information as part of the calculation from the 3rd  party  but can't 100% guarantee that it will 
be provided. The will send the invoice directly to me within 2/3 working  days  as soon as it is 
paid they will request the transfer value (and TVAS?) which as a previous calculation  has 
been made should take no longer than a couple of weeks.
Having carefully considered the adjudicators revised view,  which  was arrived  at following  a 
thorough investigation of the events surrounding the transfer, I agree with the adjudicator  
that Tavistock could  have acted quicker.  In the adjudicators estimation, there was a total 
delay of 27 working days. Its difficult to say with certainty exactly how long things would have 
taken, had Tavistock acted quicker. But I think that is a fair and reasonable estimation, in the 
circumstances. I think  Tavistock should have been  able to either  make  a request for a new 
CETV or work out that this request needed to come from Mr H, quicker  than it did. I note 
Tavistock says, in its response to the complaint, that the advisors assistants were 
attempting to get the required  information  from the administrator  before approaching  Mr H. 
But its not clear what  efforts they made, why these were unsuccessful,  or why they 
preserved for so long.  
I dont think otherwise there are delays in obtaining  the CETV attributable to Tavistock.  It 
seems, once  Mr H requested the CETV, there  was a delay in the administrator issuing an 
invoice. But its clear  from the above email  that Mr H was aware this invoice was going to be 
sent direct  to him and that he was expecting it within a few working days.  So I think  the onus 
was on him to do something, once the invoice had not been received when expected.  
Beyond that, there  are potentially some delays on the part of the administrator (but I make  
no finding on that here, as Im only looking at the actions of Tavistock). But Ive not seen any 
evidence of further delays on Tavistocks part in the CETV being requested. 
Tavistock has obtained, at its cost, a CETV for Monday  21 August 2017. Although, as the 
adjudicator noted,  27 working days should actually have meant  a CETV being obtained for 
Friday 18 August 2017, I think  the figure Tavistock obtained is sufficient to show  that the 
delay attributable to it has not caused  a loss. Quicker action by it would actually  have led to 
a lower CETV being paid to Mr H  which, as the adjudicator noted, is likely down to 
changes in the gilt market  over the relevant periods. 
I have also not seen sufficient evidence to show that obtaining a CETV earlier would have 
led to things concluding earlier than they did overall. There  were  a number of schemes 
involved  not just the OPS  a number  of parties,  and the timescales achieved throughout 
were inconsistent. So, although  I think there were shortcomings in the service  Tavistock  
provided I do not think, from the evidence available, that there is sufficient evidence to say 
these caused  Mr H a financial loss. 
Ref: DRN54296164Mr H appears  to have accepted this point, and the focus at the end of his exchanges with the 
adjudicator was on the amount of compensation he should be paid for the trouble and upset 
caused to him. Our adjudicator said it should  be £300. Tavistock  says it should be £150. 
Having considered this point I think the £300  suggested by the adjudicator is fair, in the 
circumstances. Tavistock says this is excessive, given Mr H has not suffered a loss. But the 
loss is a distinct issue. Mr H didnt know he hadnt  suffered a loss as result of delays until we 
became involved.  Its clear he thought  it was a possibility he had suffered a loss, which  
would have caused him upset, and the experience  of shortcomings in the service Tavistock  
provided would,  in itself,  have  caused Mr H trouble and upset.  
My final decision  
For the reasons  given,  my decision is that Tavistock Private Client Limited should pay Mr H 
£300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2021.
John Pattinson
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5429616