K821x#15complaint
Mrs F complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. unfairly declined a claim she made under her travel insurance policy.
background
Mrs F and her son were due to go on holiday on 24 May 2018. Sadly her father, who lived 
outside of the UK, passed away shortly  before they were meant  to depart. Mrs F cancelled  
the trip.
Mrs F made a cancellation  claim to her travel insurer, Mapfre, but it said it was not able to 
settle the claim. It noted that Mrs Fs father  had passed away  the same evening  she had 
purchased the insurance policy, and said it didnt feel this was a coincidence. It said that it 
believed Mrs F was aware of a circumstance that may have given rise to a claim when she 
bought the policy, and that the cancellation of her trip was foreseeable at the time she 
purchased the insurance. But it invited her to provide it with any further  information  she had 
that might  allow it to reconsider its position.
Mrs F didnt  think  this was fair so she brought her complaint to our service.  Shes  explained 
that she had been saving  for this trip for years,  and that this has been  a very distressing 
experience. To put things right she wants  Mapfre to meet her claim, compensate  her for the 
unfair treatment she feels shes received, and to formally apologise  for the insensitive way 
its handled her situation.
Our investigator felt that Mrs Fs version  of events, which  is that she was not informed of her 
fathers death until the morning after she purchased  her insurance policy, was plausible and 
convincing. The investigator said he appreciated Mapfres concerns, but felt it could have 
handled her claim in a fairer way. He noted Mapfre had now asked for telephone records  to 
support Mrs Fs statement about when  she was contacted about her fathers death, but that 
due to the time that had passed these were no longer available. And he felt Mapfre  
shouldve requested this information  sooner.   
The investigator felt that, on the balance of probabilities, it was more likely Mrs F hadnt been 
informed of her fathers death before purchasing the policy. And recommended  Mapfre  pay 
her claim, plus 8% simple  interest per year to be backdated to the date Mapfre had declined  
the claim.  He also asked  Mapfre to pay Mrs F £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by this matter.  
Mapfre didnt accept  these recommendations. It said it didnt believe Mrs F had provided 
enough evidence  to substantiate  her claim.  Or that delays should  negate  the need for 
evidence. So the case has been passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Where evidence is inconclusive or not available I have to make my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities; i.e. what I think  is most likely to have happened  given all of the 
information provided. 
Ref: DRN53791582I know Mapfre will likely be disappointed by my decision; but Ive reached  similar  conclusions  
to our investigator. Ill explain why.
When considering  this complaint Ive given careful  regard to the policy  wording, as well as 
guidance in place for insurers.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses, including: 
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due care, skill and diligence 
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly 
The Insurance Conduct of Business sourcebook  (ICOBS   available  online) section 8 
outlines an insurers obligations when handling a claim. It says the insurer  must
(1)handle claims promptly and fairly; 
(2)provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress; 
(3)not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and 
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed. 
Im very sorry to hear of Mrs Fs fathers  passing and I appreciate  this must have been a very 
difficult time for Mrs F and her family.
Ive seen evidence  which shows  that Mrs F booked the holiday concerned here on 18 March  
2018. At 23:09  on 23 May 2018 she purchased  a travel insurance policy underwritten by 
Mapfre. She and her son were due to fly to their destination shortly  before 1pm the next day.
Mrs F has explained  that when she purchased this policy  she was unaware her father had 
passed away a short time earlier. But Mapfre says it has concerns about  the timing  of the 
purchase, and doesnt feel Mrs F has provided  enough evidence to substantiate her claim 
and show that she hadnt already been  informed  of his death when she bought  the policy.  
It has referred to point two of the General Exclusions in its policy, which  states that:
2. You will not be covered  for any claims under section A - Cancellation and cutting short 
your holiday  that result  directly or indirectly  from any medical condition you knew about  at 
the time of taking  out this insurance or when booking a trip, and that affects: 
A close relative (see Definition on page  12) who is not travelling and is not insured 
under this policy; 
Someone travelling  with you who is not insured under this policy; 
A business associate; or 
A person you plan to stay with on your trip. 
When Mrs F submitted her claim to Mapfre she explained that she was informed in the early 
morning of 24 May 2018 that her father had died. She said shed spoken to him on 20 May 
2018, and as far as she knew he was fit and well prior to this point. 
Ref: DRN53791583Mrs F provided Mapfre with a letter from her fathers  friend who had discovered that hed 
passed away at a country residence. The letter advises that he was concerned that Mrs Fs 
father wasnt answering his phone  and went to his residence to check on him. He found him 
on 24 May 2018 at 1:15am local time (11:15pm on 23 May 2018 UK time), and after having 
called emergency  services and an investigation  being carried  out, notified  Mrs F of his 
passing after 7:30am local time (around 5:30am UK time). 
Mrs F has also provided us with a copy of her fathers death certificate, issued on 24 May 
2018 which states that he died on 21 May 2018. She gave Mapfre contact details for her 
fathers friend and the forensic  medical  expert who had investigated  her fathers  death.  She 
also invited it to contact  the emergency  services who had attended her fathers residence.
Mapfre says that the close proximity between the time of purchase of the policy and the time 
it was discovered Mrs Fs father had passed away gave it concerns about  the legitimacy of 
the testimony given.  In its final response  letter to this complaint it said that the only way it 
would reconsider its decision is if Mrs F provided  call logs or telephone  letters  from the time 
that demonstrated she was only contacted in the early hours of 24 May 2018.
The information Ive seen indicates  that it isnt possible for Mrs F to obtain  these records now 
given the time that has passed.  And that this would also have  been  the case at the point this 
final response letter was sent. Mapfre has acknowledged that instead  of declining her claim 
its claims team should have requested  this information during its initial investigation.  But said 
that due to the time that passed before Mrs F challenged its claims decision,  it didnt  feel this 
had inconvenienced Mrs F.
However I think it would  have been  reasonable for Mapfre to have asked for this information 
when it was first considering Mrs Fs claim,  as Mapfre has acknowledged. If it had, I think  its 
likely the call logs could have been  provided by Mrs Fs mobile  phone  provider. Given the 
delay in Mapfres request  means that the call logs are now unobtainable,  I dont think  its 
reasonable for Mapfre to suggest  that the lack of this evidence means that Mrs F has not 
done enough to substantiate her claim. In my opinion she wasnt  given a fair and reasonable 
opportunity to provide it prior to her claim being declined.  
Looking at the evidence that is available its clear Mrs Fs father died prior to her taking out 
this insurance policy.  Its also evident that his death  was discovered around the same time 
Mrs F made the purchase.  And so I can appreciate why Mapfre took steps to make  further  
investigations into this claim.  
However I can also see that Mrs Fs testimony has been clear and consistent throughout the 
claim, including on a telephone call she had with one of Mapfres investigators.  And like our 
investigator, I do think her version  of events  is plausible. Shes explained that she thought to 
purchase her travel  insurance whilst  she was packing for her holiday. And that the person 
who found her fathers body did not have a contact number for her and so it took them some 
time to obtain one and be able to let her know what had happened. Mrs Fs also explained 
that she was her fathers only remaining close family.  
Mrs Fs testimony  is supported  by the letter Ive described above, and her fathers death 
certificate and the other information  provided.  I can also see Mrs F has been open  about all 
of the parties  involved in the discovery  of her fathers death, and invited Mapfre  to contact 
them if it required more information.
Ref: DRN53791584This evidence persuades  me that its more likely that not events occurred as Mrs F has 
described. I therefore agree with our investigators  view that it would be reasonable for 
Mapfre to settle this claim as per our investigators recommendation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros must:
pay Mrs Fs claim, plus
8% simple interest per year to be backdated  to the date her claim was first declined
It must  also pay Mrs F £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by this matter.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2020
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5379158