K821x#15complaint
Miss A has complained  that TFS Loans Limited  (TFS) unfairly provided her with guarantor 
loans. 
She says that she feels the loans were unaffordable  for her and if TFS had done correct  
checks it would have  seen that she was already struggling financially. 
background
TFS provided Miss A with her first guarantor loan in February 2012. The loan was for 
£2,500.00. It appears as though a broker fee of £375 and a lender fee of £395 were  added 
to the loan amount. The total amount borrowed was to have interest of £3,531.48 added  
should the loan have  run its term. So the total charge for the credit was £4,301.48. This 
meant that the loan had an annual percentage rate (APR) of 122.4%.  The total amount 
repayable - £6,801.48  was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £188.93.
From what  I can see Miss A didnt  repay  this loan on time. And it looks  as though this loan 
was eventually settled   with a lump  sum payment of £3,216.74 being made - in February 
2016. This was more  than a year after the scheduled repayment date.   
TFS provided Miss A with a second guarantor loan in February  2017.  This time the amount 
advanced was £7,500.00  and there  were  no broker  or lender  fees on this occasion. Interest 
of £10,091.40 was to be added if the loan ran to term. So this loan had an APR of 48.9% 
and the total amount - £17,591.80 - was due to be repaid in 60 instalments of £293.19. 
Miss As complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators And our adjudicator issued  an 
opinion to TFS saying that the checks it carried out before providing Miss A with these loans 
werent reasonable and proportionate.  She also said that if such checks had been carried 
out TFS would have  seen  that it Miss A wasnt in a position to sustainably make  the 
repayments. So she thought that TFS shouldnt have provided Miss A with either of these 
loans and upheld  the complaint. 
TFS disagreed with our adjudicators assessment  and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. 
So the complaint has now been  passed to me for a final decision.
the regulatory framework
regulation by the Office of Fair Trading (up to 31 March 2014)
TFS provided Miss A with loan one in the period up to the end of March  2014. During this 
time it needed a standard licence from the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), in order  to carry 
out consumer  credit activities.
Section 25(2) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  set out the factors the OFT had to consider 
when deciding whether to grant a consumer  credit licence to a lender. It said:
(1)In determining whether an applicant for a licence  is a fit person for the purposes 
of this section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be 
relevant including (amongst other things)
Ref: DRN51106792(a)the applicant's  skills, knowledge and experience in relation to consumer 
credit businesses,  consumer hire businesses or ancillary credit  
businesses;
(b)such skills, knowledge and experience  of other  persons who the applicant  
proposes will participate in any business  that would be carried on by him 
under the licence;
(c)practices and procedures that the applicant proposes to implement in 
connection with any such business;
(d)evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A)
(2A) That evidence  is evidence tending to show that the applicant,  or any of the 
applicant's employees, agents or associates  (whether past or present) or, 
where the applicant is a body  corporate,  any person appearing to the OFT to 
be a controller of the body corporate or an associate of any such  person, has
(a)committed any offence  involving fraud or other  dishonesty or violence;
(b)contravened any provision made by or under
(i) this Act;
(ii) Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  so far as it 
relates to the consumer  credit jurisdiction under that Part;
(iii) any other  enactment regulating the provision of credit to individuals or 
other transactions with individuals;
(c)contravened any provision in force  in an EEA State  which  corresponds  to 
a provision of the kind mentioned in paragraph  (b);
(d)practised discrimination on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or 
national origins  in, or in connection with, the carrying on of any business; 
or
(e)engaged in business practices appearing to the OFT to be deceitful  
or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper (whether  unlawful or 
not) [my emphasis] .
Section 25(2B)  set out a direct example of the type of practice referred  to in Section 
25(2A(e)) and said:
For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which  the OFT may consider 
to be deceitful  or oppressive or otherwise  unfair or improper include practices in the carrying  
on of a consumer  credit business  that appear  to the OFT to involve irresponsible lending 
[my emphasis].
In March 2010, the OFT sought to produce  clear  guidance  on the test for irresponsible  
lending for the purposes of section 25(2B)  of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974. And so it issued 
its guidance on irresponsible  lending (ILG).
Ref: DRN51106793So I consider the ILG to be of central  importance in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome 
in Mr Bs case.
The foreword to the guidance  set out its purpose  and it said:
The primary purpose in producing this guidance is to provide greater clarity for businesses 
and consumer representatives as to the business  practices that the Office  of Fair Trading 
(OFT) considers may constitute irresponsible lending practices for the purposes  of section 
25(2B) of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974.  It indicates  types  of deceitful or oppressive or 
otherwise unfair or improper  business practices  which, if engaged in by a consumer credit  
business, could  call into consideration its fitness  to hold a consumer credit licence.
Whilst this guidance  represents the OFT's view on irresponsible lending,  it is not meant to 
represent an exhaustive  list of behaviours and practices which  might  constitute irresponsible  
lending.
Section two of the guidance  sets out the general  principles of fair business practice. Section 
2.1 says:
In the OFT's  view there are a number of overarching principles of consumer  protection and 
fair business practice which  apply to all consumer credit lending.
Section 2.2 of the guidance  says:
In general terms, creditors should:
not use misleading or oppressive behaviour when advertising,  selling, or seeking 
to enforce a credit  agreement
make  a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford  to meet  
repayments in a sustainable manner
explain the key features  of the credit  agreement to enable  the borrower  to make 
an informed choice
monitor the borrower's  repayment  record during the course  of the agreement,  
offering assistance  where borrowers appear to be experiencing difficulty  and treat 
borrowers fairly and with forbearance if they experience difficulties
Section 2.3 lists other expectations  of lenders. Amongst  other  things, it says:
In addition to the above  there should be:
fair treatment of borrowers. Borrowers should not be targeted  with credit products 
that are clearly unsuitable for them, subjected to high pressure  selling, 
aggressive or oppressive behaviour or inappropriate coercion, or conduct which  
is deceitful, oppressive, unfair or improper, whether unlawful or not
Ref: DRN51106794Borrowers who may be particularly vulnerable  by virtue of their current indebtedness,  poor 
credit history,  or by reason of age or health, or disability, or for any other reason, should, in 
particular, not be targeted  or exploited.
Section four of the guidance is concerned with the assessment of affordability that lenders 
were required  to carry out before granting credit. Section  4.1 says:
In the OFT's  view, all assessments  of affordability  should involve  a consideration of the 
potential for the credit  commitment to adversely impact on the borrower's financial situation, 
taking account  of information that the creditor  is aware  of at the time the credit is granted.  
The extent  and scope  of any assessment of affordability, in any particular circumstance, 
should be dependent upon  and proportionate to  a number of factors  (see paragraph 4.10 
of this guidance document).
'Assessing affordability', in the context of this guidance, is a 'borrower-focussed test' which 
involves a creditor assessing a borrower's ability to undertake a specific credit commitment,  
or specific additional credit commitment, in a sustainable manner, without the borrower 
incurring (further) financial difficulties  and/or  experiencing  adverse consequences.
Section 4.2 of the OFT guidance says:
Whatever means and sources of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit  sought  being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than 
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in question.
We consider that before  granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit, or 
significantly increasing the credit limit under  an agreement for running  account credit,  
creditors should take reasonable steps  to assess a borrower's likely  ability  to be able to meet 
repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner.
In a sustainable manner is defined in Section 4.3 of the OFT guidance.  And Section 4.3 
says:
The OFT regards 'in a sustainable manner' in this context as meaning credit  that can be 
repaid by the borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing  problem 
indebtedness
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within a 
reasonable period of time
out of income  and/or  available savings,  without having to realise  security  or assets.
Section 4.4 goes  on to describe undue difficulty  and says:
The OFT would regard  'without undue  difficulty'  in this context as meaning  the borrower 
being able to make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that 
were not reasonably foreseeable  at the time the credit was granted):
Ref: DRN51106795while also meeting  other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings 
and
without having  to borrow further to meet these repayments.
Building on the proportionality  principle  set out in section  4.1, section 4.10 deals with the 
issues that might influence how detailed the affordability assessment should be. It includes 
factors such  as:
the type of credit  product;
the amount  of credit to be provided  and the associated  cost and risk to the borrower;
the borrowers financial situation at the time the credit is sought;
the borrowers credit history,  including any indications of the borrower 
experiencing (or having experienced) financial difficulty
the vulnerability of the borrower
Section 4.12 is a non-exhaustive list of the types  and sources of information  that a lender 
might use to assess affordability, including:
evidence of income
evidence of expenditure
records of previous dealings with the borrower
a credit score
a credit report from a credit reference agency
information obtained from the borrower  through a form or a meeting
Sections 4.18 to 4.33 of the ILG set out some examples of specific irresponsible  lending  
practices relating to how businesses assess affordability. Section 4.20 says this would  
include where a lender  is:
Failing to undertake a reasonable assessment of affordability in an individual case  or cases
Section 4.21 gives another example:
Failing to consider sufficient information  to be able to reasonably assess  affordability,  prior to 
granting credit, significantly increasing the total amount of credit provided,  or significantly 
increasing the credit limit (in the case of a running  account credit agreement)
And Section 4.26 says a business  would be acting irresponsibly if:
Granting an application for credit when, on the basis of an affordability  assessment, it is 
known, or reasonably ought to be suspected, that the credit is likely to be unsustainable.
Ref: DRN51106796Sections 4.29 and 4.31 deal with a lenders  treatment of information  disclosed by the 
customer. 4.29 says it would be an unsatisfactory business practice  where a lender:
fail[s] to take adequate steps,  so far as is reasonable and practicable, to ensure that 
information on a credit application  relevant to an assessment of affordability is complete and 
correct.
And section  4.31 says it would be unsatisfactory for a lender to:
[Accept] an application  for credit  under  circumstances in which it is known,  or reasonably  
ought to be suspected, that the borrower has not been truthful in completing the application 
for credit with regards  to the information supplied relevant to inform an assessment of 
affordability
Section 6 of the ILG sets out other specific irresponsible lending  practices  relating to lender 
behaviour once loan(s) have been agreed. Section 6.2 says it would be an unsatisfactory  
practice where a business is:
Failing to monitor a borrowers  repayment record
Section 6.2 goes  on to say:
The OFT considers that creditors  should take appropriate  actionwhen/if  there are signs of 
apparent / possible  repayment difficulties.
regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority  (from 1 April 2014)
TFS provided Miss A with loan two after regulation  of Consumer Credit Licensees  had 
transferred from the OFT to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 1 April 2014. TFS 
initially obtained interim permission to provide consumer credit before it went on to 
successfully apply for authorisation. TFSs  interim  permission to provide consumer credit 
and its eventual authorisation  to do so meant that it was subject to the FCA rules  and 
regulations from 1 April 2014.
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
Ref: DRN51106797This sets out the rules  and guidance which apply to guarantor loan providers like TFS when 
providing loans.  CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending. 
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the OFTs Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance (ILG) and the rules set out in CONC 5. As is evident from the following extracts,  
the FCAs CONC rules specifically note and refer back to sections of the OFTs ILG on many  
occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
borrower a loan. It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to 
adversely impact the customers  financial situation, taking into account  the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement  
is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
Ref: DRN51106798[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the  
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
CONC also contains the additional  obligations owed by guarantor  loan providers to 
guarantors when providing a guarantor loan.  The additional requirements in relation to an 
assessment of the guarantors circumstances are contained in CONC 5.2.5R. 
As the guarantor isnt a party to this complaint, I dont think  that its necessary to set out all 
the rules and guidance relating to the additional  obligations  owed  to guarantor in this 
decision. That said I do think  its useful  for me to set out CONC 5.2.6G which  says:
(2)The provision of the guarantee or indemnity  (or both),  and the assessment of the 
guarantor under CONC 5.2.5R, does not remove or reduce the obligation  on 
the lender to carry out an assessment of the borrower under CONC 
5.2.1R or CONC 5.2.2R. Firms are reminded  of the rule in CONC 5.3.4R  that the 
assessment of the borrower must not be based  primarily or solely  on the value  of 
any security provided  by the borrower.
Ref: DRN51106799Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Both of Miss As loans were provided  after Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act came 
into force  on 6 April 2007. Section 140A sets out circumstances where the court  may 
determine that the relationship between a creditor and a debtor is unfair to the debtor. 
Section 140A says:
140A Unfair  relationships between creditors and debtors
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the 
debtor arising  out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related 
agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following-
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement  or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement).
(2)In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the 
creditor and matters  relating to the debtor).
(3)For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not 
done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
(4)A determination may be made  under this section  in relation to a relationship 
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
(5)An order  under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  
agreement which is an exempt agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of 
Part 2 of the Regulated  Activities Order by virtue of article  60C(2) of that Order  
(regulated mortgage contracts and regulated home purchase  plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could make should it determine  that the 
relationship between the creditor  and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140B says:
140B Powers of court in relation to unfair relationships
(2)An order  under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or 
more of the following
(a)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to repay 
(in whole  or in part) any sum paid by the debtor  or by a surety  by virtue of 
Ref: DRN511067910the agreement  or any related agreement (whether  paid to the creditor,  the 
associate or the former associate or to any other  person);]
(b)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to do or 
not to do (or to cease  doing) anything specified  in the order  in connection  
with the agreement or any related  agreement;
(c)reduce or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety  by 
virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(d)direct  the return to a surety of any property provided by him for the 
purposes of a security;
(e)otherwise set aside  (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor 
or on a surety  by virtue  of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f)alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g)direct  accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, 
between any persons.
other relevant publications  
The ILG and CONC set out the regulatory framework that regulated/authorised lenders have 
to adhere to. But the rules and guidance represent  a minimum standard  for firms. And Im 
also required  to take into account any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice.
the FCAs Portfolio  Strategy Letter to firms providing  high cost lending products
On 6 March 2019,  The FCA wrote  a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer  of all the 
firms it allocated to its High Cost Lenders  portfolio. The letter set out the FCAs view of the 
key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to consumers  and the markets they operate  in. On 
page two of this letter,  the FCA sets out its view of the key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms  in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we analysed  
their strategies and business models.  We considered a wide range of information and data, 
including firms regulatory histories, the number  and nature of complaints, and findings from 
the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on guarantor lenders, which involved issuing 
a data request  to firms  in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across  the 
High Cost Lenders  portfolio:
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending  
patterns
firms affordability  checks  may be insufficient,  leading to loans that customers  
may not be able to afford.
Ref: DRN511067911We also see an additional potential harm from guarantor  lending:
the proportion  of loan repayments  that guarantors make has risen considerably, 
which could indicate that affordability  on the part of the borrowers  is falling
On page three of the letter, in the section entitled Complaints it says:
We expect firms  to fulfil all relevant  obligations, including  analysing the root causes of 
complaints and taking  into account  the Financial  Ombudsman  Services relevant decisions. 
We gave further detail about what we expect from firms complaint-handling procedures in 
the Dear CEO letter we issued to HCSTC firms in October 2018. This is equally relevant to 
all firms in the portfolio.
Further detail in relation to the FCAs future work  was provided  on page four of the letter.  
The section entitled Additional focus for firms  providing guarantor  lending  said:
As well as the areas of focus above,  we will also prioritise our supervisory work with firms  
that provide guarantor loans in the following  area: 
Payments made by guarantor: 
Our diagnostic work on guarantor lending showed  that many guarantors  make at least  one 
repayment and the proportion of guarantors making payments is growing. We want  to 
understand the root causes for this increase,  and whether firms  are conducting  adequate  
affordability assessments. We are also concerned that guarantors  may not fully understand 
how likely it is that they will be called upon  to make a payment. So, as well as our broad  
portfolio-wide work on relending, we will start a piece of complementary work on guarantor 
lending. This will establish whether  potential guarantors  have  enough information  to 
understand the likelihood and implications of the guarantee being enforced.
the FCAs Dear CEO letter on affordability  of High-Cost Short-Term Credit (HCSTC)  loans
On 15 October 2018, the FCA wrote a Dear CEO  letter  to the Chief  Executive Officer of all 
HCSTC providers. The letter was about  the issues surrounding the increase  in complaints 
about unaffordable lending.
The third paragraph  of this letter said:
We note that the Ombudsman has recently  published four examples of determinations of 
individual complaints about payday loans to illustrate its approach to the issues  raised in 
those complaints (see: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm ). 
If relevant,  firms  should take these examples of determinations into account  as part of 
establishing their own effective procedures for complaints handling (see DISP  1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
We would highlight  in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were flagged 
in our price cap proposals in CP14/10, in July 2014,  in which we said that we were 
concerned that repeat  borrowing could indicate  a pattern of dependency  on HCSTC that is 
harmful to the borrower. We noted  that rigorous  affordability assessments  were key to 
avoiding harm in this area, and firms  should ensure they are making responsible 
assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
Ref: DRN511067912the FCA Executive  Director of Supervisions (Retail and Authorisations) speech at the Credit 
Summit, London, on 21 March 2019  
The FCAs Executive  Director  of Supervision gave a speech at the Credit  Summit, which  
took place on 21 March 2019,  entitled  What can the consumer credit sector expect from the 
FCA? . 
The speech  reiterated much of what was said in the High Cost Credit  portfolio strategy  letter 
(set out above) issued on 6 March  2019.  And in his speech the Executive Director of 
Supervision said:
Over the last few years we have seen a dramatic increase in the use of guarantor loans by 
consumers. Balances on guarantor loans are fast approaching £1 billion and these have 
more than doubled since 2016.  
While these products provide an opportunity  for those with thin credit  files - poor or limited 
credit history  - we do have concerns.  Concerns about affordability. Recent work we have  
done in this area showed that many guarantors are making  at least 1 payment and the 
proportion of guarantors  making these payments is growing.
There is also growing anecdotal  evidence that guarantors may not understand how likely it is 
that they will be called upon to make  a payment. Our work will therefore focus on 
affordability and on understanding whether potential guarantors have enough information to 
understand the likelihood and implications of the guarantee being enforced.  
We have already amended certain  rules  to ensure that the protections they provide to 
borrowers also extend to guarantors, for example  rules requiring forbearance, pre-
contractual explanations and fair treatment. In assessing creditworthiness,  we have clarified 
that firms must undertake  a reasonable assessment of the potential for the guarantors 
commitment to have a significant adverse  impact  on their financial  situation.
And if the guarantor is called upon, we have published guidance on our view of what  
constitutes enforcement of the guarantee  under  the CCA  in practice this means  we 
expect firms to provide guarantors with adequate  notice before exercising a Continuous 
Payment Authority (CPA).
There are also questions  over the level of interest  rates charged on these products 
considering that these  guarantors are deemed to be credit worthy,  we will therefore be 
considering this and the business models  of these firms.
  
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are two overarching  questions I need  to consider in order to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint. 
These two overarching questions are:
Ref: DRN511067913Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Miss A 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Miss A wouldve been able to do so?
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine that TFS didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss A and that 
she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Miss A would be 
able to repay her loans  in a sustainable  way? 
The rules  and regulations in place  both times TFS lent to Miss A required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay her loan in a 
sustainable manner.  TFS was required to carry out this borrower focused assessment in 
addition to a similar one on the guarantor. This assessment is sometimes  referred to as an 
affordability assessment  or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so TFS had to think about whether repaying the 
loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse  consequences for Miss A. In practice 
this meant  that TFS had to ensure that making  the payments to the loan wouldnt cause  
Miss A undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other  words, it wasnt enough  for TFS to simply think about  the likelihood  of it getting  its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Miss A. The existence  of a 
guarantee and the potential for TFS to pursue the guarantor  instead of Miss A, for the loan 
payments doesnt  alter,  lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
Even for the same customer,  a proportionate check could  look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an 
extended period);  and 
Ref: DRN511067914the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought  about all of the relevant  factors in this case.
Were TFSs checks reasonable and proportionate?
loan one
For loan one, TFS has said that it completed  an income and expenditure assessment with 
Miss A. During this assessment Miss A confirmed that she had a monthly  income of 
£1,848.93 and existing monthly  credit commitments  of £822.48,  which meant that she would 
be left with £837.52 once her TFS loan payments were also taken into account.  Miss A also 
said that she was living at home with her parents and didnt contribute  towards  the 
household expenses. TFS also says that it carried out a credit check on Miss A. 
Ive carefully thought  about what TFS has said. But I have grave  concerns as to the steps it 
took to scrutinise  the information it gathered. Id like to explain why in further detail. 
The credit check TFS carried  out showed  that Miss A had six defaults  and it also included a 
warning which said:
180
VERY  HIGH RISK
MOST VENDORS  VIEW THIS  SCORE  AS VERY  HIGH RISK - THE MAJORITY
OF APPLICANTS  FOR CREDIT WITH THIS SCORE WILL EXPERIENCE
SERIOUS REPAYMENT PROBLEMS IF THE APPLICATION IS ACCEPTED
In my view, the information on TFS credit  search showed that Miss A had had previous 
difficulties managing credit. So I think that TFS ought to have taken steps to verify Miss As 
monthly expenditure, given that her declared monthly disposable  income was inconsistent  
with the warning on the credit file. In my view, it would be unlikely for an individual with a 
monthly disposable income of around £850 to have had such  difficulty  repaying credit. 
I say this while especially  mindful of the fact that the rules themselves provide guidance on 
the proportionality of affordability/creditworthiness assessments. The rules  and guidance  
suggest that the risk of any credit  not being sustainable  directly relates to the amount of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit  relative  to the customers  financial situation. 
This was an expensive loan and the credit search carried  out on Miss A showed she wasnt  
in the healthiest financial position.  
I have to question  just why it was TFS was prepared to accept what,  without any verification 
of Miss As monthly expenditure, on face value,  appears to be such  an egregious credit risk. 
In truth,  I suspect that the existence of Miss As guarantor might  have  provided  TFS with the 
Ref: DRN511067915confidence to accept this risk because ultimately  it was the guarantor  who stood to lose out 
in this arrangement  should Miss A have proved unwilling or unable to make her payments. In 
other words, the guarantor was assuming this credit risk rather than TFS. 
But, in any event, I dont  think  that TFS being  able to pursue the guarantor for payments (in 
the event they werent made  by Miss A) meant that it was fair and reasonable to conclude  
that Miss A herself would  be able to sustainably make the payments, given what  the credit 
file showed. I say this while especially mindful  of the fact that the guarantor was entitled  to 
rely on TFS having completed a fair, reasonable and proportionate  assessment of Miss As 
ability to repay.
I also think that it might also be helpful  for me to explain that a less detailed affordability 
assessment, without the need for verification, is only really likely to be fair, reasonable and 
proportionate in circumstances where the amount to be repaid is relatively small, the 
consumers financial situation is stable and they will be indebted for a relatively short period. 
But, in circumstances   such  as here - where  a customers finances are showing telling 
signs of possible strain and distress, they are expected  to maintain payments for a longer  
period of time and there is the potential that a guarantor will be required to step in and make 
payments, I think its far more likely  that any affordability assessment would need to be more 
detailed and contain a greater degree of verification, in order  for it to be fair, reasonable and 
proportionate. 
In my view, bearing in mind the term of the loan,  the cost of the credit, what TFS had seen or 
ought to have seen in the information gathered and the potential implications for the 
guarantor, TFS needed to get a thorough  understanding of Miss As financial position in 
order to properly assess whether shed be able to sustainably make  the loan payments she 
was being asked to commit to. 
So as well as asking  Miss A about  the details  of her income and expenditure,  I think that   
TFS needed  to verify what it was being  told by Miss A, rather  than relying  on what  Miss A 
declared for her monthly expenditure. It could have  done this by asking for information  such 
as bank statements  or copies of bills. And when it obtained this information it needed to 
properly scrutinise it and ensure that Miss A did have enough  funds to be able to make  the 
payments.
 
As theres  no evidence  that TFS did properly scrutinise  the information provided,  or that it 
asked Miss A to provide  documentary evidence to support the expenditure declarations 
made, I find that it didnt  complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks 
before providing  Miss A with loan one.
loan two
TFS appears to have  carried out similar checks  to those carried  out for loan one  before 
providing loan two. This was despite  Miss As obvious and apparent difficulty  in making the 
payments to loan one. 
TFS says that it was reasonable to proceed on this basis because  Miss A explained  that the 
difficulties she had in making her payments  was due to her parents having lost their 
business but that this had now changed,  her parents were now paying the bills and her 
income had also gone  up from when she previously  applied.  But while Miss A might have 
told TFS this, TFS recorded  that she now had a lower disposable monthly income  than at the 
Ref: DRN511067916time of loan one. Equally, it was apparent that Miss A had two other guarantor loans with 
other providers.
In these circumstances, I think that TFS  checks didnt  go far enough. Bearing in mind 
everything that had happened up until this point, the warning from the credit reference 
agency before loan one, Miss As apparent difficulty in repaying loan one and Miss As credit  
file showing her continued indebtedness at the time of application, I think that fair, 
reasonable and proportionate checks would have involved  TFS getting a thorough  
understanding of Miss As expenditure. Much  like for loan one I think  that TFS needed to 
verify Miss As expenditure.
As theres  no evidence  that TFS asked  Miss A to provide documentary evidence to support 
the expenditure declarations made, I find that it also didnt complete fair, reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks before providing Miss A with loan two.
    
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have indicated to TFS that Miss A would have 
been unable  to sustainably repay these loans?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent  carried out before theses loans were 
provided, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need  to decide whether it is 
more likely than not that proportionate checks would have told TFS that Miss A wouldve 
been unable  to sustainably repay these loans. 
Miss A has now provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she 
applied for these loans. Of course, I accept different checks  might  show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information  Miss A has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks TFS mightve  carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from TFS showing what  this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable  and proportionate to place considerable weight  
on it as an indication of what  Miss As financial circumstances were more likely  than not to 
have been at the time.
As Ive already  explained, TFS was required to establish whether Miss A could sustainably  
make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt automatically  follow  that 
this is the case.  And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make  their 
payments, it follows that a lender  should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower  wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they 
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  the information  Miss A has provided in light of all of this. 
The information Ive been provided  with  rather unsurprisingly  bearing  in mind what  the 
credit check  information TFS had showed - shows that Miss A was in a difficult  financial 
position at the time of both loan applications.  She was clearly struggling to make  ends meet  
and was borrowing  from a number of different lenders in order  to try and make payments. As 
far as I can see she was drowning  in debt. Indeed by the time of loan two the position had 
worsened and she was now also making payment to debt collection agents too.  
Ref: DRN511067917So Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks  would  more  likely than not have  
shown that Miss A wasnt  in a position to meet her existing financial commitments  let alone 
take on new ones  without having to borrow further.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks  would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Miss A would not have been able to make the 
loan repayments  to these loans without  borrowing further and/or suffering undue  difficulty.  
And, in these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks  would more 
likely than not have  alerted TFS to the fact that Miss A would not be able to sustainably  
make the repayments  to these loans. 
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss A in some  other  way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss A in some  other  
way.  
So I find that TFS didnt act unfairly  or unreasonably towards Miss A in some other way.  
conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought  about the two overarching  questions,  set out on page 
thirteen of this decision, I find that:
TFS didnt complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  on Miss A to satisfy itself 
that she was able to repay her loans; 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more  likely than not have shown Miss A 
was unable  to sustainably make the repayments  for these loans;
TFS didnt also act unfairly  or unreasonably towards Miss A in some other way.
The above  findings leave me concluding that TFS unfairly and unreasonably provided     
Miss A with guarantor loans in February 2012 and February 2017.
Did Miss A lose out as a result of TFS unfairly  and unreasonably providing  her with her 
guarantor loans?
I think that this loan had the effect of unfairly increasing Miss As indebtedness as it led to 
her to being provided with expensive credit for a significant sum. This loan was expensive 
and the monthly  payments, which also included interest and charges,  took up a significant 
proportion of Miss As income at a time where she was already struggling to make ends 
meet. 
So I find that Miss A did suffer adverse consequences and as a result lost out because      
TFS unfairly provided her with these loans.
Ref: DRN511067918fair compensation  what  TFS needs to do to put things right for Miss  A
Ive carefully thought  about what TFS should  do to put things right in this case. Having done 
so, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of Miss As complaint for 
TFS to put things right by:
refunding all the interest and charges (including  all broker and lender fees) Miss A 
paid on loan one;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any interest and charges paid on loan one 
from the date they were  paid by Miss A to the date of settlement;
removing all interest and charges applied to loan two from the outset  in other 
words, the starting balance on loan two should be reduced  to £7,500.00 and Miss A 
should have to pay no more, in total, than this amount.  The payments Miss A has 
already made should then be deducted from the new starting balance.  TFS can then 
also apply the compensation due for loan one to the new remaining balance on loan 
two. If the amount  of compensation due for loan one exceeds  the new outstanding 
balance on loan two, the extra should be paid to Miss A;    
removing any adverse information recorded on Miss As credit file as a result of these 
loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must  give 
Miss A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Miss As complaint. TFS Limited  should  put 
things right for Miss A in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 November  2019..
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5110679