K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ls unhappy with a refund made  by Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) to 
reflect the way its dealt with her in the past. 
background
Mrs L says she received a £780.93 refund from Barclays in relation to a credit card she had 
which is now settled and closed. She says this was to reflect  the fact that Barclays  didnt 
always meet  the expected standards for assessing  customers circumstances when 
engaging with them. Mrs L wants this reviewed as she doesnt think  its a fair reflection of her 
situation. She wants the whole balance refunded. Shes also unhappy Barclays didnt accept  
an offer of settlement at the time and with the way she was dealt with. She also complains 
about the way a third party company handled  her debt after Barclays  sold it on.
Barclays said in its final response that it had made the refund of interest,  default  fees and 
compensatory interest  to reflect the fact it hadnt  always provided the most appropriate 
support to customers who had been  experiencing financial difficulty.  It was making  the 
refund to all customers who mightve  been  affected. This included Mrs L who fell into 
collections sometime between October  2013 and June 2017. Its collections team had placed  
several holds on her account  while awaiting  a repayment offer from a debt management  
charity and refunded  some interest and charges  as a goodwill gesture. Itd declined an offer 
of settlement  from Mrs L as it wasnt enough at the time to settle  the outstanding balance.  It 
cant control the language  external debt collectors used.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said in summary:
Barclays had put Mrs Ls account  through collections from December 2014. Itd later 
dealt with her debt management  charity. In 2015  and 2016  itd refunded some 
interest and charges.  Itd also told her the account  may be defaulted and sold to a 
third party.  These  actions were all in line with the accounts terms and conditions.
In 2018 a further refund was made  after Barclays acknowledged it may not have 
offered enough  support to customers like Mrs L. The amount  of the refund is the 
interest and charges  applied while her account was in collections and as agreed with 
the Financial Conduct Authority, 8% interest has been added.
From  the available evidence the amount of the 2018 refund is fair and reasonable 
and it has been assessed by the Financial Conduct Authority. Theres no doubt Mrs L 
received poor service  but this has been acknowledged by Barclays and is the reason 
the 2018 refund was offered. As the remainder of the balance  on the credit card was 
money Mrs L had benefited  from she cant fairly or reasonably  ask Barclays to refund 
it.
Mrs L has raised concerns about  the way the third party  debt collector has dealt with 
her since  Barclays sold it her account.  This is a complaint she will need  to take up 
directly with the third party  company.
Mrs Ls representative says they dont agree that this is the correct outcome. Hes asked for 
an ombudsman review.  They think that if Mrs L was still a Barclays  customer making regular  
payments the settlement figure offered wouldve been very different and the entire remaining 
Ref: DRN54570172balance wouldve been refunded. Mrs L settled  the account balance  in full relatively quickly  
by refinancing and consolidating existing  debts. She thinks she has been discriminated 
against as she is no longer a Barclays customer.  Thats unfair and they want a larger 
refund.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
Mrs Ls unhappy with the way the third party has dealt with her since Barclays  sold the 
account and debt. But thats  a matter she will have  to take up directly with the company 
involved. Its not something Barclays can be held responsible for.
Barclays has recently carried  out an internal review and determined it hadnt  always  
provided the most appropriate support to customers who were  experiencing financial 
difficulty. And its clearly  worked with the FCA to determine which customers should  get a 
refund of interest,  charges  and compensatory interest for the time their account was in 
collections and when  it mayve failed to give them enough support. Having done  so, its 
decided to refund interest to all customers who mayve been  affected.
That includes Mrs L even though theres nothing  to suggest she was failed in this respect by 
Barclays. In fact in this case Barclays does seem  to have assisted Mrs L when she told it in 
2014 that she was in financial  difficulty. It engaged with her and her debt management 
charity. It agreed an informal payment plan and made a number of refunds of some  interest  
and charges in 2015 and 2016. That all seems reasonable. It also wasnt obliged to accept  
any settlement offer she put forward. It eventually defaulted the account and later sold it to 
the third party  as it was entitled to do.
Overall I think  Barclays acted fairly,  reasonably and in line with the accounts terms and 
conditions when Mrs Ls account was in collections.
In 2018 Mrs L was sent a further refund by Barclays after its internal review.  She and her 
representative would like a larger one of the whole balance of the account to reflect  her 
situation. But I think to require Barclays to do so would represent it effectively refunding 
money shed borrowed.  I dont  think  that would be fair or reasonable as she has had the 
benefit of it. 
It may well be that Mrs L repaid the debt owed  reasonably quickly  by making  other borrowing 
and financial  arrangements. Even so, I dont think theres anything to show shes  been  
discriminated against by Barclays as a result or by not now being its customer. And I dont 
think that I can as a result fairly or reasonably  require Barclays  to refund any of the actual 
money she borrowed or owed as she and her representative would like.
I recognise Mrs L and her representatives strength  of feeling. But taking everything  into 
account I havent seen anything which persuades me that Mrs L should be given a larger  or 
additional refund  as theyd like. And on balance I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require 
Barclays to do or pay any more than its already done.
Overall, I dont  see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
Ref: DRN54570173my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5457017