K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Bank  of Ireland (UK) plc wouldnt send a replacement credit  card to an 
overseas address when his original card was lost.
background
Mr A lost his credit  card and wanted  Bank of Ireland to send a replacement  to an overseas 
address. But the bank  would only send the replacement to the address it held for Mr A on its 
systems  which was in the UK. 
Mr A says the banks  actions caused him considerable distress and inconvenience  while  he 
was abroad. He also considers the limitations  for issuing new cards shouldve  been pointed 
out when he opened the account.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
Bank of Ireland  could only issue a replacement card to an address registered on its systems 
for Mr A. The terms of the account meant this couldnt be an overseas address.
The investigator didnt  consider Mr As account had been mis-sold. And she said any 
concerns he had about the banks advertising  material was more appropriate for the 
Advertising Standards Authority.
Mr A asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A wanted  Bank of Ireland to send his replacement card to an overseas  address. But that 
wasnt the address  that the bank  held for Mr A on its systems. 
I dont think it was unreasonable  for Bank of Ireland to refuse to send the card to an address 
that wasnt recorded on its systems for Mr A. The security of Mr As account couldve  been at 
risk if the card was sent to an address that hadnt been verified by the bank.
The terms of the account require the card holder to be resident in the UK. So Bank  of Ireland 
couldnt use the overseas address as its correspondence address for Mr A on its systems.
Mr A considers the limitations  on issuing replacement cards  shouldve been pointed  out to 
him when  he took out the card. But Im not persuaded thats the case. If Mr A thought he 
might need  to receive cards or correspondence  from the bank at an overseas address, I 
think it wouldve been reasonable for him to check whether this was possible with Bank of 
Ireland before he opened the account.
Overall, from what Ive seen, I dont think Bank of Ireland has done anything  wrong so I wont  
be upholding Mr As complaint.
Ref: DRN59140052my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5914005