K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Equifax Limited breached  her personal data and allowed third party 
information to appear  on her credit report.
background
Mrs B first became aware that her personal  information was showing on a third partys credit 
report in 2014.
She raised  this with Equifax  and says it promised her it would look after her details.
Mrs B says that a further breach occurred when she noticed third party data on her credit  
report. She complained to Equifax who acknowledged that third party electoral role 
information had incorrectly  appeared on her credit report. Equifax explained  to Mrs B that an 
error had occurred in its data monitoring  system. It said it had loaded a Notice of 
Disassociation to its database but was unable to remove all aspects of the third party 
electoral role information from Mrs Bs credit report.  It apologised  to Mrs B and offered her 
compensation of £250.
Mrs B wasnt  happy with the response. She says that the third party received more 
compensation than her.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said Equifax had taken reasonable steps  to 
remove as much of the third party information  as possible. The investigator said the third 
party had received more compensation than Mrs B because it was the third partys  
information which had appeared  on Mrs Bs credit report and not vice versa.
Mrs B didnt agree. She said the third partys details were still showing on her credit report 
and she wanted  these removed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the frustration that this has caused  Mrs B. Its not the role of this service to 
decide whether  or not theres been a data breach - only the Information Commissioners 
Office can do that. So Ive looked  at what happened  and at whether Equifax has acted fairly 
and reasonably. In doing  so, Ive taken  into account  the relevant law and guidelines and 
industry good practice. Ive also taken into account the impact this has had on Mrs B.
Equifax has acknowledged that a third partys  information appeared on Mrs Bs credit  report.  
It has taken steps to remove as much  of the information as it can but has explained that it 
isnt possible to remove all of the information due to system limitations. Equifax has also put 
a notice of disassociation on the report to make it clear to anyone viewing the file that the 
third party isnt associated  with Mrs B.
Although Equifax hasnt managed to remove all of the third party  information from Mrs Bs 
credit report,  Im satisfied  that it acted reasonably in taking the steps it took.
Ref: DRN57867282In terms of the impact  on Mrs B, and whilst I appreciate that some  of the third partys  
information is still showing on her credit report, theres no evidence  to suggest that Mrs Bs 
ability to obtain  credit has been  negatively  affected.
In the circumstances, I dont think Equifax needs  to do anything more.
I understand that the third party  is related to Mrs B and that Mrs B is unhappy that shes  
received less compensation. I dont know the specific facts of the third partys complaint. 
However, from what I know,  the third partys  information was breached  and appeared on Mrs 
Bs credit report, so the third party suffered  a greater impact than Mrs B. This is probably 
why the compensation was greater. I understand that this has caused difficulties in Mrs Bs 
relationship with the third party and Im sorry to hear this.
I note that Mrs B wants Equifax to remove all of her personal data from its systems as she 
feels she can no longer  trust them. I can see that Mrs B has already cancelled her account. 
All account information is retained by Equifax for a period of 3 years to comply  with 
regulatory requirements. After this time it will be deleted.
In conclusion, Im satisfied that Equifax  has taken  reasonable  steps  to put things right. I also 
think it has offered a fair amount  of compensation to Mrs B so I wont be asking  it to do 
anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5786728