K820x#14Complaint
Mr T, as representative of the Estate of Mrs T, complains that Vitality Life Limited unfairly 
cancelled the late Mrs Ts term assurance  policy.
Background
The late Mrs T took out a term assurance  policy through  an independent financial adviser  
(IFA) on 24 April 2018. It started  on the same day and provided level life cover of £10,000.
Sadly, Mrs T passed  away in May 2018.  Mr T later initiated a claim under the policy.
Vitality required medical  information  to assess the claim but it took several months to obtain 
it. Mr T complained about the delays and Vitality  paid £200 to apologise  for this and 
customer service  provided. This was the subject of a separate  complaint  with our service   
the investigator thought the compensation paid by Vitality was fair in the circumstances.
After reviewing the medical  information provided, in April 2019 Vitality declined  the claim and 
cancelled the policy. This was because it said Mrs T hadnt answered questions about  her 
health in the application  form correctly. Vitality said if it had known about her medical  
conditions it wouldnt have been  able to offer her any cover  at all. For this reason, it 
cancelled the policy and returned the premiums.
Mr T complained. He said his late wife had completed the application form correctly and had 
told Vitality about her medical conditions. Vitality didnt change its position so Mr T referred 
the complaint  to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought Mrs T should have answered a 
number of questions  on her application  form differently.  Had she done  so, he thought  Vitality 
wouldve asked for her medical records. As this showed  a number of significant health  
conditions, it wouldve declined to offer her any cover at all. For this reason, he thought  
Vitality had acted fairly by declining the claim and cancelling the policy.
Mr T appealed. He said Mrs T had died as a result of sleep apnoea, which  shed told Vitality 
about. He said her other medical conditions werent relevant and he didnt see how Mrs T 
couldve been expected to remember all of her medical history  and tell Vitality about  it. He 
thought the claim  should be paid.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me to make  a final 
decision on the matter.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr T as this has been an incredibly difficult time for 
him. I want him to know that Im very sorry for his loss and I didnt take this decision lightly.
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). It sets out the roles  and duties of the consumer and 
insurer when entering into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty 
Ref: DRN58625162to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or 
misleading), provided the insurer has asked a clear  question. If the consumer doesnt take 
reasonable care to answer questions accurately it sets out the remedies available  to the 
insurer.
Was there a misrepresentation?
The application Mrs T completed on 24 April 2018  asked the following questions:
Have you ever had or do you currently have any of the following:
Multiple sclerosis, optic neuritis,  epilepsy,  paralysis, muscular dystrophy, parkinson's 
disease, dementia or alzheimer's disease, cerebral palsy,  motor  neurone  disease  or 
any disorders of the brain or nerves?
Disease or disorder of the blood  vessels including Deep Vein Thrombosis and 
disorders of the aorta or arteries of the leg or neck?
Mrs T answered, no to these questions. But her medical records  show  that she was 
diagnosed with cerebellar ataxia in 2013. Genetic tests confirmed the type of cerebellar 
ataxia and the result of this test was discussed  with her in January 2017. Cerebellar ataxia is 
a disorder of the brain, so I think Mrs T needed to tell Vitality about this.
The medical records also show Mrs T has a history of varicose veins,  having had surgery  on 
both legs, and chronic venous  insufficiency.  She sought treatment for swelling  associated  
with these issues in 2015 and 2016.  As chronic  venous insufficiency is a disorder of the 
blood vessels, I think she also needed to tell Vitality  about this.
Mrs T was also asked:
Apart from any condition you have already told us about, have you had any of the following 
in the last 5 years:
Any respiratory or lung disorder,  including asthma, bronchitis, COPD  (COAD),  
emphysema, bronchiectasis or sleep apnoea?
Mr T says Mrs T answered, yes to this question, disclosing her sleep apnoea. But from the 
evidence Ive seen,  Mrs T only disclosed asthma,  which she also had. There is no evidence 
to show that she disclosed sleep apnoea to Vitality and I think  she needed to tell Vitality 
about this.
Mrs T was also required  to give her weight in the application, which she said was 70kg. 
However, her weight recorded by the coroner  was 95kg. As this was less than a month after 
applying for the policy, I think  its fair to say Mrs T also misrepresented her weight at the 
point of application.
The questions in the application form were  clear and the application declaration highlighted 
the importance of answering the questions truthfully  and accurately. It also explained a claim 
might not be paid and the contract may be declared  void if she didnt do so. Given  the 
severity of the conditions  and the significant  treatment  sought over the years,  I think Mrs T 
ought to have remembered this information and disclosed it to Vitality.
Ref: DRN58625163Mrs T was given  an opportunity to correct any mistakes when Vitality  sent her a copy  of her 
application form to check by post on 24 April 2018. This letter contained the same  warnings. 
So Im satisfied Vitality brought to Mrs Ts attention the need to answer the questions  fully 
and accurately, and the consequences if she didnt do so. For the above reasons, I think 
there were misrepresentations made to Vitality in respect  of Mrs Ts application.
What would Vitality have done differently?
Vitality classified Mrs Ts misrepresentations  as careless. Under  CIDRA,  when its found a 
consumer has made  a careless misrepresentation, the insurer  can take whatever action it 
would have taken  if the correct answers  been given at the point of application.
Vitality has shown us that if it had known about Mrs Ts cerebellar ataxia, weight, chronic 
venous insufficiency and sleep apnoea, it wouldnt have offered her any cover at all. So, Im 
satisfied her application wouldve been  declined if Mrs T had provided an accurate picture of 
her health  at the time she applied for the policy. For this reason, I dont think Vitalitys 
decision to decline the claim and cancel the cover was unreasonable.
I appreciate why Mr T feels the claim should be paid given his wifes death was unexpected 
and the coroner found it to have been  caused  by her sleep apnoea rather  than any of her 
other health conditions. But the important issue to recognise here is that because of Mrs Ts 
medical history, Vitality would never have been  in a position to provide her with life 
insurance. So, there wouldnt have been  any policy with Vitality in place at the time of her 
death.
In light of the above, Im not upholding  this complaint. I know this isnt the outcome Mr T was 
looking for. But I hope he understands the reasons  why Ive reached this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T, as the 
representative of the Estate of Mrs T, to accept or reject my decision before 
29 December 2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5862516