K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about Admiral  Insurance Company Limiteds  actions in connection  
with a claim he made on his motor  insurance  policy.
Reference to Admiral includes its agents.
background
Mr Ms car was damaged in an accident. Admiral arranged  for one of its approved repairers  
to fix it. Mr M was very unhappy with the quality of those repairs  and the car remained with 
the repairers for a long time. And Mr M refused  to take it back  because he didn't think the 
repairs were up to standard. Admiral appointed independent engineers to inspect the car. 
Initially they agreed the repairs weren't  up to standard. But eventually they said the repairs  
were completed to an acceptable standard.
Mr M complained. Admiral acknowledged  it hadn't got everything right. It paid Mr M £250 to 
address his distress  and inconvenience, reimbursed him £480 to cover airport taxi fares  and 
paid him around  £665 so he could get some further repairs  done himself. 
Mr M didn't think that went  far enough and didn't cash the cheque. He thought Admiral 
needed to compensate him more than £20,000 in order to put things right.  He brought his 
complaint to us. I issued  a provisional  decision on 7 December 2020. For ease Ive copied 
my provisional findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill partly uphold 
it.
In bringing this complaint Mr M has made a number of detailed  points. I've considered 
everything hes said carefully. But in this decision I will focus on what  I see as being the key 
outstanding issues  following  our investigators  assessment  of the complaint.
compensation
 
I can understand that Mr M found it frustrating that his car was with the garage for so long 
because the repairs  weren't up to standard. Mr M added that Admiral  didn't always  provide  
him with a courtesy  car while the car was with the garage.  Admirals  acknowledged that it 
didn't give Mr M a courtesy car when  his car first went in for repair.  Admiral said Mr M didn't  
initially tell it that he didn't  have a courtesy car. And it thinks  its not at fault that Mr M didn't 
have a courtesy car during  that period. 
Mr Ms policy entitled him to a courtesy car while his car is with Admirals repairers. So I 
don't think  its fair that Admiral left him without a car while  his car was being  repaired, 
whether Mr M told it about that or not. To put things  right I think  Admiral should compensate 
him for the loss of use of a car for that period.  I think  £10 a day is a reasonable sum. I 
understand Mr M was without a car from 19 March 2018 to 19 April 2018,  which  is 32 days.
I also note that Mr M was later without a courtesy car from 19 October 2018 onwards. But he 
said he was away until 23 October  2018. So I think Admiral should  also compensate him for 
the period he was without a courtesy  car after that. And I've noted  that Admiral  told Mr M on 
12 December 2018 that his own car was ready to collect. And, at that time, it had offered him 
Ref: DRN55793732a cash-in-lieu settlement to repair some  other  issues with scratches on his car. But it was 
roadworthy at that time. So Mr M could have picked  up his car once hed received Admirals  
letter and I note Admiral  said hed need  to do so by 17 December. So I think it's fair that 
Admiral compensate Mr M, at £10 a day for his lack of use of a courtesy car during that 
period (23 October 2018  to 17 December 2018). However, Im aware  that Mr M was away  on 
holiday in November, as Admiral reimbursed Mr M for his taxi fares to the airport. I don't 
currently have the precise  dates  of Mr Ms trip but I think its reasonable that Admiral doesn't  
have to pay Mr M £10 a day for the dates he was away, as he wouldn't  have  had to use the 
car for that period anyway.  
Further, Ive noted  an independent engineer agreed, more  than once, that the repair work 
wasn't up to standard. And that meant Mr M didn't have  the use of his car for an extended 
period, which  was around six months to put things right.  So he didn't have  the full enjoyment 
of his car at that time. I can also understand that his unhappiness with the quality of repairs  
added to his frustration. I'm also aware  that he would have incurred costs  phoning  Admiral  
for updates  and that would have  been  a further  expense. Although, owing to the nature of 
his phone contract,  Mr M can't provide an itemised  list of those costs, but I think he will have  
been out of pocket even  if I can't say exactly how much that would have been.  
Also, the work to put right the sub-standard  repairs took far too long.  I understand that would 
have been an immense source of distress  and inconvenience for Mr M. I note that Admiral 
had previously offered  him £250  compensation to address this. But Mr M didn't cash the 
cheque which incorporated  that sum. In any event I don't  think that amount is enough given  
the period involved and the number of things  that werent right. To address this and to cover 
Mr Ms extra expenses,  I think Admiral should  pay him compensation of £500. 
For completeness Mr Ms argued  that Admiral should reimburse  him for the finance  
repayments he made on the car while it was in for repairs. But I don't  think thats fair. The 
reason that Mr Ms car required repairs in the first place was because  of the accident and not 
because of anything  Admiral did. And Mr Ms policy covers him to repair  his car, not to cover 
his costs for buying  it. And each finance payment Mr M was due to pay was a contribution 
towards the value  of the car. And each  of those repayments went  towards securing the car 
as his personal asset. I don't therefore think its reasonable  to expect Admiral to contribute 
towards those costs, as thats not something his policy covers. And, for the most part, Mr M 
had a courtesy car. So while  he would have lost the enjoyment of his own car he was still 
mobile. It follows that I'm not going to instruct Admiral to cover any of the costs of Mr Ms 
finance repayments.
remaining scratches
After the repairers  completed their final repairs Mr M remained unhappy with the car. He said 
the repairers had caused additional  damage  to it. The repairers  denied  this. They said the 
scratches Mr M referred  to were pre-existing. But Admiral agreed to make  a cash-in-lieu 
payment for the cost of repairing the scratches and a scuff  to the wingmirror. Mr M doesn't  
believe that the amount Admiral offered was enough to cover the costs of those repairs.  But 
a qualified engineer provided  the estimated costs of the repairs.  And Mr M hasn't provided 
any supporting evidence, beyond his own remarks, that the scratches and scuff would cost 
more to repair. So Im more persuaded by the expert  evidence than by Mr Ms comments. So 
I think the amount  it offered as a cash-in-lieu settlement was reasonable.
depreciation
Ref: DRN55793733Mr M also said the poor repairs caused  the car to go down in value. He thinks Admiral 
should compensate  him for that. To support his argument, hes shown us that the car sold at 
auction for around £6,100. And hed provided the auctioneers  report  commenting on the 
condition of the car. Mr M said the car was worth considerably more than £6,000 before the 
repairs. He thinks the quality of repairs has caused  the car to drop in value. But an 
independent engineer confirmed that the car had been repaired to an acceptable standard 
before it was returned to Mr M. So the repairs Admiral carried  out shouldnt have affected the 
value of the car. And it had paid him £665 (although Mr M didn't cash  the cheque)  to address 
some other marks to the car. And Mr M could have  had those fixed before  the car was sold 
at auction if he felt they were affecting its value.
I've seen that the auctioneers report points out some issues  with the car, including  some  
scratches and scuffs. But most of those were  unrelated to the repairs  Admiral  arranged. And 
there can be many reasons why a car sold at Auction wouldn't  reach the same sale price 
that a seller might expect  if the car was sold on a garage forecourt  or in a private sale.  So I 
don't think  the fact that the car sold for less at auction than what  Mr M believes it was worth  
is evidence that the repairs devalued it. So I'm not going to instruct Admiral to compensate 
Mr M for that.
That said given that Mr M hasn't cashed  the cheque which included  the payment for the 
cash-in-lieu repairs and the airport taxi fares I think Admiral  should  pay him those amounts 
now.
developments 
Admiral said my award of £500 compensation is excessive. It repeated  that Mr M didn't 
initially tell it that Admirals repairers  hadn't given him a courtesy  car, so it didn't think it 
should have to compensate him for the period  he was without one. It added that Mr M had 
damaged the repairers courtesy car but that it was still driveable and Mr M had it until 
20 December 2018.
Mr M said he didn't think my provisional decision was fair because he still had to pay the 
finance for the car. He repeated that the car sold at auction for less than its value;  repairs  
werent up to standard, and some  damage  was caused by the repairers which  was unrelated  
to the accident.  He said he intended  to take the matter further.  
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to change 
my provisional decision.
Admirals said my award of £500 compensation is excessive. I don't agree. The repairs  took 
far longer than they should have done  and an independent engineer agreed - more than 
once - that they weren't up to standard. And during that period Mr M didn't  have the 
enjoyment of his car, and was put to a lot of inconvenience and additional expense.  So I'm 
satisfied £500  compensation is reasonable in the circumstances, as its similar to awards  we 
make in cases of equal seriousness.
Admirals repeated that Mr M didn't initially tell it that he didn't have a courtesy  car, so it 
couldn't take actions to put things right. But this is a point I addressed  in my provisional 
decision. It wasnt Mr Ms fault that he didn't  have  a courtesy car. And his policy entitles him 
Ref: DRN55793734to one, so it was Admirals  responsibility  to provide that. And, because  it didn't do so, I think  
it's fair that it compensates him for the lack of use of a courtesy  car at £10 a day. 
Admiral also said Mr M had damaged  the courtesy  car and he had it until 
20 December 2018. Whether or not Mr M damaged  the courtesy car doesn't affect his 
entitlement to one under the terms of his policy.  And Id previously asked Admiral for 
evidence of the dates the repairers had provided him with a courtesy car. Admirals reply 
showed Mr M had returned the courtesy  car on 19 October 2018 and the repairers hadn't 
provided him with another. And Admiral hasn't shown me with any new evidence, beyond  its 
comments, to show that Mr M had a courtesy  car until 20 December 2018. It follows that I 
think Admiral should  compensate  Mr M, at £10 a day, for his loss of use of a courtesy car 
between 23 October 2018  and 17 December  2018,  save for the days  when Mr M was away 
on a trip in November  2018.
Mr Ms said that he doesn't  think my decision is fair because  he still has to pay the finance  
for the car which he no longer  has. But it was Mr Ms choice not to keep his car, so I don't 
think its Admirals  fault if he still has to pay the finance  for it. Mr Ms also repeated  that the 
repairs weren't up to standard and that the car had other marks not associated with the 
repairs. And hes said that the car sold at auction for less than it should  have been worth.  
I addressed Mr Ms points in my provisional  decision. I noted that an independent engineer  
had found that, by December 2018,  the repairs were up to a reasonable standard. I also said 
that, while the repairers had disputed that they caused any additional damage to the car, 
Admiral had paid Mr M a cash-in-lieu sum to repair those. And I thought  that was reasonable 
in the circumstances. I also said that the fact that the car sold at auction  for less than Mr M 
might have expected  doesn't  mean that the repairs had devalued it. And Mr M hasn't 
provided any further evidence that persuades me to change my view.
I understand Mr M remains unhappy  with my decision. And in those circumstances he 
doesn't have to accept it and may take any further  action  he feels necessary to resolve his 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN55793735My final decision  
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I will require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited  to:
Pay Mr M £500 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience  and out of 
pocket expenses. 
Compensate Mr M for the lack of use of a courtesy car, at a rate of £10 a day, for the 
periods between 19 March 2018  and 19 April 2018; and 23 October 2018 and 
17 December 2018, save for any days when Admiral has evidence  that Mr M was out 
of the country.
Reissue payment for cash-in-lieu  of repairs in the sum of £665.42.
Reissue payment of £480 for airport taxi fares.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2021.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
 
Ref: DRN5579373