K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a Woolwich-branded mortgage which, until recently, Mr and Mrs C 
held with Barclays Bank UK Plc. Our rules give us jurisdiction to consider  two specific points. 
These are:
the numerical  accounting of the 2002 mortgage from its start date up to and including the 
date it was redeemed  in 2019,  with a view to assessing whether the amount paid to 
redeem it was fair or not; and
the legal  action Barclays started  after the mortgage term had ended.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 8 July 2020, I explained why I wasnt minded  to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. A copy of my provisional decisions attached  below, and 
forms part of this final decision. 
Mr C has responded to say that hell need  more time to commission  an audit of the mortgage  
and that Barclays  will have to provide  more  accurate information for him to supply to the 
auditor.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Id not persuaded to 
change my mind on how the complaint should  fairly  be concluded. 
Mr C has said we need to give him more time to arrange an audit before this complaint can 
be decided. Im afraid hes mis-directed  himself; I specifically said in the provisional decision 
that any audit  that were  commissioned  would need  to be the basis of a new complaint, not 
this one. 
My role here is to decide this complaint on the basis of the information and evidence before 
me now, and as I explained  in the provisional decision, Ive no basis for assuming that 
Mr Cs calculations are more reliable  than Barclays.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint or make any order or award  against Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 August 2020.
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN51720042CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a Woolwich-branded mortgage which, until recently, Mr and Mrs C held with 
Barclays Bank Plc. At the highest level, the complaint is that as a result of inaccurate accounting  over 
a period of years, Barclays charged Mr and Mrs C the wrong amount  when they redeemed the 
mortgage. There  are other strands to the complaint, including but not confined  to, the possibility  it was 
mis-sold at inception with funds unaccounted  for, wrongly switched  to interest-only in 2006,  and more 
recently the subject of threats of legal  action which Mr and Mrs C believe were unjustified.
Mr C (the complaints  been  brought jointly  but Mr C has been  our main  contact throughout) says 
Barclays has failed completely to conduct a root cause  analysis into its failings over the years,  to 
protect other customers from the same problems hes experienced.
background
By way of a jurisdiction decision dated 16 June 2020, I explained why our remit to consider the 
complaint was confined to just two issues. These were:
the numerical accounting of the 2002  mortgage from its start date up to and including  the date it 
was redeemed in 2019, with a view to assessing whether  the amount  paid to redeem it was fair or 
not; and
the legal action Barclays started after the mortgage term had ended.
The details and background to the complaint  are well-known to both parties, so I wont be repeating  
them here.  Ill focus  instead on setting out my provisional findings on the merits of the case, insofar as 
my remit allows me to.
my provisional  findings
Ill start by emphasising that were not the regulator of financial businesses,  and we dont police  their 
internal processes or how they operate generally.  Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
We deal with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work  of the courts. Were  impartial,  and we dont  take either  sides instructions on how 
we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach  our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
The numerical accounting of the 2002 mortgage from its start date to redemption
Taking into account all thats been said and provided, it seems to me that this is the very heart of the 
complaint; and its quite apparent to me just how important  a matter it is to him. I have  to say that on 
the evidence before me, I couldnt fairly uphold this aspect  of the complaint.
To explain why, it might  help if I set out our starting position on complaints  of accounting  errors 
generally; which is that the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt provide an account  checking  
service. Mr C has provided his own version  of how he thinks  the mortgage  accounts should have run 
over the years; hes clearly put a lot of thought  effort and time into his calculations and, 
understandably, holds them in great store. 
My difficulty  is that Ive no reason to consider Mr Cs calculations are any more  or less correct  than 
the official  account statements from Barclays. I dont know what methodology Mr C has used for his 
Ref: DRN51720043calculations, and cant know if they contain  errors and inaccuracies of their own. In short, I cant rely 
on Mr Cs calculations  or attach any evidential weight to them.
Whats needed here, in effect,  is a forensic check of the mortgage accounts by an independent  party.  
If Mr and Mrs C remain  of the view that Barclays  accounts  are wrong, and that they have suffered 
financially as a result,  it is for them to arrange for the accounts to be audited  by a suitably  qualified 
and independent party, and the evidence of the audit  could then be used as the basis for a new 
complaint, but not as the basis for this one. I make the latter point because  Barclays would need to be 
presented with the finished  audit first, and be given the opportunity to consider and respond to it.
Mr and Mrs C would have to meet  the cost of the audit, albeit if errors were found that were  to Mr and 
Mrs Cs detriment, we would then expect Barclays to reimburse any reasonable  cost of the audit as 
well as taking any corrective action the audit revealed  to be necessary. But as things stand, the 
evidence available to me to consider does  not persuade  me that Mr and Mrs C have paid the wrong 
amount to redeem their Barclays  mortgage.
The legal action Barclays started  after the mortgage term had ended
Regardless of the dispute  about the accuracy of the accounts (and other issues that we have no 
jurisdiction to look into) whats not in dispute is that under the terms of the mortgage contract Mr and 
Mrs C entered into with Barclays,  they had committed to repaying the debt in full by a specified date.  
Once that date passed  without the balance having been repaid, Mr and Mrs C were  in breach of the 
contract theyd entered into in 2002.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C believed they had cleared  the debt by then, and that Barclays thinking  
otherwise was a manifestation of the underlying complaint about the accuracy of the accounting. But 
unless and until it had been determined elsewhere (for example in court or by a binding decision from 
this service) that Mr and Mrs C no longer owed  Barclays any money when  the mortgage term expired,  
they remained contractually-obliged to pay Barclays the money it said they owed it. When  that didnt 
happen, Barclays  was then reasonably and fairly entitled to seek another remedy  for recovering the 
money.
One of the fundamental principles underpinning  the mortgage  contract  is that a lender has the right to 
enforce its security to recover money owed  to it. It would be entirely  inequitable and inappropriate  for 
me to remove  that right from Barclays in a final decision  on Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, regardless of 
their wider situation and/or  their ongoing  disputes. 
Ive alluded earlier to how much importance Mr C in particular attaches  to the dispute over the 
accounting, and how strongly he believes he should be vindicated. But where theres a dispute about 
how much  is owed under a contract, a persons right to continue  with the dispute isnt prejudiced  if 
they pay what  theyre being  asked to pay when theyre being asked to pay it. They can do so under 
protest and then carry on with the dispute having protected  themselves from the threat of action to 
remedy a contract breach.
Thats ultimately what happened in Mr and Mrs Cs case; they did redeem the mortgage by selling  
their home  to their son and paying what Barclays said was outstanding. They  have not forfeited their 
right to reclaim  what they believe was wrongly  paid, but based on the evidence available to me now, I 
cant fairly find that they have overpaid, or that Barclays was wrong to use the remedy of legal action 
when the term expired.
Ref: DRN51720044my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties, is that I dont intend  to uphold 
this complaint or make any order or award  against Barclays  Bank UK Plc. 
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 1 August 2020, or sooner  if both parties confirm 
theyve said and provided  everything they want in response  to this provisional decision. Neither party 
need repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5172004