K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr H bought the policy in 1998 sometime after taking out a mortgage. Based  on everything 
Ive seen, it seems that a PPI policy was set up, then amended to take into account that 
Mr H was an existing borrower, not a new borrower.
Mr H applied for the PPI policy in branch.
Based on the nearest relevant policy document, this policy  provided  cover for Mr H for 
accident, sickness and unemployment  subject  to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to 
repay £150 a month towards  Mr Hs mortgage  balance in the event of a successful claim.   
At the time,  it cost £9.09 a month. 
At the time,  Mr H has told us that he was employed as a steel  worker.  He has told us he was 
entitled to at least three months full sick pay and had some savings. Mr H has also told us 
that he had a death in service benefit  and a redundancy entitlement. Mr H has said he was 
in good health at the time of the sale. 
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2006.
Mr Hs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully.                  
In summary,  Mr Hs representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr H wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Hs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr H about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr H and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN58534462The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr H received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN58534463Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales,                           
Direct Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Hs case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint.       
I note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr H with reasonable care and skill         
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mr H sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way       
 the main provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN58534464-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr H,     
I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr H suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr H and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr H know  he had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely than not that Mr H knew  the policy  was 
optional and he agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
I say this because  the PPI was taken out some time after the mortgage had already started  
 so I think its more likely than not that Mr H knew  it was separate to and not a condition  of 
the mortgage. Ive also seen a separate PPI application form that Mr H has signed,             
so Im satisfied that Mr H consented to taking out the policy.
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it did provide advice during this sale. Mr H doesnt think  that any advice was 
given. Based on everything  Ive seen I think its more likely than not that Halifax  provided 
advice during this sale. 
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr H with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know exactly what was discussed in the meeting, the documentary  evidence 
suggests that Halifax took some steps  to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr H. 
I say this because  the separate  PPI application  form had a section headed                
PERSONAL DETAILS.  Underneath this, there are Yes and No options  next to a series of 
questions about  Mr Hs circumstances  including his health  and employment situation.  
Although I think Halifax took some  steps  to find out about Mr Hs circumstances, I dont think 
it did enough to try and establish a clear picture of Mr Hs circumstances and whether he 
needed the PPI. 
So, overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax  did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr H given his circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr H, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr H met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
Ref: DRN58534465-Mr H had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Hs ability  to continue to meet 
his mortgage repayments would have  been put under strain if he was not working  for 
an extended period of time  even  allowing for the redundancy benefits and sick pay 
benefits Mr H says he would have been entitled to and the saving hes said he had.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr H. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr H. Ive kept in 
mind what  Mr H has told us about his occupation  being high  risk, but there was 
nothing about  Mr Hs employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  
for him to claim on this policy. 
-Mr H hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that could affect his 
ability to claim.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any paid 
work which your experience, education  or training  reasonably qualified  Mr H to do 
and the fact the policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each 
claim), the policy still provided valuable cover given:
Mr Hs circumstances, including his employers  sickness  and redundancy 
provisions (which  he might expect to provide an income during the policys 
30-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to his home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr H be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against his house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr H sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what Halifax  
was recommending to him and make an informed  decision about whether  to follow  that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr H was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if he was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and disability) and of the approximate costs.   
I say this because  on Mr Hs separate  PPI application form, the PPI is described as 
Mortgage Repayments Insurance . The approximate monthly  cost and the benefit  were also 
shown.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions, limitations  or how long the policy  wouldve paid out for  
before Mr H agreed to take out the policy. Even if some of that information was in a leaflet  or 
policy summary Mr H might have been given,  I think its more  likely than not he based his 
decision on the things  he was told, rather than on anything he was given.
Ref: DRN58534466Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr H Im not persuaded Halifax  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mr H all of the information  he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in               
its guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Hs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Hs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Hs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr H about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say      
 I think its unlikely a court  would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr H has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards     
of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Mr H ought to have done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr H? To what extent  did Mr H suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr H.        
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude             
Mr H suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not    
Mr H would have still taken out the policy, had Halifax  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr H, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr H has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mr H would have acted  differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Ref: DRN58534467Mr H says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of          
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr H had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, he concluded  he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Hs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
As Ive also already explained, Mr H was given information about the approximate  cost and 
benefit of the PPI on the PPI application form. But the information  about other aspects  of the 
policy, such as limitations and exclusions and how long the policy benefit wouldve paid out 
for wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr H thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury 
which Mr H knew  about or for which he had received  advice, treatment or counselling 
from any doctor during  the 12 months before  the start date of the policy and which  
recurred within 24 months of the start date;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr H 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr H be unable  to 
do his job, or any similar job or any paid work which his experience, education  or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage; and  
As an existing borrower,  there was an initial 180 day exclusion period for 
unemployment claims.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr H pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr H from taking out the policy. 
Ref: DRN58534468But, the evidence  about Mr Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr H was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr H wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  Mr H didnt have any      
pre-existing medical conditions, was in permanent employment and there is nothing  to 
suggest he was aware  of any impending  unemployment. There were also no restrictions in 
relation to high risk occupations. So, I still think he had some  good reasons to take the policy  
out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr H might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to         
Mr H from taking out the policy, Mr H, in his circumstances, still had some good reasons to 
take it out.
If Mr H had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job or any 
similar job or any paid work which his experience, education or training... reasonably 
qualified him to do, it might have played into his thinking about  what he would have  done.  
And I accept  it may have  given him pause for thought  although its possible he may not 
have been overly concerned given that if Mr H was unable (through disability) to carry on his 
own occupation the chances  that he would be able to take up a similar occupation  would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
Halifax may not have  told Mr H that any claim he made would be limited  to a 12 month 
period. This may have  differed from what he expected and might have hoped  for. But 12 
months was a longer period than Mr H would have received full sick pay for and his 
redundancy entitlement was likely to be less than 12 months  income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr H would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr H be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure his home  was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  Mr Hs sick pay or redundancy money  for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr H would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if he was made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not           
Mr H would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Hs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN58534469the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr H would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr H 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr H believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr H in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,        
I am satisfied that of the two possibilities,  its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr H compensation,  as that would put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr H thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr H, in the way it 
did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 1998 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Hs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr H and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that Halifax had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr H in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
Ref: DRN585344610my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5853446