K820x#14complaint
Ms I complains Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, have closed her account and 
registered a fraud marker against her name.   She would like the account  re-opened  and the 
marker removed.
background
Ms I says she was given some details  about  a company which  she intended to do business 
with.  She  transferred  some money from an account held abroad to this company and 
explained that a transfer was then made to her Halifax account.  Halifax told her that these 
funds were fraudulent  and blocked her account  whilst it carried  out an investigation.
When Ms I first spoke to Halifax about the funds, she explained that they had come  from a 
random person who had contacted her and had offered to send  her money  to help out her 
family.  Based on this explanation, Halifax made the decision  to close her account and 
record the fraud marker.
When she complained  about the closure  of the account and the fraud marker, she gave 
another explanation as to how the funds had reached her account.  She said the company 
was a money transfer company and that her sister  had used them before.  Based on this 
explanation, Halifax  agreed to remove the marker  but refused  to reopen the account.
When Ms I brought the complaint to this service,  our investigator didnt think he could ask 
Halifax to do anymore,  so Ms I asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
fraud marker
I can see Halifax recorded the marker  at the same  time as closing the account   so around  
May 2018.  Following a further investigation and a different explanation from Ms I, it agreed  
to remove it and notified CIFAS about  this in January 2019.   I think  that was the fair thing to 
do in the circumstances.
I dont think Halifax was in a position  to record the marker in the first place  but as it has 
been removed,  I will not be asking that it does  anymore.
Ms I says the marker  was not removed until May 2019  but I cannot say that was Halifaxs  
fault.  
account closure
Our investigator has already explained this services jurisdiction  with regards account 
closure and reopening.  My role is to decide  whether Halifax  has done  anything wrong in 
how it went about the closure  and whether it acted fairly and reasonably.   Its not for me to 
tell Halifax who it should do business  with.
Ref: DRN56207962Ms I says she has been unable to open  an account  elsewhere  so Halifax  should reopen 
her account.   I dont know why she is having difficulties but I havent seen anything to 
suggest that this has anything  to do with Halifax.
So I wont  be upholding this aspect of Ms Is complaint either.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5620796