K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has held him liable for a recent car 
accident.
background
Mr H has a car insurance policy which is underwritten by UKI. In December 2018, Mr H 
reported an incident. He explained that he was passing a parked  car when the third party  
opened their door causing Mr Hs wing mirror  some  damage.  Mr H explained that the 
damage was entirely the third partys  fault.  He made a claim on his policy.
UKI investigated Mr Hs claim and contacted the third party insurer.  Once it had done so, 
UKI concluded that Mr H was at fault and recorded the incident as being  a fault claim. Mr H 
complained. He felt that UKI hadnt  investigated  properly and he wants  a refund  of the 
amount he paid for the repair  his excess amount  of £350.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She explained that it wasnt our role to decide  
liability in insurance  claims. But that she could see UKI had settled  the claim, and accepted 
liability in line with its terms and conditions. And that it had considered evidence when 
reaching a decision  on liability.  So she didnt  think it had acted unfairly.
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. So it has now been 
passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
It is not the role of this service to make decisions on liability in insurance claims. But we can 
look at whether an insurer has acted reasonably in reaching its decision on who is at fault. 
This is what  Ive considered here.
The terms of Mr Hs policy say:
We are entitled to take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any 
claim in your name.
So once Mr H made a claim with UKI under his policy,  UKI had the right to settle the 
complaint based  on the evidence it had. In this case I can see that UKI put Mr Hs version of 
events to the third party insurer,  including the pictures he supplied. The third party insurer 
didnt accept liability for the accident  and provided  a different version of events with 
additional pictures. I can see that UKI considered all of this to conclude  that it was Mr H that 
was at fault  and it settled the claim on that basis. Whilst I understand that Mr H feels  
strongly that this wasnt the right decision,  UKI has done everything I expected  it to do to 
determine whether  to accept liability. Where there are differing  versions  of what  happened, I 
expect UKI to weigh  up the evidence it has to decide who was most likely at fault.  UKI has 
done this so I dont think  it has acted unfairly.
Ref: DRN55946922UKI also explained to Mr H why it had decided that he was most likely at fault, and the 
reasons for accepting  liability. Essentially  the pictures from the third party,  and their version  
of events matched.  The damage to the third partys car wasnt  consistent with what  Mr H 
said had happened. So I think UKI has acted reasonably in reaching its decision to accept 
liability for this accident. I therefore wont be asking for it to refund Mr Hs policy  excess.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5594692