K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that Bank of Scotland plc is holding  her liable for three cash  machine 
withdrawals that she says she neither made  nor authorised. Bank  of Scotland trades in this 
case under  its Halifax brand. 
background
Mrs A paid £1,100  cash into her Halifax account.  Shortly afterwards her card was used to 
make two cash machine  withdrawals, each of £200,  close to the branch where shed made 
the deposit. A further withdrawal of £21.85  (£20 plus a fee of £1.85)  was made a little after 
that. Mrs A contacted  the bank about 30 minutes later to say that her card was missing. 
Mrs A explained that, after she deposited the cash,  she had bumped into two girls when 
seeking shelter from the rain. They had a brief conversation and shortly afterwards Mrs A 
noticed that her purse was missing.  She thinks they deliberately distracted her and took her 
purse. 
Mrs A said however that she didnt keep her PIN in her purse  and hadnt  written  it down. So 
it was unclear how, if the girls had taken her purse (where she kept the card), they could 
have known the PIN. 
Mrs A said that, as she hadnt made  the cash machine withdrawals, Halifax  should refund 
them. Halifax suggested however that the card use wasnt  what  it would expect if her card 
had been taken in the way Mrs A had recounted.  It also said that Mrs A must  have  kept a 
record of her PIN with the card. That is, she hadnt  taken proper care of the card and PIN. It 
didnt agree to make  a refund. 
Mrs A referred the complaint to this service, and one of our investigators considered it. He 
didnt think that Mrs A had made or authorised  the withdrawals herself, but agreed  with 
Halifax that she hadnt taken proper care of the card and PIN. He didnt therefore think that 
Halifax should make  a refund. Mrs A didnt accept  the investigators conclusions  and asked 
that an ombudsman  review them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
I should say first of all that I accept most of what Mrs A has said about  the circumstances in 
which the three cash machine withdrawals were made.  I believe  her when she says she was 
distracted and that her purse was stolen from her. She has recounted  what  happened in 
some detail and has been  consistent in what shes said. This is not, in my view,  a case  
where a customer has made  or authorised withdrawals and then denied  having done so. 
Halifax commented on the fact that, but for the cash deposit, there  wouldnt have been 
enough money in the account to allow  for the withdrawals  and that the maximum withdrawal 
limit wasnt  reached.  I dont regard either  of those matters as significant  though.  I accept that 
Mrs A was distracted by individuals seeking  to take her purse.  
As the investigator  explained, however, Halifax can still hold Mrs A liable for the withdrawals  
if she acted with gross  negligence (the term used in the relevant regulations) and that 
Ref: DRN53374702facilitated them. He also explained that the term goes rather further than simply being 
careless. 
The withdrawals were  only possible because  whoever had Mrs As card also knew  the PIN. 
Its not possible to obtain the PIN from the card itself, and its most unlikely that someone  
was able to guess the PIN correctly. Mrs A hadnt used the card and PIN such that a thief 
would have been able to see her entering  the PIN and then take the card.  
The most likely explanation as to how a thief knew the PIN is, therefore, that Mrs A did in 
fact keep a note or other record of it with the card. Its possible of course that she doesnt  
recall doing so. Shed had a new PIN notification not long before the withdrawals were 
made, so may have  kept a note of it but forgotten shed  done so. It is, however, widely 
understood that keeping a note of the PIN with the card is very risky, since  anyone who has 
the card is then able to use it for cash machine withdrawals and retail  purchases without any 
further checks. Since the actual card and correct PIN were used together  in this case, the 
withdrawals would have  appeared  genuine  to the banks systems,  and there was no real 
reason why they might look suspicious.   
As Ive indicated, I accept  that Mrs A has been the victim of a crime here, and she has my 
sympathy. But I agree with the investigator  that she didnt take proper  care of her security  
information and that it wouldnt be fair to make Halifax bear the loss that resulted.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Bank of Scotland  plc to do anything further to resolve 
Mrs As complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5337470