K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society took a long time to provide copies of his 
bank and credit card statements. He says the delay caused him to incur additional costs in 
relation to a property which  was being sold.
background
Mr S was separating from his partner and needed  copies  of his bank and credit card 
statements for a mediation appointment to determine how the equity in a jointly owned 
property should  be divided.
Mr S asked Nationwide to provide the statements several times but was told these had been 
sent.
Mr S was coming under pressure from his partners solicitors to provide the statements. He 
says the delay in providing  the statement caused  delays  with the sale of the property which 
caused him to incur  additional costs.
After approximately  4 weeks  Mr S complained. He was told by Nationwide that it would only 
send the statements if he withdrew his complaint. Mr S withdrew his complaint and received 
the statements  approximately a week later. Following  this he complained again and sought 
reimbursement of the additional costs hed incurred which he said were £738.50.
Santander upheld  Mr Ss complaint. It offered compensation of £200  for the delay and the 
service Mr S had received when he complained. It said it would consider reimbursement of 
Mr Ss additional expenses if he provided a letter from his solicitors confirming that these 
costs had been incurred solely as a result of the banks delay.
Mr S provided some correspondence from his solicitor but Nationwide  said this wasnt 
acceptable as it wasnt on headed paper. Mr S was unhappy with this response so he 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the offer of £200 for distress and 
inconvenience was fair. He also said it wasnt unreasonable  for Nationwide to ask for proof 
of the extra  costs incurred in a specific format and that its offer to reimburse any costs  
incurred by Mr G in having his solicitor provided  this information was a fair approach.
Mr G didnt agree. He said the bank had lied to him several times about sending  the 
statements and had pressurised him into withdrawing his complaint. He said he had been 
asked to provide  information from his solicitor which couldnt be provided which  was unfair.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this has been a stressful time for Mr S and theres no doubt that the delays 
in sending the statements have caused  him additional worry.
Nationwide has acknowledged  that it is at fault for the delay in sending  the statements. It 
hasnt specifically addressed the allegation that it repeatedly told Mr S the statements had 
been sent. I havent been able to listen to the calls so I cant be certain of what  was said.  But 
Ref: DRN50371002on any analysis, a delay  of 5 weeks is unacceptable  and I think its right that Nationwide  
should pay compensation for this delay.
Nationwide has acknowledged  that one of its call handlers put pressure on Mr S to withdraw 
his complaint. This isnt something Id expect to see. Its fortunate  that Mr S hasnt  been  
prejudiced by this as he was able to reinstate his complaint  and bring it to this service.
I understand Mr Ss strength of feeling  about  these issues. Nationwide  has provided poor 
customer service  and responded  unreasonably when Mr S complained.  But having 
considered all of the circumstances, I think the compensation paid to Mr S already is fair.
Turning now to Mr Ss additional  costs.  Its not clear to me why the delay in sending the 
statements caused a delay in the house sale. On the assumption that the sale was already 
proceeding at the time when the request for statements was made,  I dont understand why 
the sale couldnt proceed and the net proceeds  be held by solicitors pending resolution of 
the financial issues between Mr S and his partner.  However, it may be that Im not privy  to all 
of the relevant information. 
Nationwide has said it will consider  reimbursing  Mr Ss additional costs if he provides 
evidence from his solicitor  on headed  paper. It has offered to meet any costs  in obtaining 
this. Reading what Mr S has said, I think theres  been a misunderstanding about  the nature 
of the information the bank require. In its final response,  Nationwide has said it wants  Mr S 
to provide evidence  that the additional costs were incurred solely  as a result of the banks 
delay. In an earlier letter the bank referred to the period  when Mr S was living in the property 
but it appears that this information  was requested  in error. On that basis,  I dont think 
Nationwides request is unreasonable. Taking  all of the circumstances of the complaint into 
account, Im satisfied that the compensation paid already  is fair. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5037100