K820x#14complaint
Mrs D says HSBC UK Bank  Plc (trading as First Direct)  unfairly closed her bank accounts 
and hasnt explained why it did so. She wants HSBC to pay her compensation for the trouble  
and upset the closure of her accounts caused.  And explain why it closed  her accounts.
background
Mrs D had several accounts with HSBC  including a joint account with her husband.
In March 2018, HSBC carried out a review of Mrs Ds accounts.  Following  the review  HSBC 
decided to close Mrs Ds accounts. And gave her two months notice to make  alternative 
banking arrangements. 
Mrs D complained to HSBC and said shed been  a customer of the bank  for nearly  30 years.  
She said HSBCs behaviour was unreasonable, disrespectful and very upsetting for both her 
and her husband. HSBC said it had acted  in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
accounts when  it closed the accounts. Mrs D wasnt happy with this response. She wants 
HSBC to provide  the reasons it decided to close her accounts. 
An investigator looked at Mrs Ds complaint. He said HSBC hadnt  done anything wrong 
when it closed her accounts.  Mrs D disagreed. She still wants to know  why her accounts  
were closed. As no agreement could  be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator.  And Ill will explain why.
I fully understand  Mrs D is upset that HSBC has closed all her accounts. She says she has 
been a loyal customer  of the bank  for many  years and cant  believe how HSBC  has acted. 
HSBC has provided  me with a copy of its letter dated 29 August 2018.  This says it has 
decided that HSBC was no longer going to provide banking  facilities. And that Mrs D needed 
to make alternative arrangements within 60 days.  
I appreciate the impact  this had for Mrs D and her husband. But HSBC  has acted within the 
terms and conditions of the accounts.  It was entitled  to close the accounts having given 
Mrs D 60 days  notice. And it wasnt  required  to give Mrs D a reason, as much as shed 
would like to know. So, I cant say HSBC  has done  anything wrong by not providing this 
information to Mrs D.  
In summary,  I appreciate  that the closure  of the accounts has caused Mrs D inconvenience 
and upset. But the bank can make commercial  decisions about who it offers  banking  
services to. They cannot unfairly discriminate against a customer.  But they can say they no 
longer wish to do business  with individuals.  Thats  because theyve got the commercial 
freedom to decide who they want to contract  with. And Im satisfied that HSBC has exercised 
its commercial  decision  legitimately when  it decided to close Mrs Ds accounts. So, I cannot 
fairly and reasonably say its done  anything  wrong.
Ref: DRN52400162my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5240016