K822xcomplaint
Miss S complains  that she is being  held responsible by Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading  
as Halifax, for the repayment of an overdraft debt on a joint account shed opened with her 
former partner in 2010.
background 
Miss S separated from her partner in May 2016.  She says she last used  the joint account in 
September 2016. 
The account  was closed on 17 November 2017.  This was after a final demand letter was 
sent to Miss S in September telling her that her account was in arrears.  The account was 
then defaulted  on or around 30 November 2017  with a balance outstanding  of £1,761, after 
which no further interest, charges or fees were applied. 
Miss S complained to us after being contacted  by BoS when she had gone over her agreed 
overdraft limit in or around July 2017. When she later visited a branch she was told that her 
name could  not be removed  from the account.  
Miss S contacted the BoS collections team in August 2017 to tell them that she didnt want to 
receive any further correspondence  about  the account. In September  2017  BoS sent her a 
final response letter, telling her what she owed on the account and that a final demand  letter  
had been issued to her to commence the account closure process.  
Miss S is unhappy that she is being  held responsible  for repaying the debt on the account 
due to transactions on the account that her ex-partner  continued to make. 
The adjudicator didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  She said that it didnt  look as if 
Miss S had taken the necessary steps  to tell BoS that shed  separated from her partner. It 
followed that the adjudicator didnt think it was unreasonable  for BoS to ask Miss S to pay 
back the amount  owed  on the account  as at June 2017, which  is the date up to which  regular 
credits and transactions continued. 
In my provisional decision dated  6 December 2019  I explained why, whilst  I didnt  consider  
that BoS were  wrong to default Miss Ss account,  I thought it should have done so two 
months earlier. Heres an extract:
Ive seen  that the final demand  letter that was sent on 15 September  required Miss S to 
take action within 14 days, failing which BoS could go ahead with instructing a debt 
collection agency and default the account.  But the account remained open, with overdraft 
interest and charges still accruing, up to the end of November  2017, when the account  was 
finally frozen. Other than the initial final demand  letter, which had indicated that the bank 
might take action - not that it definitely  would  BoS didnt make  it clear that account would 
be defaulted if the overdraft wasnt cleared. 
Ref: DRN53653242Taking everything Ive seen into account, whilst I can see BoS did take steps to make  Miss S 
aware that her account could be closed, I dont  currently  consider it followed through  on this 
soon enough.  Had it taken action to close the account within  14 days  of the final demand 
letter  that is from the end of September 2017  - the account would have been defaulted 
sooner. It follows that Miss S would  have owed less interest and the default would be 
scheduled to drop off her credit file around  two months earlier. 
All of this means  that whilst I dont consider BoS unfairly defaulted the account,  I currently  
think it could  and probably should  have done  so around two months  earlier.  I therefore 
also consider that BoS needs  to compensate  Miss S for any additional interest,  overdraft 
charges or account/product fees that were added to the account between  30 September, 
being the date that the account ought to have been  defaulted and 30 November  2017,  when 
it was. 
And it follows that BoS needs to ensure that the default registered against  Miss Ss credit file 
should be removed  two months earlier.  
Ive seen that BoS has refunded some  overcharged interest, account fees and overdraft  
charges on the joint account to Miss S. This was done by way of reducing  the outstanding  
balance on the account. But this doesnt affect my decision. 
I see we sent Miss S a copy of my provisional decision. But she hasnt come back  to us with 
any comments. 
BoS did query my uphold  finding initially. But having explained that my finding was based on 
the specific facts of this complaint, they are now prepared to accept it, assuming Miss S 
does. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that the parties havent given me any new evidence of information to consider,  my 
decision will follow my provisional finding.  So BoS will need to ensure that it puts Miss S 
back into the position she would have been  in had the account been defaulted on 30 
September 2017, rather than 30 November, when it was. 
Ref: DRN53653243my final decision
My final decision is that BoS needs to write off any interest, account/product  fees and 
overdraft charges that are attributable to this period, that were added  to Miss Ss account  
between the date when the account ought to have been defaulted,  on 30 September  2017, 
up to 30 November 2017  when it was defaulted - if not deducted already.
 
I also require BoS to amend the default  on the account so that it will end on 
30 September 2023.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 February  2020.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5365324