K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about the quality of the carpet fitted at his house by esure Insurance  Limited 
following his home  insurance claim for damage  caused by a storm. 
background
Mr Gs complaint is brought on his behalf  by his daughter, Mrs G. Mr G made a claim on his 
policy in January 2018 following some  damage caused by a storm. esure accepted  the claim 
and, as part of the reinstatement,  it arranged to replace  the carpet in the lounge, stairs  and 
landing. Mrs G selected the carpet from some samples provided by the supplier. The carpet  
was laid in May 2018 but in June  2018, Mrs G (who lives at the house with Mr G and her 
mother) to complain that there were coloured  flecks coming through the pile in places. Mrs G 
hadnt seen any such flecks on the sample  when she chose the carpet.  
Mrs G complained to esure  on behalf of Mr G. esure sent the carpet manufacturer round to 
the house and it obtained an independent report.  The manufacturer confirmed  the spots that 
were present  in the carpet were not a defect but were part of the construction  of the fibres.  
The independent report also confirmed  the same. It stated: 
I got the distinct impression that the consumer considered that this range related to a pure  
plain carpet as opposed to a heather.  Whereas  a pure plain only uses one yarn that is dyed 
one colour, heather ranges use a more inherently  variable yarn and with different colours 
mixed together  in order to create a tonal effecteverything the consumer showed me, this 
merely related to the normal flecks  that one would associate with this type of range and 
there were no manufacturing  defects  that I could see.
Unhappy with esures response, Mrs G raised  a complaint. It looked into it but didnt think  it 
should be upheld.  It was satisfied that Mr G had received a replacement  carpet  in line with 
the policy terms and conditions so it said it wouldnt be doing anything  further.  
Mrs G then brought Mr Gs complaint to this service.  They  said they wanted one point of 
contact at esure to deal with their concerns, someone to listen to their problems, to address 
the flaws and to assist  them in understanding their options going forward. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint but didnt  recommend that it was upheld. So 
Mrs G asked for Mr Gs complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans  decision. She said the 
flecks hadnt been there  in the sample  or when the carpet was first laid but had materialised 
since. Mrs G said this shouldve been  explained  to her parents prior to them  choosing  it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms state that esure will settle claims  by replacing or repairing items. So Im 
satisfied that esure met its liability under the policy by replacing the damaged  carpet. It 
doesnt seem in dispute that Mr G, his wife and daughter were involved in selecting the 
replacement carpet. Samples were provided  from which one was selected  and fitted.  There 
has been no suggestion that the replacement carpet wasnt of the same  quality  as the one 
that was replaced.  
Ref: DRN56868392I can see that neither  the manufacturer nor the independent inspector thought  the carpet 
was defective.  Rather it seems a case that the carpet is of a heather  type which uses 
variable yarns, mixing  different colours  together. So its reasonable to think that there may 
be colour variances  when  the carpet is fitted  which may not have been apparent on the 
sample. But in order  to uphold this complaint, Id have  to find that esure had done something 
unfair or unreasonable. And I dont think that it has. It has replaced  the damaged carpet in 
line with the policy terms and allowed Mr G and Mrs G to select  the one they wanted.  I cant  
reasonably require it to replace it again because there are flecks. 
Ive not seen a photograph of the sample   and theres  no independent evidence for me to 
inspect  so I cant  make  a fair finding  that the replacement carpet didnt match  the sample 
from which it was selected. Mrs G has also said that the flecks werent there when  the carpet 
was first laid. But if I were to consider making  a finding in this respect, Id also need to see 
evidence of how the carpet looked when it was first laid compared to how it looks  now. But 
no such evidence is available. And in any event, even if it were,  Im not sure it would be 
enough to allow me to fairly uphold this complaint.  Thats because esure has complied with 
the policy terms. 
I think that esure has listened  to Mr Gs complaint  and addressed  the issue  of the flaws in 
the carpet  it acted  on the information it received  and appointed experts to assess  the 
carpet. But as there have  been no flaws or defects found within  the carpet I am unable to 
ask esure  to do anything  further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5686839