K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mrs Y says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ys case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
Mrs Y took the PPI when she took her credit card. She says it wasnt  made  clear  the PPI 
was optional. But her credit card application form had a separate  box for Mrs Y to tick if 
she wanted to buy the PPI. On Mrs Ys form this box is ticked. And I think  she wouldve 
known the box didnt have to be ticked if she didnt  want  the cover. Taking  all this into 
account, I think its likely RBS made it clear that Mrs Y didnt have to take the PPI and 
she chose to take it. But I can understand why Mrs Y might not remember  this, given 
how long ago she took out the card.
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs Y, so it didnt have to check the PPI was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs Y got the information she needed  to decide if the 
PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mrs Y about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But I think  she chose to take the cover - so it looks  to me like she 
wanted this type of cover.  From what Mrs Y has told us, her work sick pay wouldve 
halved after six months. For a successful sickness or unemployment claim, the PPI 
wouldve paid out for up to twelve  months  and in addition to Mrs Ys work benefits.  And 
Mrs Y wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  so it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Taking everything into account,  I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have  put Mrs Y off taking the cover.
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs Y.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs Y because:
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs Y about that. Because  RBS didnt  tell Mrs Y, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about all Mrs Ys points, including what shes  said about having  private  health  
insurance and critical illness cover. But if Mrs Y had lost her job or was too sick to work, 
private health insurance wouldnt  have helped her pay her credit card like the PPI could. And 
without suffering a critical illness, Mrs Y couldve suffered a loss of income due to accident, 
Ref: DRN56565252sickness or unemployment. So, for these reasons and the reasons Ive already given above, 
these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs Y.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs Y any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5656525