K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Santander  UK Plc is holding them liable for a card payment and 
a cash machine withdrawal that they say they neither  made nor authorised  anyone  else to 
make.  
background
Mr and Mrs O have a joint current account  with Santander. In June 2018 an online card 
payment of just over £160 was made to a supermarket, using Mr Os card details. Just under 
a month  later a cash machine withdrawal  of £200 was made, again using Mr Os card.  Mr 
and Mrs O said they didnt  carry out either transaction. 
Santander looked into what had happened, but didnt accept that Mr and Mrs O hadnt been 
involved. The bank  noted that the supermarket payment had been  made  online,  from a 
computer or other device  using the same  IP address as that used by Mr and Mrs O. And the 
cash withdrawal had been made at a machine a few minutes from Mr and Mrs Os home.  
The genuine  card had been used  with the correct  PIN. Mr O said that he still had the card, 
and there  had been genuine transactions made with it before, between  and after the two 
disputed transactions.  
Santander didnt  agree to refund the payments, and Mr and Mrs O referred the matter  to this 
service. One of our investigators considered their complaint, but was broadly in agreement 
with Santander.  She thought it was more  likely  than not that Mr or Mrs O had authorised the 
transactions and that Santander need not refund them.  Mr and Mrs O didnt  accept the 
investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.          
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did. Ill deal with each of the disputed 
transactions in turn. 
The first transaction  was made online to a supermarket.  That means that the card details 
were used, rather than the card itself. By that I mean that whoever made the payment 
wouldnt necessarily have  needed  to be in physical  possession of the card; they could  have 
copied the information from the card  card number, expiry date and security number  and 
used them without  the card. They would also have needed to know  the cards billing 
address, which  wouldnt  have been apparent from the card itself.   
Neither Santander nor Mr and Mrs O have been able to get very much  information from the 
supermarket about the transaction. Mrs O says that it needed an order number, which  she 
was unable to supply. Thats unfortunate, since the supermarket might have been able to 
provide key information  for example, a delivery  address. 
I do note however that the banks records show that the IP address  used  was the same as 
that used by Mr and Mrs O  suggesting  a strong  possibility that the order was placed using 
their computer or other  device. Of course,  IP addresses can be disguised  or hidden, but this 
does suggest  a link. 
I turn then to the cash machine withdrawal. This was made  using the genuine card and PIN; 
the banks records  indicate that, and its what Id expect of a cash  machine withdrawal in the 
Ref: DRN54636812UK. But Mr O has confirmed that he still had the card after the withdrawal, and I note it was 
used the day before and the day after. I think it unlikely that someone was able to take the 
card, use it and then return  it without  arousing  suspicion. Mr and Mrs O havent given any 
indication that that was a possibility. 
The investigator also noted that there were only two disputed  transactions,  even though 
there was a significant credit balance on Mr and Mrs Os account. Whilst its possible that 
someone unknown  to Mr and Mrs O might have made only two transactions,  it does seem  
unlikely. 
For these reasons, I agree with the investigator  that its more likely  than not that Mr or Mrs O 
carried out the disputed transactions or authorised someone else to do so.                
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Santander  UK Plc to take any further  steps to resolve 
Mr and Mrs Os complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs O to accept  or reject  my decision  before 31 January 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5463681