K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Barclays Bank UK Plc acted unfairly and unreasonably in 
charging them early  repayment  charges (ERCs) in connection to their mortgage. They 
want matters put right and the mortgage recalculated  now and in the future when another  
early repayment is made.
background
Mr and Mrs S have  a mortgage product with Barclays, taken out through  a broker, which  if 
repaid early  means  they have  to pay an ERC.  Mr and Mrs S said that Barclays  charged  them  
ERCs twice (for payments made in September 2017 and August 2018) and that this was 
incorrect under the terms and conditions of the mortgage. Their position  was that they could 
repay 10% of the original loan balance  every year without being  charged an ERC.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Barclays. It said a year under the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage wasnt a calendar year; the ERC  year ended  in March when the product was due 
to end (the year ran from April to March). Barclays said Mr and Mrs S had overpaid  by more 
than 10% of the current loan balance within one year and the ERCs were due. This was 
because the loan balance was reducing due to the repayments already made, so the amount 
that could be repaid  without penalty  was reducing. As a gesture of goodwill, Barclays 
refunded ERCs totalling £256.38 but said it wouldnt do so again.
Mr and Mrs S complained to us. The adjudicators  view was that Barclays wasnt  at fault. 
The interpretation by it of the mortgage offer was correct in his view and he didnt think the 
wording was ambiguous.  Mr and Mrs S disagreed  and wanted an ombudsmans view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  as set out in the mortgage  offer confirm  when an ERC will be 
charged. ERCs are lawful,  provided  that they are a genuine pre-estimate  of the loss likely to 
be suffered by the lender  if the mortgage is repaid early (in part or in full) and are set out 
clearly in the mortgage offer. 
The dispute  here is what the mortgage offer says. The mortgage  offer says that a capital  
reduction of 10% per annum can be made  without incurring an early repayment charge. This 
will apply throughout the early  repayment charge period. Mr and Mrs S say that this means  
the 10% is calculated  by using the original  loan balance; Barclays  says that the 10% applies 
to the loan balance at the time of early repayment.  The mortgage offer doesnt use the word 
original loan balance; it simply refers  to a 10% capital reduction.
The law says that when  interpreting legal documents, I should  start with the natural meaning 
of the words;  it also says that when theres  any ambiguity about what  a contract says, I 
should interpret  in the favour of the party who didnt draft the contract (Mr and Mrs S in this 
case). But I dont think the wording of the mortgage  offer is ambiguous  it refers to the 
capital balance and doesnt specify a point  in time.  The natural reading  of these words is that 
whatever the capital  balance is at the time of early  repayment, up to 10% can be repaid early 
without penalty.  If the wording was referring to the original loan balance, it would include the 
words original loan balance or words  to that effect.
Ref: DRN56201522my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision 
before 18 March 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5620152