K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that NewDay  Ltd reduced  her credit card limit without  giving her advance 
notice, failed to explain why it had done  that and didnt return  cash-back shed earned when 
she closed her account as a result of its actions. 
background
Ms F had an Aqua credit  card, issued by NewDay,  with a credit  limit of £2,000. At the end of 
October 2018 NewDay sent her a letter telling her that her credit limit had been reduced to 
£1,500, with immediate effect.  When she complained, NewDay refused to reinstate the 
£2,000 limit, so she referred the matter  to this service.
One of our adjudicators considered what Ms F had said, but didnt agree that NewDay had 
done anything  wrong. In summary, he said:
 The card terms allowed NewDay to change  the credit limit. Whilst increases required 
advance notice, decreases in the credit  limit didnt. 
 The reason  for the reduction was that Ms F didnt use very much of the credit  limit. 
Her balance was generally  well below the £2,000 limit shed had. 
 NewDays explanation that the decision to reduce the credit  limit was made because 
of Ms Fs usage of the card was adequate. 
 The account had been credited with amounts equal  to the cashback Ms F had 
earned. 
Ms F didnt agree with the adjudicators  conclusions,  and so her case  has been  passed to 
me to review   as the final stage in our consideration  of it.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  conclusions as the adjudicator did, and for broadly the same reasons. 
We wont generally interfere with a financial businesss  legitimate  exercise  of its commercial 
discretion. Put another way, it was for NewDay, not me, to decide how much credit to allow  
Ms F  as long as it did so for legitimate  reasons. And I believe what  NewDay  did here was 
legitimate; it didnt, for example,  discriminate unfairly against Ms F or reach its decision on 
the basis of an incorrect understanding of the facts. 
That said,  I do think NewDay could have been  a little clearer  in its explanation. Had it said to 
Ms F that her use of the card didnt suggest she needed a £2,000 credit limit, she might have 
been more willing to accept the position.  Simply saying that the change was because of 
utilisation or usage was less helpful.   
I can understand that Ms Fs frustration  that she wasnt  given advance  notice of the 
reduction, and her concern about the consequences had she used the card beyond  the new 
limit. But I need to make my decision on the basis of what  actually happened, not what  might  
have happened. As the adjudicator explained,  the card terms didnt require advance notice 
of a credit  limit reduction , although an increase did require 30 days  notice. I would add only 
Ref: DRN57022452that this is in line with regulatory  requirements, which  distinguish  between increases and 
decreases in the same  way as the account  terms.
Turning lastly to the cash  back issue, NewDay has credited the account with the full amount 
due. It referred to this as a loyalty award  and a gesture of goodwill. But, however it 
designated those payments, Im satisfied that it has paid Ms F what  shes  owed  and that, 
overall, its treated  her fairly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require NewDay Ltd to do any more to resolve this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.  
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5702245