K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that it was unfair for TSB Bank plc to charge them an early 
repayment charge  (ERC)  when they moved  their mortgage elsewhere. 
background 
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage with TSB. In October 2018 they enquired with TSB about 
borrowing additional funds on their mortgage. At the time TSB was experiencing issues with 
its IT systems, so it couldnt accept an application. 
TSB began to accept  applications again in November 2018 so Mr and Mrs M applied at that 
time.  TSB considered the application  but ultimately declined it as it didnt think  the further 
borrowing was affordable.
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with this so they raised  a complaint. They  said that TSB had 
asked for self-assessments for Mr Ms income  as he was self-employed, and that they 
needed to be no older than 18 months old. Mr and Mrs M said that Mr Ms assessments 
were acceptable  when they initially wanted  to apply, but had become  too old due to the 
delay and they were  required to provide up to date ones. 
Mr and Mrs M said that the most recent  self-assessment showed a lower income than the 
ones they wouldve given TSB when they originally tried to apply. Mr and Mrs M said that 
they think their application  wouldve been  successful had the delay not happened,  and TSB 
had only considered previous self-assessments.  
Mr and Mrs M moved their mortgage elsewhere  and were able to secure the funds they 
needed, but they were charged an ERC. They brought  a complaint to our service and said 
that TSB should  refund the ERC. 
TSB recognised that its system failure  had been  inconvenient for Mr and Mrs M. It offered to 
pay Mr and Mrs M £250 compensation  to recognise  this, as well as £50 for any costs. It also 
said that its affordability assessment doesnt just take income into account, but other factors  
such as customers outgoings and the value  of their property.
Our investigator concluded there  was no guarantee Mr and Mrs M wouldve been successful 
but for the delay and TSB was entitled to assess their application using the information 
Mr and Mrs M gave  it. She also said TSB was allowed to charge the ERC  in line with 
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage agreement,  and that the compensation it offered was fair.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree with our investigators assessment. They  said the compensation 
TSB had offered  was not enough given the stress  they were caused and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Its understandable  that Mr and Mrs M are disappointed with TSBs decision not to offer them 
the further borrowing theyd asked for. But banks are generally entitled  to decide for 
themselves whether or not they offer borrowing. We would not generally interfere with such 
commercial decisions;  as long as were  satisfied theyve been  made  legitimately.
Ref: DRN52672642In this case, TSB has given us evidence of the application Mr and Mrs M made.  It shows  that 
TSB took into account a range of information before it decided not to offer the borrowing 
Mr and Mrs M had asked  for. Im therefore satisfied that TSB was entitled to decide to turn 
down Mr and Mrs Ms application and that decision was made  legitimately. 
Mr and Mrs M have  said that they believe the application wouldve been  successful if theyd  
applied a month earlier. Theyve  said this because they believe the application  was turned 
down as a result of having to provide an up to date income assessment for Mr M which  
showed a lower income than hed previously received.  
Whilst TSB has demonstrated that it considered  Mr and Mrs Ms application and found  the 
further borrowing  unaffordable, it hasnt told us this was solely  due to Mr M declaring a lower  
income. I can see why Mr and Mrs M think this though, as their application shows  that Mr 
Ms income at the time was approximately half the amount it had been the year before. 
In any case, regardless  of which self-assessments Mr and Mrs M were required to give TSB, 
I think that a significant  change  in income,  such as this, is something that Mr and Mrs M 
ought to have made TSB aware of. I also think its something TSB likely would have asked 
Mr and Mrs M about even if theyd been able to apply for borrowing when theyd  asked to. 
So overall I dont  think that Mr and Mrs M were  disadvantaged by TSBs delay in considering 
their application.  
Like our investigator,  I reviewed Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage agreement  and found that an 
ERC would be charged if the mortgage was repaid  early. Given  that Im satisfied that TSB 
was entitled to turn down Mr and Mrs Ms application, and that they werent  disadvantaged 
by the delay TSBs IT issues caused, it follows  that Im satisfied TSB was entitled  to charge 
an ERC when the mortgage was repaid in February 2019.
I nonetheless  accept that Mr and Mrs M were frustrated that TSB couldnt consider their 
application for further borrowing when  they initially enquired about it. However, taking  into 
account that TSB was able to accept  an application a month or so later I think  that the £250 
compensation, as well as £50 for costs, is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that TSB Bank plcs offer to pay 
Mr and Mrs M £250 for the trouble and upset caused, plus £50 for costs, is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. TSB only needs to pay this if it has not done  so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 June  2019.
Stephen Trapp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5267264