K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) failed to authorise a card 
transaction for insurance which meant he had to set up, and pay for, emergency cover.  Hes 
also disappointed  with their overall  level of service.
background
In December 2018 Mr J tried to make  a payment for his annual  insurance premium. But the 
payment didnt go though and as a result Mr J had to organise emergency cover  at a cost of 
£150.
Mr J attempted to make the payment twice and received three text messages from Barclays  
to confirm the transaction. In the last message Barclays said Thanks for confirming the 
activity was yours. If you were unable to complete any transaction  you can try again in 1 
minute. But Mr J didnt.
He said it was clear that other payments were processed successfully by Barclays,  for him, 
that day, and he was annoyed theyd failed to process this one. When  he realised his 
insurance hadnt been renewed he was disappointed to be advised by the insurance  
company that the premium would now be higher. So he complained to Barclays  but he was 
unhappy with the service  he received  on that call. He said the advisor was incompetent.
In their final response to Mr J, Barclays explained  that his payment was stopped due to anti 
fraud measures which  were designed  to protect  Mr J. They  didnt think theyd applied the 
process incorrectly. Theyd confirmed the payment was genuine and had sent Mr J a text 
message (as above)  that explained he could complete  the transaction.  But, as he chose not 
to, they didnt think they could be held responsible for any consequential loss he may have 
incurred.
Mr J was unhappy with their response  so he referred his complaint to this service  and our 
adjudicator provided  his view on the evidence he had. He noted that under the terms and 
conditions of Mr Js account,  Barclays explained that some payments may be delayed so 
that authenticity  checks  could  be completed.  He said these types  of verification were normal  
and designed  to protect consumers money.  He noted that it was only this transaction that 
Barclays were  concerned about  and he didnt think there was anything unusual about  them  
approving other payments that day. 
He went on to consider  Mr Js complaint about the service hed received but he noted that 
Mr J hadnt stayed on the line long enough for the details of his complaint to be investigated 
so he didnt think it would be fair to conclude Barclays had done anything  wrong.
But Mr J was still dissatisfied and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Ref: DRN55403902Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ive looked through the terms and conditions of Mr Js account. Those terms explain that the 
bank can suspend payments if they need to for security reasons. Its not obliged to approve  
all transactions.  
In this case the transaction wasnt fraudulent but Barclays were trying to protect Mr J 
because their automated  system had flagged a security concern.  So I dont think Barclays  
acted unfairly or made a mistake by not authorising his payment. 
I wouldnt expect Barclays to tell us, or Mr J, what the exact  concern was as I think that 
information is likely to be commercially sensitive. But I can understand that some  payments, 
that Barclays didnt  have concerns about,  may have been processed on the day in question. 
I dont think thats  unusual.
And I see that Barclays did check the authenticity  of the transaction  quickly and tell Mr J he 
could run it again if it hadnt  been processed. So I dont think  theres any evidence here that 
Barclays handled the transaction wrongly. 
Mr J says the advisor who handled his call, handled  it poorly. Ive seen a transcript of that 
call and its clear that whilst  Mr J made his concerns clear and told the advisor  what  he 
wanted; he put the phone down before the advisor was given an opportunity  to investigate 
his concerns. I dont  think it would  be reasonable to conclude on this evidence that the 
advisor had proven incompetent or provided  poor service and, having considered  Mr Js 
complaint, I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Barclays to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5540390