K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
I think Bank of Scotland made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant  remember  this. On the credit 
card application  form Mr C completed  there was a section  where he had to tick to say if he 
wanted PPI. Mr C ticked this box. If he hadnt wanted it, he could have left this blank.
Bank of Scotland didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr C got the information he needed  to decide 
if it was right for him. 
The information Bank of Scotland  gave Mr C about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But the credit card application form did explain that it provided cover for 
accident, sickness  and unemployment and its unlikely  he would have thought  it was 
free. Mr C chose to take out the PPI based  on this information - so it looks  like he 
wanted this type of cover  despite what hes said about  not needing it because of the 
benefits he would have got from his employer at the time. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Cs circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI 
would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund everything  Mr C paid for it. But Bank of Scotland  
has already offered to give Mr C back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think  it needs  to do 
anything more. I understand  Bank  of Scotland  has already paid this to Mr C. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5464150