K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms W say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them  two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr and Ms W bought Total Mortgage  Protection  Plans (TMPP) in 2002  and 2003  to protect 
their mortgage repayments. The sales took place in one of the banks branches.  In 2002 the 
TMPP included PPI and insurance. In 2003  it included PPI, life and critical  illness.  Each time 
the PPI was in Mr Ws sole name  and gave him accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover. They  paid a monthly amount for the policies. This complaint looks solely  at the sales 
of the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Ms W disagreed  so the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the what  we know about 
how Halifax sold PPI at the time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Ms W say they werent aware  PPI was optional,  they were  pressured into taking it 
and it was implied without it there would be no finance. I cant  know  what  was said in the 
meetings and Halifax hasnt got the paperwork from the sales.  But this isnt surprising or 
unreasonable as they were so long ago. 
Based on what we know about  the banks sales process in these years, I think its most  likely 
Mr and Ms W completed TMPP application forms selecting which elements of the cover they 
wanted, after discussion with the bank. Halifax has provided samples of the documents  it 
used when selling TMPP at this time. And I cant find enough evidence to conclude that it 
didnt follow  its standard  sales  process on either  occasion. Ive thought carefully  about  the 
Mr and Mrs Ws comment that they were pressured  and misled,  but I havent  found enough 
other evidence to support their claim. Overall, I think its most likely Halifax made  it clear    
Mr and Ms W had a choice about  PPI - and they opted to take out cover  for Mr W.
Ref: DRN57081802Halifax recommended  the PPI for Mr W to Mr and Ms W so it had to make sure it was 
suitable. And I think the PPI seems to have been  right for Mr W based on what  Ive seen of 
his circumstances  in 2002 and 2003. Mr W said he was entitled to three months full pay and 
three months half pay if he was sick, but the PPI wouldve paid out for each successful 
accident and sickness and claim for up to 24 months. It also gave up to 24 months  
redundancy cover. They also told us Mrs W had some savings. But the PPI would have 
allowed them to use these  to cover other  living  expenses whilst not working,  or to keep them  
intact for their future needs. Given the consequences for Mr and Ms W of defaulting on debt 
secured against  their home, I think the PPI would have been useful for them if Mr W was 
sick or lost his job.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Ms W all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I dont know when the costs were first made clear but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. I also dont know that Halifax pointed out the 
main things the policies didnt  cover. But Mr W doesnt appear  to have been affected by any 
of those things.  It follows  I dont think better information wouldve changed their decision.
Mr W says that if hed known there  was a 30-day deferral  period before he could make a 
claim he wouldnt have taken out PPI. I agree its possible the bank could have made this 
clearer. But its not an unusual term, and its most  likely Mr and Ms W would have been able 
to make one months  mortgage repayment whilst Mr W wasnt working.  The policies then 
gave them up to 24 months protection. And as I said before, given Mr Ws circumstances 
and the consequences of missing mortgage payments, I think the PPI would  have been  
useful for them  if Mr W wasnt  working. So I dont think its most likely that better information 
or advice  on this would  have  changed  their decision.  
It follows I dont think Mr and Ms W have  lost out because of any problems with the sales.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 August 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5708180