K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that NewDay Ltd acted irresponsibly when they approved his application for 
a second credit card account. To put things right he wants them  to refund him the interest  
and charges that were applied to the account when  he later missed some payments.
background
In August  2017  Mr R applied for a new credit  card account with NewDay.  He already had a 
credit card at the time, which was also provided  by NewDay under  a different brand.
Mr R now feels  that NewDay shouldnt have  accepted this new application. He says that he 
hadnt managed  his first credit card account responsibly, and had consistently gone over his 
credit limit. So he thinks it was irresponsible of NewDay to provide him with further credit  by 
giving him a second credit card. He feels they should  have  carried  out further  checks  when 
he applied  for it. And that if they had done  so they would have seen he had a lot of debt and 
was spending  his disposable  income on gambling. He says this is evidence that it was not 
affordable for him to be provided with further credit. 
NewDay said that they considered the information Mr R provided to them, as well as 
information held by credit reference agencies, and were satisfied he met their lending 
criteria. So they dont feel that they did anything wrong.
Mr R was unhappy with this response, so he brought  his complaint to our service.  Our 
adjudicator sympathised  with his situation, but didnt think  that NewDay had acted 
irresponsibly. 
Mr R disagrees,  so the case has been passed  to me to review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr R will be disappointed,  but I 
dont think it would be fair to ask NewDay  to refund him any interest or charges. Ill explain 
why.
In reaching my decision Ive looked at the checks NewDay made before they gave Mr R the 
second credit card.  Theres  no set list of checks they had to carry out  but the checks  they 
did make  should  have been  reasonable and proportionate to, amongst other  things; the 
amount of credit they were willing to offer,  Mr Rs lending history,  and the information they 
already knew about him. Ive thought about  whether this was the case, and Ive considered  if 
I think it was reasonable  for NewDay to approve his application.
NewDay told us that they considered the information  Mr R provided to them,  alongside data 
held by credit reference agencies.  Theyve also explained that the credit card Mr R applied 
for is designed to help customers  improve  their credit rating, and that their appetite  for 
lending extends  to customers who may have  a poor credit  history.
Ref: DRN56387292Mr R says that he exceeded the credit  limit on his existing credit card account  in six of the 
seven months prior to August 2017  when he applied for the new card.  NewDay  havent 
disputed this, but they say he was making regular payments and bringing the balance back 
within the limit each month  and the information in the credit report  Mr R has given us 
supports this. So whilst I agree Mr R was managing  this existing account poorly, I dont think  
it would  have been clear to NewDay  that this was because he was struggling financially. It 
couldve been that Mr R was managing his account  like this for other reasons, but without 
him telling NewDay  this was because of financial difficulties I dont think it wouldve  been fair 
for them to assume  this.
His existing account  balance was within its limit when he made  the new credit card 
application. And there were no late payment markers on the account at this time. I also cant 
see any evidence that Mr R was struggling  to make  payments to other  creditors,  and there  
were no defaults recorded  on his credit  file. So I dont think its unreasonable  that NewDay  
accepted his application with a relatively  low credit limit of £450. 
NewDay have agreed that Mr R did have a high level of debt when he made his application. 
But as he had told them  he had an income in excess of £85,000 a year they felt that this was 
manageable. Given  this fact, and that there was no indication Mr R was struggling to pay his 
existing creditors, I think this was a fair conclusion for them  to reach.  
Mr R has explained that he was struggling with a gambling addiction, and that all of his 
disposable income was being spent on gambling. I sympathise with his situation and I 
understand this would have been  a very difficult time for him. But NewDay  would not have 
seen how he was spending his money based  on the information he gave them, or his credit  
report. And even if Mr R used his previous  card to fund gambling  this is a legitimate way of 
customers spending money. I wouldnt have expected NewDay to assume that he had a 
gambling addiction  just because he was using  his card for this purpose.
I appreciate Mr R feels that NewDay should  have  carried out further checks, and thinks that 
if theyd done  so they would have discovered  this. But Im satisfied that the checks they did 
make were  sufficient in the circumstances and proportionate to the amount of new credit 
they gave him. Mr R has confirmed he did not notify  NewDay of his gambling addiction. So I 
cant reasonably  expect them to have been aware of it, or to have taken  it into account when 
assessing his application.
Whilst I appreciate he will be disappointed  with my decision, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for NewDay to approve Mr Rs application for a second credit card.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
 
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5638729