K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the level of compensation Barclays  Bank UK Plc has offered him 
for the mis-sale of two payment protection insurance  (PPI) policies.
background
In January 1997 Mr B took out two credit  cards with Barclays. At the same time he was sold 
PPI policies on both cards.
In 2018 Mr B complained to Barclays about the PPI policies.
Barclays upheld Mr Bs complaint about both policies. But Barclays  didnt hold any data 
about how much Mr B had been charged  for the PPI on either card.  So Barclays  offered     
Mr B compensation based on the average  it pays consumers who have held a card with PPI 
in similar  circumstances to Mr B.
For both PPI policies  Barclays  offered Mr B £3,219.18. This consisted of:
£930.36 for PPI premiums.
£744.44 for interest paid because of the PPI premiums.
£1,544.38 compensatory interest  (net of tax) calculated at 8% simple  per year.
Mr B felt the offers didnt  properly compensate  him. In particular he said the level of interest 
Barclays had offered him was not sufficient  bearing in mind  the length  of time that had 
passed. Mr B asked this service to step in.
Our adjudicator thought Barclays offer was fair. Mr B disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaints been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Barclays has agreed to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale of the policies. So I wont  
look into how the PPI policies came to be sold to Mr B. In this decision I am looking at 
whether Barclays offers  are fair.
Before I look at Barclays offers of compensation, I think it would be helpful to explain our 
approach when we find that a PPI policy has been mis-sold.
When a business  mis-sells a PPI policy we expect it to put the consumer in the financial 
position theyd  be in if they hadnt taken it out (so far as is possible).
Ref: DRN52055162When working out how to do this on a credit card, wed expect Barclays  to refund the PPI 
premiums and any credit card interest or associated  charges caused by the PPI. Wed  also 
expect Barclays to compensate the consumer for any periods where  theyd been  out of 
pocket as a result of the PPI. This should be at 8% simple interest per year.
In this case Barclays doesnt have the information it needs to carry out the above calculation.  
It doesnt know what Mr B spent on his cards, or what he was charged for PPI. So it has 
offered to pay an average amount  of compensation that it paid consumers who held a similar 
policy for a similar  amount of time.
All in all, I think this is fair approach for Barclays to take given the lack of information 
available. 
Ive next looked at the actual offers its made Mr B.
I can see Barclays still has a copy of the original application form for the two credit cards  
signed by Mr B in November 1996. So I think Barclays records  are correct  when they say the 
PPI started  in January 1997 which is when  Mr B wouldve received his first statements.
Barclays has shown us a screenshot of its internal systems which  shows  the Account  PPI 
Flag set at N for both accounts. This usually means that no PPI was ever set up on the 
accounts. So its possible that the credit  card accounts were  set up without any PPI at all. 
However, as the application form for the credit cards  shows  a box had been  ticked  to add 
PPI, Barclays  assumed the PPI was in fact added to the accounts.
Unfortunately, but not surprisingly, Barclays dont have any detailed information about  Mr Bs 
credit card before May 2004. This is the first full statement  available.  And it shows  there was 
no PPI on Mr Bs account in May 2004.
When Barclays made the average  offers to Mr B is assumed  the PPI was on Mr Bs account  
from January 1997 until April 2004,  the month before the first available statement showing 
definitely that no PPI was on the accounts.  So Barclays assumed Mr B had been charged 
PPI premiums for 89 months. And it based its average offer on this figure.
I think this is a generous  assumption and fair to Mr B.
I say this as Mr B couldve cancelled the PPI at any time between January 1997 and        
April 2004. And I note that when Barclays reviewed Mr Bs complaint before sending its file 
to this service, it found new evidence  to show that Mr Bs PPI policies had in fact been 
cancelled before April 2001. Thats because it has some limited statement data from after 
April 2001 that show there  was no PPI on the accounts at that time. So if Barclays  had 
based its average offer on Mr B paying  premiums from January 1997 to April 2001, Id likely  
have said that was fair. 
Ive next thought about the interest  Mr B paid on the premiums. As part of the average offer 
Barclays assumed £744.44  for each card. Mr B feels this is low bearing in mind  the level of 
premiums assumed by Barclays  and the time thats passed since he wouldve been charged  
the premiums.  
But this is an average offer and Mr B may have been charged more,  or indeed less interest  
on any premiums he was charged.  For example,  if two consumers were charged  the same  
PPI premiums but one cleared their credit card balance each month  and the other didnt, 
Ref: DRN52055163then one would be charged a lot more interest on the premiums  than the other. In Mr Bs 
case we have no way of knowing how much interest  Mr B incurred because  of the PPI 
premiums. Because  of that I think its fair for Barclays to refund the average  interest  it 
refunds consumers in similar circumstances.
Similarly the 8% compensatory interest is an average amount Barclays refunds  its 
consumers in similar circumstances and I think the amount Barclays refunded  Mr B is fair. 
I accept its possible the average offers are lower than what  Mr B actually spent because of 
the PPI, but, looking at the evidence in this case, I think its more  likely the average offers  
are actually higher  than they would be if Barclays held full, accurate data. And without any 
actual evidence of what Mr B paid I dont think  it would be fair to tell Barclays to make  any 
different payment.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK Plc has now paid Mr B fair compensation for the 
mis-sale of the PPI policies, given the lack of information available.
It follows that I make no further award  against Barclays  Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5205516