K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains Pro-Synergy Wealth  & Tax Management Ltd gave him unsuitable advice to 
invest in a Business  Premises Renovation  Allowance (BPRA) scheme in 2012. 
background
In March 2012 Mr A received a circular email from Pro-Synergy with the subject BPRA 
opportunity  Tax reclaim. 
The email  explained  that there was an exclusive investment opportunity. It said that the 
developer was funding the initial investment deposits on behalf of Pro-Synergys clients  
entering the scheme, and that these  interest free loans would be paid back through  the tax 
relief received from HMRC.  The email  explained that the returns were uncapped and given 
that the development was to be a city-centre 5 star accommodation, they expected  the 
future returns to be extremely good. The email said that both time and subscription 
allowances are very limited, and Pro-Synergy  had already taken in several applications for 
this current BPRA investment as investors  had been keen to benefit from the no-money 
down deposit  paid on your behalf by the developer. 
In response to this email  Mr A got in touch with Pro-Synergy the following day. The notes of 
the call are disputed  by Mr A, but in short the investment opportunity was briefly  touched  on 
and Mr A was encouraged to invest.  
In the days following this call Mr A agreed to proceed, and signed a waiver in favour of the 
developer. This committed  Mr A to repaying  the loan via the tax relief he would receive  from 
HMRC. He then received  a suitability report which outlined, broadly, the recommendation to 
invest in the LLP. It said that Mr A was a higher rate tax payer, earning over £163,000, and 
that his current aim was tax planning.  It said that risk applied  to the investment, and 
encouraged Mr A to establish for himself whether he was happy to accept the risks. 
By accepting  Pro-Synergys recommendation, Mr A would become a member of an LLP that 
would invest in buying a site requiring development in the UK and develop it into a hotel. 
This investment would,  in theory, not only provide the expected tax relief,  but would also 
yield a regular income. It also explained that there would be a loan facility to the partnership  
(different to the personal loan provided  to Mr A for the initial deposit) which would  amount  to 
55.7%. Essentially this meant that investors  would contribute 44.3% of the overall 
investment, and the rest would  be bridged  by a company providing  credit to the partnership 
as a whole  on a non-recourse / non-status basis. 
There was a section  called risk warnings which  outlined almost two pages  worth of risks 
with the investment. That section started  by saying that Mr A should consider the suitability 
of the investment for himself and in light of his personal circumstances and financial 
resources. 
It listed a number of risk warnings which the report said were not intended to be exhaustive 
and then referred Mr A to a risk warning  notice. This, in short, explained  that Mr A was 
being advised to invest in a non-readily realisable asset. 
The report  set out a taxation risk warning which explained that the outcome of any 
investment in BPRA schemes  depended on the use of taxation reliefs  and allowances, and 
so investors should  have obtained advice  from their own tax advisers before applying to 
invest in the BPRA scheme. 
Ref: DRN56839922Mr A agreed to invest £100,000 and duly received the tax relief from HMRC of the same 
amount. He passed this to Pro-Synergy in line with the waiver he had initially signed so that 
the loan from the developer could be paid off. 
Between 2013 and 2016 the partnership encountered difficulties in receiving all the relevant 
subscriptions from the partners. Of relevance to Mr A, it seemed the developer was no 
longer willing  to provide the initial loan to Pro-Synergys customers.  As a result, lawyers 
acting for the LLP sent statutory demands  to the partners that had outstanding contributions 
and threatened  legal action. At the same time, HMRC began investigating the partnership, 
and whether or not it actually qualified  for BPRA. Mr A also received letters from the 
partnership and the developer, as it seemed that despite forwarding the £100,000 tax relief  
he had received to Pro-Synergy, it had kept hold of this money. 
In 2016 the LLP went into liquidation and the hotel was sold.  HMRC has continued  to look 
into the scheme and is now intending on clawing back all the relief Mr A received and adding  
interest and penalties. Given his particular circumstances, Mr A has reached an agreement 
with HMRC to pay back the tax relief. Its likely this will include interest and penalties. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and considered it should be upheld. In 
summary, she found:
There was no fact find and no evidence that Pro-Synergy had obtained any of the 
information that would have been necessary to assess the suitability of the scheme  
for Mr A. This included establishing  what Mr As attitude to risk was, his investment 
knowledge and experience, his financial situation including his income and outgoings 
and his investment  objectives. 
The suitability letter which was sent wasnt tailored to Mr As circumstances.
Mr A was nearing retirement from his professional activity and there was a recorded 
need to save towards  retirement given his particular circumstances.  She didnt 
consider it likely that he had the capacity to lose the full amount he invested  and 
the potential for this risk to materialise wasnt raised with him at the time of the 
advice. 
She didnt consider  the risks of the investment, including the interest  free loan to the 
developer, were highlighted sufficiently clearly.  So the investigator  concluded  that the 
advice was unsuitable. 
 
Pro-Synergy didnt agree with the investigator. It provided detailed comments in response. 
It said that in recommending the scheme  as suitable, it had conducted reasonable due 
diligence and had read the Information Memorandum from 2012 and 2013. It also knew 
about HMRCs  policy  on BPRA schemes in 2012 and 2013. It said this was important 
because there was a change  in HMRC policy between 2012  and July 2013. 
It said that prior to July 2013  BPRA  was widely viewed  both by HMRC, tax advisers and 
IFAs to be a legitimate  source of tax relief. It said that the budget guide for March 2012  
confirmed that the relief  had been extended  for another five years,  and there was no 
suggestion from HMRC or Government prior to July 2013 that such schemes would be 
challenged. 
It said that it was only in the summer  of 2013 when HMRC published a technical review  of 
the operation  of such schemes. It then became apparent  that although the Government was 
aiming to preserve BPRA as an investment incentive, there  was a risk of exploitative  or 
Ref: DRN56839923artificial features in some of the schemes HMRC had seen. It said that this development in 
policy was not something that Pro-Synergy ought  to have foreseen.  
Pro-Synergy said that it was important when considering what  Pro-Synergy ought to have 
known about the schemes  suitability in 2012 to consider why the scheme  failed. It said that 
the scheme had in fact been  partially successful. It said that even though HMRC had 
investigated the scheme, the inspector  appears, prior to the administration,  to have been 
willing to allow 45% of the tax relief claimed  by Mr A. It said its understanding was that but 
for the administration,  the complainant may well have retained some relief  on the 
investment. And it said that Mr A would  also have received income from his capital 
investment. 
It said that on reviewing the administrators report, it appeared that the scheme failed not 
because it was fundamentally flawed  or a sham, but because  there  was a substantial  
funding gap. And it said that this funding gap was caused by some of the investors failing to 
pay in funds pursuant to the 2013  subscription agreement. 
So Pro-Synergy said that it couldnt have reasonably been expected to foresee that there  
would be a change  in HMRCs stance in respect of BRPA schemes, that the main  creditor 
would renege  on the agreement to fund the investment sum until the relief  was obtained 
and that any funding gap resulting would not be filled and lead [the LLP] to go into 
administration. It said that it would be unfair for this service  to blame Pro-Synergy for the 
consequences of this chain of events,  when there  were a number of other  
companies/professionals who gave advice  which may have caused or contributed to his 
loss. 
Pro-Synergy said that the overall cause  of Mr As losses wasnt the decision to invest  in the 
scheme, but the fact that the LLP went into administration. It said that if the LLP hadnt been 
forced into administration, Mr A would have  received  some  tax benefit from the scheme. And 
Pro-Synergy said that it appeared  that HMRC would have been willing  to accept 45% of the 
claimed expenditure as qualifying for capital allowances, and issued a PPN on that basis.  
Pro-Synergy said that, in its view, what caused the administration needed to be investigated.  
It said that it was a third partys refusal  to honour a funding agreement on the second  
subscription and the failure of the investors  to put their own funds in to the scheme  that 
caused the partnership to go into administration.
Pro-Synergy also disagreed with the way the investigator had suggested  matters  be put 
right. It said that Mr A was now being asked to pay back sums he had received in tax relief,  
and therefore,  from a tax perspective,  he has been  put back in the position that he would 
have been in had the scheme not been mentioned to him. It said the complainant may have 
suffered an investment loss, but this wouldnt have been caused  by Pro-Synergys advice  
this wouldve  been caused by the managers  of the scheme. 
It said that HMRC had not yet issued a closure notice in respect of the scheme and that 
other investors were  intending on appealing HMRCs decision to clawback the tax. It said 
that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for Mr A to give up the fight with HMRC in the hope  
that he would recover the money through this service. It said it would clearly be extremely 
unjust if Pro-Synergy were ordered  to make a payment which  could then not be recouped in 
the event that the investors succeed in recovering some of the tax relief  with reduced 
interest. 
Ref: DRN56839924Pro-Synergy disagreed  with the investigators use of 8% per year simple interest on the 
award. It said that if HMRC did charge penalties, it should only be asked to pay those if Mr A 
had made  reasonable attempts  to mitigate  that loss. It said that the penalties  which  were  
charged for late payment of sums were done via PPNs or APNs. It said that APNs  were 
introduced in 2014 as a method of collecting tax following a challenge to a scheme/alleged 
tax avoidance  but before a ruling had been made  on the scheme by a tribunal. It said that 
the introduction  of APNs was widely criticised and not something that could have  been  
foreseen in 2012 or 2013 and Pro-Synergy should not have  to pay the costs of the 
complainants failure to comply with the notices and/or his lawyers  attempts to challenge the 
validity of the notice. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered and taken  into account  the detailed comments both parties have provided 
throughout this complaint. I hope  neither party  takes it as a discourtesy when I dont reply to 
every single point  that has been  raised.  The purpose of my decision is to address what  I 
consider to be the key issues in the complaint,  and explain  my reasons for making  the 
decision that I have.  
In Mr As case, I consider the key issue to be whether the recommendation Pro-Synergy 
made to Mr A to invest in the BPRA scheme was suitable for him. And in that regard, Im 
afraid I dont have much to add to what the investigator has already said.
Its clear to me that Pro-Synergy didnt establish the suitability of the investment for Mr A 
before it promoted  it to him, nor indeed after it spoke to him about it. Theres no evidence 
that a comprehensive fact find was carried out about  Mr A to establish his financial  
circumstances (and by this I mean more than just an assessment of his earnings, but also 
his existing liquid assets and liabilities),  level of investment experience  and knowledge, and 
his objectives  for the investment  including the degree to which  he was able and willing to 
take on investment  risk. 
The suitability letter does say that the advice given was based on the financial information  
that you shared  with me when we met.  It says that the letter presents our understanding of 
your current  situation, your aims and objectives and this provides the basis for our 
recommendations. 
Yet, under the section  current situation, the only issues which  appear  to have been 
considered are Mr As anticipated income of over £160,000, his tax bracket (50% income 
tax), and the total tax paid to date (as at 31 March 2012) of over £230,000. 
Instead of establishing whether the recommendation was affordable,  the suitability letter  said 
that Mr A had confirmed  [] that the proposed investment  in the LLP is readily affordable 
for you and that you have  sufficient emergency funds on deposit  elsewhere to satisfy any 
short term financial needs. Im not persuaded Pro-Synergy  adequately  established  whether 
Mr A could in fact afford  the investment  particularly in the event of the initial tax relief  being 
clawed back by HMRC. On this point  I should  say that I dont  agree  with Pro-Synergy that 
this wasnt a foreseeable risk. There were a number  of reasons why the scheme  might  fall 
Ref: DRN56839925foul of relevant rules  around BPRA (and some  of these are listed below), and a number of 
reasons why there was a high risk of capital loss  indeed these risks, particularly that tax 
relief wasnt  guaranteed, are listed in the suitability report; so clearly  they were  foreseeable. 
The fact is these risks materialising ought to have  been considered very carefully in light of 
Mr As circumstances and they werent.
In the section aims and objectives, Pro-Synergy establish that Mr As priority was income  
tax planning. But in the section attitude to risk, the letter  doesnt  explain what  Mr As attitude 
to risk is  it simply concludes that investment risk does apply in this case,  and that Mr As 
attention was drawn to the risk warnings at the end of the suitability  letter and in the LLPs 
memorandum. This section shouldve established  how much risk Mr A was able and willing 
to take, and it shouldve been  used as an opportunity to test his understanding  of the 
investment and whether he was comfortable with it. Im satisfied that this was absent from 
the suitability letter because it wasnt in fact discussed or established with him. 
In fact, the clearest evidence that Pro-Synergy didnt attempt to establish the suitability  of the 
investment for Mr A (despite making a personal  recommendation) is in the section of the 
letter called risk warnings. 
In that section, Pro-Synergy explains to Mr A that he should  carefully  consider  whether such 
investments are suitable for you in light of your personal circumstances and the financial 
resources available  to you. When in fact it was Pro-Synergys role, as a regulated firm 
providing regulated  advice, to establish  this. It then listed a series  of risk warnings, including:
The value of the property could fluctuate and investors could lose some or all of their 
investment. 
Not all the costs  and expenses incurred by the LLP will qualify for a tax deduction 
against the income of the LLP. 
Tax legislation  (and therefore the type and amount of relief available) was subject  to 
change.
If Mr A sold or otherwise disposed  of his stake  in the LLP within seven years there 
would be a clawback  of the tax relief provided.  
There was no established  market which would  allow Mr A to easily  sell his 
investment. This also meant that he may not be able to obtain  reliable information 
about its value  or the extent of the risks to which  it is exposed. 
As a result of the above, the investment was essentially illiquid,  so Mr A shouldnt 
invest in it if he envisaged needing the money  in the subsequent seven years.  
It was assumed  that all investors will have taken appropriate professional  advice 
before seeking  to invest. 
There were other risks as well, including problems  or delays during the refurbishment,  
requests for members of the LLP to service the developers  loan should  the tenant  later 
become insolvent,  and a premature sale of the Property triggering a clawback of the relief  
allowed by HMRC. 
Overall, Ive seen insufficient evidence that Mr A was prepared  to take this level of risk with 
his investment, and theres no evidence in the suitability letter that this was established. 
In fact, I think its likely  that discussions around  the risk of total capital loss or problems with 
the LLP were not discussed at all with Mr A. Im persuaded  its likely he was given a 
misleading impression  by the adviser about the risks of this investment, and the initial email 
supports this. Given that he was not in fact investing  any initial  capital himself,  and the loan 
Ref: DRN56839926would be repaid via tax relief received from HMRC, I think Mr A was very much  led to believe 
that this opportunity didnt represent any risk of capital loss to him  and thats  why he chose 
to invest. In that regard, I think Mr As evidence is consistent and persuasive. It shows that 
Pro-Synergy didnt undertake the appropriate assessment of Mr As circumstances, and 
didnt attempt to establish whether or not this investment was suitable  for him. Worse, it 
didnt comprehensively  explain the risks associated  with the investment  risks which Im 
persuaded Mr A was neither  willing  nor able to take. 
I say this because  Mr A knew that his income  was due to drop significantly, and he has 
described quite  clearly why he wasnt intending  on taking a high risk with his money. I think 
his explanations for this are persuasive,  and consistent with the available evidence  of his 
broader financial circumstances at the time. In my view, if he had known this wasnt  the low 
risk opportunity he was likely told it was, and in fact there were a number of reasons which  
might mean potentially having  to pay back the tax relief  (or worse, put more money in the 
partnership), Im satisfied Mr A wouldnt  have  invested. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied this investment was unsuitable for Mr A and Pro-Synergy 
shouldnt have recommended it.  
Putting things right
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend the business  to pay 
the balance.
In considering what needs to be done to put matters right for Mr A, my aim is to put Mr A 
back in the position he wouldve been  had he not received unsuitable advice. 
In this case, Im satisfied  that Mr A had no intention of investing his money.  And had he not 
invested, he wouldnt have received  any rebate from HMRC (which  it is now clawing back), 
and therefore  wouldnt have incurred any penalties or interest. He also wouldnt have 
suffered the stress and anxiety  of being  chased  for money he didnt have and was unable  to 
pay back  this includes the stress of being  chased  by the LLP for money  which he had 
already paid over to Pro-Synergy and which it had failed to release without him knowing.  
So I think its fair and reasonable that Pro-Synergy pay Mr A £100,000 and add 8% per year 
simple interest on any amount he has already  repaid  to HMRC, as I understand he has not 
fully repaid the original amount. 
In that regard, I also appreciate why Pro-Synergy thinks that our award of 8% interest  is too 
high. I appreciate that deposit rates are significantly lower than this. But it is not meant to 
reflect the return Mr A would have received from a deposit account. It is meant to 
compensate Mr A for being deprived of his money  for a period of time. 
So if Mr A had to pay back HMRC from his own money, when he would never have had to 
do so but for the unsuitable  advice  he received  and agreed to follow,  then he has been 
unfairly deprived of this money. Paying back this money might have caused  financial 
difficulties, and likely wouldve had an impact  on a range of decisions Mr A has had to make 
around spending and borrowing at the time. 
Ref: DRN56839927As it isnt really possible to quantify  what this has meant for Mr A, our service uses the 8% 
per year simple rate in the majority  of similar cases.  Ive considered whether a different 
approach would be fair here, and Im not persuaded it would be. 
In terms of mitigation  of loss, Im satisfied  that the evidence Ive seen indicates  that HMRC 
will be clawing  back 100% of the relief  provided.  What is currently not certain is the level of 
any fees or penalties which might  be applied. 
I appreciate why Pro-Synergy considers it reasonable for Mr A to challenge HMRCs 
payment notices. But given the circumstances, I dont agree that it would be fair or 
reasonable to expect  Mr A to do so. Theres no indication that such  a challenge would be 
successful (indeed  the evidence  suggests  that is unlikely given the way HMRC may well 
view the initial personal loan provided to Mr A), and doing so would almost  certainly  involve 
additional time and costs  for Mr A which he may not get back. 
Mr A has also incurred  a number of additional costs. Bearing in mind  the particular and 
personal and exceptional  circumstances of Mr As case, Im satisfied  these costs  were 
reasonably incurred. And Im satisfied that Mr A wouldnt have incurred these costs  if it 
hadnt been for Pro-Synergys unsuitable  advice. 
Mr As circumstances have required significant negotiation with HMRC to avoid potentially 
disastrous consequences  and he has naturally  resorted to the services of a professional  
for this work. Part of this was due to his role as a nominated partner, which happened 
without his knowledge. My understanding is that he became a nominated partner on a 
default alphabetical basis following the resignation of the LLPs administrators. In turn this 
meant a much greater  degree of responsibility, for which he was ill prepared given his lack of 
understanding and knowledge of the scheme. In order to discharge his obligations towards  
HMRC, he has had to resort to professional advice, both from an accounting  perspective  and 
to help cover  the initial legal  costs  he incurred from a relevant professional association which 
he was a member of. These costs amount to:
£4,400 plus VAT of £880 for the accountancy  services he received.  
£5,280 for the professional associations initial contribution to his costs,  which  was 
provided on the understanding that he would make  a payment should his complaint 
be successful. 
Mr A has also required  the help of a professional  in advising and preparing  his case for this 
service. Its unusual  for our service to award  these. But given the exceptional  and personal  
circumstances of Mr As case, Im satisfied that these costs were  reasonably  incurred. I 
agree with the investigators assessment in that regard. The evidence Ive seen shows that 
these costs amounted  to £2,000 plus VAT of £400. 
And its clear  that Pro-Synergys unsuitable  advice has caused Mr A trouble and upset, but I 
dont agree with the investigators  recommendation of £250  I think its clear Mr A has been  
caused a significant degree of stress and inconvenience, for which I think  £500 is fair and 
reasonable compensation.
my final decision
My decision  is that Pro-Synergy Wealth & Tax Management Ltd must pay Mr A the 
compensation Ive outlined  up to a maximum of £150,000  plus any interest  Ive said is 
payable:
Ref: DRN56839928Pay Mr A £100,000  thats the amount of tax relief Mr A received from HMRC (which  
he then transferred to Pro-Synergy)  at the time of his investment, and which  HMRC 
are now clawing back. If he has paid back any of this amount to HMRC  already, Pro-
Synergy must add 8% per year simple to such a sum from the time he paid it until the 
date of settlement.  
Pay charges  or interest, if any, which  HMRC  has already levied on the clawback, and 
which Mr A has already paid. It should 8% per year simple interest to such sums from 
the time he paid them  until the date of settlement. 
Give an undertaking  to pay any future  charges or interest HMRC applies within  one 
month of being provided with the invoices by Mr A. 
Pay Mr A £4,400 plus VAT of £880  for advice given and negotiating with HMRC
Pay Mr A £5,280 for the professional associations initial  contribution to his costs.
Pay Mr A £2,000 plus VAT of £400  for advising on and preparing the case for our 
service. 
If Mr A has already paid these  invoices, Pro-Synergy should also add 8% per year 
simple on interest  on these sums from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr A £500 for the trouble and upset the matter has caused him.
Where a sum is payable,  Pro-Synergy Wealth & Tax Management Ltd must pay this within  
28 days of when we tell it Mr A accepts  the decision.  
In this case, as HMRC  hasnt yet quantified  charges  and interest,  I dont know  if the 
compensation due to Mr A (not including any interest Ive said is payable) will exceed 
£150,000. If it does, I recommend that Pro-Synergy Wealth  & Tax Management Ltd pay Mr A 
the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  It does not bind Pro-Synergy 
Wealth & Tax Management Ltd. It is unlikely that Mr A can accept my decision and go to 
court to ask for the balance. Mr A may want to consider getting independent  legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept this decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5683992