K821x#15complaint
Mrs W has complained about Avantia Insurance Limited, because twice  it told her she wasnt 
covered, the last time being when it said her policy hadnt been renewed.
background
Mrs Ws policy renewed in July 2017, in August she told Avantia  of some building work she 
was having done, which included demolishing and re-building the main building of her home. 
In January 2018 Avantia  confirmed the main building would be covered until it was 
demolished. In June  Avantia said it had been  incorrect of it to advise that. But it then said 
that as the error had been its mistake it would honour what  it had said.
On 23 July 2018 Mrs W received a letter  from Avantia, dated 20 July 2018, which stated it 
hadnt renewed her policy,  due for renewal on 13 July 2018. Mrs W was shocked. She 
sought cover  elsewhere and complained  to Avantia.  Avantia apologised, it said when  
assessing the risk she presented for renewal, it had made an error  if it hadnt it would have 
renewed her cover. It said it would reinstate cover, backdated to renewal and charge a 
reduced premium. It also said it would pay £50 compensation.
Mrs W said its offer of cover was too late and of no help to her. She said it should  pay her for 
three days shed had to take off work (£1,595) to find new cover  and compensate  her for her 
upset, which  included  contracting  an infection and missing a train.
Our investigator felt Avantia had tried to make  up for the errors it had made and the upset  it 
had caused. But he felt it should pay a total of £100 compensation.
Avantia said as Mrs W had found  other cover it didnt accept shed had any material 
inconvenience. So it felt £50 compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mrs W said she was appalled by Avantias conduct. She reiterated that she felt shed 
suffered significant  distress and inconvenience and shed lost three  days holiday that shed 
had to take to sort everything out.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Avantia handled things  poorly, and I note it accepts  that. It did act quickly  to put things 
right once errors were  discovered and that limited, to some  extent  the upset Mrs W was 
caused. But she did have  to find new cover, and I accept that caused her inconvenience that 
she wouldnt  have suffered if Avantia hadnt made the error to not renew  her cover.  Or, 
indeed, if it had told her in good time before the policy  was due to end.
I accept it was also upsetting for Mrs W to have been told in June 2018 that the agreement 
to cover her property, made in January 2018,  had been a mistake.  But again Avantia noted  
its error and acted to correct it quickly by confirming it would honour  the January agreement.
Having considered everything  I think £100  is fair and reasonable compensation. I appreciate  
this was an important  issue  for Mrs W and did take up a lot of her time. But if Mrs W chose to 
take holidays to deal with it, or stayed on the phone such  as to miss a train and allowed 
Ref: DRN51294632herself to be delayed which led to the infection  she suffered, I cant  reasonably blame 
Avantia for that and fairly require it to compensate her further (beyond the £100 Im satisfied 
is due). Those were  her choices and not something that could  reasonably be foreseen or 
expected as a result  of the failures  which occurred.
Im aware that Mrs W believes Avantias procedures need to change.  That isnt something 
I can comment on. That is the type of work  carried out by the regulator.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Avantia  Insurance Limited to pay Mrs W a total of £100 
compensation. If £50 has been paid already, it only now needs to pay a further £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5129463