K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that My Finance Club Limited gave her a loan irresponsibly.
background
This complaint relates to a payday loan of £400  given to Mrs M by My Finance Club in March  
2019. The loan was to be repaid by a single  payment after 38 days, in April 2019.
Mrs M is unhappy  that she had a number of other short term loan commitments at the time 
she was given this loan and, as a consequence, she believes it was unaffordable and should  
never have  been  provided to her.
Our adjudicator felt that My Finance  Clubs checks didnt go far enough and that better  
checks wouldve shown it was unlikely Mrs M could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
So, she proposed  upholding  the complaint.
My Finance  Club didnt  agree and so the complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
My Finance  Club needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mrs M could  repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account  a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that My 
Finance Club should  fairly  and reasonably have done more to establish  that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN52313582I think its important for me to start by saying that My Finance Club was required to establish  
whether Mrs M could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case.  This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint. Subsequent  to our adjudicators 
opinion being  shared  there have been  extensive exchanges of correspondence between  My 
Finance Club and our adjudicator - and Ive carefully reviewed these and taken into account 
the content.
Before agreeing to lend My Finance Club asked Mrs M for details of her net monthly income,  
which she stated to be £1,560. This was validated by My Finance Club through  a credit 
reference check. It also asked Mrs M about her monthly expenditure and was told that this 
amounted to £360 including  housing costs, utilities, food, transport, credit and other costs. 
The figure given  for total credit costs was £50.
My Finance  Club also undertook checks on Mrs Ms credit file; this revealed that she had 
total outstanding credit of £2,210 with combined monthly repayments due of £252. I note that 
this repayment  total was much more than the £50 per month declared by Mrs M.
The loan to Mrs M required  a single repayment of £522. I accept that My Finance Clubs  
affordability calculations  indicated that the loan was affordable  to her. But I do think  that this 
repayment represented a relatively significant  proportion of her income  and, in such 
circumstances, Id have  expected the lender to ask her for, in addition  to the information 
about her regular monthly income and expenditure, specific details of any other short  term 
loan commitments  she may have. I cant see that My Finance Club did so. It follows  that I 
dont think its checks were  proportionate  given the size of this loan relative to Mrs Ms 
income, and I dont think its checks went far enough. 
I acknowledge that My Finance Clubs credit check did show details of one other short  term 
loan. But, having  reviewed Mrs Ms own credit report and her bank  statements,  its apparent  
that My Finance Clubs  view was not a comprehensive representation of the real position. At 
the time she was given  this loan she had four other short term loans  with combined 
repayments of around £1,188 made across the following month.
Its important to recognise that, occasionally, the information a lender might see from its 
credit checks may be very different  to that seen by a customer when they request a copy of 
their own credit file. A lender might  only see a small portion of the credit file, or some data 
might be missing or anonymised, or the data might  not be up to date. So, this may explain 
the differences between the information  provided by My Finance Clubs credit check  and the 
information that can be seen in the credit reports provided to us by Mrs M.
Ref: DRN52313583My Finance  Club was aware that Mrs M had another short term loan when she applied to it 
for lending,  and it was aware that she had understated  the extent of her monthly credit 
repayments within her application. But despite  its own loan repayment constituting a 
relatively high proportion of her monthly  income, My Finance Club didnt  seek  any further 
clarification or information about  her other short term loans.
I think that had My Finance Club asked Mrs M for more information  about her short term 
loans it wouldve seen  that she was experiencing financial difficulties which meant she was 
unlikely to be able to repay  the loan sustainably, and was most likely borrowing to cover the 
gap in her finances  caused by repaying  other  loans.
For these reasons I dont  think  that My Finance Club shouldve  given this loan to Mrs M.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require My Finance Club Limited to:
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat all the payments 
Mrs M made towards  this loan as payments towards the capital;
if reworking Mrs Ms loan account  as Ive directed results  in Mrs M effectively having  
made payments  above the original  capital borrowed, then My Finance Club should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated  on the overpayments,  
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date of settlement;* 
if reworking Mrs Ms loan account  leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
I remind My Finance Club that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree 
an affordable repayment  plan for the revised outstanding balance with Mrs M;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mrs Ms credit file in relation to the loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires My Finance Club to take tax off this interest. My Finance 
Club must give Mrs M a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off, if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Richard France
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5231358