K821x#15complaint
Mr M says CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid) irresponsibly lent him payday 
loans.
background
This complaint is about seven payday  loans Quick Quid provided  to Mr M between  
September 2015 and April 2018. Mr Ms lending history is as follows:
Loan 1, 18 September  2015 for £100.  To be repaid in two instalments with the largest 
being £124. Repaid 31 December 2015.  
Loan 2, 12 February  2016 for £200.  To be repaid  in two instalments with the largest 
being £249.60. This loan was topped up once by £100 making the largest  instalment 
£374.40. Repaid 31 March 2016. 
Loan 3, 26 May 2016 for £100. To be repaid  in two instalments with the largest  being  
£123.20. Repaid 31 August 2016.  
Loan 4, 9 March 2017  for £100. To be repaid in two instalments with the largest  
being £122.40. This loan was topped up once by £100 making the largest  instalment 
£244.80. Repaid 28 April 2017.  
Loan 5, 22 May 2017 for £100. To be repaid  in two instalments with the largest  being  
£124.80. This loan was topped  up twice by £100  making  the largest instalment 
£374.40. Repaid 31 October 2017.  
Loan 6, 13 November 2017  for £100.  To be repaid in two instalments with the largest 
being £123.20. This loan was topped up once by £100 making the largest  instalment 
£246.40. Repaid 29 December 2017.  
Loan 7, 7 April 2018 for £200. To be repaid in three instalments with the largest being 
£246.40. This loan was topped  up once by £100 making the largest instalment 
£369.60. Repaid 29 June 2018.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ms complaint in part and thought loan three and the loans from 
the second top up of loan five onwards shouldnt have been  given.  Quick  Quid disagreed 
and so the complaint was passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
Ref: DRN51644362the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quick Quid was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Quick Quid said it asked  Mr M for his monthly income which  he stated was £1,500. And it 
asked Mr M for information about his expenditure and it carried out credit checks. Ive looked 
at what this means for loans one, two, four and loan five and its first top up.  
Given the loan amounts,  what  was apparent about Mr Ms circumstances at the time and his 
history with Quick Quid, I dont think it wouldve been  proportionate to ask him for the 
amount of information  needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt  anything  
in the information Mr M provided or the information Quick  Quid shouldve  been aware of, 
which meant it wouldve  been proportionate  to start verifying what  Mr M was saying. So I 
cant say Quick Quid shouldnt have approved loans one, two, four and loan five and its first 
top up.  
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids  lending  history with Mr M with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Quick Quid should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Quick Quid should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ms case,  I think that this point was reached  by loan 
three and again  by the second top up of loan five. I say this because:
Ref: DRN51644363By loan three I think the pattern of Mr Ms borrowing should have suggested that he 
was becoming dependent on short-term loans. Hed been  borrowing from Quick Quid 
for eight months  for about the same amount. So I think  the pattern of lending showed 
that this loan was unsustainable. So I think Quick Quid  was wrong to approve loan 
three. 
There was then a significant gap in Mr Ms borrowing before loan four. So I think  it 
was reasonable  for Quick Quid to think that Mr M was no longer dependent  on short-
term loans in this period. 
 
But by the second top up of loan five I think the requests for repeated top ups should 
have alerted Quick  Quid that Mr M was struggling  to repay his loans. I think there 
was a significant risk that Mr M would be unable to sustainably  meet  his repayments 
for this top up and any further loans. 
By loan six, I think the pattern of borrowing  should have again alerted Quick  Quid 
that Mr M was becoming reliant  on payday  loans. Hed requested  further borrowing 
six times in eight months. I think Quick Quid should have realised that he wasnt 
using these loans  for their intended purpose to meet short-term cash problems. So I 
think it was wrong  for Quick Quid to approve Mr Ms loans  from this point onwards. 
I think that Mr M lost out because Quick Quid continued to provide borrowing for loan three 
and from loan six onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Ms ability to access  mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan three and the loans from the second top up of 
loan five onwards  and I think  Quick Quid should put things  right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loan three,  and his loans  from the 
second top up of loan five onwards;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about the second top up of loan five from Mr Ms 
credit file;
the number  of loans taken at the time of loan three and from loan six onwards means 
any information recorded about  them is adverse. So all entries  about  loans three, six 
and seven should be removed from Mr Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN51644364my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. I require CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) to pay Mr M 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5164436