K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Yorkshire Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy in 2000  after theyd taken out a mortgage in 1993. In 
2002 an amendment  took place to increase  the level of cover.  Mr and Mrs H paid a monthly 
amount for the policy. The policy only covered Mr H.
A new PPI policy was then taken  out in 2005 with further borrowing. Mr and Mrs H also paid 
a monthly amount for this policy  and it only covered Mr H.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint because:
I think Yorkshire made Mr and Mrs H aware that he had a choice about buying  the 
PPI, and they chose  to take it. I say this for a number of reasons  including:
oMr and Mrs H took out their mortgage in 1993 without PPI. They then took PPI in 
2000. So I think they reasonably would have been aware that PPI was optional, 
separate to and not a condition of their mortgage;
oIt seems  that Mr and Mrs H contacted  Yorkshire  in 2000 to enquire about taking 
PPI;
oA separate postal PPI application form was completed to take the PPI; and
oIn 2002 Mr and Mrs H made a claim on the policy and also increased the level of 
cover  suggesting they were happy to have the insurance and were aware that 
they could make  changes to the policy
 
For the 2005 sale, I also think that the PPI policy was presented as optional  and that 
Mr and Mrs H agreed  to take it out based  on everything Ive seen.
So, on balance, I think that the PPI was presented  as optional  and Mr and Mrs H chose  
to take it out in 2000 and 2005. 
Ive noted what  Mr and Mrs H have  said about we were told by the advisers that PPI 
was a compulsory  part of these mortgages.  We did not want to take it out but we were  
not given much choice  so we continued  with the mortgage applications. We were told we 
Ref: DRN55120732needed to take out the insurance policies before we can get the mortgages. But as Ive 
already explained, the first PPI policy in 2000 was taken out after Mr and Mrs H already 
had their mortgage for approximately 7 years. So I havent found evidence to support 
what theyve said. 
Yorkshire didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs H so it didnt have  to check if it was 
right for them. But Yorkshire  did still have  to give Mr and Mrs H good enough information 
about the PPI so that they could decide  if they wanted to take it out. 
Its possible that some of the information  that Mr and Mrs H were  given wasnt as good  
as it should have been. So Ive gone on to decide whether I think  they would have made 
a different decision about the PPI if they had been  given  all the information  they should  
have or if theyve lost out as a result.
Mr and Mrs H have raised a complaint point about  Mrs Hs health circumstances 
meaning the policy wasnt right. But Mrs H wasnt  covered  by either  policy - so this point 
is irrelevant when coming to my decision. 
I think Yorkshire couldve explained the cost of the policies better than it did. But even if it 
had, I think Mr and Mrs H would still have bought them.  
Its possible Yorkshire didnt point out the main things the PPI didnt cover. But Mr H 
seems to have been eligible for the PPI and doesnt  appear to have been affected by any 
of the things not covered  under the policy. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Hs comments, including what  theyve said about  trying to 
make a claim. Ive assumed that the attempted  claim related to Mrs H, but as I've already 
said Mrs H was covered by these policies. So these  points dont change my decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 August 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5512073