K820x#14complaint
Mr G says HSBC  Bank Plc has unfairly  recorded  a credit search against his name  for an 
application he didnt  make.
background
Mr G says in January 2017  someone attempted to open a bank account with HSBC using 
his name.  As a part of this process,  HSBC did a credit check, which  has now been  recorded 
against him. But he says he didnt make  the application and thinks it was done by someone 
trying to use his details. Hed like HSBC to now remove the record  of this search from his 
credit file.
HSBC says an application was made in branch on 11 January 2017 to open  a bank account 
in Mr Gs name. In line with its usual practice  it checked the applicants identity as well as 
carrying out a credit search.  Although  the application didnt go ahead  in the end, it didnt  
agree it had made a mistake. And it said the information it had reported to the credit 
reference agencies  was correct so it wouldnt agree to remove  it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Hed seen what  Mr G had said about the 
application and that it had been  made  by someone else.  He couldnt say if that was the case  
but hed looked at how HSBC had dealt with the applications to see if it had made  a mistake.
Thered been  two applications  to open account in Mr Gs name, the first in January 2017 and 
the second in June.  And each time, HSBC had carried out a credit check as well as checking 
the applicants  identity documents. This was standard industry practice at the time so he 
didnt think HSBC was acting unreasonably. And because of this he didnt  agree HSBC  had 
made a mistake,  so he wouldnt be asking it to ask it to take any further action,
Mr G disagreed so its now been  referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres no information  on any 
particular point - or the information available  is disputed  as it is here on some  issues  Ive 
made my decision on the balance of probabilities, in other words  whats  more  likely than not 
to have happened.
Ive seen Mr G says he didnt make the application  in January 2017 and feels its unfair  
theres a credit search  recorded  against  him. Ive given this very careful  consideration but 
having reviewed  the information available, I cant see HSBC has acted unfairly as Ill now 
explain.
The appointment on the 7 January was arranged on 30 December. At the appointment the 
applicant produced two forms of identity and only when these were approved did the branch 
go on to carry out the credit search. Ive seen what Mr Gs said about the application but I 
havent seen anything to show this wasnt a genuine  application. And even if that were the 
case, I cant see that HSBC would reasonably have known this at the time. For that reason I 
dont consider HSBC  made a mistake in the way it dealt with this application or that it was 
wrong to do the credit  search at this time.
Ref: DRN51726102And having done the search,  HSBC provided  details  of it to the credit reference agencies.as 
its required to do. I know Mr Gs unhappy with this but HSBCs required to provide accurate 
information about its customers so I cant ask it remove it unless I find its made a mistake  in 
the information its recorded.  For the reasons given however I dont agree its made a 
mistake and because  of that I wont be asking it to remove the details of the search.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5172610