K821x#15complaint
Mr P is complaining that Southern Rock  Insurance Company (Southern  Rock) has held him 
responsible for an accident after a claim was made on his car insurance policy.  Hes also 
unhappy that its asking him to refund what it paid out on the claim.  
Southern Rock was represented by an agent  in the handling of the claim.  But for ease of 
reference I shall refer to any actions that the agent  did as being done by Southern Rock.
background
In July 2017 Mr P was involved in an incident  where a motorcyclist  came off his motorbike. 
Mr P says that his car didnt hit the motorbike and he says the motorcyclist came  off the bike 
on his own accord. The motorcyclist says Mr P veered into his oncoming bike and says a 
small impact caused him to come off. The police  attended the scene.
The motorcyclist claimed for the damage to the bike and for personal  injury on Mr Ps car 
insurance policy. Southern Rock arranged  for an investigator to interview Mr P. The investigator 
initially had trouble contacting Mr P. But he was eventually able to take a statement from Mr P.
Following receipt of the report, Southern Rock tried to contact Mr P a number of times  by 
telephone and letter to discuss the matter, but Mr P didnt respond.  So Southern Rock wrote 
to Mr P again saying  that if he didnt contact it by 31 August 2017  it would  have to settle  the 
motorcyclists claim on a without prejudiced basis. But it also said that Mr P was in breach of 
the terms of his contract which  required him to co-operate with its investigations. And it said 
that, as he hasnt done so, it wouldnt cover him under the policy. So it said that it would 
require Mr P to refund  what  it paid out. 
Mr P didnt respond, so Southern Rock settled the motorcyclists claim. It also chose to 
cancel Mr Ps insurance policy. Following this it wrote to Mr P again and said that he owed 
£266.82 for the outstanding premium  for his insurance policy. It also said that it had paid out 
£4,473.10 and it asked Mr P to refund this amount.
Mr P paid the £266.82, because he was concerned with the implications for not doing so. 
But he didnt  agree that he should  have to refund the £4,473.10. He maintains that he didnt 
hit the motorcyclist. He also referred to the police report  which  he says confirms there 
wasnt an incident. He also said that the police had written to him to say that it wasnt 
prosecuting him. Finally  he queried why he was being asked to pay for the claim when he 
says he had a valid insurance policy.
Southern Rock responded to say that the police report doesnt say who was at fault for the 
incident, merely whether it will prosecute  Mr P. It said the investigator who interviewed  Mr P 
had said that Mr P had refused to answer a number  of questions  particularly around  his 
insurance policy  and he said that Mr P had refused to attend court. It said the policy  terms 
set out that it can recover anything  it pays  out if Mr P refuses to help with its investigations.
Mr P disputed that he hadnt  co-operated.  He said that he had agreed to be interviewed by 
the investigator and disputes that he said he wouldnt  attend  court.  He says he was happy to 
attend court as he maintains he was only a witness to the incident as he says there  was no 
collision. He also maintains that the police report says that there wasnt a collision.
Mr P said that he doesnt speak English  well which is why he didnt return Southern  Rocks  
telephone calls. And he says he explained  this to Southern Rock at the time.
Ref: DRN52063312I issued a provisional decision in December 2019 where I upheld the complaint. And I said 
the following:
I think  there are two key issues here:
1.Was it fair for Southern Rock to settle the motorcyclists claim in full; and
2.Is it entitled  to recover money from Mr P for cancelling the policy and settling the claim?
I shall deal with both parts separately.
liability
I should first explain that this service isnt able to say whos  at fault for causing  an accident, as 
that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether Southern Rock has carried 
out a fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence  it has and come to a reasonable decision.
Mr Ps insurance policy, like all other car insurance policies, allowed Southern Rock to take 
over, defend or settle the claim. So it was entitled to settle the claim, on the best terms it 
thinks fit. And it has the ultimate and final say in how to settle a claim. But it must exercise 
this right fairly and reasonably.
Mr P is adamant that he didnt contact the motorcyclist and he says the motorcyclist lost 
control on his own accord. Hes also highlighted that the police didnt charge or fine him. He 
also said that the police report said that there  wasnt a collision.
Southern Rock said that while the police did say that it wasnt going to prosecute Mr P, it 
didnt make any comment in regard to liability. However, its claims investigator thought that 
Mr P was responsible for the accident. And Mr Ps statement says that he wasnt  willing  to 
attend court. Finally,  it said that Mr P wasnt responding to its attempts to contact him. Given 
all this, it didnt think it had enough  to defend the motorcyclists  claim.  So it settled the claim 
on a without prejudiced basis.
Ive considered Mr Ps comments, but ultimately Im satisfied that Southern Rock has taken 
everything into account. I note he disputes  that he said that he wasnt  willing to attend court. 
But I think its most likely that the statement taken from the interview  is likely to be a fair 
reflection of what Mr P would have said at the time.  So, on balance,  I think he said that he 
wasnt willing to attend court.  I also think Southern  Rocks interpretation of what  the police 
investigated was fair. And I think it was entitled to say that the fact the police didnt prosecute 
Mr P didnt mean that it didnt think he wasnt responsible for the accident.
Ultimately, I cant  say that its decision to settle the motorcyclists claim on a without prejudice 
basis was unfair.
is it fair for Southern Rock  to recover its outlay from Mr P?
Southern Rock says that it's entitled  to recover its outlay because  Mr P failed  to assist with 
its investigations. However, Southern Rock can only rely on this right if it can show it paid out 
something that it wouldn't have paid out had Mr P assisted  fully. From reviewing the claim's  
investigator's findings and also the police report,  I think it's likely  that Southern Rock was 
always going to have to settle this claim.
Ref: DRN52063313Even if there  wasn't  a collision, it seems  both the police and the investigator concluded that it 
was Mr P's actions that caused  the cyclist to come  off his bike.  So I don't  think  his actions 
will have changed the ultimate outcome of the claim.
It appears to me that Southern Rock has said that its primary concern is that Mr P refused to 
answer indemnity  questions and didn't provide  the documentation it asked for. But I haven't  
seen anything to show that it asked him to provide paperwork. Im also not persuaded that 
Mr P refused  to answer indemnity questions. I dont think the investigator's  report  makes any 
mention of this. And I think Mr Ps statement suggests that he was honest and open with his 
answers in this respect. In particular, I note the following:
He explained that he currently  didn't have a fixed abode, but he was hoping  to move  
back to the insured  address. Mr P still resides at that address, so I think he did give an 
honest and truthful response to this;
He explained that he didn't have any penalty  points on his licence, had a full UK licence 
and was the owner and registered  keeper of the vehicle;
He explained that there had been no modifications to the vehicle; and
He said he was the only user and it was used for SDP and commuting purposes and he 
explained that the car was parked on the driveway of a residential address, depending 
on where he was staying.
It seems  to me that the only question  he refused to answer is where he was intending on 
going to that night. And Southern Rock has confirmed that was the reason it said that he 
failed to answer indemnity questions. But I dont think  that this would have made  to the 
outcome, given the level of cover Mr P had. And I havent seen  anything  to suggest that 
Southern Rock wouldnt have been liable to settle the other drivers claim if Mr P had 
explained where his intended  destination  was. 
I appreciate that the investigator  and Southern  Rock  have found it difficult to contact Mr P. 
And I can appreciate  how frustrating that must have been. But Mr P has given an 
explanation for this which I don't  think was a wholly unreasonable  one  i.e. he wasn't  living 
at the postal address at the time so didn't  get the post straight away  and didn't want  to 
answer the phone  due to English not being his first language. But irrespective of this, I'm not 
persuaded that the outcome would have been  any different, even if he did engage with 
Southern Rock from the outset.
So, taking everything  I have available to me at present, I'm inclined to say that Southern 
Rock isn't able to pursue  Mr P for its outlay for the claim.
cancellation of the policy
The terms of Mr Ps entitled Southern Rock to cancel the insurance policy with giving seven 
days notice. I dont  think it was unreasonable for it to do so in these circumstances, 
especially considering  that Mr P wasnt residing at the insured address at the time. So it was 
entitled to have concerns about the level of risk it was insuring. I also think  it was entitled to 
decide that it wasnt willing to insure Mr P given its difficulties in communicating  with him 
throughout the claim process.
The terms of the policy also set out that Mr P was required to pay the full annual premium if 
Southern Rock had paid out on a claim. Given Southern Rock had fairly settled the 
motorcyclists claim it was entitled to require him to pay the full annual  premium. So I cant 
say that it was unreasonable for it to ask him to pay the amount he still owed for the policy.  
So I dont  think it needs to refund the £266.82 Mr P paid.
Ref: DRN52063314Mr P didnt respond to my provisional  decision.  Southern Rock  said they accept it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything else to think about, I see no reason  to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached  in my provisional decision. So I uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional  decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold this complaint.  And its my decision that 
Southern Rock Insurance Company isnt able to pursue Mr P for the amount that it paid out 
on the claim. But I dont  award anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Guy Mitchell 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5206331