K821x#15Complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about the advice to switch his pension plans to a Self-Invested  Personal  
Pension (SIPP) and the subsequent investment into Harlequin Properties and Robert Jones 
trading as Full Circle (Robert Jones) role in that transaction.
Background
Both Mr G and Robert Jones have  confirmed that a different adviser  was involved in the 
process that is the subject of this complaint. I will refer to this business as Firm A from here 
on in.
Mr G had two personal pension plans. One was valued at approximately  £11,300  and was 
invested in Global Select 2 EP pension fund. It had an annual fund charge of 0.13%. The 
other plan was valued at approximately £90,000 and was invested in managed  funds. The 
annual management  charges on the two elements of the plan were 0.55% and 0.75%.
Letters of authority  to gather information on the plans were sent to both providers on 
8 June 2012. These letters also appointed Robert Jones as Mr Gs Independent Financial 
Adviser (IFA)  in relation to both pensions.  The authority read:
Would you please  accept this letter as my authority to provide full details of the 
above plan(s) to [name  of adviser]. I confirm that I am receiving financial advice from
[name of adviser].
[contact details for adviser]
I accept and confirm  that the responsibility for any advice given must  remain with the 
provider and/or the original adviser(s).
Robert Jones met with Firm A and Mr G on 21 August  2012.  The SIPP application  form was 
completed and signed  on the same day. The sale was marked  as advised and Robert Jones 
was listed as the financial adviser. It was specified  that the adviser would  receive 1% of the 
fund for ongoing advice  once the property started to yield a
profit.
The intended investment was recorded as Harlequin. Harlequin Hotels  & Resorts sold 
freehold investment  properties within its luxury hotels and resorts  in the Caribbean.  The 
pension funds were  to be invested in a villa in the Gary Player  Hotel, The Marquis
Estate, St Lucia.
An application for a SIPP bank account  was also signed by Mr G on 21 August 2012, this 
named Robert  Jones  as his financial adviser.
The identification verification certificate was signed by Firm A.
On the same  day (21 August 2012) Robert Jones  on stationery of another  firm he 
represented at the time  sent the following information to the SIPP provider:
SIPP application form
SIPP bank account application form
Harlequin appropriateness test
Ref: DRN53636692Discharge  forms for ceding  schemes
ID verification form
A reservation form and contract for the Harlequin investment were  completed.  The sellers 
address for all communications in relation  to the contract was the address for Harlequin  
Travel Limited. Mr Gs signature on this document was witnessed by Firm A on 
28 August 2012   but, the contract  was dated on 10 May 2012 and printed on 29 May 2012.
The SIPP provider emailed Robert  Jones (copying in Firm A) on 22 August 2012.  It 
confirmed that the SIPP  application  had been accepted  and a request to open a SIPP  bank 
account had been made.
On 28 August 2012, the SIPP provider emailed  Robert Jones (copying in Firm A) confirming 
that the SIPP bank account had been  opened and was ready to receive funds.
Transfers of approximately £11,300 and £90,000 respectively were received in the SIPP 
from the ceding schemes in September 2012.
The following  gross  contributions were made into the plan:
£5,500 on 10 September 2012
£500 on 13 March  2013
On 11 September  2012, the SIPP provider wrote  to both Robert Jones and Firm A, to inform 
them that the funds from Mr Gs pensions had been received. It confirmed that it had 
received an additional contribution of £4,500 from Mr G, which  it treated as a personal 
contribution. It also confirmed that it had sent around £100,000 to be sent via faster  
payments to Harlequin.
The Harlequin investment was valued  at £1 as at 27 February  2014.
Mr G complained to Robert  Jones  about  the advice he received. Robert  Jones did not 
uphold the complaint.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint and concluded that the complaint  should be 
upheld, and that Robert Jones should compensate Mr G for his losses  in part but that Firm A 
was also partly responsible for the losses suffered.
What Robert Jones said:
It was introduced to Firm As adviser  as he was leaving the industry  and was looking 
for a qualified adviser to take over the servicing  for some  of his clients.
An agreement was reached whereby Firm As adviser was set up as an introducer to 
Robert Jones so that it could  provide regulated  services to certain key clients.
Servicing rights on a number of policies were  signed over to it as part of this 
arrangement  this agreement  lasted till October  2018.
After the transfer  of servicing rights  and the introductory meeting (the meeting during 
which the SIPP application form was signed) it had no further dealings  with Mr G.
It was only at the meeting for the purpose of introducing itself,  Firm A handled the 
meeting and the paperwork.
The only document that was actually prepared by it was the cover  letter  that 
accompanied the documentation sent to the SIPP provider, this was a standard  letter  
Ref: DRN53636693and was signed off on because the two pension plans had been signed  over to it by 
Firm A.
This did not raise  any concerns because it had the servicing rights, and this predated 
the regulators warning  about Harlequin investment.
All of the other documentation  was completed by Firm A and it advised Mr G, the 
complaint should be directed to it.
I sent my provisional decision to Mr G and Robert  Jones explaining why I thought the 
complaint should  be upheld.  My provisional  findings  are attached and form part of this 
decision. I invited  both parties  to make any final submissions they wished. Mr G confirmed  
he didnt have anything  to add. Robert  Jones disagreed with my decision and made further 
submissions. Ive read those submissions in their entirety, here Ive just included a brief 
summary: 
Mr G understood that all of his dealings were with Firm A.
The only reference  to Robert Jones by Mr G was in relation to the SIPP application 
form. 
The application form is in Firm As advisers handwriting, he likely listed Robert Jones  
as adviser because the servicing rights had been transferred so he couldnt  process  
the business through Firm A. 
Robert Jones had no relationship with Mr G before or after the meeting where the 
SIPP application form was signed. 
Its clear Mr G never considered  it to be his adviser. 
The letters of servicing were completed as part of its agreement with Firm As 
adviser, with the intention of meeting the clients once completed.  
The first time Robert Jones met Mr G was when  the SIPP  application was completed,  
this was purely an introductory meeting  and it wasnt in the room when the paperwork 
was completed.  
The covering  letter was sent,  in this instance,  without Robert Jones knowing. 
Letterheads had been provided  to Firm As adviser for it to arrange the transfer  of 
servicing rights to Robert Jones under their agreement. 
Robert Jones has never  received a penny  for this transaction, so it cant  reasonably 
be responsible  for 50% of any compensation. 
Robert Jones was copied into some  emails, but Firm As adviser  was the lead 
addressee, and, in hindsight,  it ought  to have questioned this.
Its telling  that this is the only complaint  about  Robert Jones in connection  with 
Harlequin but there have been multiple  complaints about  Firm A. 
There is an element of fraud here given the above. 
Because agreement  couldnt be reached, the complaint has been  passed back  to me for 
review. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
Ref: DRN53636694The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position  
and I am grateful  to them for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions  
in their entirety. 
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Robert Jones objections to my provisional  findings  focus on its responsibility for the 
activities Mr G complains about. It is clear that it strongly disagrees that it was involved in the 
advice that is the subject  of this complaint or that it should be held responsible  for this. Ive 
thought carefully  about what its said and reconsidered all the available  evidence. Having 
done so, I remain  of the view that it is fair for Robert Jones to be held partly responsible for 
the activities Mr G complains about and pay 50% of the compensation due. 
Im not persuaded that the evidence supports Robert Jones not being involved in the advice 
process. I accept that Firm A initially advised  Mr G to switch his pension  to invest  in 
Harlequin and that its adviser was his main  point of contact throughout. But Robert Jones 
was appointed adviser in respect  of the pensions switched to the SIPP  in June 2012, a 
couple of months  later it attended the meeting where all of the paperwork for the pension  
switch was completed and it was listed  as adviser on all of the paperwork. The application 
form also confirmed that the transaction was advised, and Robert Jones  would receive 1% of 
the fund for ongoing advice once the property started to yield a profit.  
Robert Jones may not have ultimately received any money from the SIPP, its likely that this 
is because the property didnt yield a profit. 
Its possible that the paperwork was completed by Firm A but Im not persuaded that this 
was done without Robert Jones knowledge and agreement.  I dont find it plausible  that a 
professional adviser  would attend  a meeting where  advice  was clearly being  given  by a 
different adviser,  in respect of pensions to which it had been  appointed adviser, and not 
question this.
All of the paperwork completed during that meeting was then submitted to the SIPP  provider, 
this appears to have  been done  by Robert  Jones. And, after this, Robert Jones received a 
number of emails from the SIPP provider. First confirming acceptance of the application, 
then that the SIPP  bank  account had been opened and, finally  that the funds from the ceding  
schemes had been received and £100,000 had been sent to Harlequin. At no stage did 
Robert Jones question this, again  in my view this points to it being fully aware of and having 
participated in the transaction. 
Based on the available evidence I think its most  likely that Robert  Jones did advise Mr G on 
the switch to the SIPP in order to invest in Harlequin and was aware of the role it was 
playing in the transaction.  
No arguments  were made in response  to my findings on the suitability of the transaction. I 
remain of the view that switching his existing  pension arrangements  to a SIPP to invest in 
Harlequin wasnt suitable for Mr G, for the reasons  set out in my provisional decision.  
Firm A was involved in the advice process before Robert Jones  but I think  if it had intervened  
and provided suitable  advice Mr G would most likely have listened to this, so it would have 
Ref: DRN53636695put a stop to the transaction. But, Ive taken  into account Firm As role in the transaction  and 
think its fair that it bear responsibility  for what happened as well. 
 
Under the circumstances  I think its fair that Robert  Jones pay 50% of any compensation due 
to Mr G as set out below.  In addition to the financial  loss suffered by Mr G, I think hes been 
caused trouble  and upset by the loss of a significant  sum from his retirement provision. 
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr G should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr G would have  invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr G's circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
What should Robert Jones do?
To compensate Mr G fairly, Robert  Jones  must:
Compare the performance of Mr G's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Robert Jones should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Robert  Jones should  pay into Mr G's pension  plan to increase its 
value by the total amount  of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Robert Jones is unable to pay the total amount into Mr G's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct  to him. But had it been  possible  to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided  a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr G's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age, this is likely to be basic rate. 
For example, if Mr G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr G would 
have been able to take a tax-free  lump sum,  the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr G £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused  by the loss of a 
significant amount  of his personal  pension  provision.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Robert  Jones deducts  income  tax from 
the interest it should tell Mr G how much has been  taken off. Robert  Jones should give Mr G 
Ref: DRN53636696a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
The monies 
transferred  
into the 
SIPPstill existsfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Robert Jones should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment  by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Robert Jones is unable to purchase  the investment,  the actual value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purpose  of calculation. Robert  Jones  may require that Mr G provides an 
undertaking to pay Robert Jones 50% of any amount he may receive from the investment in 
the future.  That undertaking must  allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. Robert Jones will need to meet any costs  in 
drawing up the undertaking.
Robert Jones is paying only 50% of the compensation. The other  half is due to be paid by 
Firm A. Because of this, it may be difficult to share the purchase of the investment or an 
undertaking. It is highly  unlikely  that Mr G will receive any benefits from the investment given 
the state of Harlequin. Under the circumstances, I think a reasonable alternative would be to 
just give the investment a nil value for the purpose  of the calculation  and forego the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Robert  Jones 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year  fixed-rate bonds  as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month  is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
Ref: DRN53636697from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Robert Jones totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. I think  this would 
have been a suitable level of risk for Mr G. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr G's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr G into that position.  It does not mean that Mr G would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some  kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr G could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and 
risk attitude.
SIPP fees
If Mr G is unable to close  his SIPP once  compensation has been paid (which  is possible
due to the ongoing uncertainty with Harlequin), Robert Jones should  pay an amount into the 
SIPP equivalent to 50% of five years worth of the fees (based on the most recent years 
fees) that will be payable on the SIPP.  I say this because Mr G would  not be in the SIPP  but 
for Robert  Jones unsuitable advice. So, it would not be fair for him to have to pay fees to 
keep it open. And I am satisfied five years  will allow sufficient time for things to be sorted out 
with Harlequin, and the SIPP to be closed.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My final decision is that Robert Jones should pay 50% of the
amount calculated as set out above excluding the payment  for distress and inconvenience
which it should pay in full.
Robert Jones should provide details of its calculation  to Mr G in a clear,  simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 August 2021.
Nicola Curnow 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN53636698MY PROVISIONAL  FINDINGS
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I have taken into account relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice;  and what I consider to have been good industry  
practice at the time.
The parties  to this complaint have provided  detailed submissions to support their position and I am 
grateful to them for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions  in their entirety. 
However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on what  I consider to be the 
central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every point raised in 
detail, but to set out my findings, on what I consider to be the main points, and reasons for reaching 
them.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most  likely to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence  and the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN53636699What was Robert  Jones trading as Full Circles  role in the transaction?
Robert Jones  was appointed as adviser  on the pension  plans that were  switched to the SIPP  and 
invested in Harlequin. He attended the meeting during  which the SIPP application  form was 
completed, this listed Harlequin  as the intended investment and Robert  Jones as the adviser  in 
relation to the transaction, it also confirmed  that the sale was advised. After this, Robert  Jones sent 
the paperwork to facilitate  the SIPP application and subsequent investment to the SIPP provider  
along with a cover letter.
Robert Jones  says that it had nothing to do with the advice process, that it was simply
appointed as adviser on the pensions under agreement with Firm As adviser to take over
some of his clients as he was planning on leaving the industry. And he only attended the meeting in 
August 2012  to introduce himself to Mr G. 
I do not think  that the evidence points to Robert Jones being  so far removed from the process or 
unaware to what was happening. I think it is most likely that he was party to the transaction  
complained about and agreed to be the adviser  in relation to the ceding  pensions  and the switch  to 
the SIPP  in full awareness of his role in relation  to this. Based on Mr Gs submissions  I think he did 
view Firm A as his adviser but, taking  everything into account, I think Robert  Jones did recommend 
the SIPP  along with Firm A  and, it took responsibility  for that advice.
Robert Jones  would have been aware  that he was appointed  as adviser  in relation to Mr Gs 
pensions. I think it is very unlikely that he would not have been aware  that the meeting  in August 2012 
was about switching the pensions   on which he had been  appointed adviser  to a SIPP to invest in 
Harlequin. Also,  seeing as it was Robert Jones who sent the switch paperwork to the SIPP provider, I 
think he most likely knew that he was listed as the adviser on the SIPP application  form and that that 
transaction was recorded  as having been  advised.
After the SIPP was set up the provider  continued to write to Robert  Jones  about the SIPP  including 
providing annual statements.  If Robert Jones was not aware that he was registered as adviser in 
relation to the SIPP, I would have expected him to question this.
Taking everything into account, I think it is most likely that Robert Jones was aware  of what was 
happening and of the role he was playing in the transaction   and I think it is just for it to bear 
responsibility for the part it played.
Suitability of the advice
Robert Jones  was required to follow  the relevant rules  set out by the regulator. All of this needs to be 
considered through  the lens, so to speak, of the overarching principles  for businesses  in particular, 
principles 1 (integrity), 2 (due skill, care and diligence), 6 (customers interests)  and 9 (reasonable 
care).
The Conduct  of Business  Sourcebook (COBS) 9.2.1  required Robert  Jones to gather the necessary 
information about Mr Gs knowledge and experience relevant to the specific type of designated 
investment, his financial  situation and investment objectives. This was to enable it to make a 
recommendation which  was suitable for Mr G.
COBS 9.2.2 required  Robert  Jones to gather enough information to ensure that the recommendation 
met Mr Gs objectives, that he could bear the risks involved  and had sufficient knowledge and 
experience to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
So, amongst other things,  to fulfil its duties Robert  Jones had to know its client, act in his best 
interests and give suitable advice.
Given the information  available, it is not clear that Robert Jones  did enough  to know its client in this 
instance. I think it knew his basic circumstances,  but I am not persuaded  that it did enough to 
Ref: DRN536366910establish that he could bear the risks involved or that he had sufficient knowledge and experience  to 
understand the risks involved.
Robert Jones  ought to have considered the suitability  of the switches to the SIPP and the intended  
investments when giving advice to Mr G.
This view is reflected by an alert issued  by the FCA in 2013 called  Advising on pension transfers with 
a view to investing pension monies into unregulated products through a SIPP.
This said, amongst other things, that:
The financial adviser does not give advice on the unregulated investment, and says it is 
only providing  advice on a SIPP  capable  of holding  the unregulated investment. Sometimes  
the regulated  financial adviser  also assists  the customer  to unlock monies held in other 
investments (e.g. other pension  arrangements) so that the customer  is able to invest in the 
unregulated investment.
Financial advisers using  this advice model  are under the mistaken impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest  in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.
It should be particularly clear to financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a 
pension transfer in implementing  a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension 
transfer must take account of the overall investment  strategy the customer is contemplating.
I acknowledge that this alert came after Robert Joness  recommendation to Mr G, but I dont
think this means that it is not relevant  to this complaint. I say this because the alert was a
reminder of existing  obligations under  the COBS  rules   it did not introduce a new set of
obligations.
At the time of the advice, Mr G was 58 years old and was employed. Mr G held other investments  and 
an occupational pension scheme. However, no details of the investments had been provided nor do 
they appear to have  been  considered at that time. Mr G provided details of his ceding  schemes  as at 
21 August 2012. One pension  was invested in managed funds with annual management charges of 
0.55% and 0.75%  respectively. The other pension plan was invested in a global equities fund with a 
fund charge of 0.13%.
The purpose  of Mr Gs pension was to provide him with an income in retirement. At the time of the 
advice Mr G was around 58 years old and, based on his submissions, he was planning on retiring 
within two years. I have not seen any evidence that Mr G was a high-risk or experienced investor  or 
that he could afford to risk losing a significant amount of his personal pension provision. I do not think 
he sought advice looking  to invest in high-risk esoteric investments. And I do not think such 
investments were suitable  for Mr G, at that time it would  have been suitable  to reduce the risk and 
volatility his personal pensions were exposed to not increase it.
I think  mainstream low-cost  cautious to medium  risk managed funds  would have been suitable for Mr 
G. A suitable option would most likely have been available via his then existing pensions  and that is 
what Robert Jones ought to have  recommended to Mr G.
Alternatively, Mr G could  have  switched  to a low-cost  alternative such  as a stakeholder.
It has not been suggested that Mr G was an insistent client or that he was otherwise likely to 
disregard suitable advice   but, for the sake of completeness, I have considered what would have 
happened had suitable  advice been given. I think Mr G was a retail client and most likely reliant  on 
Robert Joness advice,  I am not persuaded he was likely to ignore suitable advice from his financial 
adviser.
Ref: DRN536366911The involvement of other parties
I set out above the role I have found Robert Jones most likely played in the transaction. Given the 
involvement of other parties  I have thought about the extent to which  it is reasonable  for Robert  Jones 
to compensate Mr G for his losses.
Firm A was involved before  Robert  Jones and appears to have given  Mr G advice in relation  to his 
pension. The absence of a lot of the documentation that would normally be produced during  an advice 
process makes it difficult to establish exactly what happened, what was said, and which business 
undertook which activities. On balance  I have  found  that Robert Jones  knew what was happening  and 
understood the role he was playing in Mr G switching his pension to a SIPP to invest in Harlequin.
The sequence indicates  that Robert Jones became involved in the advice process  in relation to the 
switch to the SIPP. I think  it is most likely that Robert Jones  was involved in advising Mr G. I am 
satisfied that Robert  Jones  did know he was registered as the adviser on Mr Gs ceding schemes and 
on the SIPP application form (which confirmed the transaction  was advised)  and, that he knew Mr G 
was switching pensions to invest in Harlequin. If Robert Jones was not as involved as I think it likely  
was, it is not clear why it would agree to be appointed  and, in any case, it would not have been fair 
and reasonable for it to proceed on
that basis. If Robert Jones was appointed as adviser  in relation  to the transaction, he ought 
reasonably to have ensured that the advice was suitable.
I have found that the advice was not suitable, and I think that if Robert  Jones had intervened
and provided suitable  advice Mr G would  not have  ended up with a SIPP invested in Harlequin. That 
said, in the circumstances, I am mindful  of the role played by Firm A and I think it is important to take 
this into account in deciding  the compensation that Robert Jones should pay. If Firm A had given 
suitable advice, then Mr G would not have switched  to a SIPP and would not have  become a client of 
Robert Jones.  I think they share responsibility  for Mr G switching  his pension to a SIPP  and in turn 
investing in Harlequin because they were both in a position to give Mr G suitable advice and put a 
stop to the transaction. So, I think it is reasonable  for it to compensate Mr G for 50% of his losses as 
established below.
Ref: DRN5363669