K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr C says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Santander hasnt  got copies of all the paperwork that was completed at the time of the 
mortgage. This isnt unusual and its understandable in view of the time that has gone by 
since the sale took place. But where  there  is limited  information, I will make my decision 
based on whats more  likely to have happened, taking  into account  the evidence available,  
what  both parties have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Santander has shown  us examples of what it says are the type of forms that wouldve been 
completed at the time. I think its likely Mr C wouldve seen the same  or similar forms at the 
time.
I can see the forms show Mr C wouldve been given a choice about  whether to tale the PPI 
and the level of cover he required. Ive also seen copies of documents and letters addressed  
to Mr C that confirmed the cover  that had been  put in place. And I note the policy  remained 
in place for some time until 2008.  If it was something  that had not been discussed or that    
Mr C didnt want, Id expect him to have questioned the premiums at an early stage. But Ive 
not seen any evidence that he did so.
All this makes me think that Mr C was made aware  the PPI was optional.  I think  Mr C chose 
to take the PPI knowing he didnt have to  although I can understand why he cant  
remember this after so long.
I am aware  Mr Cs main  complaint is that he feels the PPI wasnt right for him as he didnt 
need it, and Ive thought  about this. Santander  recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to 
check that the PPI was right for him and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time,  I think that it was. 
For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
I say this as Mr C has told us his employer didnt have a formal sick pay scheme. Hes said 
he had time off on occasions  and was paid. But the PPI sold by Santander couldve paid a 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months if Mr C was too unwell to work. And I think it is unlikely 
Mr Cs employer would have paid him full pay for that long. The PPI would also have paid a 
benefit for up to 12 months if Mr C lost his job.
Mr C has told us he had life cover  policies but these  provided a different type of cover  to the 
PPI.
Ref: DRN58741482Family and friends may have wanted to help Mr C if he fell into difficulty but that type of help 
isnt guaranteed. And it may be they might  not have been in a position to help when Mr C 
needed help most.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for him if something went wrong.  It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Santander didnt tell Mr C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said - including  what theyve said about  having an 
accident and breaking his wrist before he took out the policy.  But I dont think that would  
have necessarily made the policy unsuitable  or stopped him making  a claim if he needed to. 
And I note Mr C was a first time buyer,  taking out the mortgage in his sole name and was 
solely responsible  for making the repayments so I think hed have valued the extra  security  
the policy gave  him.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr C any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should  also pay back to Mr C any extra interest he 
paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr C the extra he paid each month  because  the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should also pay     
Mr C 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C can claim back  the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Ref: DRN58741483Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5874148