K821x#15complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service he received from American Express Services  Europe 
Limited when discussing  his credit card accounts.
background
In light of Mr Cs personal circumstances, which included ill health, American Expresss  
specialist support department was reviewing his credit  card accounts to see what help it 
could offer.
American Express was looking at the possibility of shelving the balances on Mr Cs credit  
card accounts. In effect, shelving means  that American Express wont seek to recover  any 
money owed. While the debt isnt actually written off, it wont need to be repaid.  
As part of that process, Mr C sent American  Express some documentation  to evidence  his 
medical conditions  and that he was unable to work. He called on 21 January 2019 to follow  
up on the information hed sent in. And its the two calls that took place that day that 
prompted this complaint.
Mr C is particularly unhappy  that on the second  call he made that day, the adviser he was 
speaking with hung up on him. And more generally,  he says the advisers didnt take his 
condition seriously  and werent  helpful.
When Mr C raised  his complaint with American  Express the following day, he explained that 
hed been left feeling very vulnerable. And in turn, that had led to him taking drugs  and 
drinking alcohol.
In responding  to the complaint, American Express  apologised for the way in which the two 
calls were handled. It said the first adviser shouldve been  more understanding and the 
second shouldnt  have disconnected  the call. And it sent Mr C £75 in recognition of this.
On 23 January, American Express wrote to Mr C to confirm that it would shelve the account  
balances in light of his circumstances.
Mr C didnt accept American Expresss response and brought  his complaint to us. When  our 
investigator looked into things, she agreed  that American Express needed  to do more  to put 
things right. She recommended it pay Mr C an additional £700 in compensation to reflect the 
severity of the impact  this matter had on him. 
American Express accepted our investigators  view, but Mr C didnt think the compensation 
went far enough. So he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, and it 
was passed to me to decide.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Cs complaint  earlier  this month,  setting out why I 
thought American  Express should pay an additional £725 compensation (and so £1,500 in 
total). I said:
Ref: DRN56391432Its clear that there were significant  shortcomings  in the service that American Express 
provided Mr C with when  he called on 21 January. Hanging up the phone   without 
warning  might only be deemed acceptable  in the rarest of situations.  It would be 
upsetting to most people, regardless of their circumstances. 
Here, Mr C was speaking  with a specialist support department due to the nature of his 
personal circumstances  of which American Express was aware. It follows  therefore 
that he might  need  and would be entitled to expect  a higher level of care and 
understanding from the staff he spoke with. Plainly, he didnt  get that. Im pleased to 
note that American  Express accepts  that, and that it apologised for what happened. So 
the issue left for me to decide is how to fairly compensate Mr C for the impact the 
matter had on him.
A significant factor here is that American Express knew  prior to the calls in question  
 that Mr C was in an extremely vulnerable state. I dont think  its necessary or 
appropriate for me to go into the full details of that here and I dont wish to cause Mr C 
any more distress by going over the past any more than is necessary.  But do I think  its 
important to note that back  in December 2018, Mr C disclosed to American Express  
the extent of his mental health  condition,  to the point  of feeling suicidal, along  with 
details of his other  health issues and his personal  and financial  circumstances.  And the 
adviser reviewed the medical evidence Mr C had sent in during the call in question, so 
theres no doubt that she was aware of his condition and likely state of mind when 
speaking with him.
It was incumbent on American Express to treat Mr C fairly in light of his vulnerability. 
Clearly, abruptly terminating  a call wasnt fair. And given  what  it knew about Mr Cs 
situation, it ought to have  been foreseeable that such action could have a significant  
impact on him. It follows that I think  American  Express should accept responsibility for 
the consequences of its actions.
From what  Mr C has told us, I understand those  consequences amounted to him 
turning to a combination of drugs and alcohol that night  if not with the intention  to 
take his own life, then at least with a disregard for the consequences.  He was clearly in 
a state of distress. And hes described  to us how this made him feel especially  
vulnerable. Hed told American Express about all the things that had happened to him 
 and with everything  that he was dealing with, he needed to trust that theyd help him 
work out a solution. He was worried about being  made bankrupt,  about being pursued 
for thousands of pounds  that he didnt have.  And when he was hung up on, that trust 
was shattered.
I can see how this wouldve triggered significant  anxiety on Mr Cs part. Conversations  
prior to this call had been about the possibility of shelving the debt  alleviating some 
of the stress that Mr C was dealing with. But having  genuinely believed  hed submitted 
all he could, he was told what hed sent in wasnt enough  and on seeking to 
challenge that, he was hung  up on. While I dont think American Express  was 
necessarily wrong in asking Mr C for additional  medical evidence  (which Ill go on to 
explain later), I think its easy to see how Mr C couldve feared  the worst here  in that 
the debt wasnt  going to be shelved  after all and conversations about doing so had 
been brought to an abrupt  end.
Ref: DRN56391433While the incident  itself was short, it clearly had severe and far-reaching  
consequences. And they didnt end the next day, as I understand that Mr C continued  
to deal with issues  relating  to the drugs and alcohol in the weeks and months that 
followed. This incident led to a loss of control,  for which it took him some time and 
resolve to recover from. More immediately, Mr C also missed a doctors  appointment 
the following  day which evidently caused  him some further anxiety.
I appreciate that American Express has taken some steps to try to put things right. But 
the £75 it initially  sent to Mr C falls substantially  short of fair compensation here.  I dont 
think it did enough to understand the impact  of what had happened on Mr C at that 
time. It later accepted our investigators  recommendation to significantly increase the 
amount to £775.
But I think a higher award is warranted  here, given everything that happened.  Its worth 
highlighting that our rules  allow us to award  compensation for pain and suffering in 
addition to distress and inconvenience.  So Ive taken the impact on Mr Cs physical 
and mental health  into account, which to me seems likely to have  gone  beyond upset 
or distress.
So based  on what Ive seen so far and subject to any further information I receive from 
either party, Im currently minded to direct American Express to increase the 
compensation to £1,500. As its already paid £775  to Mr C, this means  it would need  to 
pay him a further  £725.
Over the course of the complaint Mr C has also pointed to a number  of other concerns 
with how American Express was dealing with the possible shelving of the balances.  
But I dont think there was anything unreasonable in what American Express said to Mr 
C during the calls. I know Mr C was particularly frustrated that American Express said 
it would  need  to see more in the way of medical evidence from a doctor.  But I dont 
think that was an unreasonable  request or that its out of line with common industry 
practice. 
I understand that Mr C would also like American  Express to be required to pay such an 
amount as to deter it from putting  anyone else through what hes been through  and I 
appreciate his sentiments here.  But the awards  we make arent penalties  or 
punishments. All I can look to do is compensate  Mr C for the trouble, upset and harm 
that this issue has caused him and for the reasons set out above I think  £1,500 is fair. 
I would, though, add that Id expect American Express to learn from what happened 
and take steps  to prevent  it happening  again.  In that respect, Im pleased to note 
American Express has given feedback  with a view to preventing  this in the future, and I 
think thats all our service could fairly require of it here. 
American Express accepted my provisional decision.
Mr C told us initially that he didnt  think £1,500  was sufficient  compensation. He explained 
that he was trying to rebuild his life and thought American Express should pay him an 
amount that could  help him with this. But he subsequently let us know that he would like to 
accept the additional amount Id proposed  while reserving the right to take further action 
through other avenues.  
Ref: DRN56391434my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although both parties have now accepted my provisional decision,  Ive still reflected on how 
best to put things right in light of our further  dialogue with Mr C about this matter and the 
impact it had on him. I can appreciate why Mr C would want  American Express to pay more 
to help him rebuild  his life. But I can only award  compensation  for what Mr C suffered as a 
result of what American Express did wrong.  And although I do think that its actions had a 
severe impact on him as I detailed in my provisional decision, I dont think they led or 
significantly contributed  to the situation he finds himself in now. 
So having  taken everything into account,  I still think that £1,500 is fair compensation for the 
pain and distress American Express caused  Mr C. As its already paid him £775, it will need 
to pay him a further  £725.
American Express will only be required to pay Mr C the additional compensation if he 
accepts my decision. I note from his conversation  with our investigator  that while he intends  
to accept the decision, he may then seek to take further action about this matter elsewhere. 
We cant give Mr C advice as to whether accepting our decision would have any bearing  on 
his rights in this respect. So he may wish to seek independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept  or reject this decision.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint  and require American  Express Services Europe Limited to pay him 
an additional  £725 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5639143