K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about their home  insurer AXA Insurance  UK Plc because 
when they made a claim for a lost mobile  phone  it avoided their policy (treated it as though it 
had never  existed)  and, by association, declined the claim.
 
background
In September  2014, during a storm, there was a flood at Mr and Mrs Cs home. 
Mr and Mrs C made  a claim to their insurer at the time and a loss adjuster was appointed. 
But the claim didnt  progress any further  and no settlement was made by the insurer.
In June 2016 Mr and Mrs C decided to change their insurer and arranged cover with AXA,  
via a price comparison  website. They say they recall answering questions  about how far 
their home was from water  and telling AXA it was in an area that wasnt  prone to flooding. 
In October  2018 Mr and Mrs C made a claim for a lost mobile phone. During  that claim 
Mr and Mrs C told AXA about the incident  in 2014. AXA noted it hadnt been told of the 2014 
incident and claim  when the policy had been  agreed  in 2016. It said Mr and Mrs C would 
have been asked by the price comparison website if theyd had a flood  claim,  and for details 
of any previous incidents or claims.  AXA said Mr and Mrs C hadnt answered questions  
asked of them correctly,  and if they had it wouldnt have  offered cover.  It, therefore avoided  
the policy and, in so doing, declined the claim.
Mr and Mrs C complained  to this service. They said the questions theyd been asked when 
arranging cover hadnt been  particularly  clear and AXA couldnt now show  what those 
questions actually were.  Mr and Mrs C said that the incident in 2014  had never  been  a claim 
as it had been agreed with the loss adjuster  that there was insufficient damage  to warrant 
that. And the incident had resulted from a storm,  so it wasnt  really a flood and their property 
didnt present any greater risk of flood now than before. They  felt AXAs  view that the 
property was an unacceptable risk to it was harsh  and unfair as other insurers would  offer 
cover to them.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He explained that legislation (the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012  CIDRA) required Mr and Mrs C to 
take reasonable care when answering questions asked by an insurer. And if they didnt and 
the insurer was misled into providing  cover it otherwise wouldnt have done, the insurer  
could re-set the clock  by avoiding the cover. Our investigator didnt think  Mr and Mrs C had 
taken reasonable  care and, therefore,  viewed  AXAs  avoidance as fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs C said they understood why the investigator had reached his findings. But stated 
that they felt the impact the avoidance  was having had created a harsh outcome for them. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for any upset this causes Mr and Mrs C, Im not minded to move  away from the 
findings issued  by our investigator.  I fully understand that the impact the avoidance is having 
Ref: DRN55880212is harsh  but that is why legislation exists  which clearly  sets out the insurers and the 
policyholders obligations and rights  in respect  of arranging  and renewing  insurance.
It also doesnt matter  whether what AXA sees as an acceptable risk is different to, or the 
same as, that perceived by other insurers. In that respect it isnt unusual  for different insurers  
to view risk differently and each  usually has a set of criteria that it follows  at inception  and 
renewal to determine whether cover in certain situations that are key to it, will be offered. 
Just because one insurer wont  offer cover in a situation where  another, or most others 
would, doesnt  mean  that first insurer is being unfair.  Rather theyve  assessed  the market  
and made  a business decision  about  which risks they want  to take on and which  they dont. 
Thats a matter of commercial judgement and not something wed interfere with.
So, whilst it may be the case that many  insurers wouldnt have turned down Mr and Mrs Cs 
application for cover even  if theyd disclosed the 2014 incident, what matters is whether AXA 
can show that it would have done. Ive seen AXAs criteria for cover for the policy type 
Mr and Mrs C had; Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have been offered that policy  if 
theyd told AXA about the 2014 incident.  
The only other issue for me to consider then is whether AXA was caused to offer the policy  it 
did because of a failure by Mr and Mrs C to take reasonable care when making their 
application. The statement of fact AXA issued to Mr and Mrs C set out the basis  upon  which  
the policy had been offered. The question asked on the comparison website isnt available  
so the statement of fact is the best contemporaneous evidence available  about what was 
asked and what information was gathered during that application process. The statement of 
fact document  shows that Mr and Mrs C were likely asked  to disclose previous incidents, 
claims (my emphasis) and losses; it shows that nothing  was disclosed.
Mr and Mrs C have said they didnt  fully check the statement of fact as theyd completed 
everything on line. But theyve also said that when they completed the on-line data they 
answered questions  asked from the point  of view of them not having  made  a claim. I think  in 
answering questions  this way they failed to take reasonable care. I say that because it 
seems to me that a fair consideration of the 2014  incident can only reasonably  result  in a 
conclusion that a claim was made. That claim may have been withdrawn or not pursued, but 
it was made.  If it hadnt been the insurer wouldnt have appointed a loss adjuster. 
I know the avoidance is making finding insurance, and affordable cover at that, difficult for 
Mr and Mrs C. But AXA has treated  them as it would any policyholder in this type of 
situation. It is accepted  that Mr and Mrs C didnt set out to mislead AXA and that they just 
made a careless  mistake. AXA, for its part, hasnt sought to suggest Mr and Mrs C acted 
deliberately to mislead it and it has returned  their premium (which it wouldnt have if it wasnt  
satisfied a genuine mistake had occurred). Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs C the relevant 
legislation, given the pursuant circumstances, does allow AXA to avoid their cover 
regardless of the act being only a careless  one rather than anything deliberate.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against AXA Insurance  UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 March 2020.
Fiona Robinson
Ref: DRN55880213ombudsman
Ref: DRN5588021