K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with how Lloyds Bank PLC has managed  an account they held 
with them  for many  years. In particular they are concerned with why they werent given 
notice of the account closure, what reason Lloyds had for closing the account, and also why 
Lloyds didnt allow them  to use the 7 day switcher  service. 
background
An investigator has already considered this case. He wasnt  prepared to uphold the 
complaint and felt overall the actions  taken by Lloyds had been reasonable. 
Unhappy with this outcome,  Mr and Mrs C have asked that this complaint now be referred to 
an ombudsman for consideration.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im afraid  Im also not able to uphold this 
complaint for reasons  in line with those already expressed by the investigator.  
Based on the evidence  Ive seen I do think Lloyds gave sufficient written notice prior to the 
account in question being closed. I note Mr and Mrs C say they did not get this written 
notice. But overall  Im satisfied this was sent by Lloyds.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C want to know why their account was closed. Unfortunately Lloyds 
is not required to give a specific reason. This does  appear to have been a commercial 
decision they have  made, in line with their terms and conditions for the account. And this 
service would not interfere with such  a commercial decision. 
Mr and Mrs C have said that the fact they couldnt  facilitate a seamless  transfer to another 
bank was extremely unhelpful and unprofessional  on the part of Lloyds. As the investigator 
has already explained, the account  in question  had been earmarked for closure  on a 
particular date. In order to use the industry wide switcher service, the account would need to 
be open for 7 working days. Given the date that Lloyds  sent written  notice  of the account 
closure, I dont think its unreasonable that they werent prepared to keep  the account open  
for any longer.  
In light of the above I wont be asking  Lloyds to do anything further in respect of this 
complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 December  2019.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN56431662
Ref: DRN5643166