K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
Its been agreed in this case  that St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews), as the insurer,  
should accept  responsibility for the complaint.
Mrs L has been represented throughout her complaint.
background
In April 2004, Mrs L took out a credit card by completing an application form. A couple  of 
months later, PPI was added to her account  following  a phone call. 
The policy cost £0.78 per £100  that Mrs L owed on her credit card. It protected her if she 
couldnt work because of an accident or sickness or if she lost her job. In the event of a 
successful claim  it would have paid out 10% of the outstanding balance  on her credit  card for 
up to 12 months. The policy also included life cover and critical illness  cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed. 
As Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me for 
a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mrs L completed a credit  card application form in April 2004. St Andrews has provided  a 
copy of this and I can see PPI wasnt selected  at this time. St Andrews says it was added 
during a phone  call in July 2004. 
St Andrews  hasnt been able to provide a call recording or a copy of the call script  used at 
the time.  But that is understandable as it was such a long time ago. So I dont know what it 
may have  said to Mrs L when the policy was sold. But based on what  this service  knows  
about St Andrews sales process around this time,  and PPI wasnt  originally taken out when  
Mrs L completed the credit card application,  I think there was most likely a conversation  
about PPI and Mrs L would have been  aware  that the policy  was optional and it was added  
with her consent. 
St Andrews  says that it recommended the PPI to Mrs L. So it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  it was. 
For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Ref: DRN57971292Mrs L has told us she received good  employee  benefits from her employer if she was unable 
to work because of an accident or sickness, so didnt need the PPI. 
In the event of a successful claim because of an accident or sickness  or if Mrs L lost her job,  
the PPI would have paid 10% of the outstanding balance on her credit card for up to 12 
months. And it would  have paid out over and above  any sick pay Mrs L received. This could  
have been a useful benefit  at whats likely to have been a difficult  time if Mrs L needed to 
claim as she might  have had extra costs if she was ill or disabled. So I think Mrs L would 
have found the PPI useful  at that time.  
I appreciate that Mrs L says her family could have helped if needed. But their circumstances 
could have changed and they might not have  been  able to help when  needed. Insurance  is 
there to protect against the unforeseen. Having the insurance provided the security that 
Mrs L could have her card repayments  met without having to rely on family support. 
Its possible the information St Andrews gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for her if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. 
All things  considered, and based on the available information I have regarding the sale, the 
PPI policy  and Mrs Ls circumstances,  I dont think this PPI policy  was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5797129