K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2009 during  
a meeting to protect a loan.  Mr C says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Mr C aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before 
adding it to his loan. Mr C has told us that the PPI was added  to his loan without his 
knowledge or consent. I cant  be certain what was said when Mr C applied for his loan and 
PPI, but Lloyds has sent us a copy of the available paperwork. Mr Cs loan application had a 
separate section  for PPI that Mr C signed  separately  to agreeing with the loan itself. With 
this in mind I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he may not remember  this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr C about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said, but these points dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN56400612Lloyds has to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr C any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr C the extra he paid each month  because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr C 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5640061