K820x#14Complaint
Miss Ts complaint is about the level of commission received by Grattan Plc (Grattan) on 
her payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy that was attached to a catalogue  account.  
She took out the PPI in June 2004.
Background
Grattan says it looked at Miss Ts catalogue  card account to determine  whether it was going 
to offer any compensation for the level of commission  and profit  share it received. It said that 
as Miss T hadnt paid any premiums after 6 April 2007 it didnt have to pay her any 
compensation.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. First they said they couldnt look at whether the 
PPI was mis-sold because unfortunately the sale falls outside our jurisdiction. They then 
explained that we can only look at whether Grattan treated Miss T unfairly about commission 
from 6 April 2007 and as it didnt look like Miss T had paid any PPI premiums after 
6 April 2007, they didnt think Grattan had to refund any of the commission Miss T paid.
Miss T didnt agree with what the adjudicator  said. She says she still considers the policy  
was mis-sold. She also considers that she is entitled  to a refund of any commission she paid 
as part of her premiums, regardless of when they were paid.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved it has been  passed to me for a final decision.
To be clear, given my findings, I will not be looking at the question  of whether Miss T was 
mis-sold her PPI policy. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
Why 6 April 2007 is an important date
First I should point  out that having  carefully considered all of the evidence from Miss T and 
Grattan Plc, Im satisfied  that we dont have  power  to consider this mis-sale complaint 
because it is outside our jurisdiction. Ill explain why.
We can only look into complaints where we have the power to. The rules  we follow (set out 
in FCA handbook)  give a list of activities that we can look at complaints about.
Before the 6 April 2007, we couldnt look at complaints about some  consumer  credit  
activities, including complaints about  store cards. On 6 April 2007  our powers were extended 
and complaints about store cards, like Miss Ts, became something we could look at. But 
only about things  that happened  on, or after 6 April 2007.
Put simply, this means I dont have the power, in this case,  to look at what  happened  before 
6 April 2007. I can only look at what happened  from 6 April 2007 onwards. 
Ref: DRN58271232So Miss Ts mis-sale complaint against  Grattan Plc is outside of our jurisdiction which  means 
we have no power to consider it. 
what does this mean for Miss T?
This means  that I can only look at whether Grattan treated Miss T unfairly in relation to the 
commission and profit share it received  on any premiums Miss T paid after 6 April 2007  
and not before.
Grattan has said that Miss T wasnt charged any premiums after this date. So it doesnt need  
to refund anything. As Miss T didnt pay anything  for the PPI, there is nothing for it to 
consider giving back.  
Grattan has provided  a transaction summary  of Miss Ts store  card account. It shows  that 
while Miss Ts store card was still active as of January 2006, she didnt  pay any premiums  
for her PPI from this date onwards until the card was closed in 2012.
Having considered the evidence provided by both Miss T and Grattan, I think  its unlikely 
Miss T paid any PPI premiums  after 6 April 2007. That means  I cant tell Grattan to pay   
Miss T back any of the commission  or profit share she paid for the PPI sold with her store  
card.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5827123