K820x#14complaint
Ms D complained about Zenith Insurance Plcs valuation of her car following her claim on her 
motor insurance policy.  
 
background
Ms Ds car was damaged in an accident and Zenith decided it was uneconomical to repair.  
They offered  her £10,756 for the market value of her car, less her policy excess  of £150. 
Ms D felt this was too low as she couldnt find an equivalent replacement car for that 
amount. She also complained that shed had to pay the policy excess,  that Zenith didnt give 
her a courtesy car, and that their staff member  had hung up on her.
The investigator who investigated Ms Ds complaint didnt recommend that it should be 
upheld. She thought that Zenith hadnt  acted unreasonably.  Ms D was not satisfied and so 
her case  has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under her policy, Zenith have to pay Ms D her cars  market value. Her policy  says on page 
12 that market value is The cost of replacing the car with another of the same make, 
specification, model,  age, mileage and condition as the car immediately before the loss or 
damage happened. 
The investigator explained to Ms D about our approach regarding complaints about  car 
valuations. We dont  decide what the market  value of a car is; we merely  consider whether 
or not the insurer  has reached a fair and reasonable amount having  regard to the valuations 
in the trade  guides.
Ms D felt that Zenith  hadnt offered her enough for her car, which  she said was in excellent 
condition with a full service history. She said that having looked online and visited  a car 
dealership, an equivalent  car to hers cost around  £12,000. However I think  that the amounts 
sellers and dealerships  advertise for cars dont  properly reflect their value, because cars 
usually sell for less than the advertised  price. The adverts dont prove the actual selling price 
of any car. Ive looked at how Zenith  valued  Ms Ds car. They  based their valuation on the 
trade guides. The prices  in these guides  are linked to actual monthly nationwide  sales 
figures and although valuing a car is not an exact science, I believe they give a reasonable  
and independent guide and take account  of a number of factors including  mileage, condition, 
and any extra features. Overall, I find them more persuasive than adverts and websites. 
Zenith used two trade guides to value  Ms Ds cars similar make, model,  mileage and 
condition, and based their valuation on the average of those. The investigator has checked  
those guides (and another trade guide,  Cazana,  which produced a lower value than what 
Zenith offered  Ms D). The investigator agreed  that what  Zenith  had offered was in line with 
our guidance  and so was not unreasonable. I agree with this view. I can see that Ms D wants  
to make sure that Zenith pay her a fair value  for her car, but I think that Zenith have done 
that. Im satisfied that theyve valued  Ms Ds car fairly and I consider that their settlement 
offer is a reasonable one, so I dont require them to offer any more.
Ref: DRN52041432Ms D said that that Zeniths staff member hung up on her during a phone call and that shed 
found this embarrassing.  But Zenith say that this wasnt deliberate. They  thought that it had 
been a failure  with the phone line, which cut out. And having listened to the recording of the 
call, I agree with that, and I dont think that the staff member did hang  up. And while it might 
have been good etiquette for him to phone  Ms D back, his not doing so is perhaps  explained 
by Zeniths file notes  which show that he thought that Ms D had hung up on him. In any 
event, as I dont think  it was deliberate, I dont think any compensation for that is warranted.
Ms D was also unhappy about having to pay her policy excess  because  she felt the accident  
wasnt her fault. But an excess is payable regardless of fault, though  potentially  later 
recoverable from the other party to the accident. So I think that Ms D was liable to pay the 
excess and it was reasonable and normal practice for Zenith to deduct it from the market 
value. She also thought  that Zenith should  have offered  her a courtesy car but Ive checked 
her policy and see that only applied if her car was repairable, during the repair period. As her 
car was declared uneconomical to repair, no courtesy car was due.
I can see that Ms D is unhappy  that she was out of pocket after an accident that wasnt her 
fault and in which she was unfortunately injured. But I think  that Zenith have done what they 
were required  to do under her policy and they havent done anything  wrong.  This means  that 
I dont require them to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5204143