K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that MYJAR  Limited  gave  him loans that he couldnt afford. The complaint 
has been brought to this service on Mr Ss behalf by a claims management  company. But for 
ease I shall refer below to all actions being  taken  by Mr S.
background
Mr S took out four short  term loans with MYJAR.  All the loans were repayable by one 
repayment. Loan 4 hasnt  been repaid. Mr Ss loan history is as follows:-
Loan  number Date of Loan Loan amount Repayment date
1. 6/10/2014 £100 8/10/2014
2. 10/10/2014 £100 21/10/2014
3. 22/10/2014 £100 12/11/2014
4. 22/11/2014 £100 Unpaid
MYJAR said that it had asked Mr S for his income  and monthly housing costs.  It also appears 
from MYJARs application details that it had asked Mr S for details of his monthly credit 
repayments and other  monthly expenses. MYJAR said that its application  process always  
requests its customer to update their application  information each time they log into their 
account area, ensuring it always  has the most up to date information about their 
circumstances before undertaking its own credit scoring.  If there are no changes made, the 
customer will have  confirmed that the previously provided information was still up to date. 
MYJAR also said that it conducted  a credit check before Loan 1. It said that at the time there 
was no specific requirement  to carry out credit reference agency  checks.  It also said that its 
affordability checks determined that repaying the balances wouldnt become difficult  for Mr S.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint  about Loan 4 should be upheld. He said 
that by Loan 4 Mr S had showed  signs that he was struggling to repay some of his previous 
loans. He said that some of the loans were  taken shortly after repaying a previous loan and 
the loan amounts stayed the same. There was a significant risk that Mr S wouldve been 
unable to sustainably  meet his repayment  for Loan 4. 
MYJAR responded  to say that the adjudicators response lacked an explanation as to how the 
adjudicator came to his view and failed to mention the information in its business  file. It said 
that proportionate checks were  carried  out given Mr Ss lending history and the small number 
of loans it had provided to Mr S. MYJAR  also said that its smallest  loan amount was £100. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to MYJAR on 4 February 2020.  I summarise  my findings:
Ref: DRN55411622I noted that when  MYJAR lent to Mr S the regulator  was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
I said that MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate  checks to make  sure Mr S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that MYJAR  was required to establish  whether Mr S could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Ss complaint.
MYJAR had told us about the checks it made before lending  to Mr S. Id noted from 
MYJARs records that it had details  of Mr Ss income which was around £1,850 and details 
about his housing costs of £400 and his other monthly expenses of £350.  Mr S hadnt 
declared any monthly credit repayments. MYJAR had assessed Mr Ss monthly affordable  
amount as around £591. I also noted  that MYJAR  had carried out a credit check  before 
Loan 1 and had seen  a summary of this.
Ref: DRN55411623Mr S hadnt  provided  his credit report to us. The adjudicator  had asked for this in June 2019 
so hed had sufficient time to provide this. So I couldnt say there were any entries  on the 
credit report  which might  have caused the lender concern.
But I was aware that when a lender carried out a credit search,  the information it saw didnt 
usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit search would and it wasnt  
necessarily up to date. A lender might  only see a small  portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. I was also aware that not all payday  and short  
term lenders reported to the same credit  reference  agencies. So this might explain any 
differences between  the information provided by MYJARs credit checks and Mr Ss actual 
situation.
Id thought about whether  MYJARs checks were proportionate for the loans. Id noted that 
for Loans 1 to 3, Mr S needed to pay £120.02 to repay each of them. I could see that the 
repayments were relatively  modest compared  to the income of £1,850 Mr S had declared 
and the monthly  affordable amount of around  £591 calculated by MYJAR.  
I could also see that MYJARs credit  checks before  Loan 1 showed  that Mr S had opened 
two new accounts  in the previous three months  and that his unsecured  debt was estimated 
to be £612. There  was also a total increase in his balances of £614  over the previous three  
months. I could see that Mr Ss other  borrowing might have suggested  to MYJAR that his 
finances were under  pressure. But overall, I didnt  think the repayment amounts on 
Loans 1 to 3 were so large that it was obvious they wouldve caused Mr S financial difficulty.
On balance, I thought that the checks MYJAR  carried out before agreeing  Loans  1 to 3 were 
proportionate. And given  Mr Ss repayment amounts for Loans 1 to 3, what was apparent 
about his circumstances at the time,  and that these were his first loans with the lender, 
I didnt think it wouldve been  proportionate for MYJAR to have  asked him for the amount  of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
And at that stage  there  wasnt anything in the information Mr S had provided  or the information 
MYJAR shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start verifying 
what he was saying.  So I didnt think MYJAR  was wrong to give Loans  1 to 3 to Mr S.
Loan 3 was paid three  days late. Loan 4 was taken  out around  ten days after Loan  3 was 
repaid and was Mr Ss fourth loan from MYJAR in around seven  weeks.  Although Mr S 
appeared to have faced some relatively minor  problems repaying Loan  3 three days late, at 
that stage I didnt think MYJAR should  have been  unduly worried  about  Mr Ss late payment. 
His other loan repayments had been made before  the due date. And although Loans 2 and 3 
had been taken within two days of his previous  loan,  Id noted there  was a ten day gap 
between Loans  3 and 4.  
Again Mr S needed  to pay £120.02  to repay  Loan  4 and there was no change  in his declared 
income and expenditure or in the monthly  affordable amount calculated  by MYJAR. I could 
see that the loan repayment was still relatively modest compared to Mr Ss declared  income  
of £1,850, his declared expenditure and the monthly affordable  amount  calculated by 
MYJAR. And overall, I didnt think the repayment amount on Loan 4 was so large that it was 
obvious it wouldve  caused Mr S financial difficulty.
On balance, I thought that the checks MYJAR  carried out before agreeing  Loan  4 were 
proportionate. And given  Mr Ss repayment amount, what was apparent  about  his 
Ref: DRN55411624circumstances at the time, and his history with the lender, I didnt think it wouldve been  
proportionate for MYJAR to have asked  him for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable.   
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr S had provided  or the information MYJAR 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
he was saying. So I didnt  think  MYJAR was wrong to give Loan 4 to Mr S.
Subject to any further representations by Mr S or MYJAR my provisional decision was that 
I didnt intend  to uphold this complaint. 
MYJAR responded  to my provisional decision to say that it accepted it.
Mr S hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
As neither party has asked me to consider further  information or arguments, I see no reason 
to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows  that I dont  uphold  
Mr Ss complaint. 
I understand that Mr S hasnt repaid Loan  4. If Mr S currently has financial issues,  I would 
remind MYJAR of its responsibility  to treat Mr S in a positive and sympathetic manner about 
the amounts he should repay.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5541162