complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001 
alongside a hire purchase agreement.  The PPI was added  to the account at the same 
time as Mr L signed the hire purchase agreement.
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer 
to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Mr L says FICL mis-sold  him the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so this complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
I dont think the policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr L says he wasnt  offered PPI or told it was optional. But based on the evidence Ive seen 
I think its likely FICL made it clear the PPI was optional and Mr L chose to take it out  
although I can understand why he cant remember this now, after such a long time. I say 
this having seen a copy of the hire purchase agreement that Mr L saw and signed  at the 
time. There was a section  on the agreement just covering  PPI. Mr L signed in this section to 
agree to the cover, and there is nothing here to suggest Mr L had to sign in this section. 
This signature is separate  and additional  to his signature to take out the hire purchase. So, I 
think it was clear that he could take out the hire purchase without PPI.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr L, this means it didnt have to check if the policy was 
right for him, but it did have to make sure Mr L got the information  he needed to decide if 
the PPI was right for him and he wanted  to buy it.
Its possible the information FICL  gave Mr L about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. Mr L says he wouldnt have take out the policy had he been given clear  information. 
But based on what I know of Mr Ls circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so I think  it would have 
been useful for him if something went wrong.
Mr L says he had other means at the time and so didnt need  the cover. He said he 
wouldve got at least six months worth  of sick pay from work and had other  means of 
making his repayments,  although he didnt say what these were.  The PPI wouldve paid 
out on top of his work benefits, allowing him to use these for other household expenses. It 
also provided him with unemployment and life cover. So, I still think the PPI wouldve been 
useful for him and overall I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him 
off taking out the cover.
The policy appeared affordable and Mr L was eligible to take it out. So, I cant  see that 
Mr L has lost out because of anything that FICL did wrong.
Ref: DRN56186402my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5618640