K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs R bought  the policy in 1999  at the same  time as taking out a loan. The loan 
included an amount to pay for the policy. The policy provided cover for Mr R if he couldnt  
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint because:
I think Nationwide made Mr and Mrs R aware  the PPI was optional and that they chose 
to take it out. Mr and Mrs R say they applied for the loan and PPI during a meeting with 
Nationwide, and that they were  told they had to take the cover to get the loan. But 
Nationwide says Mr and Mrs Rs application was made by post.
Ive reviewed the paperwork that was completed  at the time.  Whether  or not Mr and Mrs 
R had a meeting  with Nationwide, it seems they completed an application form that they 
posted to the society. The application  form included a section about PPI, and there  were  
tick boxes that had to be completed to say whether or not the customer  wanted the 
cover. Mr and Mrs R ticked the box to confirm  that they wanted the PPI and Mr R signed 
underneath. There  was another  box they couldve completed if they hadnt wanted the 
cover. In addition, there is nothing on the application  form to suggest that PPI had to be 
taken in order for the loan to be approved.
I also note that the PPI is listed  as Optional  Credit  Insurance on the loan agreement. So 
I think Nationwide did enough to make Mr and Mrs R aware that they had a choice about  
buying the PPI.
Nationwide didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs R so it didnt have to check  if it was 
suitable for them. 
The cost of the policy was shown on the loan agreement  including  the amount of the 
premium, the interest payable on the premium and the total cost. So I think  Mr and Mrs R 
would have understood how much  the PPI would cost if they kept the policy for its full 
term. 
Ref: DRN57469532Its possible Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr R would have  been  affected by any of these.
When I take account of all these points, Im not persuaded that the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 May 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5746953