K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Barclays Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr D bought a single premium PPI policy  in October 1996 at the same  time as taking out a 
loan. The loan and policy were sold during a branch meeting and they both ended in 2000.
Mr D says Barclays mis-sold the policy to him. He says PPI was not discussed with him and 
he was not aware  that the policy had been  added.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ds complaint.  Mr D has disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint for the following reasons:
The PPI was taken  out many  years ago and because of this theres little information 
available from the time of sale.  Mr Ds recollections do not give many details either but 
this is understandable  due to the amount  of time that has passed since the time of sale. 
So it has been difficult for me to understand how the policy  was presented  to Mr D during 
the meeting. 
I have though, been able to see what most likely  would have been presented to Mr D 
through sample documentation provided  including a sample  application form. On this 
form I can see that the PPI is presented as optional with choices  given to either  have the 
policy or decline it. 
So I think its more likely than not there  was a conversation between  the two parties  and 
that Mr D was told it was a good idea to have the insurance with his loan Barclays. I can 
see that this is supported by the sample documentation that I have seen. So on balance, 
I think Mr D was given a choice  to have PPI. 
Moving  on, I think Barclays  recommended  the PPI to Mr D, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable for him based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances  at the time.  He says he 
had between 3 and 6 months  sickness benefit  with his employer but the benefits would 
have been paid in addition to this and so he would have found the benefits provided  by 
the policy useful in a difficult  time. Mr D would have been able to use his provisions to 
pay for other  expenses.  I couldnt  find anything  else within  the policys  terms and 
conditions that would  have made it an unsuitable recommendation for Mr D like a 
restrictive or significant term. 
Ref: DRN51582542I cant be sure if Mr D had received all of the costs  during the meeting in a clear  and not 
misleading way by the advisor  from Barclays, but even if it did for the reasons I have 
already given, I dont  think it would have  changed his mind  regarding the policy.
Mr D wouldve received a limited refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the policy 
early from what  I have  seen  (Barclays have provided a policy document  from after the 
sale but I think it is representative of what the terms and conditions more  likely would 
have been). I dont  know if Mr D thought about this when Barclays  recommended  the 
policy or explained the situation  to him. But Ive seen nothing to suggest he thought he 
would repay the loan early. So I dont think this made the policy unsuitable or better 
information about this wouldve stopped him buying it.
It is possible Barclays didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr D wouldve been affected by any of these, due to his circumstances at the 
time of sale.
This has been a difficult decision to make due to the lack of information  about the sale. And I 
know this is likely to come as a disappointment  to Mr D but in conclusion, I do not uphold  his 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5158254