K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Coventry Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs M bought the policy in 1996  to cover  their existing mortgage.  Coventry  says no 
amendments were  made to the mortgage at that time, and it says Mr and Mrs M bought the 
PPI as a result of a mailing it says it sent at the time. In what they told us, Mr and Mrs M 
couldnt recall how the PPI had been  sold. With all this in mind, what  I have  makes  me think 
the PPI was likely sold to Mr and Mrs M by post.
From what  Mr and Mrs M told us, at the time of sale Mrs M earned less than a quarter  of 
Mr Ms earnings, was entitled  to some full work sick pay and, from her length  of service, was 
also entitled to statutory redundancy pay. Mr M was employed at the time as an engineer, 
had been there 14 years  and was only entitled  to statutory pay for sickness and redundancy. 
Mr and Mrs M said they didnt have any other means with which to pay the mortgage  if they 
couldnt work and said they were both in good  health at the time of the sale.  
The policy provided  cover  for disability  and unemployment  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. Coventry says the cover was on Mr M only,  cost £12.97 at the time and for a 
successful claim  would pay £230  a month for up to 12 months to help with Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage costs.
Coventry has sent us evidence to show the mortgage account closed in 2005.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ms representative says:
 
Coventry failed to meet the sales  standards  which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ms representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Coventry  shouldve  told Mr and Mrs M 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Coventry should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs M and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were promoted  
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN53492872Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about handling complaints 
about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin  judgment, arent applicable.  
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Coventry at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
 
Ref: DRN53492873Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Building Societies Ombudsman  
in this case  might  have  been expected to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Coventry was required  to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Coventry gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Coventry gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Ms 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent Mr and Mrs M suffered 
loss or damage and what I consider  would  amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs M 
and Coventry, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs M know they had a choice?
Coventry had to make it clear the PPI was optional. In what  they told us, Mr and Mrs M didnt 
say they didnt agree to the PPI or werent  given a choice  about it. Their mortgage had been  
running for many years without PPI when  they bought the PPI, so I dont think  Mr and Mrs M 
wouldve thought  PPI was something  they had to have  with their mortgage. The PPI eligibility 
terms applicable  at the time say policyholders had to be complete an application form, so it 
looks like Mr M wouldve  completed an application  form to take the cover.  Taking everything 
Ref: DRN53492874into account, I think its more likely  Mr and Mrs M knew the PPI was optional and agreed to 
take it without undue pressure.
did Coventry provide  advice?
Coventry and Mr and Mrs M agree advice wasnt provided during this sale. This means 
Coventry didnt have to check  if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs M. Instead, it had to 
give them  sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  them  to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take the policy, including drawing to their attention  and highlighting 
 in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs M were given a broad description  of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr M 
were unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs M would have 
taken the PPI without  any sense  of what it was for and of how much  the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Coventry  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs M agreed to take the policy. 
So I dont  think Coventry gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  drawing 
to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And, for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ms representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Ms. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ms representative considers to be poor  value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs M have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
Ref: DRN53492875industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Coventry ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Coventrys shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs M? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs M suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Coventry  didnt  do all it should have done  when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs M. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Mr and Mrs M suffered loss and damage  as a result.  To answer this, I must decide whether  
or not they would have still taken the policy, had Coventry done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs M say they would not have taken it and believe  I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs M had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr M being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs M chose to take this PPI. So I consider its reasonable to 
conclude they had some  interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But they 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mr and Mrs M thought they 
were getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this differed  is a relevant 
consideration when determining whether Mr and Mrs M have suffered any loss or detriment.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Coventry told them the exact  premium  at the point 
they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems unlikely Mr and Mrs M would have 
taken the policy without some idea of what it would cost. Also Mr and Mrs M paid for the PPI 
for a number of years. If the cost when it started had been significantly at odds  with what  
theyve expected when they took it, its possible they might instead have raised this with 
Coventry or reconsidered  their decision to take the PPI. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs M wouldve have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the PPI premium figure at the time they decided  to take the PPI. 
Also what  I have makes me think it likely  that when applying for the PPI Mr and Mrs M 
needed to say on their application form what monthly benefit  they wanted.  So I think its 
likely they knew what the monthly benefit  of their policy would be.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs M thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any health  issue  that at the policy start Mr M knew  
of or should  reasonably have known  of, or for which in the 12 months before the policy  
start he had received  treatment or advice, and excluded claims relating to any continuing 
or chronic disease that at the policy start Mr M should reasonably have been aware of; 
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr M wasnt  
a permanent employee;
The requirement that to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr M be unable to do his own 
job or any other work  for which  he was reasonably  qualified;
Ref: DRN53492876The first 60 days  of any disability or unemployment wasnt covered, and the policy paid 
the monthly benefit for up to 12 months rather than for the remaining mortgage  term; and
Cover on Mr M would end, at the latest, when he reached  age 65.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs M pause for thought and may well have caused them to conclude  the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs M from taking the PPI.
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for them. Mr M was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to Mr and Mrs M should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr M 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  he didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So I think Mr and Mrs M still had 
some good  reasons to take the PPI.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs M would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs M had known they could claim for disability only if Mr M were  unable to do his 
own job and unable to do any other  work for which he was reasonably qualified, it might  
have played into their thinking  about  what to do. And I accept it may have given them  pause 
for thought  although given Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, and Mr Ms entitlement  to only 
statutory pay for sickness  or redundancy, on balance I think  they would have still been  
interested in taking the cover.
Coventry may not have told Mr and Mrs M that the first 60 days  of any period of disability  or 
unemployment wouldnt be covered, and that after that any claim they made  would be limited 
to a 12-month period. This may have differed from what Mr and Mrs M expected  and might  
have hoped for. But Mr and Mrs M, when they took the policy,  had limited  other means to fall 
back on if Mr M couldnt work. In those  circumstances, I consider it likely Mr and Mrs M 
would still have thought a policy that after 60 days paid up to 12 monthly benefit payments 
would be of benefit to them and would  help them manage the consequences if Mr M couldnt 
work in the circumstances covered  by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be 
made, could help reduce Mr and Mrs Ms outgoings  at a difficult and uncertain  time and, by 
helping with mortgage related costs, could help ensure  their home  was not placed at risk.
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that they ceased to be eligible to claim on the PPI when 
Mrs M turned age 60 during the term. The cover  ceased, and the policy was cancelled,  when 
Mr M reached age 65. Mr and Mrs M werent able to claim on the policy after that point. But 
Mr M was not yet 60 when they took the PPI, so I think  it more likely than not they wouldve 
thought theyd still get some value out of having it, as it wouldve covered Mr M for a 
reasonable period of time before he turned  65  and when he did turn 65 it would end and 
Mr and Mrs M would  stop paying for it at that point.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs M would  still have taken the policy. It was sufficiently close to what its likely 
Ref: DRN53492877they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  manage the 
consequences if Mr M were made  redundant,  or unable to work due to accident or sickness. 
In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs M would have taken the 
policy in any event - notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ms representatives  say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms, but it is a relevant  consideration so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs M would not have bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account their 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs M found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same  position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs M believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs M in the position they would  have been  in 
had they not bought the policy.  That is because, while I accept its possible they wouldnt 
have taken the PPI, Im satisfied that, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they 
would still have taken  the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in 
those circumstances,  to conclude Coventry  should  pay Mr and Mrs M compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they wouldve been in had everything happened  as 
it should have  done.
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs M think Coventry misrepresented  the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Coventrys statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Coventry failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Coventry  gave Mr and Mrs M, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1996 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ms representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find Coventry negligently  misrepresented  the contract to Mr and Mrs M and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Coventry had been in breach of its duty 
Ref: DRN53492878of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs M in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5349287