K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  about the way National  Westminster Bank  Plc has handled her account 
with it, and in particular payments to and from an acquaintance of hers, whom Ill refer to as 
Mr F.      
background
Miss A has an account with NatWest. Over the course of around four years shes  transferred 
many thousands of pounds to Mr F. She calculates  that those payments total around 
£45,000; our investigator, having reviewed  Miss As account, calculated them at just over 
£30,000, although the exact figure isnt directly relevant to my decision. The investigator 
calculated that Mr F had paid just over £1,000 to Miss A, although she disputes  that figure.  
Miss A has explained that she made  those payments to help Mr F set up his own business. 
She later found out however that Mr F worked for another bank.  Miss A says she hadnt  
intended to lend money to a bank.
Miss A believes that NatWest and the other bank have colluded  to alter her bank statements 
so it appears that Mr F has paid her more than is in fact the case. She doesnt believe she 
gave Mr F her bank account details,  so one of the banks must have done so. Shes  also 
unhappy that payments to her include the reference  loan, which  she hasnt authorised.
When Miss A referred these matters to our service, one of our investigators considered what  
shed said. She didnt believe that NatWest  had treated Miss A unfairly, however. Miss A 
didnt accept that and asked that an ombudsman review the case.           
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Miss A doesnt appear to dispute  making the payments to Mr F. What she has 
said is that she didnt  intend the money  to go to Mr Fs employer, the other  bank. But the 
money didnt go to the credit of the other  bank,  or for its benefit. Even if, as seems likely, 
Mr F kept his account with his employer, he was the beneficiary of the money Miss A 
transferred, not the bank. And it wasnt for NatWest  to check  the employment details of 
someone to whom Miss A was willingly  transferring money. 
I note that Miss A is concerned that some  of the payments  to her account carry the reference 
loan. But that reference will have  been placed  by the sender  no doubt  to help Miss A 
identify what the payment  was for  rather than either bank involved. The banks are 
responsible for other references on payments (for example,  codes showing the type of 
payment), but a payer will often add a reference or note as well.
I think it unlikely that NatWest provided  Mr F with Miss As account details. I think  its more  
likely she did so. But in any event, all that did was to enable Mr F to make  payments directly 
to her bank  account;  it hasnt caused Miss A any financial  loss. 
I dont accept either Miss As suggestion that NatWest has in some  way colluded with the 
other bank  to alter her bank statements. It would have no reason to do anything other than 
record accurately payments to and from her account. Those records would have to be 
consistent with the records of the other parties  to any transaction.  I dont believe it would 
Ref: DRN59574492have been possible  for NatWest  to have acted in the way Miss A has suggested without that 
being detected. And I note that Miss A doesnt  herself have independent records  of 
payments to and from Mr F, so I cant see that theres any basis  on which I could  properly 
accept what she says here. 
For these reasons, I dont  believe theres  any basis on which I could properly  uphold  Miss 
As complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further 
to resolve Miss As complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss A to accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5957449