K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined a claim made on his home insurance.
background
In November 2017 Mr B contacted AXA to make  a claim  on his home insurance policy. He 
said that when  he and his wife were  moving  house  in June 2017 his wife placed some 
jewellery boxes  in an open top crate. And this was the last time they saw the items. Mr B 
said he and his wife hadnt realised the jewellery  had gone missing  until a couple of months 
later and they had then asked the removal company if anything had been  handed  in  but it 
hadnt. Mr B said they then reported  the matter to the police as they believed the jewellery 
must have  been  stolen.
AXA declined the claim based on an exclusion in the policy that says loss or damage  to 
jewellery is not covered when moving home.
Mr B wasnt  happy with this decision.  He thinks the jewellery was stolen during the removal,  
rather than lost or damaged, and doesnt  think AXA has considered the claim in line with its 
policy. 
Our investigator thought AXA acted fairly in declining  the claim. He said Mr Bs policy is clear 
that accidental  loss or damage of jewellery during a house move isnt covered.  He also said 
that, although Mr B thinks the jewellery  was stolen, theres no evidence of that and the policy  
doesnt cover circumstances where there  hasnt been forcible or violent entry  to or from the 
home. 
Mr B remains unhappy and the complaint  has been  passed to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same  conclusions as our investigator  and for much the 
same reasons. I know this will disappoint Mr B so Ill explain my reasoning.
Mr Bs policy  covers  accidental damage  or loss to contents while being removed by 
professional removal  contractors. The policy says:
What your policy  covers
2. House removal
Accidental damage or loss to contents  while being  removed by professional  removal  
contractors, from the home  to any new private  residence within  the United Kingdom, 
the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man.
However, the policy also says:
What your policy  does not cover
Accidental damage or loss:
to money;
Ref: DRN58434312to china, glass, porcelain or any other  item of earthenware unless packed by 
professional removal  contractors;
to jewellery;
during sea transit;
whilst  the contents are in storage;
caused by mechanical or electrical breakdown or failure.
Its clear then that the loss of jewellery while being removed from Mr Bs property is not 
covered under his policy. I can see theres been some confusion  over the term loss in the 
policy as Mr B has said the jewellery was not lost but stolen. However, as our investigator  
explained, loss refers  to the incurred loss of value for items that have gone missing,  rather 
than the misplacement  of the actual  items.  Im satisfied,  however, that it was reasonable for 
AXA to decline Mr Bs claim  under  this exclusion of the policy.
However, as Mr B believes the jewellery  was stolen,  Ive also looked at whether he would be 
covered under the theft or attempted  theft section of his policy.  The policy  says:
What your policy  covers
6. Theft  or attempted theft
Loss or damage resulting from theft or attempted theft.
The policy also says:
What your policy  does not cover
Loss or damage:
while your home is unoccupied or unfurnished;
if property is obtained by any person using any form of payment which proves 
to be counterfeit,
false, fraudulent,  invalid, uncollectible, irrecoverable or irredeemable for any 
reason;
from the home if any part of it is occupied by anyone other than you or your 
family unless there has been  forcible  or violent entry to or exit from the home;
caused by you, your family, lodgers, paying guests or tenants.
Mr B doesnt  know what happened  to his wifes  jewellery. They only realised it was missing  a 
couple of months  after the move and then wanted to check  with the removal  company  that it 
hadnt been handed in. When the removal company confirmed it hadnt,  Mr B reported  the 
incident to the police.  There is no evidence  it was stolen and although Mr B believes it was 
stolen during the move, it wouldnt  be covered under the theft section of his policy as there 
was no violent entry to or exit from the home. 
Indeed, he believes  it was stolen while in the possession  of the removal  company, rather  
than from their home.  As  such, I think it was reasonable  for AXA to consider the claim under 
the house removal section of the policy rather than this section of the policy.  And as Ive 
said above, I think it was reasonable  for AXA to decline the claim under  the specific  
exclusion for jewellery in that section.
I sympathise with Mr Bs situation but in light of the particular circumstances of this case, I 
dont think AXA has declined his claim  unfairly. 
Ref: DRN58434313my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2019.
Richard Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5843431