K821x#15complaint
Mr C is represented by P, a, company. He complains that Society of Lloyds wont  pay his 
claim for theft of golfing equipment from his car.
background
In September  2017 Mr C suffered a theft of golfing  equipment from his car. He had left the 
equipment in his car the night before, parked  on his driveway. His car didnt have a lockable 
boot but he placed the items in the rear compartment covered by a blanket. When  he got up 
the next morning and switched on his tracker device he discovered the vehicle had been 
broken into and all the equipment stolen. It was valued at around £5,000. Mr C later revised  
this down to £4,784. Lloyds declined the claim as there is an exclusion in the policy 
concerning items stolen  from an unattended vehicle. This is that it didnt  cover  such  items 
unless they were concealed in a locked boot or glove compartment and forcible or violent 
entry was made  to enter the vehicle.
P said on behalf of Mr C that his vehicle didnt have a boot  and the items were too big to fit 
into the glove  compartment or small storage compartment in the car. So he took care to hide 
the items.  There was no definition of boot in the policy and a lot of cars dont have a boot as 
such. Lloyds said the exclusion was clear  and that its policy terms excluded the theft.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that Lloyds had acted reasonably.
P disagreed and pointed out that this service had previously upheld a complaint on this 
particular wording/policy, saying it was unclear and that it should  be construed  as saying that 
Lloyds would cover  any claim  from an unattended vehicle  (whether  or not in a locked boot or 
glove compartment)  of less than £5,000. It said that Mr C had covered the items with a 
blanket rather than carelessly leaving it on show and that it was a significant exclusion which 
should have been drawn to Mr Cs attention  when  he purchased the policy.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought the exclusion was unclear and in 
view of that Lloyds  should pay Mr Cs claim,  together  with interest  where Mr C had 
purchased replacement items.
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision, and has contacted for Mr C for receipts with a 
view to paying the claim.
Whilst accepting my provisional findings  on behalf  of Mr C, P raised  two matters:
Whether the rate of interest should  be 8% per year rather  than a flat 8%.
It said that Lloyds  had had the benefit of the settlement in its account  since the start of the 
claim, so should pay interest on the whole  cash settlement from the date of the claim.  For 
the items  Mr C has replaced  he has suffered  a  double loss as Lloyds has unreasonably sat 
on the settlement  funds  and his own funds have been depleted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN50758952My provisional findings were as follows:
Mr C has an all risks policy. This means  that any loss or damage  is covered  unless  there 
is an exclusion or a limit set out in the policy. The exclusion Lloyds relies  on is:
We do not provide  cover  under  the whole of the contents section for the following:
11. Any amount  over £5,000 for theft or disappearance from any vehicle that is left 
unattended but then only if any items  that are left unattended were  hidden out of view in the 
vehicles locked glove  compartment or locked boot and forcible  or violent  entry was made to 
enter the vehicle.
I think that wording is unclear. I take it that it is intended to mean  that it wont pay for any 
amount over £5,000 but if the claim is for less than that then the conditions  about the locked 
glove compartment/boot  and forcible  and violent  entry apply. But that isnt how the condition 
reads to me, it could  mean that Lloyds wont cover loss over £5,000 unless it is in a locked 
boot etc. For losses under £5,000 there is no such condition.  Where wording is unclear in a 
policy we say its fair to construe that in favour of the consumer.
Mr Cs claim is for £4,784. I appreciate that he initially said his items were worth  over £5,000,  
but frequently consumers change the amount  they are claiming when they find out the exact  
cost of replacements. In any case as the wording says any amount over £5,000 Lloyds still 
had to address  the claim up to that amount. So I think  that Lloyds should  pay Mr Cs claim. If 
it pays a cash settlement and Mr C has paid for replacements it should add 8% to the 
payment from the date he paid for them until the date of reimbursement.
I would observe that the up to date wording for this particular  policy is substantially different.
Ill deal with Mr Cs other  points. I recognise  that he made attempts to hide the items and that 
the side windows  of his car are heavily tinted.  But as Lloyds pointed out the items could be 
seen through  the windscreen  and the blanket is not in my view an effective way of 
concealing them. Lloyds  does not want to pay where items are not in a locked boot or glove 
compartment, and I think it is fair for it to apply that exclusion where it is clearly set out.  
P also says it is a significant  exclusion  which  should  have been  brought  to Mr Cs attention 
when he bought the policy.  In respect  of an all risks policy,  it is a matter for the business  to 
highlight significant  exclusions and it chose in its summary provided at inception to highlight  
exclusions which apply to the whole policy. It cant highlight every exclusion and though I 
appreciate it was significant to Mr C I think the approach taken by Lloyds was reasonable.
As far as Ps comments are concerned,  the rate of interest should be 8% per year, Im 
grateful to it for pointing that out.
Ive considered the points P has made concerning the date from when interest should be 
paid. I understand  his point, but P raised  this complaint with this service in December 2018 
and received a response from us requesting information in early  January 2019. P didnt 
chase the matter up again until November  2020.  In those circumstances I dont  think  it would 
be reasonable to ask Lloyds to pay interest  from the start of the claim. Mr P hasnt made  a 
double loss  to the extent that he has used his own funds the payment of interest  will 
compensate him for the loss of use of those  funds.
My provisional findings, save as mentioned  above are now final and form part of this final 
decision.
Ref: DRN50758953my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Society  of Lloyds to settle Mr Cs claim up to £5,000.  If it 
pays a cash settlement, in respect  of any items Mr C has purchased  as replacements  it 
should add 8% per year simple interest to any such payments from the date Mr C made 
them until the date it reimburses him.
Society of Lloyds is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any interest 
paid. Should Mr C request  it, it should provide him with a certificate showing how much  tax 
has been taken  off so that, if appropriate, he can reclaim it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2021.
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5075895