K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (Bank of Scotland) mis-sold him payment 
protection insurance in connection with his mortgage.
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
In 2007 Mr C took out a mortgage  with Bank  of Scotland in a meeting at one of its branches. 
He bought a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside  the mortgage.
The PPI cover paid out in the event Mr C couldnt work through accident,  sickness or if he 
lost his job. It cost approximately £35 a month and provided a benefit  of £600 per month.  
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for accident sickness or 
unemployment for up to 12 months per claim.
The PPI closed in 2009.
The adjudicator said the evidence showed that Mr C chose to take out the PPI and there 
was nothing to indicate hed lost out as a result.
Mr C disagrees  so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, on balance, Ive decided  to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland says this was an advised  sale. So Bank of Scotland  not only had to provide  
Mr C with enough information about  the policy so he could make  an informed decision about 
it. It also had to ensure  the policy was right or suitable for him based on his needs and 
circumstances at the time. From what Ive seen,  I dont  think Bank of Scotland did this. And 
also from what Ive seen,  on balance,  I think if Bank  of Scotland had advised Mr C 
appropriately and given him the clear information he needed  he wouldnt have bought the 
policy.
I say this because  its likely the policy Mr C was sold wouldnt have covered him for any 
medical condition  he had when he bought it. Mr C says he had a significant  medical  
condition when he was sold the policy. Mr C says that hed been diagnosed with the 
condition and had medication he used to control it.
Ive looked at the records Bank of Scotland has sent us about  the sale. These show  Bank of 
Scotland was told by Mr C about  his medical  condition at the time of sale.
Ref: DRN52714402I think the medical condition had a likelihood of significantly affecting  Mr C in later life and he 
would have been aware of this. So, on the basis of this and the information Ive seen, I think 
its likely  the exclusion in the policy wouldve mattered  to Mr C when  he bought the PPI. 
I have a copy of the welcome letter Mr C received  about the PPI and it records that he has 
told them  about  a pre-existing  medical  condition but does  not warn  him or draw to his 
attention that any sickness  related to it would  not be covered by the policy. And I have 
nothing else to show that this was brought  to his attention before he bought  the policy. So 
I havent seen  anything to show Bank of Scotland did enough to make this exclusion clear  to 
Mr C or advised him appropriately.
If it had done, I think its unlikely Mr C wouldve gone  ahead  with the policy if hed known he 
wasnt likely to have been covered  if hed needed time off work  because of his known 
medical condition.  
I think Mr C has lost out because of what Bank of Scotland  has done wrong and so it should  
put things right.
putting things right
Bank of Scotland should put Mr C in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken  out PPI. 
Bank of Scotland should:
Pay Mr C the amount he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Bank of Scotland can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bank of Scotland to take off tax from this interest.  Bank 
of Scotland must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr C didnt send any further  substantive  comments to me by the date I set. But Bank of 
Scotland have  accepted my decision and offered  to pay redress.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr C provided no further  evidence  or arguments and Bank of Scotland  has accepted my 
decision my conclusions remain as outlined in my provisional findings above.
Ref: DRN52714403my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I uphold Mr Cs complaint and require  Bank of Scotland  
plc to pay redress  to  Mr C as outlined in my provisional putting things right paragraph 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5271440