K822xcomplaint
Miss S has complained  that National Westminster Bank Plc refused to refund a payment, 
which she said she didnt make.
Mr S, her father, represents  her.
background 
Miss Ss debit card details were used to make an online payment to a pizza  delivery service 
for £42.46. There were  also unsuccessful attempts to use the card online and another  
payment for £0.00.
She found out about these transactions when  NatWest  sent her a text message, asking her 
to confirm if they were  genuine. Miss S said she hadnt made the transactions. NatWest also 
asked her if shed purchased concert  tickets online. She said she had.
Miss S asked NatWest  to refund the payment to the pizza delivery service.
NatWest decided not to refund her. It said the same device was used to pay for the pizza  
and the concert  tickets.  Therefore,  it considered  that she had authorised the disputed 
payment.
Miss S didnt agree with NatWests decision  so she brought her complaint  to this service.
NatWest subsequently offered to refund the payment, as a gesture of goodwill.
Miss S didnt accept  the offer. Mr S asked  for evidence that the device had been used for 
other genuine transactions. And he asked NatWest for a letter  exonerating Miss S.
NatWest said it wouldnt  write a letter exonerating Miss S, but it confirmed it hadnt 
registered any adverse  information on her credit file. 
This case has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As NatWest has offered to settle Miss Ss claim,  the original dispute is now resolved. The 
difference between  them  is about  the settlement. 
Our investigator asked  NatWest for more  information about  the device, which was used for 
the disputed transactions. 
NatWest sent us its electronic report for online  purchases, which  were  made  with Miss Ss 
card between December  2017 and August 2018. The report  shows  that the device, which 
was used to buy the concert tickets, has the same ID number as the one used to pay for the 
pizza order. As this data cant be cloned, I have to conclude that the same device was used 
for both transactions.
Ref: DRN53368732However, the report also shows that this device was not used for any previous transactions.  
This suggests that Miss S didnt use her usual laptop or mobile phone to buy the tickets. Its 
possible she used someone  elses device and that person might have then had access  to 
her details, but this is not what she says happened. 
As our investigator explained, this service  cant compel NatWest  to write a letter  exonerating 
Miss S from making the disputing transactions. However, it has agreed to confirm in writing 
that it hasnt registered any adverse information against Miss Ss name on her credit file 
once she accepts its offer. I dont  see why NatWest needs her to accept its offer first, if its 
confirming the status quo.
Given the circumstances, I think this is a fair and reasonable settlement of Miss Ss claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I am upholding  this complaint.
I am asking  National Westminster Bank Plc to:
refund  £42.46 and 
confirm in writing that it hasnt  registered any adverse information against Miss Ss 
name.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5336873