K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Legal  and General Assurance Society Limited  (L&G) terminated  her 
group income protection claim.
background
Mrs P stopped work in her telephone-based  job because  of illness. She made a claim under 
her employers group income protection policy. L&G accepted that Mrs Ps illness  meant she 
wasnt able to perform the main  duties of her own occupation, so the claim was accepted. 
However, after two years  of the claim being  in payment, the policy terms switched from own 
occupation to suited occupation. That meant for the claim payment to continue, Mrs P 
would need to be unable to perform  an occupation  to which  she was suited by way of 
training, education  or experience.  
L&G thought  Mrs P was able to work  in an administration role that didnt require her to be on 
the telephone. It therefore  terminated  the claim.  Mrs P appealed against  L&Gs  decision and 
provided further information from her GP and the Department for Work and Pensions  (DWP) 
which confirmed she also had mobility  issues. L&G didnt  think this would  prevent  Mrs P 
from working in a suited  occupation. It therefore  maintained its decision to terminate the 
claim. Unhappy with this, Mrs P brought a complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He thought L&Gs  decision to 
terminate the claim had been reasonable, based upon the available  evidence.  
Mrs P provided us with another report from her GP, which said she had hip pain that would 
prevent her from working  in a desk-based role. 
The new information  didnt alter our adjudicators opinion, as the report was written some  
time after L&G had terminated the claim.
Mrs P therefore asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the matter  has been  passed to me 
to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy schedule explains that after 24 months, the incapacity definition switches to 
suited occupation.  This is defined in the policy as:
means the insured  member is incapacitated by an illness  or injury  so that he is unable  to 
undertake any occupation  which we consider appropriate to his experience, training or 
education.
Mrs P was working in a call centre.  She stopped  working because nasal polyps meant  she 
experienced problems with her voice. L&G accepted  that Mrs Ps voice  problems meant she 
couldnt work in her previous role in a call centre where she was required to spend much  of 
her working day on the phone. 
Ref: DRN53907672However, after the claim had been in payment for 24 months, L&G needed to consider 
whether Mrs P was able to work in another occupation that was suitable  for her. It concluded 
that she could  work  in a sedentary administrative role. Ive therefore  considered  the available 
evidence to see if L&Gs conclusion  was reasonable. 
Mrs P underwent sinus surgery in February  2018. The surgery was a success,  though it was 
reported that her voice remained hoarse after the procedure.  
The definition of incapacity switched to suited occupation on 31 May 2018. 
In August  2018,  L&G arranged for Mrs P to speak with a member of its rehab team. Mrs P 
explained that since her sinus surgery, she still suffered with a hoarse voice. Shed also 
been experiencing gynaecological problems as well as mobility  problems. L&G thought 
Mrs Ps ongoing problems wouldnt prevent her from working in a sedentary  role that didnt 
involve being  on the phone.
However, before it terminated the claim, it asked Mrs Ps GP whether she considered there 
were any other restrictions or reasons  why Mrs P wouldnt  be able to work  in a suitable  
alternative role, which avoided the use of constant  phone interaction and verbal 
communication. The GP said she is not a qualified  occupational health doctor, but she 
couldnt see any other restrictions or reasons.  
L&G therefore terminated the claim in October 2018, as it thought Mrs P no longer met the 
policy definition of incapacity. 
Ive looked at Mrs Ps work history, and I see she has quite a bit of administration  
experience. Shes also confirmed shes able to use various computer programmes. Taking  
this into account,  I think  it was reasonable for L&G to say that she was capable of performing 
an administration type role somewhere other  than a call centre. Administration roles are 
usually sedentary,  and also wouldnt usually  require constant phone interaction.  That being  
the case, I think L&Gs decision to terminate the claim  at this time was reasonable as I agree 
Mrs P didnt meet the policy definition of incapacity  once this had switched to that of suited 
occupation. 
Mrs P appealed against L&Gs decision, and provided a letter  from another  GP. This said 
Mrs P was suffering from heavy irregular periods and was under the care of gynaecology for 
further management. She had also been suffering from pelvic  pain which had been limiting 
her mobility  and she had been walking with the use of crutches. The GP also commented on 
Mrs Ps nasal  polyps, and said that despite surgery, her nasal symptoms had been flaring up 
again and she had been having voice hoarseness. He said she had been working  in a call 
centre, but wasnt able to work due to her symptoms affecting  her mobility and voice. The 
GP concluded she wasnt able to return  to work  until her symptoms  had resolved  or 
improved with treatment.  
Mrs P also provided evidence from the DWP relating to a Personal  Independence Payment 
(PIP) shed been  awarded in September  2018.  The PIP assessment didnt consider Mrs Ps 
ability to work in a suited  occupation, however I see she was awarded the standard rate due 
to problems with daily living  (such as being  able to get into and out of the bath/shower), and 
the enhanced rate due to her mobility problems.
Ive considered the additional information, but I dont think this shows that Mrs P was 
prevented from carrying out a suited occupation. I appreciate  Mrs P had limited  mobility,  but 
Ref: DRN53907673I dont think this would affect her ability to carry out a sedentary  role, other than this 
impacting her ability to get to and from work. However, as the adjudicator has explained, this 
isnt a factor that L&G is required to take into account when assessing  whether she meets 
the policy definition  of incapacity.   
Mrs P has provided this service with a further  letter  from her GP that was written around six 
months after her claim was terminated. This said that Mrs P was experiencing bilateral 
pincer type impingement of the hips, which causes her severe hip pain. The GP thought this 
would prevent Mrs P from doing a desk-based job. 
I assume the GP meant that Mrs Ps hip pain would prevent her from sitting  down at a desk-
based job. 
Ive looked at Mrs Ps medical records before her claim  was terminated, and I see she did 
report experiencing hip pain and joint pain.  However, despite this, one GP said she couldnt 
see any restrictions or reasons for Mrs P not to return to work in a role that avoided constant 
phone/verbal interaction. And a second GP later reported that she was suffering from pelvic 
pain which  limited her mobility, but he didnt say she was experiencing pain that affected  her 
ability to sit down.
Ive also taken into account Mrs Ps own reported symptoms  at the time. When she spoke 
with a member of L&Gs rehab team in August 2018,  she was asked to describe  her current  
symptoms and the day-to-day  impact  on activities. Mrs P explained she had difficulty walking 
due to pain in her legs, and her husband  had to help her stand up from low seating  due to 
her joint pain. Although  she reported being  able to go outside, she said her time outside was 
limited as she needed somewhere available to sit down. She explained that a typical  day 
involved her predominantly sitting in the lounge.  
Finally, Ive looked at the DWPs decision for the PIP, and I note the assessor  said that 
Mrs Ps health condition causes her great  difficulty moving around. The assessor  didnt 
mention anything about Mrs P experiencing problems sitting  down. 
Whilst I accept  that Mrs P was experiencing mobility  problems that impacted her ability to 
move around (which Ive already taken  into account), theres no evidence from the time the 
claim was terminated to suggest that she also had problems sitting  down. Although Mrs P 
said she struggled to get up from low seating,  I would expect reasonable adjustments  to be 
made for this in the workplace, such as high seating.  
Consequently, the additional  information provided by Mrs Ps GP doesnt persuade  me that 
Mrs P was unable to work in a sedentary role when the claim was terminated.  
I acknowledge my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs P, but I think  L&G was 
entitled to terminate the claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN53907674Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019. 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5390767