K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the service he received from Santander UK Plc when he applied  for a 
loan.
background
Mr B responded to an advertisement by Santander. It was offering a personal loan at a rate 
of 2.8%  APR. But when  he applied online he was offered a rate of 10.9% APR.  And the 
correspondence was addressed to Mrs  rather than Mr B. Mr B said hed received a poor 
service from Santander. It hadnt  responded to his email and letter. And the telephone 
number shown on the banks letter had been  discontinued. So he wants compensation for 
Santanders mistakes. And he wants things putting right.
Santander explained it uses a credit scoring  system to decide whether or not to offer credit  
facilities. And the system  also determines the APR offered to the customer. When  the bank 
advertised it displayed  a typical rate that at least 50% of applicants would qualify for. But it 
also made clear that loans are subject to status  and personal circumstances. So it wasnt 
able to amend  the APR Mr B had been  offered.
Santander apologised for addressing its letter to Mrs rather than Mr B. Although he had 
ticked male on the online  application he had also entered Mrs in error.  And Santander 
explained that it only responded to emails  sent through its own banking  system. It couldnt 
be sure if emails from other sources  were secure.  The bank apologised for using an out of 
date address and contact  number in correspondence with Mr B. It hadnt  received his 
responses because  of the mistake.  So itd offered  Mr B £30 compensation.
After Mr B complained that hed now received a letter addressed to an unknown  person at 
his address Santander accepted there were some  failings in its systems.  It apologised and 
increased its offer of compensation to £100.
Mr B wasnt  satisfied with Santanders  response. He felt £150 would be a fair amount to 
resolve his complaint. So he contacted  our service and our investigator looked into the 
matter. Santander  accepted itd made  mistakes  with the incorrect address and telephone 
numbers on its letters. So he looked  at the impact  on Mr B. Our investigator felt Santander 
couldve been better at communicating with Mr B. But he felt the offer of £100 was fair.
Mr B didnt agree. He couldve returned  Santanders recent letter  unopened.  But after all the 
other mistakes he had no idea whether it was for him or not. And he was concerned adverse 
credit scoring might  be attached to his address  if Santander was linking it to the wrong 
people. Based on whatd happened Mr B felt £150  was more appropriate. So hes asked for 
an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration. Although he is disappointed  with the rate offered by 
Santander when  he inquired about  a loan he has accepted the banks decision.  However  he 
is also disappointed  with the service he received in the months after his application.
Ref: DRN58292922Initial correspondence was addressed  to Mrs  B because of a mistype during  the application. 
Mr B feels  the bank shouldve picked up on the mistake because  hed also selected male  
during the online application. Unfortunately  computer systems dont always know  how to 
resolve inconsistences such as this. And I can see Santander corrected the mistake as soon  
as it became apparent. So I cant really say the bank has done anything  wrong  here.
However when Santander  contacted Mr B it did provide  outdated address and telephone 
details. So when  Mr B tried to call the bank he found  the number had been disconnected. 
And the letters he sent to the bank  were returned undelivered. Santander has accepted it 
hadnt updated all of its letterheads when it changed contact details and apologised for the 
inconvenience this wouldve caused Mr B. 
Mr B said he also tried to contact Santander  by email without success. But unfortunately he 
replied to an email address that Santander  doesnt monitor  for incoming  messages.  I accept  
this must be frustrating for customers but Santanders emails do say please do not respond 
to this email. Responses are not checked or monitored. And unfortunately this is a fairly 
common practise within the industry.
Although the various mistakes havent  impacted financially on Mr B, I do recognise how 
frustrating it mustve been for Mr B to keep  discovering his responses  werent  being  
received. And it mustve been  equally frustrating and confusing  to then receive 
correspondence at his home  addressed to an unknown  third party. 
Santander has provided feedback to the relevant  parts of its business  and resolved the 
contact errors on its letters. And Santander  has written to Mr B to confirm that credit files are 
created against  individuals rather than addresses. Its assured Mr B that the incorrectly  
addressed letter he received wont impact  on his credit file. 
However I do accept it mustve been  a very stressful  time for Mr B. He was given the wrong 
telephone number and address to respond  to. So he didnt get a response to his initial 
complaint. And hes naturally concerned to receive correspondence to a person who doesnt 
live at his address.
So its clear  Santanders  service hasnt been of the highest  standard.  And the bank has 
accepted it couldve  handled its communication with Mr B in a better  manner. Santander has 
offered Mr B £100  compensation for his trouble and upset.  But I dont think the amount 
suggested is quite  enough to reflect the effort, inconvenience and time involved. Taking into 
account everything Ive seen I feel compensation of £150 would be more  appropriate.  And 
Santander has agreed.
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must  pay Mr B £150 compensation as it has 
already agreed  to do. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5829292