K822xcomplaint
Mr W says Chord  Independent Financial Advisers Limited was negligent in the advice it gave 
him about managing his future pension tax liability when it arranged  the switch  of his pension 
funds into a Self-invested  Personal Pension  (SIPP).
background
Mr W sought financial advice from Chord in November 2015.  At the time he was a member 
of or held several group and personal  pension plans. He wanted to review his pension  
provision and arrangements,  and that included understanding the effect  of changes being 
made to the Lifetime Allowance (LTA) for pension pots.
Mr W was 49 and his planned retirement age was 65. His attitude to risk was high. He didnt 
expect to use the money he was about  to invest for over 10 years. Mr Ws top priority was to 
increase his pension. His next priority  was the ability to retire earlier.
Chord concluded its advice around  April 2016. Mr W accepted its recommendations. Except 
for a defined-benefit pension he had with a former  employer, all his funds were transferred 
into an Alliance Trust SIPP. The transfers  were completed around October 2016.
Shortly afterwards Mr W says he realised the total value of his pension  provision was very 
likely to exceed his LTA within a few years. He says the scope of the advice he agreed with 
Chord shouldve  picked this up.
On 6 April 2016  the LTA was reduced from £1.25m to £1m. At the same time the 
Government introduced  a transitional measure which meant people could apply for Fixed 
Protection 2016 (FP) - essentially reserved rights  to the higher level of LTA.
A successful  application for FP was subject to certain conditions.  One of these was that no 
further contributions  could  be made  to pension  funds after 5 April 2016. Mr Ws employer 
had continued  to make contributions to his pot, so he became ineligible.
Mr W says at no time did Chord explain to him how FP worked. He wasnt  aware  there was a 
decision to make by 5 April 2016. And he says he wasnt given any calculations or effective  
advice. If he had been, he wouldve stopped his employer pension contributions in time to 
secure FP. Because  he didnt, he says his tax liability will be higher. He says this was 
Chords fault  it was negligent.
Chord says it met the terms agreed for the provision of advice. Based on what  it had been 
told by Mr Ws then pension plan providers  about  the transfer value of his pension pots, his 
circumstances and objectives. It said it had discussed the LTA situation with him in depth. It 
believed he had headroom within  the standard LTA. To have taken up FP wouldve curtailed 
his ability  from that point to have made further contributions.
Our adjudicator upheld  this case,  but not to the extent Mr W had hoped for. Both parties 
disagreed with his findings. So, Mr Ws complaint was passed to me. I issued my provisional  
decision in April.
Mr W disagreed  with my conclusions. And hes provided further calculations setting out what 
he thinks the financial impact of Chords failings will be on him. Chord didnt think  Mr Ws 
case shouldve been upheld, even partially. Ill cover the main  arguments made by both 
parties in this final decision.
Ref: DRN51695412Firstly, Chord  challenged this Services authority to consider Mr Ws complaint. So, our 
jurisdiction is the first matter I will address here.
my findings
jurisdiction
Chord says Mr Ws complaint is about  tax advice and that isnt a regulated activity.
At the start of the advice process, the scope of the work Chord  would be doing for Mr W was 
clearly set out in an agreement in November 2015.  This included,  to:
Complete a Lifetime Allowance calculation when all of the values have been obtained, and 
therefore consider  any necessary protection measures before the reduction in April 2016. 
Chord is correct that advice which was purely  about  tax planning and didnt involve  the 
consideration of investment products wouldnt be regulated. However,  the adjudicator took 
the view the LTA calculation was directly  associated with advising on the pension  transfers.  
Our powers  were established in the Financial Services and Markets  Act 2000. These can be 
found in the dispute  resolution section of the regulators handbook of rules  and guidelines.  
This is commonly  referred to as DISP and is available online.
There are several factors that determine whether this Service  can consider a case. This 
includes whether  the activity complained  about is regulated. DISP 2.3.1R says:
The ombudsman can consider a complaint under the compulsory jurisdiction  if it relates to 
an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the following activities. 
A list of regulated  activities  is provided and includes advising on investments. A personal 
pension plan is one of the designated investments on which this activity can be carried  out. 
In this case, both Mr Ws ceding schemes  and the new SIPP  are personal pensions.
The LTA is a relevant  consideration  for an adviser when  transferring sizeable pension 
wealth. Of course, this requires some  awareness  of narrow tax matters. But the substantive 
advice here was around the interplay of these basic rules with Mr Ws current  and future 
pension arrangements.
A pension  is essentially  a tax wrapper around  an investment  so the extent  to which  Mr W 
would continue to benefit from that tax wrapper in full would be relevant to the advice.
So, I agree  with the conclusion reached  by our adjudicator. Even  though Chord set out the 
LTA calculation as a separate deliverable in the scope  of its work, it cant  use this to avoid 
the fact that tax considerations are a necessary part of the pension advice. 
This complaint is within this Services jurisdiction and I have authority to consider the merits 
of Mr Ws case.
Ref: DRN51695413merits of the case
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im upholding  Mr Ws complaint,  but not to the 
extent hed like. Ill explain why.
Ive reviewed the documentation  available from around the time Chord was providing advice 
to Mr W. Ive thought about the scope of the advice, the fact-find and financial planning 
reports. The detailed  testimony of both parties  has also been  helpful.
The scope of the advice Mr W wanted from Chord  was agreed in November 2015. Of the 
dozen key deliverables listed, one was to undertake an LTA calculation and provide advice. I 
can also see that in the fact-find - completed between  December  2015  and March 2016 - its 
recorded that Mr W was aware  of a reduction  in LTA. And that his position would be 
assessed to determine if he was able to apply for protection, if required.
Towards the end of the advice process in April 2016, Chord  provided  Mr W with a financial 
planning report. I think its instructive  that it plays back to him elements of its remit and his 
priorities. For example, on page  three it said:
As a result of your previous and current funding and accrued [pension] benefits we need to 
check your position regardingthe  Lifetime Allowanceto ensure compliance with the new 
rules and limits
 
You have specifically requested that I focus  my advice on the followingto  establish a 
suitable pension  vehicle to save for your retirement  in a tax efficient manner
In this context I do find it odd that the only reference  to the LTA in Chords  financial planning 
report from April 2016 is on page  28 in the technical  notes section. It briefly  describes what 
the allowance is and says the limit was £1.25m.
Chord says Mr W hadnt sought full advice in respect of the LTA protections, he only asked 
for the adviser  to calculate  whether or not there was any benefit to be had from the 
protections. Based on the pension transfer figures  advised by Mr Ws former pension 
providers, it says the answer  was no.
Ive seen calculations  Chord says wouldve been the basis  for considering  Mr Ws LTA 
position. It took the fund values it was advised of by his then pension  providers  (to be 
transferred to his new SIPP) and applied an annual growth assumption of 4%. To this it 
added the value of his remaining defined  benefit  pension. The sum indicated hed 
undershoot the standard LTA by his 60th birthday.
As an alternative scenario, Chord  says it modelled  the effect of ongoing contributions from 
Mr Ws employer  at £10k per year,  applying  the same growth  assumption  to his fund. This 
showed hed exceed the standard  LTA by the time he was 60, by a similar  order  of 
magnitude to his potential  undershooting without contributions.
I note that in a recent submission to us Mr W says Chord shouldve been  aware  his 
employers future contributions would be £15,000  per year.  But when he approached this 
Service initially, he told us:
As Chord IFA knew, because of the reduced Annual Allowance I had already planned to 
stop making any contributions to my pensions myself. From April 2016,  the only 
contributions to be made to my pensions were  from my employer (£10,000  per annum).
Ref: DRN51695414The assumption made by Chord here for employer contributions appears to be in line with 
what was understood  at the time.
So, there was a judgement call to be made.  Should  Mr W opt for FB and halt pension 
contributions from March 2016 and risk undershooting  the standard  LTA?  Or should he 
continue pension contributions and then seek to manage his position, for example by 
agreeing a different approach to his remuneration package if and when appropriate.
Ive thought carefully about Chords  advice to Mr W. In the circumstances, at that time, I 
think its guidance was rationale. I say this because it was aware Mr W wouldve had to stop 
making pension  contributions  if hed taken up FB. And it knew  his prime objective at the time 
was to increase  his pension provision.
The growth rate of 4 % that Chord assumed for Mr Ws pension fund may appear cautious.  
But the FCA approved illustrative rates of return at the time ranged  from a low of 2%, a 
higher rate of 8%, with an inter-mediate  rate of 5%. Chord says it used the inter-mediate rate 
and adjusted for the effect of charges on Mr Ws fund. I dont think  the approach it took was 
unreasonable.
Mr W says he wouldve  opted for FP if hed known how it worked and hed been  given more 
information about it. But given his objective  to maximise his fund, on balance I think  even if 
Chord had done  a better job in explaining  the LTA and protections,  its more likely  than not 
hed have gone along with what it was telling him. I say this because  in my experience, its 
rare for people to decide to go against  the advice of the professionals theyve hired.
Mr W took action  in late 2016 to stop contributions by his employer to his pension  to manage 
the LTA situation.  This was certainly  indicative of his concern about  breaching  the threshold 
in future  years.  But it seems to me this became particularly necessary because  the funds  
transferred into his SIPP were significantly in excess of what Chord  had been  informed  of.
Although Ive concluded on balance  that the substance of Chords advice was reasonable 
given the information available, I dont  believe  it handled delivery of this advice effectively.
Chord says the different LTA protections were detailed in writing for Mr W at various times 
and discussed  with him at meetings. It said further  written explanation was unnecessary and 
couldve been unduly complicating.
Nevertheless, Id have expected substantive  commentary in the financial planning  report  - or 
in a separate document - about  the implications of the LTA for Mr W. And Id have expected 
Chord to have shared its calculations.
This is especially the case given the agreed  scope  of the advice, the priority Mr W gave 
achieving tax efficiency  in his arrangements and the fact two days after Chord delivered its 
final financial  report a significant  LTA threshold  reduction was coming into effect.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusion  that Chord  shouldve done more  to alert Mr W to 
the implications of changes to the LTA. It met with him on five separate  occasions between  
November 2015  and April 2016. He shou ldve received more fulsome and formal 
information about FP and its pros and cons.
I note the day after Chord had issued  its report there  was a follow-up exchange of emails 
between Mr W and Chord as follows. On 5 April 2016 Mr W asked:  
Ref: DRN51695415One further question  that occurred to me today is regarding the lifetime limit. If I have £600k 
in Alliance Trust and £150k  transfer value in [my remaining defined  benefit scheme], within  a 
few years I could be over the £1m limit. What  happens then?
Chord responded the next day, saying:
The check for the Lifetime Allowance  will be the combined total of your Money Purchase 
arrangements, for a defined benefit schemes  it is 20 x the annual pension  I estimate  your 
current benefits are therefore  around  the £760/770k mark  so there is headroom before it 
needs to be looked at again
This is a short and almost  after the event exchange  about an important element of the 
pension advice Mr W had bought. He says it wasnt until October 2016, when the transfer 
of his former  pension  plans had been  finalised that he became aware  how close  he was to 
the LTA. He thinks Chord was negligent and that he wouldve applied for FP if hed been 
fully informed.
Both parties  seem to have had a broadly  similar  understanding  of the value of Mr Ws 
pension provisions at that time  that this stood at around  £750-770k. Mr W says hed have 
taken the numbers from the financial  planning reports. Chord says its figures were derived at 
the research stage from Mr Ws former pension providers.
In April 2016 the cash equivalent transfer  value (CETV) of Mr Ws defined benefit  pension 
was about £156k. This together with the value of the pension funds which  were  to be 
transferred into his SIPP as notified by his former pension providers gave a total of £781k for 
his pot  about £10k  higher than the range estimated  by Chord in its email response.
Chord accepts the email  exchange wasnt as accurate  as it couldve been. Nor in my view 
was it as informative  as it shouldve been.  However,  I dont think the difference  was 
ultimately material to Mr Ws deliberations. On the other hand, I find the variation between  
the value of Mr Ws pension transfers  as notified by his former providers and as materialised 
into his SIPP  more  telling.
Chord says Mr Ws pension  funds totalled around £821k at the time it gave its advice.  This 
included the value of his defined benefits  scheme at maturity of £196k.  And the then current 
value of the remainder  of the funds which it had been  notified would be transferring of about 
£625k. However, the value of the funds finally transferred to his SIPP  was over £100k 
higher. In the context of advising about  the LTA, this was clearly a material difference.
The bulk of the variation  between the value of Mr Ws pension funds as reported in April 
2016 compared with October  2016 can be accounted for by significantly higher transfer 
values being achieved in two of his personal  pensions.
Focussing on the largest discrepancy  of £80k, several factors  seem to be in play. Mr W 
says that he made additional contributions of around  £20k to the fund, which he concedes  
Chord may not have been aware  of. And his employer continued to contribute  between  
March and November  2016 adding another £12k.  Its also likely there was some 
investment growth.  These factors may account  for perhaps half of the difference.
While it wouldve been helpful  to understand how the remaining balance  is accounted for, 
Im satisfied that it wasnt as a result of things Chord did wrong. I say this because Ive 
reviewed the documentation it was given  by Mr Ws former pension providers and 
schemes.
Ref: DRN51695416This provides an audit  trail of the fund values  submitted to Chord. Most of these were  taken 
as at February and March  2016. I dont think it was unreasonable to use these values in 
the final reports it delivered to Mr W. And as Ive mentioned, these showed  his totals funds 
were worth around £781k (using the CETV  value  of his defined  benefits pension).
While Im satisfied  Chord drew on the right valuations to form the basis of its calculations 
and advice. As Ive already concluded, Chord shouldve provided  Mr W with more  fulsome  
and effective advice  about the implications of changes to the LTA and his options.
So, I need to think about the impact of what went wrong
When Mr W approached this Service,  he thought Chord should make good his additional tax 
liability, which he estimated could be £90,000. Hes revised his estimates of potential  
increased tax liability  over time. These  have  ranged  from nil to around £50,000.
Im not surprised Mr Ws estimates of loss have changed significantly. No-one can predict  
exactly what might happen to the value of their pension pot in the future and how much  the 
LTA might increase  by. But I would observe the potential for significant consequential  effects  
of taking a different course of action in 2016  had he secured LTA FP. These are 
complicated, and in some respects difficult to evidence and estimate.
Many of Mr Ws calculations of the financial loss he may incur proceed from the value of his 
fund as it stands  at present. But we know that the figures provided to Chord  about  his fund 
by his former  providers  were a significant underestimate of the monies  ultimately injected 
into his SIPP. Ive not seen anything which makes  me think  Chord was at fault for this.
And we know that further contributions have been made to Mr Ws pot. So, the fund base 
hes working from to make his case isnt like for like compared to the position he was in 
when he received advice in April 2016.
Its also helpful to reflect on the fact-find  Chord  conducted with Mr W in December 2015. For 
example, his intended retirement age was 65 (he was 49 at the time of the advice). His 
attitude to risk was high.  He didnt expect to use the money he was about to invest for over 
10 years.  Mr Ws top priority was to increase his pension. And his next priority was the ability  
to retire earlier.
At the heart  of Mr Ws complaint is that he feels his option to make use of the available  FP 
was foregone due to Chords poor advice. And that this has had an impact  on his future tax 
liability. But I think theres an element of hindsight in the position he takes.
For example, the value  of the LTA with FP was £1.25m. The threshold isnt being indexed  for 
inflation. In contrast, currently, the Government has indicated its intention to uprate the 
standard LTA annually  to account for inflation.  A useful proxy  is the Bank of England target 
rate for inflation of 2%. The standard LTA now stands at £1.07m. 
So, by 2031, the time of Mr Ws planned  retirement according to the fact-find  Chord 
completed, a reasonable estimate of the value of the LTA would be around  £1.33m. On this 
basis, Mr W appears no worse off having  not secured FP. 
Ref: DRN51695417In his recent submissions to this Service Mr W has focussed on the potential for retiring next 
year when he is 55. I accept his second priority in changing his pension arrangements was 
an ability to retire earlier. But Im not persuaded by his line of argument here. Retiring next 
year would be at odds with his expectations  as articulated in 2016.  And potentially  his prime 
objective then to maximise his pension fund.
Over the past few years Mr Ws funds have benefitted from very strong growth. And I dont 
doubt that he finds himself approaching a position where he can seriously consider retiring.  
But from what Ive seen  that doesnt  seem  to have been a serious  prospect in 2016.
If Mr W had told Chord in 2016 that he was aiming  to retire at 55, even if it had used FCAs 
intermediate rate of return without  an allowance for charges on his fund, together  with RPI to 
inflate the CETV value  of his defined benefits pot, I dont think  it wouldve advised  him to 
apply for FP. Thats because the projections wouldve shown hed be likely  to substantially 
undershoot the standard LTA if he didnt make  further pension contributions.
Chords modelling in this scenario is likely have been even more cautious.  Thats  because  
as an investor in high risk funds, volatility wouldve been factored into its advice. Considering  
the arrangements were  being made in 2016,  projected returns  over five years are likely  to 
have been lower because of the relatively  short  time horizon.
Taking all these matters together, Ive concluded  that it wouldnt be reasonable for me to 
direct Chord to pay Mr W the substantial award he seeks for losses  which  he asserts  will 
arise at some point in the future, because of advice he received in 2016, based on the 
situation he finds himself  in today.
Mr W hasnt incurred any increased tax liabilities associated with taking pension benefits at 
this stage. Hes currently suffered no financial loss. Mr W will no doubt  be seeking financial  
and tax advice  to ensure any future  liabilities  are managed  effectively.
putting things right
Mr W brought his complaint on the narrow matter of the advice Chord gave him concerning 
LTA and relevant  protections. Outside  of that matter it delivered substantial  advice about 
how to consolidate  his pension funds and his future  arrangements. So, I dont think it would 
be fair for me to require  Chord to repay all the fees Mr W paid for the considerable work its 
done on his behalf. Im not aware  of any other problems arising with it.
But as Ive concluded that there was a problem with the advice Chord gave Mr W around the 
LTA, which  is a significant element of what it contracted to deliver, I think it should  refund 
him £750 of the fees he paid. Chord  should  add 8% simple interest to this from the date he 
paid the fees until it settles.
Trouble and upset
When Im deciding a complaint like this, Ill think about whether  its fair to award 
compensation for trouble  and upset. This isnt intended to fine or punish  a business  which  
is the job of the regulator. But when somethings  gone wrong,  a businesss recognition  of the 
emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Ref: DRN51695418Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day  lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations.  For me to award compensation, I need to decide that 
the impact of Chords actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset.  Its clear  
to me this was the case here.
Understandably the matter of whether Mr W couldve and shouldve secured FP for his 
pension LTA has been playing on his mind. Hes experienced a loss of expectation and 
flexibility in planning  for the future.
Chord failed to effectively  advise  Mr W about the LTA and whether he should take up FP. 
His decisions werent fully informed. This was in scope of the advice it agreed to give him. In 
recognition of the trouble  and upset it has caused,  I require Chord to pay Mr W £500.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding this complaint  but not to the extent Mr W 
would like. I require  Chord Independent Financial Advisers Limited to:
-Refund £750 of the fees Mr W paid for advice.
-It should add interest  to this sum at 8% simple per year (less  any tax lawfully  
deductible) from the date Mr W paid the fees until the date settlement is made; and
-Pay Mr W £500 for the trouble and upset its caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5169541