K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains BQI Group Limited failed to highlight  and explain a clause in his motor  trade 
combined insurance policy when selling it to him. He says this resulted  in a claim he made  
being declined.
background
Mr M owned a garage insured by a motor trade combined policy taken out through BQI, an 
insurance broker. The policy was underwritten by a well-known insurer  but the actions of that 
insurer arent part of this complaint.
A fire occurred at the garage while he was extracting fuel from a vehicle. He made a claim 
on the insurance policy but it was declined by the insurer as it said he hadnt used the right 
proprietary equipment to undertake the extraction. It pointed to a clause  in the policy  terms 
that it said explained the requirement.
Mr M said BQI had failed to highlight  and explain this particular clause when he purchased 
the policy and because of that, he said he wasnt aware of what  was required. In turn he said 
BQI should cover the claim. BQI said it had highlighted this and the other clauses to Mr M, 
so it didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
considered the evidence  and said the clause was a common one in motor  trade  policies and 
so she didnt think BQI needed to highlight it specifically. 
Additionally, during the sales conversation and when it sent him the policy documents, she 
said BQI had asked Mr M to read the terms of the policy   including the particular term in 
question  before he confirmed  he was happy  to proceed. She said as Mr M had asked for 
clarification about  the clause  following his conversation with the loss adjuster, it followed that 
he was aware of it.
She also didnt think  Mr M had complied with the requirement to undertake  the drainage  of 
the fuel in a safe position, away from ignition sources. Overall,  she didnt uphold the 
complaint or ask BQI to do anything further
Mr M remained unhappy and asked an ombudsman to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware the fire has had a huge  impact on Mr Ms livelihood  and Im sympathetic to what 
hes been through.
My role here is to consider the evidence thats been  presented by the parties, to quickly  and 
informally decide how this complaint  should be fairly  resolved. And having done that, Ive 
reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I realise 
Mr M will be disappointed by this so Ill explain my reasoning.
Ive looked at what I consider to be the key aspects of this complaint in turn
What caused  the fire?
Ref: DRN59732982A forensic  investigator was appointed to deal with the claim on the policy.  From his 
investigations and discussions  with Mr M, he explained Mr M had used a re-purposed fuel 
pump that hed designed  and manufactured himself  to extract the fuel from the car. He used  
the fuel pump from an older vehicle, connected to a 12-volt car battery via two crocodile clips 
and some jump leads.
The forensic investigator explained  the vapours from the fuel were  flammable such that any 
tiny spark or ignition source  could cause them to ignite. And he said this would have been 
possible if the crocodile  clips had slipped or been separated when the jump  lead was being 
manoeuvred, causing a spark to form between the two conductors. 
He concluded  the fire was most likely  caused by the ignition of fuel vapours by an electric 
arc generated between one of the crocodile clips of the pump  supply and the jump lead.
Ive not seen anything to suggest either of the parties disagree with this report.
The clause in question
Mr M had been a customer of BQI since 2006 and arranged the renewal of his policy through  
BQI every year since then apart  from in 2014  when he briefly used a different broker. 
Theres been no suggestion by Mr M that this policy wasnt appropriate for his needs,  but he 
says BQI should have  highlighted  the particular clause the insurer  used to decline the claim.
This clause  was:
It is a condition precedent to the Insurer's liability in respect of loss or damage under
Insured Perils 1 and 3 of Section 1 - Material Damage that in respect of the drainage
of vehicle fuel tanks the Insured must ensure that
a)the procedure  is carried  out
i.in a safe position in the open or
ii.in a well-ventilated area away from pits and ignition sources using  a 
proprietary retriever fitted with adaptors suitable for that type of vehicle..."
Im satisfied these terms are clear  and wouldve been contained within the policy book sent 
to Mr M after the sale of the policy.
Mr M has said these  terms  shouldve been drawn  to his attention specifically given their 
significance. Id expect  an insurer to draw a consumers attention  to significant and unusual 
policy terms, so Ive thought about this one.
BQI says it highlighted this and other  relevant clauses; Mr M says it didnt. The 
conversations about the renewal of the policy took place face to face with one of BQIs 
representatives. This means  theres  no recording of the conversation or email audit trail 
detailing what was discussed. Because of this, I cant definitively conclude  what was said. 
So, in the absence of corroborative  evidence on either side, Ive gone on to consider 
whether this condition  is unusual  for policies for the motor trade  and garages.  I have looked 
carefully at the terms and conditions of three motor trade policies, from well-known insurers,  
found by our investigator. All of these contained  a similar condition requiring the use of a 
proprietary fuel retriever (PFR) to drain  fuel from vehicles. So, it doesnt seem to me this was 
an unusual condition for this type of insurance policy. 
Ref: DRN59732983As a result, I wouldnt  have expected BQI to draw Mr Ms attention to this term any more so 
than the rest of the policy as I wouldnt consider it unusual or restrictive  as he has 
suggested.
Im also mindful BQI told Mr M he should read through the policy  terms and ensure he was 
happy with them before proceeding  with the policy. This is in line with what  Id expect any 
consumer to do when  purchasing an insurance policy.  As Ive said above, the terms were 
clear so had he done  this, it seems likely he would have  been aware  of the condition 
requiring him to use a PFR.
The extraction of flammable fuel is an inherently dangerous process so I also looked to see 
what external advice was available.  I found  online information from the Health  and Safety 
Executive in its Safe Use of Petrol in Garages  leaflet.  
This explains the use of a PFR is the way to solve most of the hazards  associated with this 
process. It also advises against  the use of any electrical equipment on or near the vehicle 
while draining is being undertaken, even when using  a PFR. This even includes small items 
like mobile phones, pagers and inspection lamps.  
So while Ive taken  into account Mr Ms comments that hes used his own method previously, 
I cant ignore the relevant health  and safety  advice  Ive outlined above and it seems the use 
of a PFR is commonplace. As a result, Mr Ms use of this method doesnt persuade me that 
this wouldnt be an expectation within  this trade.
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Im not persuaded that this condition was sufficiently 
uncommon to warrant specific  highlighting by BQI. So Im satisfied  it didnt do anything 
wrong even if it didnt highlight the condition as Mr M suggests. It follows that I wont  be 
asking it to do any more  in this case
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2020.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5973298