K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about the compensation offered  by Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) for 
a mis-sold payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy that was taken out alongside  a credit 
card.
background
Mr R took out a credit card with Barclays in May 2004. At the same time he took out a PPI 
policy associated with the credit card. The PPI was cancelled  in March 2005.
In 2019 Mr R complained  the PPI had been mis-sold. Initially Barclays  said that wasnt the 
case but it offered  and paid to him a refund of some excess commission that he had paid 
related to the PPI. Mr R wasnt  happy with that and brought  his complaint to this service. 
Barclays then offered to fully uphold the complaint that the PPI was mis-sold and pay full 
compensation, less the amount that had been refunded for the excess  commission. Mr R 
wasnt happy with the amount of the offer that Barclays then made  as he said Barclays 
hadnt worked out the compensatory interest  correctly.
Our adjudicator looked at the offer Barclays had made and how it had worked out the 
compensation and said the offer was fair. Mr R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman  to 
review the complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr R first complained to Barclays it didnt uphold his complaint that the PPI had been 
mis-sold. But it did say he had paid excess commission as part of the PPI premiums.  It 
offered and paid compensation to refund  the excess commission and interest this caused 
plus some  compensatory  interest. 
Mr R wasnt happy with this offer as he wanted all the premiums and interest plus 
compensatory interest  as he maintained the PPI was mis-sold. Barclays  then agreed to 
uphold the complaint and pay a full refund of all PPI premiums, interest  on those premiums 
at card rate, any fees caused by the PPI costs being in the balance, plus 8% simple  interest  
for any period  Mr R had been out of pocket. Barclays calculated this and deducted  the 
amount already paid for the excess commission.
However Mr R was still unhappy as he said Barclays had not fairly calculated  the 
compensatory interest.  Mr R wants compound  interest at the card rate or interest  based  on 
any loan or credit card he used to pay his Barclays credit card balance. He submits that 
when he fully cleared his Barclays credit  card in 2010 he paid the balance  from other  
borrowings which were at a higher rate than the 8% simple  interest  that has been calculated 
for the compensatory  interest. 
I have looked  at all the facts and calculations, both from Barclays and Mr R, that have been 
submitted in this case. Overall Mr R isnt complaining about the calculations prior to 2010  
when he cleared in full his credit card balance.  It is the compensatory  interest after he repaid 
the balance that he is unhappy with. 
Ref: DRN58912702The credit card and the PPI started in May 2004.  The PPI ended in March  2005 but Mr R still 
used the credit card and had a balance on it continually until 2010.  
In working out compensation the approach has been taken by Barclays is that the PPI costs  
remained in the balance as the last thing to be paid off. This service  thinks  that is a fair 
approach as it means card rate interest is paid to a consumer on any amount of the PPI 
costs that could be deemed  to be still part of the balance.
There may be other ways  of calculating how the PPI costs were paid which could be 
considered fair but this approach by Barclays means the consumer gets card rate interest on 
any amount of the PPI costs that could be in the balance. So it is a generous and fair 
approach. 
Until Mr R had fully cleared his balance, which happened in September  2010, he was not 
deemed to have paid for the PPI costs so was not out of pocket  for any amount. Once he did 
clear his balance  he had fully paid to Barclays all the PPI costs so from that point was 
deemed out of pocket  for the PPI. Barclays has calculated 8% simple  interest  per year on 
the total amount he was out of pocket until the date he was fully repaid all the costs in April 
2019. 
It is the period  from September 2010  to April 2019  that Mr R is disputing as he is unhappy 
with the 8% simple  interest rate applied. He says when he spent  on his credit  card again 
after clearing  the balance the PPI costs should  be re-drawn on the account,  that is they 
should be added back into the account balance. He argues this would be fair as he borrowed 
money to repay his credit card balance  and paid a rate of interest higher than 8% simple.
I dont agree this would be a fair approach to take. From October  2010  Mr R spent on his 
credit card and the balance that accumulated after this date going forward was totally 
unrelated to the PPI costs. All PPI had been removed from the balance and repaid to 
Barclays.
Mr R did not borrow more  money from Barclays to pay his credit  card balance. He paid the 
balance with funds  he had obtained from elsewhere which he chose to use to repay his 
credit card balance which included the PPI costs. So looking at Barclays  position in this 
situation, it seems fair that it should take the approach it had been repaid all the PPI costs  by 
Mr R, so he was out of pocket for this amount and it should pay him 8% simple interest on 
the amount he was out of pocket. 
I have noted all Mr Rs comments about  Trust Law and that he may have been  paying a 
higher rate of interest on further borrowings for the costs of the PPI with a third party.  But I 
do not agree  there is clear  evidence to show Barclays should take a different approach  than 
it has and use a different  interest rate. 
Yes as Mr R says, Barclays held the money that he paid for the PPI costs  for a number of 
years. Just as it would if he had paid the money into a deposit account. And Barclays is 
paying him interest on the amount at a rate that is deemed fair and has been  applied by the 
courts. 
I note the limited information provided  from Mr Rs credit file relating to a loan from a third 
party taken out at the end of October 2010.  The Barclays  credit card seems  to have been 
cleared after the September 2010 statement and the October  2010  statement has a credit 
Ref: DRN58912703balance showing.  As Mr Rs loan appears  not to have  been taken until the end of October 
2010, this seems to be after the credit card balance  was paid,  so there is no clear, direct  link 
to show this loan was directly related to the repayment of the PPI costs in the credit  card 
balance.
Consumers often transfer balances onto other credit cards,  sometimes  for a period  of zero 
rate interest, or may take out a loan to clear a card at a loan rate that is less than the credit   
card rate, so less interest is paid.  But Mr Rs loan was for substantially more  than the credit  
card balance and it is unclear from the information  provided that it was actually taken out 
before Mr R cleared  his balance so actually used  the loan money to directly  pay the credit 
card.
When considering  compensation in this type of case we expect that the business will put the 
consumer as far as possible in the position they wouldve been in if the PPI had never  been  
taken out. Taking  account of all the facts  and information I have seen I think  Barclays has 
taken a reasonable approach to do this. 
It has refunded the full PPI premiums charged, the interest caused by those premiums,  any 
fees caused by the PPI costs being in the balance until 2010 and also worked out 
compensatory interest  for the times Mr R had repaid  to Barclays  the full costs of the PPI. 
And I think this is fair in all the circumstances presented.
my final decision
I am not upholding  the complaint that Barclays Bank UK PLC needs to recalculate the 
compensation in a different way. I think the compensation calculated  and offered is fair and 
Im not telling the business to do anything  more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5891270