K822xcomplaint
Ms M complains about Allianz Insurance Plcs handling of a claim she made after she had 
problems with her drains.
background 
Ms M has an insurance policy underwritten by Allianz which, amongst  other things, covers 
damage to buildings at a property she owns.
Ms M owns the freehold to the whole property, which has been converted  into two flats. 
The leasehold for the downstairs flat is owned by a third party. Ms M owns  the upstairs flat 
and rents it out.
Ms M made  a claim in 2016  when  the drains  at the property  appeared to be backing  up, 
causing damage to the inside of the property. 
Ms M wasnt happy with the time it was taking Allianz to deal with the claim. She also 
thought it was unfair that they should  record it as a new claim, when she felt the issues  with 
her drains were the same  as those  dealt with in previous  claims.
She said Allianz hadnt provided her with information  she was entitled  to see  including 
reports about her drains. And she thought theyd provided information to the leaseholder of 
the downstairs  flat when they ought not to have done so.
Ms M made  a complaint  to Allianz about these issues.  They  said there  were  no undue  
delays in the handling of the claim, which remained outstanding because Ms M needed to 
have remedial work - which wasnt covered by the policy - carried out before Allianzs  
remaining repairs could be undertaken.
But they accepted they hadnt copied Ms M into some communications  with the leaseholder 
of the downstairs flat, which they should have done. And that theyd made  payments to the 
leaseholder, which they shouldnt have done given  that Ms M was the policyholder. They  
apologised for this and assured Ms M it wouldnt happen again.
Ms M wasnt happy with this outcome and brought her complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into it. He didnt think it was unfair for Allianz to record this as a new 
claim. But he did think there had been some avoidable delays which were Allianzs 
responsibility, even  if the majority of the overall delay wasnt  down to them. 
He agreed theyd inappropriately communicated with the downstairs leaseholder. And he 
took the view they could  have provided  some  information to Ms M more quickly  than they 
did.
On that basis, he said Allianz should  pay Ms M £300 in compensation for her trouble and 
upset. Allianz agreed that was a fair and reasonable outcome.
Ms M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN52651002my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I should be very clear  about what issues Im dealing with in this decision.  Ms M 
has brought three separate complaints to us which are all related to the problem with her 
drains and the aftermath  of that.
Shes complained that the policy didnt  provide  legal  assistance cover  which  she believed 
she had. Ms M has been involved in an on-going  legal dispute  with the leaseholder at the 
property.
That complaint was against  a different insurer, which was the underwriter for the legal 
protection element of the cover provided in the policy. Weve issued a separate  final decision 
on that complaint.
Ms S has also complained about the broker who sold her the policy, given that it didnt in fact 
provide all the cover she thought it did. Again, weve issued  a final decision on that complaint 
separately.
This decision is solely about Ms Ms complaint against Allianz and their handling of her claim 
under the buildings  cover provided by her policy and underwritten by them.
Ms M has raised  several issues about  Allianzs handling of the claim. Ill deal with each of 
these in order below.
Is this a new claim?
Ms M believes  the issue with the drains in 2016  was the same  as the issue  supposedly 
addressed when previous claims were dealt with in 2010 and 2012. 
She thinks its unfair to record a new claim in 2016  because Allianz  are essentially dealing 
with the same things  they failed to put right in 2010 and 2012. And shes  concerned about 
the effect the recording of another claim will have  on her future  insurance premiums.
I dont agree with Ms M on this point,  for two main reasons.
First, when Ms Ms drains  were inspected after she made the claim, the expert who carried 
out the inspection specifically noted that the problem was with an area of the drains which 
had not been repaired when the previous claims were resolved.
Theres no other evidence  from anyone with any expertise in this area which  would suggest  
this is not true. So, I dont think its unfair  or unreasonable for Allianz to assume, on the basis 
of the evidence available to them, that the issue is a new one and that this should be 
recorded as a new claim.
Second, the previous claims were made  in 2010 and 2012. At the latest, around four years  
before the 2016 claim. Ms M says there  have been persistent problems with the drains in 
that period, but I dont think its unreasonable for Allianz to think that if they hadnt properly 
addressed the drainage issues in 2010 and 2012,  that would have become apparent  much  
sooner, if not immediately  after theyd  completed  the previous work.
Ref: DRN52651003The drains have  clearly been functioning   to a great extent at least   between  2012 and 
2016. And theres no evidence to suggest the drains failure  in 2016 is in any way related to 
any shortfall or failing  in the repairs carried out in 2010 and 2012. And again, the only expert 
to offer a view so far says the problem in 2016  was in a different area altogether.
Delays in handling  the claim
The claim was made  in 2016. Its still on-going.  On the face of it, thats quite a delay. Its 
important though to understand the detail in terms of whats  happened since  Ms M made the 
claim in January 2016.
Im satisfied Allianz addressed the claim  very speedily initially  their loss adjustor inspected 
the damage in January 2016.  The drains were repaired  within a relatively short  time.  And the 
strip out of the property and drying  out works  were begun within a reasonable timescale.
At that point, by May 2016, Ms M was asked to provide quotes for the internal repairs. Ms M 
didnt respond,  despite being chased by Allianz. And as a result,  they decided to close  the 
claim.
I think Allianz might have been  slightly premature  in closing  the claim,  but I cant  blame  them 
for Ms Ms failure to respond to their request for quotes or for the delays caused  by that. 
They heard nothing from Ms M until January  2017.  At that point it became clear  that she was 
involved in a legal dispute with the downstairs leaseholder. And Im satisfied Allianz  could do 
little to progress  the matter at that point.  
It had also become apparent that the drying out work hadnt been  entirely  successful. When  
Allianz looked into this, they found that the part of the building  affected  appeared to have no 
effective damp proof course. This was again confirmed by an expert  inspection.
It was reasonable  at this stage for Allianz to advise that the repair  works theyd intended to 
carry out following  the drains backing  up would be pointless unless and until the underlying  
damp issues in the property were resolved.
Putting in a damp proof course in that part of the property  was not covered by Ms Ms policy.  
It wasnt the case that an existing damp proof  course had been damaged by the incident with 
the drains. It appeared that the property hadnt previously had any damp proof course  in that 
area  which  had at one point been part of the outside of the property. 
So, the main reason  for the delay in the repairs - and indeed for the repairs  still not being  
completed when  this complaint was made to us - is that the repairs cant  be carried out until 
Ms M, or whoever is legally responsible for the damp proof course,  have an effective damp  
proof course  installed.
We could no doubt almost endlessly debate who was responsible  for which days  delay in 
the course of the last few years - and whether that was Allianz or Ms M  but fundamentally, 
thats of no significance. The block to the repairs being carried  out is the lack of a damp 
proof course  in that part of the property. And I cant in fairness  hold Allianz responsible for 
that.
Ref: DRN52651004Failure to provide Ms M with information / reports
There are a number of points in the handling  of this claim, where Ms M has either requested  
updates on progress from Allianz or has requested they send her reports  or information 
relating to the claim and theyve failed to do so in a timely manner.
I dont intend here to go through every communication between Ms M and Allianz in detail 
and say whether  I think any delays  were unreasonable. 
But, for example,  I can see Ms M requested updates on the progress of the claim in January 
and February 2016 and didnt receive  a response at the time.
I can also see that there was a significant delay in Allianz providing Ms M with copies of the 
reports relating to her claim  after shed  requested  them in early  2016 and again in early  
2017.
Allianz communications with the downstairs leaseholder
Allianz accept that they contacted the downstairs leaseholder  direct,  when they ought not to 
have done so, given that Ms M is their policyholder  and that shed asked  them explicitly not 
to do so.
They also accept they made a payment to the leaseholder to cover  electricity costs, without 
going through Ms M. Its not for me to say whether that payment ought to have been made  
by some means or other, but Allianz  accept they ought to have involved Ms M.
Summary
Im satisfied Allianz made mistakes in the handling  of this claim. They did fail to provide 
Ms M with information shed requested.  And they did contact the leaseholder direct   without 
involving Ms M  when they ought not to have done so.
I agree  with our investigator that £300 is fair and reasonable compensation for these errors 
on Allianzs part.
Im sorry  that Ms M finds herself in this position   and Im sorry her relations with the 
downstairs leaseholder appear  to have become so toxic.
But I cant see that Allianz have caused undue delays in this claim which have had any 
impact on Ms M. As I say, the block to progress is the lack of a damp proof course  in the 
relevant parts of the property. 
And I dont  think it was unfair for Allianz to record this as a new claim. Whilst that may affect  
the prices Ms M pays for insurance  in future, Im satisfied  its an accurate representation of 
the facts.
Ref: DRN52651005my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Ms Ms complaint in part.
Allianz Insurance Plc must pay Ms M £300 in compensation  for her trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2021.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5265100