K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Yorkshire Building  Society  (Yorkshire) - mis-sold  them  payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
In 2001, PPI was added to a mortgage Mr and Mrs B were taking out. The policy  was in both 
their names  with the benefit split according  to their incomes at the time. It was free for the 
first six months, after which they paid £30.43  a month for it. But Mr and Mrs B feel that this 
policy was mis-sold.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
After doing that, I dont  think  the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs B and Yorkshire agree the policy  was sold during a meeting. During  that 
meeting, Yorkshire  shouldve made  Mr and Mrs B aware they had a choice in buying the 
policy.  Mr and Mrs B say they were told they had to have the PPI in order  to get the 
mortgage. 
Yorkshire has provided a copy  of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage documents   including the PPI 
application form. The PPI form contains options for the type of cover  an applicant wants  and 
Mr and Mrs B have  chosen the option  that best suited their circumstances at the time and 
have signed the form. There is nothing to suggest  the PPI was compulsory and from what  
we know about  how Yorkshire sold these policies  at the time  it usually gave customers the 
option. 
So I think its likely Yorkshire made it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI 
and they choose to take it  although I can understand why they cant remember  this. 
Mr and Mrs B say Yorkshire recommended they take the PPI. Based on my experience of 
how Yorkshire usually  sold policies at the time,  I think  its possible the salesperson explained 
the benefits of taking  PPI and the possible  consequences if they didnt. But I dont think  its 
likely it gave them specific advice about  whether to buy the policy. So this means it didnt 
have to check if the PPI was suitable  for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs B 
got the information they needed  to decide if it was right for them.  
Mr and Mrs B say they werent told about the conditions or the cost of the policy. Looking at 
everything Ive been given,  its possible  the information Yorkshire gave  Mr and Mrs B about 
the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen  of their 
circumstances at the time, it doesnt  look like they were affected by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the PPI cover.  Such  as unusual working  patterns  or existing medical  conditions.
Mr and Mrs B say they had a good level of sick pay benefits from their employers. But the 
policy only covered  them for unemployment.  I note their comments about  their other means  - 
in particular the large amount of savings they say they had at the time and Mr Bs potential 
Ref: DRN53339812redundancy pay. The PPI wouldve paid out alongside any redundancy pay out Mr B was 
entitled to. And it also wouldve covered Mrs Bs share  of the repayments if she had been 
made unemployed. 
Ive given careful thought to what Mr and Mrs B have said about their savings. But having 
the policy wouldve  meant they could  have used those savings to pay for other essential 
costs if either of them found themselves  unemployed. 
Mr and Mrs B were  borrowing  funds against a large and long term financial commitment,  
which was secured on their home. So I think having the security that their mortgage 
repayments would be made if either of them was made redundant would have been 
important to them. So it looks like the policy  would  have been useful for them if something 
went wrong.
From everything Ive been given, looks like the policy  was affordable  for them.  And the policy  
could have been cancelled at any time had their needs changed. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Overall I dont think Mr and Mrs B have lost out by anything Yorkshire might have done 
wrong. Which means Yorkshire doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs B.
But Yorkshire will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because: 
When the policy was sold,  Yorkshire  expected to get a high level of commission  and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B 
about that. Because Yorkshire didnt tell Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Yorkshire has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Yorkshire has to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Yorkshire  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs B any 
extra interest Mr and Mrs B paid because of that.
Yorkshire should pay back to Mr and Mrs B the extra they paid each  month because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Yorkshire should 
also pay Mr and Mrs B 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs B can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Ref: DRN53339813Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5333981