K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs complaint against AvantCredit  of UK, LLC (AvantCredit) concerns how it dealt with 
his Data Subject Access Request.
background
In late 2018, Mr H made a data subject access request (DSAR) to AvantCredit. He received 
a response in early  2019, but was unhappy  with how this was dealt with. 
He says he then received  a further  DSAR  response, a little later in 2019, which  he hadnt 
requested, and he was concerned with the security of this given how the information  was 
sent to him.
Mr H complained to our service. He said he was unhappy with how AvantCredit had handed 
his DSAR. He said it was incomplete, and labelled full of acronyms  hed asked explanations 
for, but which took over six months to be issued. He was also unhappy that he received 
further information  specifically phone  recordings   in response  to his original DSAR,  but 
outside the 90-day time limit. Not only was he unhappy that this seemed like a new DSAR, 
which he didnt make, he was concerned that the calls were emailed to him, and a password 
to access them, and that these messages could have easily  been  hacked.
He wanted compensation for the distress when he thought a second  unsolicited DSAR was 
being processed, and for the time hed spent researching best practice  and looking at the 
ICO Guidelines.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters and concluded  that AvantCredit hadnt  treated Mr H 
unfairly such that it needed  to take further  action to resolve his complaint. She also 
commented that the specific  handling of a DSAR  was a matter for the Information 
Commissioners Office  (ICO).
She didnt  uphold the complaint, and Mr H still maintained his position.  He felt hed been 
treated incorrectly and poorly by AvantCredit in respect of his original 2018 DSAR and he 
wanted an ombudsman  to review the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that theres insufficient evidence to 
allow me to uphold the complaint and say AvantCredit treated Mr H so badly that it needs to 
offer him redress now.
I appreciate this decision will be disappointing  to Mr H. I know hes had some history with 
AvantCredit, and that this complaint was an off-shoot from another. While Im sorry to see 
hes been inconvenienced and upset by whats happened,  I cant  say that his treatment 
warrants any remedial action by AvantCredit.
In 2018 Mr H made a DSAR to AvantCredit.  He was unhappy at how it complied with his 
request. He said it took too long, he didnt  understand the acronyms used, and it sent him 
unsecure private information unsolicited.
Ref: DRN52587732The matter  of the acronyms is unfortunate, and I would have expected AvantCredit to send a 
glossary of these with the DSAR info, and at the very least  when Mr H first requested it. 
While its disappointing that it took for our service to become involved before a glossary  of 
terms was issued, I cant say that the impact of this on Mr H was so great  that compensation 
is appropriate. Mr H is clearly intelligent  and tech-capable, so Im sure some,  if not all, of 
these acronyms could  have been  explained  by doing some alternative research.
In terms of the time taken to comply  with the DSAR,  we now know that the telephone calls 
were provided as part of the first DSAR, but that they were late and outside of the 90-day 
time limit. While I accept this isnt what AvantCredit  was expected to do, it did ultimately 
comply with the DSAR  and wasnt too far outside  the deadline. Its also not our role to punish 
businesses for non-compliance with DSARs. As our Investigator correctly  pointed out, thats  
a matter for the ICO. I cant say that what AvantCredit did here so adversely affected Mr H 
that compensation is a proportionate response. 
In relation to the telephone calls that were emailed to Mr H, weve  established that this was 
in response to his original  DSAR and indeed were  calls he specifically requested.  Its not 
ideal that they came  separately to the original response,  but Im satisfied Mr H should  have 
been able to work out that they were connected, and were not the result of a new DSAR  he 
didnt make. 
In relation to the security of this information, it was sent to Mr Hs personal email  address, 
which I can only presume he keeps safe in accordance with its own security  measures. The 
password to unencrypt the calls was sent separately, and to the same  secure  email  address. 
Im satisfied that this was proportionate and sufficient.
Overall, while  I can see Mr H is unhappy  with how AvantCredit handled his DSAR, I dont 
this his complaint  grounds are sufficient to warrant any redress  be made  to him. I dont think  
it would  be proportionate to whats happened. I appreciate this decision will be disappointing  
to him, and hope  Ive explained why I think its fair to both  parties.  He may wish to contact  
the ICO with any further issues he has. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.  
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5258773