K820x#14complaint
Ms S says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with a new credit card in 2004. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already told Ms S that they didnt  think  her mis-sale complaint  
should be upheld.  However, Halifax has since offered to give back  to Ms S some  of the cost 
of the PPI related to the commission it received. 
Ms S still thinks the PPI was mis-sold in the first place and has asked for an ombudsmans  
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ss mis-sale complaint.
Weve seen a few similar cases  to this and as a consequence, we now know  quite  a bit 
about how the sales processes normally worked  and the type of paperwork that was used 
during the course of these  particular  sales. We know, for example, that consumers usually  
spoke with a Halifax adviser to discuss  their requirements and as a result of that discussion 
a credit agreement was then drawn up for the consumer to check and sign.
We were sent an actual copy of Ms Ss agreement  and I can see a box about PPI was 
selected on the form. We know the sale was carried out in a branch,  so I think  the PPI 
being chosen in this way wouldve  been done as a result of the conversation Ive mentioned 
above. Ms S also signed the agreement, so I think this shows she asked for the cover. 
So whilst I accept this is all quite a long time ago now, I think  its more  likely Halifax  properly 
got Ms Ss consent for the PPI and she would have been able to see she had a choice.  
Halifax concedes this was probably an advised sale. This means it had a duty to make  sure 
the PPI was suitable for Ms S. I think it was.
This is because I think Ms S was eligible for the PPI and I dont think  that shed have been 
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. The monthly cost of 
the policy was 78p per £100 of the outstanding  balance which  was comparable with similar 
policies I know were  sold around that time.  Ive got no evidence to suggest this was 
unaffordable for Ms S. 
Ms S says she got sick pay with her job and I agree  this would have  been  relatively  good.  
But Im afraid this doesnt necessarily mean  the PPI wasnt of any use. In the event  of a 
successful claim  for example, the PPI could have paid out 10% of her outstanding credit 
card balance for up to a year.  And having  very carefully considered  everything Ms S has told 
us, overall I think the policy was suitable  for her.
Ref: DRN58123912Halifax also had a duty to make  sure the information it provided was clear enough for Ms S 
to make an informed decision.  I obviously cant say she was told everything she should  have 
been told. But weve been sent a copy of a letter Ms S was given  about  the PPI policy  at the 
time of the sale dated 26 July 2004. And as Ive said, I think there  would have been a 
discussion about the policy and how it worked.  
All this means I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading  as 
Halifax, doesnt need to refund everything  Ms S paid for it. But its offered to give her back 
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  Bank  of Scotland  Plc 
will make arrangements  to pay Ms S now Ive issued my final decision, if it hasnt already 
done so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint  about the mis-sale. I dont 
direct Bank of Scotland  Plc to do anything more  than the above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5812391