K820x#14complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with the service shes received from Admiral  Insurance Company Limited 
(Admiral).
background
Mrs R was unfortunately involved in a car accident in August 2018. The third party  accepted 
liability and Mrs R contacted who she believed was Admiral to make  a claim.
Following this, a claims management  company (Company A) arranged  for Mrs Rs car to be 
recovered, a hire car provided and settlement of the claim.
In October  2018 Mrs R was contacted by Admiral  asking  about the incident. 
Mrs R responded to Admiral to advise the claim had been dealt with by Company A. She 
also said she was unhappy  with the content of the letter because as far as she was 
concerned, the claim had been dealt with. When Admiral  became aware  of this, they asked a 
series of questions about how Mrs R had come  to use Company A.
Mrs R made  a complaint  to Admiral about the letters she had received.  Admiral responded to 
the complaint  and didnt uphold it. Admiral apologised for the tone of the letter, but said this 
was generic. Admiral  also said that it was Company A which notified them of the incident, as 
they werent previously  aware, and the files were now closed.
Admiral said they had no affiliation  with Company A. They  also said that adverts for this firm 
may have  come up when  searching from a mobile device, which is likely how Mrs R had 
come to use them. Admiral further explained  that they were unable  to act where  the third 
party isnt using their branding.
Mrs R was unhappy with Admirals response  so she complained to us. Our investigator 
looked into things  and didnt think Admiral had acted unfairly. They  said Admiral wasnt able 
to control any adverts placed online by third party accident management companies, but 
they had an article on their website  which made  consumers aware of this. They  also didnt 
find the letters sent were unfair.
The investigator also explained that the Financial Ombudsman Service  isnt the regulator  of 
financial businesses, so was unable to ask Admiral  to change their business practices 
generally.
Mrs R didnt agree with the investigator and asked  for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Mrs R has raised  a separate  issue relating  to the increase  in her renewal premium following 
the accident. As this didnt form part of the original complaint, the investigator explained this 
couldnt be considered as part of this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN55854612To be clear, Im not commenting on the renewal premium in this final decision as it wasnt  
part of the original complaint to Admiral and so is being dealt with separately.
Having considered all the information  provided by both parties, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Admiral were unaware of the accident  until they were contacted  by Company A. So Mrs R 
must have  been  in communication with Company A from the outset rather than Admiral, as 
she believed. I dont  think Mrs R now disputes  this. It was following contact from Company A 
that Admiral wrote to Mrs R.
As Admiral were  unaware of the accident  before being contacted  by Company A, I dont 
think they acted  unreasonably in writing to Mrs R for clarification of the incident. Having 
reviewed the letter  that was sent on 2 October  2018, its generic in nature and simply asks 
for details  about  the accident  and the claim. I dont find the content  of the letter  
unacceptable.
When Admiral  were  made aware  that Company A had handled the claim, they also wrote  to 
Mrs R with multiple questions. Having seen  this letter, it appears that Admiral were  trying to 
establish how Company A had become involved.  
I acknowledge that there  were a large number  of questions asked, but this was so Admiral  
could find out all the relevant information  in order to investigate further. I dont think  asking 
these questions was unreasonable.
Admiral has explained  that when searching  from a mobile device,  some  paid third party 
companies adverts come up in the results. They also explained  how paid adverts  work.  
Admiral doesnt have control over the results  that appear. 
Theyve explained that if the third party company isnt using their branding,  then there isnt 
much more they can do. But Admiral have published  information  on their website about  
claims management companies to make  customers aware of the importance of calling the 
right number. I dont think Admirals position on this is unfair. 
Admiral lists the correct number to call in the event of a claim on both the policy  documents  
and website. Whilst I understand  that Mrs R feels that customers at the time of an accident 
wouldnt look to these  to check  the number, Admiral  isnt able to control the searches that 
come up online. Therefore I am unable to say Admiral should do more here.
As our investigator also explained, we cant direct Admiral to change their practices  or the 
design of their website.  That would be a matter for the Financial Conduct  Authority,  as the 
regulator  if they felt Admirals business  practices were inherently  unfair  to customers.  
Our role is to consider whether Mrs R has been  treated unfairly  in this case. I understand 
why shes upset about what happened, but I cant hold Admiral  responsible  for the way 
internet searches from mobile phones work. 
In any case, I cant see that Mrs R has suffered any financial or other loss as a result of the 
way her claim was handled. 
Ref: DRN55854613my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5585461