K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank Plc is going to close his account  if he doesnt clear  his 
overdraft.
background
In August  2018,  Mr F used his bank card to withdraw cash,  causing  his account to go into an 
unarranged overdraft. Lloyds wrote to him in September and told him that his account  had 
been referred to their Collections  department  because it was in arrears.  The letter said that 
Mr F should contact them  to discuss clearing the arrears. They  sent a further  letter to Mr F in 
October, asking him to make payment  or make an arrangement  with them  by a specified 
date in October.  The letter said that, if the account  remained in arrears they would have to 
close it in two months time.
Mr F complained to Lloyds about  the letter, which he thought was misleading and 
contradictory. Lloyds  didnt uphold his complaint so Mr F came to this service.
 
When our adjudicator looked  into it, Lloyds explained that Mr F had made a similar complaint 
in July 2018. This was about a letter  they had sent him at that time which  was along  the 
same lines as the one sent in October. On that occasion they had accepted  that the July 
letter was potentially unclear. They paid compensation of £50, which took Mr Fs account 
back into credit. They  say they explained to him on that occasion that their account closure 
process takes around two months,  so that is why the letter  gives  two months warning of 
possible closure but asks for payment of the arrears within a shorter  timescale. 
Lloyds say that, in light of this background, Mr F would have been aware of the reasons for 
the differing timescales when he received the second round of letters in September/October.  
So they dont  think the current complaint should  be upheld.
Our adjudicator thought that Lloyds have acted fairly. So she didnt ask them to do anything.  
Mr F didnt  accept that view and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
He says that this is the second time he has had to complain to Lloyds.  And that Lloyds are 
discriminating against him because he doesnt  have a lot of money  going  into his account. 
He feels that customers  with more money  going into their accounts wouldnt be treated this 
way.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for Lloyds to decide when they might  want to end an agreement with a customer. But the 
terms and conditions of Mr Fs account  say that they must give two months notice in writing  
before doing so. 
Mr F doesnt have an overdraft facility on his account. But the account is overdrawn and 
Mr F hasnt  paid funds in to put it back into credit, despite Lloyds contacting him and asking 
him to do this. They also gave him the option  of contacting them  to make  an arrangement if 
he wasnt able to clear  the arrears  in full. But Mr F hasnt cleared the arrears or contacted  
Lloyds to make an arrangement. So I think its reasonable for Lloyds to exercise their right to 
end the agreement. The fact that the account was only overdrawn by a small amount doesnt 
change my view.
Ref: DRN53034062I think the way Lloyds have implemented the terms and conditions  is fair, in that they have 
given Mr F the correct amount of notice under  the terms  and conditions.  They  have also 
explained to him what he needs  to do to avoid the account being closed.
So I havent seen  anything which makes me think Lloyds  havent followed the terms and 
conditions or that they have applied them unfairly.  I would  add that these are the terms 
which apply to all customers with a Lloyds personal  current account or savings account. So 
theres no evidence  of any discrimination against Mr F here. And I havent seen anything 
else which makes me think Mr F has been  discriminated against.
As to the fact that Lloyds  have previously paid compensation to Mr F for a very similar 
complaint, I dont think that means they need to pay compensation here.  They accepted 
previously that the July letter could  have been  misleading. But, in dealing  with that 
complaint, they explained the timescales in the letter to Mr F. So when he received  a similar 
letter a few months later Im satisfied he would have known how to interpret it.
I wouldnt expect Lloyds  to change their letters or their approach on the basis  of a single 
complaint. In any event,  I dont think the letter Mr F complains about here is misleading. Its 
clear that Mr Fs account has become overdrawn and that Lloyds are asking him to pay off 
the arrears. Its also clear that there  could  be consequences if he doesnt do this. 
Mr F didnt  have a pre-arranged  overdraft and he would  have  known this. That being  the 
case, its not unreasonable for the bank to have contacted him about his account  becoming 
overdrawn and it cant have been  entirely  surprising  to Mr F when they did so. Also,  because 
this had happened before,  when Mr F took his account into another  unplanned  overdraft  in 
August he would have known  what the potential consequences were  even  if he didnt know  
the first time around.
So I think Lloyds have  acted fairly  here and I wont be asking  them to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5303406