K822xcomplaint
Mrs R and Mrs S, as trustees of a statutory trust, complain, with the help of their 
independent financial  adviser, that The On-Line  Partnership Limited (the business) wrongly 
advised them that they could withdraw money  from an investment bond the trust was 
invested in.
background 
Mr R died in 2007  without leaving a Will so his estate was dealt with in accordance  with the 
laws relating to intestacy which meant a statutory trust arose with regard to his estate. This 
meant his wife, Mrs R, was entitled  to £125,000 and a life interest in half the residual estate, 
amounting to £106,000, under an interest  in possession trust. The other half of the residual 
estate went to their two children equally.
Mrs R, as life tenant, is entitled to the income  from the trust throughout her life, and on her 
death the two children  will be entitled to the money  in the trust as the remaindermen or 
capital beneficiaries.
Mrs R and Mrs S received advice from another  business in 2007  to invest  the £106,000 in 
the investment  bond. This initial  advice  is the subject of a separate  complaint  which  has 
been referred to us.
In August  2012  Mrs R and Mrs S saw an adviser  for the business as they wanted to 
withdraw £7,000  to be paid to Mrs R, which they then did.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint a copy  of which is attached  and forms part of 
this final decision.  I upheld the complaint and in short I made the following findings:
I wasnt satisfied that the adviser  didnt need  to consider the suitability of withdrawing 
£7,000 from the bond  despite the reference to Mrs R and Mrs S having received 
advice from a solicitor.
As the bond  is a non-income producing asset  I didnt think Mrs R and Mrs S were 
entitled to withdraw the £7,000 from it and this is something the adviser shouldve 
been aware of.
Only the children were  capital  beneficiaries  and the trustees werent entitled to 
withdraw the money to pay to Mrs R.
The adviser recommended the money  be repaid 18 months later but it is unlikely Mrs 
R still had the means  to pay this back by then.
The adviser shouldve  also told Mrs R and Mrs S to stop the regular withdrawals 
which were paid to Mrs R. But I wasnt satisfied  the business should pay anything  for 
this because when  they were advised to stop these withdrawals in December 2013 
they didnt do so.
Any tax consequences of having to surrender  the bond and reinvest in a more 
suitable investment  isnt the responsibility  of the business as it didnt provide the 
original advice to invest.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding to my provisional  decision and providing  
any further information they wanted  me to consider before making my final decision.
Mrs R and Mrs S agreed with my provisional decision but the business  didnt. In summary it 
made the following points:
Ref: DRN50755372The £7,000  was a partial  encashment/surrender  and the surrender document  is only 
partially completed although  signed by both Mrs R and Mrs S. The provider has 
confirmed to the business that all beneficiaries  wouldve needed to sign and the 
payee would  need to have been identified. Can I confirm I have had sight  of the 
completed document and that payment was to Mrs R rather than one of the children?
The requirements surrounding an individual trust would typically be more likely to fall 
within the remit of a solicitor rather than adviser,  especially  where the solicitor was in 
possession of the grant of probate and had originally established  the required trust 
some years earlier.  So the solicitor clearly  had a long-standing relationship  with the 
complainants and a good understanding of their circumstances  in relation to the 
estate.
The advisers letter of 4 December 2013  stated that Mrs R was advised  by her 
solicitor that she was entitled to take any capital  growth from the bond above  the 
original amount invested. There is no evidence Mrs R or Mrs S disputed  this at the 
time so the contemporaneous evidence indicates it was both the advisers  and the 
trustees understanding that the legal advice allowed for withdrawals.
Given withdrawals continued to be made  from the bond  after December 2013 it isnt 
unreasonable to expect  the £7,000 to have been  repaid  over the subsequent five 
years or for the level of withdrawals to be reduced to allow  the trust to recover the 
£7,000 through growth.
If Mrs R couldnt repay the £7,000 in December  2013 it wouldve  expected  this to be 
highlighted to the adviser so alternatives  could  be investigated. As there  is no 
evidence she did this it suggests a failing in the trustees obligations rather than the 
advisers.
The fact the £7,000  hasnt been  repaid or given any priority by the trustees suggests 
that Mrs R had no intention of repaying the funds she knew  she wasnt  entitled  to and 
this remains the position. Given Mrs Rs actions against the trust it isnt rational  to 
require it to repay the funds she has already had the benefit  of.
Notwithstanding the above comments it notes the £7,000 encashment wasnt  
appropriate and the advisers interaction  with the withdrawal  in the early  stages it 
considers it reasonable to offer compensation for the investment return the £7,000 
wouldve produced  if it had remained invested in the bond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the various points made by the business but Im not persuaded to change 
my decision.
The business has said the provider has told it that all beneficiaries wouldve needed to sign 
the surrender  form but it has provided  no evidence  of this. The trustees dont have a copy of 
the form they completed but I note that the copy provided by the business requires the 
signature of all legal owners, not beneficiaries. 
So Im not persuaded that the beneficiaries signed  the form, or that they were required to do 
so by the provider at the time, regardless of what the business  may have been told recently 
about this. And whilst I acknowledge that the bank details  needed  to be completed,  this 
seems to be the only information  that was required before the form was submitted. It was 
signed by both trustees and they had also initialled  various amendments in the form.
Ref: DRN50755373I note the business has suggested that the requirements of a particular  trust are more in the 
remit of a solicitor than adviser.  Firstly  I would  point out that the trust wasnt set up by the 
solicitors, as the business has said. As I said in my provisional decision, the trust was a 
statutory trust that arose on the death of Mr R without a will.
Secondly, the adviser was advising the trustees and on that basis I think  it is reasonable to 
expect him to understand their obligations  as trustees when  advising  about a withdrawal 
from the bond, and advise  them accordingly  - regardless  of the involvement of solicitors and 
what Mrs R and Mrs S believed  they were entitled  to.
Im not persuaded that it was reasonable to expect Mrs R to repay the money after 
December 2013.  Mrs S has told me the money  was used to make  improvements to the 
house, so it was no longer available. And the fact that Mrs R needed withdrawals to 
supplement her income suggests she didnt have  the means to repay this from income.
I also dont think the fact the trustees  didnt tell the adviser Mrs R couldnt repay the money 
suggests a failing in the trustees rather than the adviser as the business  suggest. As I have 
said, Im satisfied Mrs R wasnt  in a position  to repay  the money. Mentioning  this to the 
adviser wouldnt change  her financial position. I see nothing irrational in requiring the 
business to repay the money in circumstances where the money has been spent and Mrs R 
cant easily repay this. 
What the business should do to put things right.
The business should pay £7,000 to the trustees for this to be put back into the trust. If this 
money had remained  in the trust it may have produced a return. So the business should  
calculate what return the money  wouldve  achieved  if it had remained within the investment 
bond between  the time it was withdrawn in 2012  until the date of settlement and pay this to 
the trustees.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons I have  explained  above and in my provisional 
decision. The On-Line Partnership has to pay the trustees the money  it calculates  is due as 
set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R and Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 March 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN50755374COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs R and Mrs S, as trustees of a statutory  trust, complain, with the help of their independent financial 
adviser, that The On-Line Partnership Limited  (the business)  wrongly advised  them  that they could 
withdraw money from an investment bond the trust was invested in.
 
background
Mr R died in 2007 without leaving a Will so his estate  was dealt with in accordance with the laws 
relating to intestacy which meant  a statutory  trust arose with regard  to his estate.  This meant his wife, 
Mrs R, was entitled  to £125,000  and a life interest in half the residual  estate, amounting to £106,000, 
under an interest  in possession trust. The other  half of the residual  estate went to their two children 
equally.
Mrs R, as life tenant, is entitled to the income  from the trust throughout  her life and on her death the 
two children will be entitled to the money in the trust as the remaindermen or capital beneficiaries.
Mrs R and Mrs S received  advice from another business in 2007 to invest  the £106,000  in the 
investment bond. This initial advice is the subject of a separate complaint which has been referred to 
us.
In August 2012 Mrs R and Mrs S saw an adviser for the business  as they wanted to withdraw £7,000 
to be paid to Mrs R, which  they then did.
In December 2013 the business  wrote  to the Mrs R and Mrs S advising them that, according to 
HMRC, an investment bond is a non-income producing  investment as it puts the capital at risk of 
erosion. And that it should  only be used as an investment for a life interest where all the beneficiaries 
gave permission.  
It warned that the provider  had said that the other capital beneficiary  could take action against the 
estate as investment was made into a non-income producing asset which  could amount to a breach  of 
trust. The adviser recommended moving  the money into an alternative investment.
Mrs R and Mrs S complained  to the business in 2017. It didnt uphold the complaint.  It said the £7,000  
withdrawn from the bond was one the beneficiaries were entitled to as they were entitled to the 
capital, so this didnt  breach the terms of the trust and the original adviser  had confirmed  that no loss 
arose from this withdrawal  anyway, based on information the bond provider had given.
One of our investigators considered the complaint  but didnt uphold  it. He said the business had a 
responsibility to check that the withdrawals were appropriate. But, whilst it didnt seem appropriate, 
the effects of this were  largely unknown as no legal action had been taken  so there wasnt really 
anything we could ask the business to do. 
He said he couldnt  award compensation to the trustees so this only left the potential tax liability  to the 
trust. He said it wouldnt  be unreasonable for the business to reconsider this if a liability did arise in 
the future although thought this was more likely  to be the responsibility of the firm that advised about 
the investment  in the first place.
Mrs R and Mrs S didnt agree with the investigator and asked for a review by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN50755375The business  isnt responsible for the original advice to invest  in the bond.  But once  they started  
providing advice this needed to be suitable. The business has accepted that there was a discussion 
about withdrawing £7,000 from the bond. It has suggested that Mrs R and Mrs S told the adviser they 
were entitled  to take anything over the initial sum invested  out of the bond and then requested that 
£7,000 be withdrawn. It has also suggested that this was after initial advice  Mrs R and Mrs S had 
received from their solicitor which the adviser was entitled to rely upon.
Im not satisfied that what Mrs R and Mrs S told the adviser meant he didnt need to consider the 
suitability of  withdrawing £7,000 from the bond. I have seen nothing to indicate  he was shown any 
advice from the solicitor,  so he doesnt  appear to have had anything he could rely upon as it is 
suggested he did. And Mrs R and Mrs S have said that all their solicitor advised  them  to do was to 
seek financial  advice which  is why they went to the business.
 
The business  has suggested  that as the withdrawal didnt break the requirement to keep the capital 
intact or give rise to a tax liability the adviser did nothing wrong.
I dont agree with the business. Mrs R was only entitled to the income  from the trust.  And the advisers 
letter of 4 December 2013 explained that the investment bond  is a non-income producing  asset.  I 
understand this to mean that the trustees werent  entitled to withdraw any money from the bond to 
pay to Mrs R as income. This is something I think the adviser shouldve been aware of when first 
discussing the withdrawal  of £7,000.
 
The business  has also suggested there was nothing wrong with the withdrawal of £7,000 as the 
beneficiaries are entitled  to the capital. But it is the children as capital beneficiaries who are entitled  to 
the capital, not Mrs R who is only entitled to income. And given the payment was for the benefit of Mrs 
R it is clear it shouldnt  have been made.
I note the adviser  suggested  the £7,000 should be returned  to the bond in the letter of 4 December 
2013. But this was nearly 18 months after it had been taken out and at this point Mrs R was very 
unlikely to have had the means to pay this back in.
In summary I think  the adviser did have a responsibility to do more than just proceed with the 
withdrawal on the instructions of Mrs R and Mrs S. Im satisfied  he shouldve checked whether this 
was suitable for the trust to do. Im also satisfied that the withdrawal shouldnt have taken place and 
that the trust has lost £7,000  as a result which  the business should pay to the trustees.  I acknowledge 
Mrs R has had the benefit  of this money but the complaint is on behalf of the trust not her personally.
Im mindful that in addition to the £7,000 Mrs R and Mrs S made regular withdrawals which  were paid 
to Mrs R.  This is something the adviser  shouldve also advised them to stop in August 2012.  But I 
dont think it is appropriate for the business to pay anything with regard to the withdrawals.
This is because the trustees were told in the letter  of 4 December 2013 that the investment bond was 
non-income producing and that there had been a potential  breach  of trust. Despite this Mrs R and Mrs 
S continued to take withdrawals from the bond and made no attempt  at the time to move the trust 
money into a different investment. 
I acknowledge that in their letter of complaint  Mrs R and Mrs S say they met with the adviser after the 
letter was received but that he didnt  explain  what  the implications of the initial  advice to invest in the 
bond were  and promised to review this and come back to them, but didnt.
But I think the letter of 4 December 2013 made it clear that they needed  to do something and Im not 
persuaded that it was reasonable for them  to assume they didnt need to do anything  when they 
received no further contact from the adviser.
There is reference in the complaint to the tax implications of Mrs R and Mrs S having  to surrender the 
investment bond and reinvest in a suitable investment. But I think  any tax consequences result from 
the original  advice  to invest in 2007  which  the business isnt responsible for.
Ref: DRN50755376What the business  should  do to put things right.
The business  should pay £7,000 to the trustees for this to be put back into the trust. If this money  had 
remained in the trust it may have produced a return. So the business should  calculate  what  return  the 
money wouldve  achieved if it had remained within  the investment bond between  the time it was 
withdrawn in 2012 until the date of settlement and pay this to the trustees.
my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons  I have  explained.  The On-Line Partnership Limited has to pay 
the redress  I have set out above.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5075537