K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds trading at the time of sale as 
Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold  them a mortgage payment protection  insurance 
(MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a further  advance on their mortgage in November 1998 and at the 
same time took out an MPPI policy that covered them both against  accidents, sickness and 
unemployment. They arranged  the mortgage and insurance in a meeting in one of Lloyds 
branches. They arranged the policy so that Mr D would be able to claim for 75% of the 
benefit provided and Mrs D 25%.
In April 2000, Mr and Mrs D applied for a further  advance and at the same time amended  
their MPPI policy to increase the benefit  provided,  matching the monthly  repayment amount.
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage and MPPI policy ended in February  2003.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr and Mrs D dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint for the following  reasons:
I first of all looked into whether Mr and Mrs D were given a choice to have  the policy.  I 
have done this by considering both parties  recollections  and any documentation 
provided from the sale. 
Mr and Mrs Ds recollections about the meeting in November 1998 are not detailed.  This 
is understandable due to the many  years that have passed since the date of sale.  So I 
have needed to look at the sales documentation provided from that time to obtain an 
understanding as to what more likely  happened.
I think, after considering the documentation  provided and what I know of how Lloyds 
sold policies  at that time, it is more likely that Mr and Mrs D were advised  it was a good  
idea to have the insurance  to protect  their mortgage repayments, and they took it on that 
advice.
I have come to this conclusion  because  the sales documentation  I have suggests to me 
that the policy was presented as optional.  I can see that, when the separate application  
form was being  completed and signed  by Mr and Mrs D, that the MPPI policy was 
presented on this form as an optional requirement.  On balance,  when considering  the 
information in front of me, I am persuaded Mr and Mrs D were given a choice to have 
the MPPI policy.
Ref: DRN59007622Moving on, I think Lloyds recommended  the MPPI to Mr and Mrs D, but it doesnt look as 
if it was unsuitable  for them based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Mr 
and Mrs D cant remember what their sick pay entitlement  was at the time of sale, but I 
think the benefits provided by the policy would have  been of use to them  in a time of need.  
Having the policy  in place would mean Mr and Mrs D could use any provisions to cover  
other expenses. I think, on balance, Mr and Mrs D would have found the cover the policy  
provided useful  for any extended period of unemployment or sickness.  I can also see no 
other reasons such as a significant or restrictive term that would  make  the policy  
unsuitable either. Mr D has said he had a medical condition at the time of sale and there is 
a restrictive  term relating  to pre-existing medical  conditions  within the policy. But I dont 
think this would have  meant the policy was unsuitable for Mr D as he has told our service 
the condition was controlled  at the time of sale.
I cannot be sure if Mr and Mrs D would have received  the costs  of the policy  clearly  in 
the meeting but even if they had received all the information  on this, I dont think it would  
have changed  their mind  to have the cover  for the reasons that I have already given. 
The MPPI  policy was reasonably priced  compared  to similar  policies available  at the 
time and to the monthly repayment.  And Mr and Mrs D could have cancelled the MPPI if 
it did become unaffordable.
Its possible Lloyds  didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs D wouldve  been affected by any of these based on what I have already 
concluded.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs D, but on balance, I do not uphold  
their complaint for the reasons that I have given.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  
Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 
12 July 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5900762