K820x#14complaint
Miss Es complaint is about  the administration of her extended warranty with Domestic & 
General Insurance Plc (D&G). She is unhappy that two premiums were  collected from her 
bank account  in the autumn of 2018, but D&G  said it didnt receive them. This resulted in the 
warranty being cancelled.
To resolve  her complaint,  Miss E would  like D&G to refund the two payments it claimed not 
to have received,  pay the premium for the warranty for a year and compensate her for the 
time and energy she has put into trying to sort out the problem as it has been mentally and 
emotionally draining. 
background
Miss E took out a warranty  with her television in July 2018. The warranty provided cover  for 
the television breaking down. The premium was to be paid monthly by direct debit from 
Miss Es bank account.
D&G attempted  to collect the premium for the policy five times  between 24 July 2018 and 
10 October 2018. On four of those occasions it was told via the electronic banking system  
that the payment had been  rejected.  In July 2018 this was because the direct debit mandate 
had been cancelled by Miss E. In August 2018,  using  a different mandate, D&G  was told it 
wasnt paid because there were insufficient funds in Miss Es bank account  and the two later 
occasions, using  the same  mandate, because shed cancelled it. Only one premium was 
collected; on 3 September  2018. 
D&G wrote to Miss E about the missed  premiums and she responded. After the first missed 
payment she provided a new direct debit mandate. Following the subsequent ones she 
checked her bank account.  She went back to D&G explaining that payments had been  taken 
from her bank account. 
As D&G wasnt receiving  the premiums due it cancelled the warranty.  Miss E complained.
D&G didnt  uphold the complaint. It said the direct debit had been requested,  but the request 
had been rejected by Miss Es bank. The direct debit mandate  had then been  cancelled. It 
said the warranty would be cancelled within 30 days if an alternative payment method wasnt 
arranged. It didnt consider it had done  anything wrong.
Miss E wasnt satisfied with D&Gs response and she asked  us to consider the complaint. 
We requested that D&G provide any evidence it wished us to consider when reviewing the 
complaint. It did so and, whilst it didnt consider it had done anything  wrong,  said if Miss E 
still wanted the warranty, it would be willing to provide a new plan as long as she made sure 
with her bank the direct  debit mandate wouldnt be cancelled. It would also refund the one 
premium that was successfully collected.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint, but didnt recommend it was upheld.  Miss E 
didnt accept the investigators view. She provided copy bank  statements  showing that the 
payment D&G had been told had been rejected because  of insufficient funds and the 
October payment  rejected  because the direct debit  mandate  had been cancelled, had been 
debited from her bank account and hadnt been  re-credited  to the account.  Miss E 
commented that this showed she had paid premiums for August,  September  and October. 
Ref: DRN52284092Miss E subsequently provided this service  with bank statements that covered the entire period 
between 27 August 2018 to December 2018. These showed three  payments  being made  to 
D&G by direct  debit  and none of those  payments being  credited  back to the account.
Information about the payments debited  from Miss Es account were given to D&G. It 
explained the direct debit  process and that if money is recalled by a paying  bank, it can 
happen some days  after the initial payment goes through. So while payments may have 
been debited, they could then have been  re-credited  it hadnt been  given  bank statements 
that covered the recall period. 
Our investigator concluded that Miss E had paid three of the four premiums she had been 
due to pay at the point  the warranty was cancelled by D&G. She thought the situation  came 
down to issues within the banking system and Miss E shouldnt be penalised for that 
situation. As such,  D&Gs  offer made when the complaint came  to this service  appropriate; 
to provide Miss E with a new warranty (provided  she ensure with her bank  it was set up 
correctly) and refund  the premium  it did receive.  
Miss E didnt accept  the investigators  view. She said she could get an insurance policy 
anywhere. She wanted compensation and asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman. D&G  accepted the investigators view.
I issued my provisional decision on 30 January 2020, in which  I set out my conclusions  and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt of that decision.
It is a policyholders responsibility to ensure that payments  for a plan or policy are made. It 
is clear in this case that Miss E did what she could to ensure the payments were made. 
When she realised the problem with the first direct debit arrangement  shed given D&G, she 
provided correct details. This is evidenced  by the fact that it acknowledges having received 
one payment and Miss Es bank  statements  showing three were collected.
I have noted D&Gs comments about direct debit recalls, but we have seen (and copies will be 
provided following  this provisional decision) that none of the three premiums debited from Miss Es 
bank account  were recalled by her bank. Equally, I have seen the evidence  from D&Gs bank that 
the direct  debit requests were rejected and that it only received one premium payment.
Looking at D&Gs actions  in isolation,  based on what it had been told by its bank, those 
actions were reasonable. It had requested four months worth of premiums, but only received 
one. In those circumstances, it was entitled  to cancel the warranty for non-payment. I cant  
find that what it did was unreasonable. 
However, I can also understand  Miss Es concerns  because she paid three  of the four 
premiums requested. I think it likely that had the problems with the direct debit not occurred, 
the missing fourth premium would also have been  collected and she would have had the 
warranty she had requested. It would now have ended and, given Miss E hasnt said she 
had any problems with the television she bought, it doesnt appear she would have had 
cause to claim under the warranty.
Miss E has asked for compensation for the upset and inconvenience  this matter caused  her, 
which is understandable.  However, I can only order a financial business to compensate  a 
complainant when it has done  something  wrong. As I have said above, I havent found  that it 
did, so I cant require  D&G to compensate Miss E for the problems she encountered.
Ref: DRN52284093This issue all seems  to have come about due to something  going  in the banking system 
somewhere between D&Gs bank and Miss Es. That doesnt appear to be D&Gs  fault, 
based on the evidence I have before me. Reasonably it can be seen that there are two of the 
premium payments held somewhere  in the banking system as they were  taken  from Miss E, 
but not paid to D&G. Miss E may well be entitled to these funds back, but in order for this 
matter to be looked into, Miss E will need  to raise the matter of the direct  debit  payments not 
being forwarded to D&G  with her bank.  It will then be able to look into what happened and 
where the two premiums  went. 
The offer D&G made as a gesture  of goodwill was appropriate in the circumstances as it 
understood them at the time.  I can also understand why Miss E might not want to accept it. 
As that is the case, I see no point in endorsing  the offer further. 
Neither D&G  nor Miss E provided any further  comment or submissions in response to my 
provisional decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset to decide  whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and in light of 
the fact that neither party has provided any further  evidence or comment, I see no reason to 
change my conclusions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5228409