K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained The Co-operative  Bank  PLC (Co-op) blocked a transaction on his 
debit card and subsequently  provided  poor customer  service.
background
Mr D bought a car using  his debit card. Later the same day he tried to use the same  card to 
pay for his shopping  but the transaction was declined.  He says he had not received  any 
communication from Co-op that his transaction was declined which left him embarrassed 
when he could not pay for his shopping.
Mr D also says when he contacted Co-op  he was advised by a staff member  that he should 
have contacted the bank  prior to making  a large  payment, but this was not contained in the 
terms and conditions of his account.  He says he wanted to make a complaint but the staff 
member told him it wouldnt be successful. After making a complaint he received a letter 
from the Co-op saying  his complaint  had been resolved when he didnt feel it had been. 
Mr D says he recognises banks need fraud prevention systems but is simply looking for an 
apology from the bank for poor customer service after his transaction  was declined.
Co-op say Mr Ds overall spending on his card triggered their fraud prevention  measures. 
This resulted in a block on the payment Mr D was trying to make for his shopping, but not a 
complete block on his card. Subsequently  this was flagged  as potential fraud and referred to 
their fraud team. Co-op say their terms and conditions require them to make Mr D aware as 
soon as they can. Before they could  contact Mr D hed phoned  them and the block  on his 
shopping transaction was removed.
Co-op go onto say their staff member did explain their position  over the phone,  but did not 
escalate Mr Ds complaint as no error had been made. If the complaint had been escalated it 
may have  given Mr D the impression there  was something further  to investigate,  which the 
Co-op say was not the case.
Unhappy with the banks response, Mr D brought his complaint to our service. An investigator 
here has looked at Mr Ds complaint but didnt  think Co-op had done  anything wrong. Mr D 
has disagreed  with our investigator saying his complaint  is not resolved even though the 
letter from the Co-op says it has been.
Mr D has asked for an ombudsmans decision on his case. So this matter has been referred 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I see this complaint being in two halves, the first about the blocked  payment on Mr Ds debit 
card and the second about the customer service he subsequently received from the Co-op.
blocked payment
The terms and conditions  for Mr Ds account say:-
Ref: DRN57961882We can block  or suspend your use of any payment deviceif we reasonably believe its 
necessary because of:
a) a significantly increased  risk that you may be unable  to pay money  you owe us on 
the relevant account, for example  if you have  gone  over an arranged overdraft limit:
b) suspected  fraudulent  or criminal use of the payment device: or
c) security  concerns, for example. If we know or suspect that your payment device 
and/or security details  have been  misused.
If we block or suspend the use of a payment device, well let you know  why as soon as we 
reasonably can.
Ive looked at Mr Ds bank statement in the lead up to his car purchase and can see a 
number of transactions being made. So, looking  at what the Co-op have  said,  I can see it 
may have  been  the pattern in spending  that caused  them to be concerned  about  fraud  on 
Mr Ds account, as opposed to a single  transaction. Ive no doubt the high value car 
purchase acted as a significant trigger to the one later in the day that actually blocked his 
shopping transaction. In this respect  I dont think the Co-op  has done anything  wrong  by 
blocking Mr Ds account as they took fraud avoidance measures in line with their terms and 
conditions.
Mr D has then argued Co-op should have alerted him about  their fraud concerns prior to his 
declined shopping  transaction.  But the terms of Mr Ds account say as soon as the Co-op 
reasonably can. As Co-op had referred Mr Ds case to a fraud  advisor rather  than as part of 
their automated system, I think it reasonable they would not contact Mr D immediately. 
Especially as Mr D phoned Co-op  soon  after his shopping transaction  was declined. So I 
dont think the Co-op  has done anything wrong here either.
Mr D accepts his bank  has to operate its own fraud  monitoring mechanisms but is 
disappointed with the customer service he subsequently received when contacting the      
Co-op.
Its always a balance for banks between blocking genuine transactions and stopping 
fraudulent ones. We dont  generally  dictate how banks manage their fraud monitoring 
services unless its clear theyve done  something wrong. That doesnt take away  from the 
fact Mr D was undoubtedly inconvenienced  and had to leave the shop without his shopping.
customer service
I have listened  to the telephone call Mr D made  to the Co-op after his shopping  transaction 
was declined. In this call the fraud advisor is helpful and does apologise for the frustration  
Mr D has experienced  in having his transaction blocked. The advisor also suggests to Mr D 
he could have made contact with the bank prior to making a large purchase and any 
complaint he makes wont have any different outcome as the bank are only applying their 
own terms and conditions.
Like Mr D, I have read the terms and conditions of his account  but can find no reference to 
the point made by the Co-op advisor to contact the bank prior to making a large purchase.  
Ref: DRN57961883But thats not to say the advice given was wrong.  And in any event the Co-op  didnt block  Mr 
Ds purchase of his car. But they did block his subsequent purchase of shopping  because  of 
overall spending including the high value car purchase. So whilst I cant  guarantee Mr Ds 
shopping transaction wouldnt  still have  been  declined if he had contacted Co-op prior to 
making his car purchase, the Co-op advisor appeared to be offering helpful advice and I 
dont think has done anything wrong  here.
I have then thought about the information  given by the advisor  about  Mr Ds complaint.   I 
have already said that Co-op blocking Mr Ds shopping transaction  appears to be in line with 
their terms  and conditions. So taking this into account, I think  the advisor was simply  
managing Mr Ds expectations about  what may happen next.  So whilst she does record the 
complaint, she has told Mr D the Co-op  terms and conditions have been followed. So I dont 
think the Co-op have  done anything wrong here either.
The last point Mr D complains about  is the letter he has received from Co-op, part of which  
says;
Were sorry that youve  had reason to complain. Following our conversation we believe this 
has now been resolved
Mr D does not believe his complaint has been  resolved. But the Co-op advisor  did tell him 
the terms and conditions of his account meant the shopping transaction  could be declined.  
And the Co-op  would  not immediately contact Mr D when a transaction  was blocked,  which  
are the two main issues in Mr Ds complaint. So, whilst I accept Mr D still feels  aggrieved by 
his treatment by Co-op, I dont think they have done  anything wrong.
I know Mr D will be disappointed by my decision, but weighing everything  up, I think it is fair 
in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I do not uphold  the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Carl Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5796188