K821x#15Complaint
Ms B has complained about  how long its taken  Action Credit  Management  Limited (ACM) to 
arrange an Individual  Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) for her.
Background
Ms B contacted ACM in February  2019 looking for help with her debt as she had bailiffs at 
her door. She says when she first called  up she was told an IVA was the best route, and 
provided all the information  shed been  asked for. Initially she felt things were progressing  
well with the first two people she spoke to. But then by mid-April  2019 bailiffs  were  back at 
her door saying theyd  not heard anything from ACM.
Ms B contacted ACM, and she says she was told theyd made  a mistake and hadnt 
progressed her file. Two weeks after this, Ms B went to another company to get some  advice  
on what ACM had done  and says she was told an IVA should really  only take a couple  of 
weeks to be put in place, but also that an IVA might not have been the best option for her. 
She says she was advised to complain to ACM, and in future keep everything in writing  for 
her records  and protection.
At this point Ms B says ACM acknowledged her complaint, and then things seemed to be 
moving along as bailiffs  were put on hold again.  As part of this she was asked for further 
information, which she says shed already provided to ACM. Following her replying and 
saying this, she says she then heard nothing further.
At the end of May 2019 Ms B says she ran out of patience and emailed everyone shed 
spoken to at ACM  asking  for an email update. Ms B says she received a reply  saying  
theyd need to speak to her on the phone, but she says shed  told them on many occasions  
she didnt want to talk on the phone and explained her reasons why. One of those reasons 
include how speaking on the phone affects  her mental health  which  she had shared with 
them.
Unhappy at the lack of response from ACM, Ms B asked us to look into things. During this 
time Ms B received contact from bailiffs again. This time she contacted  them directly and 
was told a private agreement had been  made between  ACM and the bailiffs, something she 
says ACM didnt tell her. 
One of our investigators  started looking into things. Initially  ACM told us the advice given to 
Ms B to take out an IVA came from one of their advisers. But later on, said the advice came 
from an insolvency practitioner (IP). Our investigator explained we dont have any authority  
to look into the advice given by an IP, but given the information provided so far would need  
some evidence of that. 
After several months where our investigator made multiple requests  to ACM to provide all 
the information needed to investigate this case,  she decided  to issue her outcome. She 
found the evidence we had, suggested  an ACM adviser, not an IP, gave the advice  partly 
backed up by the inconsistent information  ACM had given her, but also because  Ms B had 
provided an email from an ACM adviser  suggesting this as well. In relation to the advice  to 
take out an IVA she couldnt see the information  Ms B had been given by the other  company  
was relayed to ACM, so didnt think they had to do anything  further here. But she did think  
ACM hadnt provided good customer service,  by insisting they call her rather  than adhere  to 
her wishes  of written communication  and awarded  £100  compensation for this.
Ref: DRN50823252Ms B was prepared to accept this, but ACM werent. They  said they didnt think  they should 
have to pay the £100 and asked how the issue could be appealed.
Because of that, the complaints been  passed  to me to decide. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its firstly important  to address the point ACM have raised about who gave the advice.
Ms B has said she called up and spoke  to someone  who Ill call M. Despite several  requests, 
ACM havent provided copies of call recordings, so I cant hear whats been  said. 
But, I do have an email  sent by M, which says:
We are going through  the process  of sorting  your finances, we have looked at all options 
that are available and can confirm that with the information provided  over the phone the IVA 
looks to be the best solution currently. We will be looking to arrange  payments to all of your 
creditors and ensuring that your priority  bills are payed (sic).
The email  footer says its been sent by ACM, and initially  they told our investigator  that they 
were the ones thatd  given the advice. But, later on they said the advice had actually  been  
given by an IP on behalf of a linked but different company. This would mean the case is 
outside of our jurisdiction  and we couldnt  consider it. Thats because advice by an IP in the 
course of offering debt counselling isnt covered  under  the rules Im required to apply.
ACM said they had evidence of this. Weve  asked for this evidence  repeatedly,  but ACM 
have failed to provide  it despite multiple opportunities to do so. As its not fair on Ms B to 
continue to ask for information when ACM have had ample opportunity to do so, its 
appropriate for me to move this case forward.
In view of that, I need to base my decision on the information I do have. 
Ms Bs testimony is that she spoke to M on the phone, and he went  through  her options and 
said an IVA was the right advice. M then sent an email, with ACMs details on the email 
footer, saying the same  thing.
So, overall, Im satisfied based on the information  currently available ACM gave the advice  
and was performing  the regulated activity of debt counselling. Because of that, Ill go on to 
consider the substance of Ms Bs complaint.
Like our investigator  I agree I cant see anything to demonstrate Ms B told ACM about  her 
concerns with the IVA following her conversation with the other  company. So, I dont require 
ACM to do anything further here.
But, I do agree with Ms B that ACMs communications  have been poor.  From the information 
I have theyve on multiple occasions  failed  to reply to her, or where they have replied to her 
theyve done so by asking  her to call. This is despite  her saying on multiple occasions she 
didnt want to speak  on the phone.
Ref: DRN50823253ACM have explained  this is because they only communicate by phone. This is down to each 
individual business to decide,  but Id expect to see some  communication with Ms B to 
explain why they cant do what  she requested   i.e. deal with all of this over email. 
But that didnt  happen. Instead it seems ACM got more  and more frustrated with Ms B not 
calling them when  theyd  asked her to  but they never told her they needed to complete this 
over the phone because thats  how they work. Instead they just sent messages which 
seemed to grow  in frustration asking her to call. 
As Ms B had made it clear she didnt want to call, and had told ACM about her mental  health  
issues, I do think this was very poor on ACMs part. Had they simply explained to Ms B what  
they could and couldnt do in a clear way I think  this whole  issue  could have been avoided.  
But they failed  to do that.
And, I think that has caused  distress to Ms B. Our investigator recommended £100  which  
Ms B accepted, and I think thats  a fair amount to put matters  right.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I order  Action  Credit Management Limited  to pay Ms B 
£100 in compensation. 
Action Credit  Management Limited  must pay the compensation within  28 days  of the date on
which we tell them Ms B accepts my final decision.  If they pay later than this then they must
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8%* a year simple.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ACM to take off tax from this interest. ACM must give
Ms B a certificate showing how much tax theyve  taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 September  2021.
Jon Pearce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5082325