K821x#15complaint
Mr M acquired a used car in April 2018, by hire purchase over 48 months  with Volkswagen  
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS). He complains that the car was not of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. He wants VWFS to replace or accept rejection of his car.
 
background
As part of acquiring  his car, Mr M had an accessory  installed  and electrically connected to 
his car. 30 days after delivery, the car suffered an electrical failure. Mr M complained to the 
supplying dealership. 
The dealer  investigated the cars  electrical systems, and found a fault in the electrical  
connection of the accessory  supplied with the car. This was repaired and the cars battery  
was replaced.
But, 10 days  after the car was returned  to Mr M, the car again  suffered an electrical failure. 
The dealer  carried  out further  diagnostic checks  more faults were found  and rectified.
In recognition of the problems experienced by Mr M, the dealer  offered him two free 
services, in full and final settlement of his complaint. Mr M said that he initially accepted this 
offer, because he understood that the free services would also include any maintenance 
items.
Four days after the dealer  made  its offer, Mr M referred his complaint to VWFS, saying:
One of the dealers  sales representatives originally offered him two comprehensive  
services, worth about £600
But the letter he received confirming this offer referred to standard  (lesser value) 
services
He had lost money  through not being able to work, when the car was with the dealer 
for over a week being repaired
He wanted  more compensation than that offered by the dealer 
VWFS wrote  to Mr M eight weeks later, saying:
It was sorry  for any disappointment and inconvenience experienced by Mr M, and it 
upheld his complaint
But, because Mr M had accepted the dealers offer, there was no requirement for it to 
take any further action, and there were no grounds  for rejecting his car
Mr M then referred his complaint to us. At our adjudicators suggestion, VWFS agreed to 
offer Mr M compensation of £150  for distress  and inconvenience. Our adjudicator also 
confirmed that the dealers offer was still available, although the sales  representative  who 
dealt with Mr M no longer  worked for the dealer.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld, and recommended  that VWFS  
should pay £150 to Mr M. Our adjudicator said:
He was unable  to comment on whether or not the dealers representative offered 
Mr M more than was confirmed in the subsequent letter
But he felt the compensation from VWFS for distress and inconvenience,  together 
with the dealers offer of two standard services, represented a fair and reasonable 
settlement of this complaint
Ref: DRN57968162Mr M disagreed. And so this complaint was referred  for review by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I find that I have come to the same  
conclusions as our adjudicator, for similar  reasons.
Mr M is clearly unhappy with the level of compensation  being offered to him by VWFS and 
the supplying  dealership,  and being recommended by our adjudicator. The sort of 
compensation he has indicated that he would accept is replacement  or rejection of his car, or 
a payment in the order of £3,000 for financial  losses which  he says he has suffered.
The Financial Ombudsman  Services role is to decide what we consider to be a fair and 
reasonable settlement of his complaint. If Mr M disagrees with our decision, he is free to 
pursue his complaint through other means.  He has told us that he may take this case  to a 
court of law, but that he will not do so until he has received my final decision.
I sympathise with Mr M. But I do not think the level of compensation he is seeking  is 
proportionate to the scale of his complaint. 
There is no doubt that his car was of unsatisfactory quality  at the point of supply. But Mr M 
agreed that the dealer  should repair the cars faults  this was done,  albeit with the car 
returned more  than once to the dealer.
There is similarly no doubt that Mr M was inconvenienced by these repairs.  Mr M says that 
he suffered financial  loss as well, although  he has provided no evidence in support of this 
statement. 
In these circumstances, I think the dealers  compensation offer of two free standard services  
was modest (which Mr M says he only accepted  because he initially understood it comprised 
more valuable services).  But I also think that the dealers offer, together with compensation 
from VWFS for Mr Ms inconvenience,  is more substantial  and acceptable.
There are technical notes about  distress and inconvenience on our public website,  in which  
we describe:
how we decide whether to award  compensation for distress, inconvenience,  trouble, 
upset, damage to reputation, pain and suffering
how we decide what to award, where compensation is appropriate
cases where we have awarded  compensation
I feel that compensation from VWFS of £150  in this instance (as recommended by our 
adjudicator) is appropriate, given the circumstances  of Mr Ms complaint. It is consistent with 
our approach to awarding compensation, and with those case descriptions and awards.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and 
final settlement, I order Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to pay compensation of 
£150 directly to Mr M. 
Ref: DRN57968163Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5796816