K820x#14Summary of complaint
Mr M has complained that a number of transactions totalling £9,000  were  made  on Miss Ms 
current account with J.P. Morgan Europe  Limited (JP Morgan) which  he says werent for her 
benefit.
Mr M is representing  the estate of Miss M on this complaint.
Background to complaint
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2020. In it I explained the 
background, and the findings I was planning to reach.
Mr M has told us Miss M had two carers visit her home four times a day to look after her as 
she was infirm  and had been  housebound since around the middle of 2013.
Because Miss M couldnt get outside,  she gave  her card and PIN to one of the carers for this 
account. Mr M says this account  was primarily used for receipts of Miss Ms state pension. 
And it was also used to pay for her day to day shopping as well as her cleaner and gardener.
Mr M has told us he believes  this arrangement worked well for a long period of time. But 
between March and August  2016 there were 15 withdrawals of £600 each which  he says 
reduced the balance of the account  significantly. He also explained these were out of 
character for the small amounts Miss M needed  for the above bills  and typically  Miss M 
only asked for £250 a month.
Mr M told us it was he who first discovered the disputed transactions, when he went to visit 
his Aunt. And hes said it took several  days for him to convince her they were fraudulent, 
because Miss M trusted her carers. 
When Miss M ultimately  accepted this Mr M complained to JP Morgan on Miss Ms behalf.  
They said they cant be held liable for the funds withdrawn if Miss M didnt take appropriate  
steps to ensure the safety of her account.
Unhappy with this, Mr M complained to us on behalf  of Miss Ms estate after Miss M sadly  
passed away.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld and £9,000 be refunded. In 
summary, he decided the withdrawals had been made fraudulently  and Miss M hadnt failed 
with intent or gross negligence  to look after her details.
Ref: DRN56199722Mr M replied and accepted the investigators assessment. But JP Morgan  didnt accept it. 
They said:
Miss M had given her card and PIN to third parties for several  years  to make 
withdrawals and she was sent statements during the period in question
The terms and conditions of the account say you cant share  your PIN with another 
party. And you should check your statements regularly  reporting any wrong entries  
immediately.
The amount  claimed by Mr M is only an estimate  and theres no evidence  to 
demonstrate how much was given from each withdrawal  to Miss M.
The suggested refund  of £9,000 hasnt been  given as a calculation  to JP Morgan  
theyve said they dont know which transactions, or part transactions,  this refund 
relates to.
The claim doesnt have any grounds  to suggest Miss M didnt ask for the money to 
be taken. And weve mentioned about  her failing  health  did that mean  she also 
wasnt clear about  the withdrawals?
The account didnt  earn interest and this is described in the terms and conditions.
JP Morgan  also raised an objection to us considering this complaint under our rules.  I 
considered that in a separate decision and decided we could. And since JP Morgan  doesnt  
accept how our investigator has suggested this complaint be resolved its been  passed to 
me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Did Miss M authorise the transactions
Generally, JP Morgan  cant  hold the estate  liable for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence 
suggests its more  likely  than not Miss M didnt make or authorise  them.  In other  words,  they 
were unauthorised transactions.
Mr M has said Miss M didnt make the transactions, and this doesnt appear to be something 
JP Morgan  dispute.  
Did Miss M fail with intent to comply  with the accounts terms and conditions  or act with 
gross negligence
Even if Miss M didnt  authorise the transactions, she still has obligations  on her to keep safe 
the security of her account. Specifically, the relevant law in this area, the Payment Services  
Regulations say that:
57 (1) A payment service  user (in this matter,  Miss M) to whom a payment instrument has 
been issued must  
(a) use the payment  instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions  governing  its 
issue and use; and
Ref: DRN56199723(b) notify the payment service provider in the agreed manner and without undue delay on 
becoming aware of the loss, theft, misappropriation or unauthorised use of the payment 
instrument.
(2) The payment service  user must  on receiving a payment instrument  take all reasonable 
steps to keep its personalised security features safe. 
And it also says:
62(2) The payer is liable for all losses incurred in respect  of an unauthorised payment  
transaction where the payer  
(a) has acted fraudulently; or
(b) has with intent or gross negligence  failed to comply with regulation 57.
So, Im obliged to think here about  Miss Ms actions in respect  of her card and PIN and what  
the terms and conditions say. The relevant part of the terms and conditions for her account  
say, in relation  to the card and PIN:
2.2 You must keep your card safe. This means that:
(a) YOU  MUST NOT give your card to anyone  else
(c) YOU MUST ensure  that you keep your card in a safe place
And the terms also say if someone else knows your PIN you have  to change it, and you 
shouldnt keep your card and PIN together.
Mr M said, in response to the fraud  questionnaire  JP Morgan asked  to be completed,  that 
Miss M kept her card in her bag by her chair.  And that this would have meant no one could 
have taken and replaced the card without her knowing. But there were quite a significant  
number of transactions made  so it seems likely Miss M knew her card was being used, but 
unlikely she knew for how much based on what  Mr M has told us. 
Hes also said Miss M was housebound and had given  her card and PIN to one of her carers  
to withdraw small amounts of money for her bills. This isnt something  Miss M was able to do 
under the terms  and conditions of her account. And it means  someone  other  than her had 
the ability to withdraw  funds when they werent  authorised to do so.
So, I cant reasonably  say that JP Morgan should be held liable for those  transactions,  when 
it seems Miss M didnt  follow what was expected of her.
As regards  whether Miss M acted  with gross negligence, this would require JP Morgan to 
show Miss M acted with a very significant degree  of carelessness. But because I think  Miss 
M has failed with intent to comply with the terms and conditions  of the account, I dont need 
to consider this further.
Ref: DRN56199724Should the disputed transactions have  triggered the bank  to take action?
Mr M has pointed  out there  was an increase  in withdrawals, sometimes  on consecutive days, 
and I agree as the statements show this to be true.
Financial businesses such as JP Morgan  are expected to have  fraud measures in place to 
detect and prevent  fraud. These might involve the bank identifying that transactions  are out 
of character for an account and taking action to investigate  that.
In this case if JP Morgan  had identified these transactions as out of character, Id have 
expected them to have contacted Miss M to talk about them,  amongst other things.
JP Morgan  havent  said they identified these transactions  as out of character for the account. 
Ive thought about whether they should  have  identified  these transactions. But even  if they 
had identified them and taken steps,  I dont  think Miss Ms estate would be in a different 
position.
The reason  for that is because Mr M has told us it took him several  days, while he was with 
her, to convince  her they were fraudulent. 
In my view, most likely, JP Morgans steps  to discuss  this with Miss M would have involved a 
phone call to her. And I cant  reasonably  say that one phone  call to Miss M, by her bank, is 
likely to have led to her raising  a fraud  claim  when it took her Nephew several  days to help 
her acknowledge the fraud while he was physically present in her home.
I have significant  sympathy for Mr M, and the estate of Miss M, given the circumstances.  But 
taking account  of the law here and what the terms and conditions  to the account say, and 
based on everything Ive seen,  I cant  say JP Morgan is responsible for refunding to the 
estate of Miss M the value of the disputed transactions.  
Responses to my provisional decision
JP Morgan  replied, and said they had nothing further to add.
Mr M replied and said he didnt agree. Hes said that despite the terms and conditions  this 
doesnt mean JP Morgan dont have a duty of care towards their customers.  Hes expanded 
on how Miss M was at the time of him discovering the transactions   saying that although 
she had severely restricted mobility and was deaf, mentally she was sound. And the reason 
it took him some time to convince her about  the fraudulent transactions was because she 
came from a generation that trusted people.
Hes added  because she was living alone,  and housebound, she had no choice but to ask 
her carers to collect her money  for her. And he thinks its unfair that JP Morgan would  refund  
transactions in other situations, such as if a card was stolen  but not this one.
Hes also said he feels this had a severely  detrimental effect on his Aunts wellbeing, and 
thinks it accelerated her demise. Mr M feels this complaint should be upheld  on principle, to 
protect the accounts  of others with JP Morgan.
Ref: DRN56199725My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Its clear Mr M feels very strongly about  how JP Morgan have handled things and thinks  they 
should refund it on principle.
I do understand these  arguments, but Im required to take into account the law and what the 
terms and conditions of Miss Ms account  say. I cant  tell JP Morgan to refund transactions  if, 
on all the facts of Miss Ms individual case, theyre  not required to.
I understand Mr Ms point  here, in that his Aunt was housebound, and I accept this would 
have put her in a very difficult position  when wanting to draw  out cash. But, for the reasons  
Ive explained  above, the law and the terms and conditions of Miss Ms account mean that 
JP Morgan  arent liable for the unauthorised transactions that happened.
I note Mr Ms concerns that JP Morgan  didnt protect their account holder  Miss M. As Ive 
said above, Ive seen nothing to suggest JP Morgan did identify these  transactions as out of 
character  or took any steps to investigate  it if they did. But as Ive also explained, even if 
they had I still dont think the estate  of Miss M would be in a different situation. Mr M has 
explained Miss M was very trusting  and couldnt believe someone had taken her card and 
done these transactions  which took him some time to convince  her of. And if shed 
received a phone  call from JP Morgan, Im still not persuaded  the fraud would have come to 
light at that point, because Miss M trusted her carers.
I want to again  express  my sympathy  for the estate of Miss M, but for the reasons Ive 
explained above I cant tell JP Morgan to refund these transactions.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of 
Miss M to accept  or reject  my decision before  5 April 2020.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5619972