K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that My Policy Ltd, his broker, provided poor service in administering his 
motor insurance policy.  He says that led to extra charges for him and high quotes  for cover 
on a different car prior to its cancellation.  Mr S is represented by his father, Mr S2.
background
Mr Ss policy  started on 26 March 2018.  In May 2018 he asked My Policy to quote  for a 
temporary replacement  car to go on the policy, as his own car had mechanical  damage.  
My Policy  said it couldnt add a temporary vehicle. It said Mr S could change the car insured 
on the policy altogether,  but that a new telematics  box would have to be fitted.  
The next day Mr S called My Policy  and changed  the car insured on his policy. Two months 
later Mr S asked if the original car could  be put back on the policy.  My Policy found  that the 
insurer wouldnt quote for that on its system,  so it contacted  the insurer.  My Policy  told Mr S 
the insurer had agreed to the change, but for an extra premium of £6,066.24. Mr S cancelled 
the policy and got cover elsewhere.
Mr S2 said My Policy  was responsible  for the rise in the premium. He said Mr S had sought 
advice from it prior to the change of car. He said My Policy was told about the damage to the 
car and the need for only temporary cover. Mr S2 also said My Policy shouldnt  have 
arranged credit for Mr S when he was under 18 years old. 
One of our adjudicators considered Mr Ss complaint. He said any complaint about the credit 
arrangement was an issue for the credit provider. He said the premium was set by the 
insurer, not by My Policy,  so it was for the insurer to address  any complaint about that. He 
didnt think Mr S made it clear  to My Policy when he rang to change  the insured car that it 
was a temporary change. And he thought the charges My Policy made were fair.
Mr S2 said he and Mr S had only dealt  with My Policy throughout. He said it was complicit in 
what had happened. In his view, My Policy  wanted  to force  Mr S to cancel  the policy by 
quoting an extortionate sum for putting the original  car back on the policy.  He thought  that 
was because it would then be able to charge a cancellation fee. The adjudicator  still thought 
the credit  provider and the insurer were responsible for most of the concerns Mr S and 
Mr S2 had raised.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The call recordings show that initially Mr S said he wanted to add a car to the policy  on a 
temporary basis. My Policy said he couldnt  do that. When he called the next day, he didnt  
say anything about wanting  temporary cover. And as My Policy  had just told him it couldnt 
add a temporary car to the policy,  I wouldnt  have  expected Mr S to call the next day to ask it 
to do just that. From what Mr S said on the second call, I think  it was reasonable for the 
advisor to believe  that Mr S wanted to replace the original car. 
Ref: DRN58453052My Policys  advisor  told Mr S what the charges would be to insure the second car, and he 
agreed to them. Hed have got a refund of £139.29 from the insurer, as the new car cost less 
to insure. But a telematics box had to be fitted  to it. The charge for that was £150. My Policy 
made a charge of £16.17,  which I think was fair, so Mr S paid a little more for the new car.
My Policy  has shown us that when Mr S wanted  to put the original car back on the policy,  
initially the insurer didnt  quote at all. Mr S2 says My Policy told him he couldnt speak 
directly to the insurer - but I dont think thats  surprising,  as My Policy was acting as an 
intermediary. And I dont  think it would have made any difference  to the outcome. I can see 
why Mr S and Mr S2 were shocked by the huge sum quoted by the insurer,  but My Policy  
had no control over it. Mr S is free to raise his concerns about the quote with the insurer. 
I dont think theres any evidence that My Policy wanted Mr S to cancel his policy. I think  it 
simply passed on to Mr S the quote the insurer provided. And I havent seen anything  to 
show that My Policy required a second black box to be fitted to the original car. If it said that, 
I think its likely to have been in error, as the original  box was still in place. I think this issue 
would have had a minimal  impact,  anyway.  Its not the reason Mr S didnt reinsure the car.
When Mr S applied  for the policy online,  there was a standard  question  about paying the 
premium in one sum or monthly.  Details about  the credit  agreement that allowed monthly  
payments to be made were available online.  Mr S chose to pay monthly. My Policy has 
pointed out that the credit  provider agreed to enter into the agreement  with him. It told Mr S 
that any debt owed on it would be unenforceable, as Mr S was under 18 years old at the 
time. I dont think My Policy could have stopped Mr S from choosing to pay monthly via a 
credit agreement when  the credit  provider allowed it. So I think any issues Mr S or Mr S2 
want to raise about the credit agreement should be raised with the credit provider.  
My Policy  has shown it set out its cancellation  and other charges in its terms of business and 
other documents. The documents were issued when Mr S bought the policy,  but My Policy  
has shown that they were  available  to view online before he did so. Mr S was required to 
confirm that hed read them. I think  its £75 cancellation charge  was fair, as it would have had 
to carry out administrative  work  at that point. I think the small shortfall  in the credit  
agreement is an issue for the credit  provider. As I dont  think Mr S has shown My Policy 
acted unreasonably in the way it administered his policy, I cant  uphold  his complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I must ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN5845305