K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains about Nationwide Building  Societys decision to reduce the interest rate 
payable on her savings  account after she made too many withdrawals. 
background
Mrs N has an e-Savings Plus account  with Santander that pays 0.75% interest as long as 
less than six withdrawals  are made in a year. Between September  2017  and 
September 2018 Mrs N made seven withdrawals so the interest rate payable  was reduced to 
0.10%. 
Mrs N complained to Nationwide. She felt Nationwide shouldve told her before reducing the 
interest rate as she had options  to move the funds to a different account  and wouldnt have  
lost out. But Nationwide said itd acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account  by 
reducing the rate of interest  and didnt agree a mistake had been made. 
Mrs N referred  her complaint to this service and an investigator looked  at what had 
happened. But he didnt agree Nationwide had made an error or ask it to cover  the 
difference in interest. As Mrs N remained unhappy her complaints been  passed to me to 
make a decision. Mrs N is represented  by Mr N in bringing the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the investigator  has set out the relevant section of the account terms already 
so Ive not repeated them here.  And no ones disputed that Nationwides terms say it will 
reduce the level of interest payable from 0.75% to 0.10% if six or more  withdrawals are 
made from the e-Savings Plus account  in a year. Mr N has said that he feels Mrs N is being 
punished for making a genuine mistake  and that the cost to her is excessive.  
I appreciate that the level of interest  lost here represents a lot of money. Thats  because  of 
the level of funds Mrs N had in her account. But the terms are clear and theres nothing  
within them  that says the level of interest  reduction  is linked to the amount of money held in 
the account. I have  sympathy for Mrs Ns situation  and I appreciate the issue  was caused by 
a genuine mistake.  However, for me to uphold a complaint I generally need  to have found 
the business has made a mistake thats  led to a loss. And Ive not found that to be the case  
here. 
Mrs N complains that Nationwide  didnt tell her before it reduced  the interest rate which  
wouldve given her the chance  to make alternative arrangements. Ive again looked  at the 
account terms to see whether Nationwide is required  to take that step.  But I think  the terms 
are clear  in explaining  when  Nationwide will reduce the interest  rate and its at the point the 
customer makes  six or more withdrawals. Looking  at the terms, Ive not found Nationwide  
needed to specifically tell Mrs N shed made too many withdrawals to receive 0.75% interest.  
Im satisfied the terms clearly explain how the process works. 
Ref: DRN55750662Ive also looked  at the promotional information Mrs N was given when the account  was 
arranged and I think that clearly explains what will happen if she makes too many 
withdrawals. 
Mr Ns recently  said that Mrs N made  transfers  out of her account, not withdrawals. But, 
again, the terms are clear.  They say Withdrawals  can only be made to a Nationwide  current  
accountAll withdrawals must  be carried out on the Internet Banking  Site. So while  I 
appreciate Mr Ns point, Mrs N only had one way to withdraw  funds from her account and 
that was by transferring them to her Nationwide  current account. I think  transferring  funds  
out of an account  can reasonably be considered as making a withdrawal  in a broader 
context as well. 
I know Mrs N feels shes been treated unfairly due to the level of interest shes  missed  out 
on. But Ive not found that to be the case.  As Ive explained above, Nationwides operated  
the account in line with the terms Mrs N agreed to at the point of opening  it. Im satisfied the 
information Mrs Ns been given was clear throughout and Ive not found any evidence  
Nationwides made a mistake here or treated  her unfairly. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or reject  my decision 
before 8 February 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5575066