K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that he was mis-sold an income protection insurance  policy  by Lloyds  
Bank PLC.
background
In 1993, Mr S took out an income protection insurance policy  following a meeting with an 
adviser from Lloyds Bank.
In 2000, Mr S cancelled  the policy.
In 2018, Mr S complained that the policy, which he believed to have been payment 
protection insurance (PPI),  had been mis-sold. He said hed been pressured into taking out 
the policy while he was seeking approval for a personal loan. He said he hadnt  wanted or 
needed the policy and it had been a waste of money.
Lloyds didnt uphold  his complaint about the mis-sold policy. It explained that the policy  was 
an income protection insurance policy, not PPI. It was satisfied from the limited  information 
available to it from the time of sale that the policy had been  suitable for Mr S. However, it 
acknowledged that it had caused delays in the investigation of his complaint and had 
furthermore sent correspondence to the wrong address on two occasions. It apologised for 
these errors  and paid Mr S a total of £275  compensation.
Mr S was unhappy at Lloyds response. He referred his complaint to us. He said the 
sickness pay provided by his employer had been sufficient and he therefore  hadnt needed 
the policy. He said his finances had been precarious and he had to borrow money from a 
family member to pay the premiums. He said he never received any policy documents  
through the post and so was unaware of any cancellation rights  he might  have had. He 
wanted a complete refund of all his premiums, plus interest.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He wasnt  
persuaded that Lloyds had done anything  wrong.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
There is very little documentary evidence available from the time of sale but given how long 
ago this was, I am not surprised. However, Lloyds has been able to provide the application 
form and the policy  schedule.
From the application form it can be seen  that Mr S was in employment, earned £19,345 a 
year, was entitled  to six months  full sickness pay from his employer, and planned to retire at 
65. He already held an income  protection insurance policy which  would pay benefit  of £650 a 
month.
Ref: DRN51901722The adviser sold Mr S a further  incomer protection insurance policy  with an initial benefit of 
£300 a month.  Taking into account his existing policy,  this was still within the maximum 
amount he could receive. The deferred period was six months which tied in with the stated 
period for which he would receive benefit through his employer. On the face of it, the policy  
seems to have been suitable for Mr S. It would have meant he would have greater security in 
the event he suffered injury or illness  which prevented  him from working  in the longer term.
Lloyds says that its records show that Mr S took out a mortgage  at about the same time he 
was sold the policy. However, the policy was separate to the mortgage and one didnt 
depend in any way on the other.
Lloyds says that Mr S would have been provided with a key features document when he was 
sold the policy and that once the policy had started he would have  been  sent full policy  
documentation, including details of his cancellation rights. Although  the evidence  is no 
longer available to demonstrate this, I consider it is likely that this happened.
I recognise what Mr S says about the sale but I have nothing to support his argument  that he 
was pressured  into taking out the policy. Nor have I seen any evidence to support his 
argument that he couldnt afford the policy.
For the evidence  available, it seems that the policy was suitable  for Mr S and I think  it is 
likely he was given enough  information to decide  whether to take it out. Mr S continued with 
the policy for seven  years  and if hed had cause  to make an eligible claim during  this period 
Im satisfied it would  have paid benefit.  This being the case, I can see no reasonable 
grounds for saying he should receive a refund of premiums.  
Lloyds has acknowledged  it made  errors in the handling  of Mr Ss complaint, including  
sending correspondence  to the wrong  address. However, it has paid him £275 
compensation for these failings and Im satisfied that this is a fair amount. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5190172