K820x#14complaint
Mrs A has complained  about her home insurer Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) in 
relation to a claim she made  to it following her roof being damaged.
background
Mrs A was having  her roof replaced. A disagreement arose with the contractor, he said he 
hadnt been paid and in late February/early  March 2017 he came to remove  his goods. Mrs A 
found the tiles and all the wood underneath had gone. The police were notified  but recorded  
the incident as a breach  of the peace on account of there being no proof that Mrs A had paid 
the contractor (and therefore owned the missing materials).
Mrs A notified RSA of the loss. It agreed  to investigate the claim but said it wasnt prepared 
to decide  on its liability until its enquiries were complete. In a meeting at her home  in
May 2017 Mrs A told RSA that its loss adjuster  had told her not to fix or repair the roof. She 
said the internal  water  damage had got worse since as a result. She felt everything was 
taking too long. RSA considered her concerns and issued a final response by email  on
4 August 2017.
Mrs A complained to this service and an investigator  considered how the claim had been 
handled to date.  She concluded  that RSA had been carrying out claim validation  activities  
and these had taken time. No comment or conclusion was made  regarding  what  Mrs A had 
said she was told or the internal damage that she alleged had resulted from that. The 
complaint file was then closed.
Mrs As claim continued with RSA making further enquiries. RSA wanted  to interview Mrs As 
son, Mr A, who had dealt  with the roofing contractor. Mr A had been unhappy with RSAs  
claims investigator so it had been  arranged for a colleague to carry out the interview. 
Arranging an appointment took time and then the interviewer had to cancel twice. Mr A was 
interviewed on 27 December 2017.  On 27 February 2018 RSA wrote to Mrs A declining  her 
claim and in May 2017 it issued its final response.
It said, it wouldnt cover the damage to the roof or internal water damage but would 
reimburse, less a deduction for the policy excess,  the cost paid to remove  a tree which  had 
fallen in a storm.  It said it had needed  to make enquiries and that had taken time. It said it 
would pay £100  compensation  though  for the upset caused by the re-arranged interview 
appointments. It maintained it had been right not to remove its claim investigator from 
Mrs As case.
Mrs A was unhappy,  she said the tree falling must  obviously have caused damage to the 
roof, she remained  unhappy about how long the claim had taken and about the internal 
damage that occurred (although the roof had been  made watertight in November 2017). She 
was also unhappy  about the conduct of RSAs claim investigator. She made  a further  
complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint.  He felt the decline  was fair, that RSA hadnt  
unreasonably delayed the claim and that there was no evidence of unprofessional conduct by 
RSAs investigator.  He explained that the tree hadnt caused any further  damage  to the roof 
so RSAs decision to pay for just the tree removal, minus the policy excess,  and nothing  for 
the area of roof it had fallen onto, had been fair and reasonable. Mrs A asked for an 
ombudsmans decision and the complaint was passed to me.
Ref: DRN53584012I noted that we hadnt previously given Mrs A our view regarding the advice she said she 
received from the loss adjuster and the damage she believes occurred as a result. I issued a 
provisional decision, to which the parties have  now responded.  My view hasnt changed and 
Im, therefore, now issuing my final decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
removal of the roof
The police were  involved but didnt pursue criminal vandalism  or malicious damage  charges. 
They noted  there was a dispute between Mr A and the roofing contractor and found no 
evidence that Mr A or Mrs A owned  the missing  roofing materials.
For a policyholder to benefit from an insurance policy they have to own the items they are 
claiming for as damaged or lost. As there  is no evidence that Mrs A owned the roofing 
materials I think RSA decline of the claim was fair and reasonable.
In response Mr A, on behalf of Mrs A, said:
The police said theres  no proof  of vandalism.
The builder hadnt taken the tiles, if he had owned them he would have done.
If the builder had damaged the roof why would he have damaged the chimney and 
guttering as well, it doesnt make sense.
As I understand it the police  said there was no proof of vandalism because it was alleged 
that the roofer had taken  back  his materials and there was no proof  that Mr A or Mrs A 
owned those goods. The comments Mr A has made and that Ive set out here dont change  
the fact that there is no evidence that Mrs A owned the materials  allegedly  stolen or 
damaged. I havent  seen  evidence that the chimney  and guttering were suffering from 
malicious damage or that there is any proof  that anyone else was involved or likely on the 
roof causing  damage to it. I also havent seen that the chimney  or guttering  were likely 
suffering from damage that the policy would  have offered cover for. I remain  of the view that 
RSAs decline of this part of Mrs A claim was fair and reasonable. 
 
My provisional findings continued:
internal damage
If once the roof was removed the house was damaged internally due to water ingress it might 
be that the insurance  policy would  cover that damage. That is if there had been a storm or if 
Mrs As policy benefitted from accidental damage  (and depending  on the terms of that cover). 
However, here it seems  the property, internally, was already in a poor state of repair, so it 
isnt clear whether,  following the removal of the roof, further damage was caused.
Ref: DRN53584013The loss adjuster visited the property  on 20 March 2017, only a few days after the incident  
was reported to the police and the claim was notified  to RSA. According to weather records  
there hadnt been much rainfall  in the days since the incident was reported. The loss adjuster 
noted that the property  was in a shabby  condition with water  damage in most rooms  and said 
it was very difficult to determine if any of it was new damage associated with the removal  of 
the roof.
Whilst it is clear  that relations between Mr A, Mrs A and the roofing contractor are clearly not 
good, I also think  its relevant that the statement given by the roofing contractor says broadly 
similar things  about the state of the property  internally (as at the point he assessed the 
roofing job). Im also mindful that Ive seen no evidence that the property was in a good state 
of repair prior to the roof work starting.
So it seems  that little or any of the internal  damage  was caused after the roof was removed 
such that it might be fair to say it had been  caused by a storm or be covered as accidental 
damage. Therefore, Im not going to make RSA cover this damage  under the policy.
It is possible that further damage  occurred in the weeks after the incident was reported and 
because the roof wasnt covered. If that was the case  and I was satisfied it only hadnt been 
covered because of some poor advice by RSA then I might find it fair to make it liable for 
resolving that damage.
I dont know what the loss adjuster told Mrs A at the start of this claim.  But I do know that 
within just six weeks of the incident  being reported Mrs A, having been told that day that she 
did need to repair the roof, told the loss adjuster that shed been  unable to find someone to 
carry out that work. It was then another six months before the roof was repaired. So it seems 
unlikely to me that, if different advice had been  received earlier  in the claim,  Mrs A would or 
could have done something  to get the roof fixed when she failed to do exactly that for six 
months after definitely and clearly being  told she needed to. Therefore, Im not persuaded 
that if RSA did give poor advice to Mrs A early in her claim, that poor advice caused her to be 
in a worse positon  than she otherwise  would  have been in. Consequently, I dont intend to 
make RSA liable  for resolving the internal damage.
Mr A said theres no evidence that the roof had been in bad state of repair. Whilst I accept 
that Mr A believes this, the presence of significant  internal damage within  a few days  of the 
loss, without there having been any significant  rainfall satisfies  me that the roof was likely in 
a bad state of repair. And Im also mindful  that most homeowners would not ask or agree for 
a contractor to replace  their whole roof if they didnt believe such  work was necessary. 
I remain of the view that RSAs decline of this part of Mrs A claim was fair and reasonable. 
My provisional findings continued:
RSAs investigator
I havent seen any evidence that this person held any prejudice towards Mr A or Mrs A. I can 
understand why RSA maintained his involvement in the case. And Im satisfied that, despite  
this, RSA did listen  to Mrs As concerns in this respect as it did arrange for someone  else to 
interview Mr A. I think it acted fairly  and reasonably.
In response Mr A said:
There is no proof the roof was in bad shape.
Ref: DRN53584014RSAs investigator shouldnt have dealt with the claim as a complaint about him had been 
made.
RSA had a vendetta  against him.
The investigator interviewed an under-age  child which  is illegal.
I accept that Mr A remains unhappy  about the involvement of this investigator in Mrs As 
claim. But I havent seen any proof of wrong-doing, mistreatment or bias on the part of the 
investigator. Im satisfied  that the outcome of Mrs As claim hasnt been compromised in 
anyway because of his involvement  or as a result of any intent from RSA to avoid liability  for 
a claim it should reasonably have accepted. I remain of the view that RSA acted  fairly  and 
reasonably in the handling of Mrs As claim.   
My provisional findings continued:
tree claim
Mrs A paid for a fallen  tree to be removed and I see that RSA spoke to that contractor. It was 
satisfied by that conversation that the tree had likely  fallen due to storm winds.  So the fallen  
tree was, in itself,  storm damage. Therefore, RSA paid the cost for the tree to be taken away, 
minus the policy  excess. I think that was reasonable.
RSA didnt believe though that the fallen tree had otherwise  affected  the property. It fell on 
the dormer roof but this was already in need of replacement as evidenced by the previous 
water damage, the need for the whole roof to be replaced and the initial  problem reported  to 
RSA of the roofing  materials having been  removed. I think  RSAs  decision in this respect was 
fair and reasonable.
Mr A said the investigator didnt interview anyone about the tree. From what  Ive seen  I think 
Mr A is correct  in this respect,  although  it did speak to the tree surgeon  whom Mr A 
employed to remove the tree. But I dont think this equates to a failure of RSA because  
I dont think it needed to formally interview  anyone in this respect.  It accepted that the tree 
fell during a storm  and agreed to settle the loss it accepted had occurred. If Mrs A hasnt 
received payment for this she should  contact RSA.  I remain of the view that RSAs  decision 
in respect of this claim was fair and reasonable. 
My provisional findings continued:
claim handling
This claim  has taken a long time to progress, even from the point Im assessing  it from when 
RSA issued its final response in August 2017.  And I can understand Mrs As frustration  
RSAs decision to decline  the claim has ultimately  been based on information that was known  
to it at the outset. But I dont think this was a straightforward case and RSA did have a duty 
to investigate the matter.
I can see that in August  2017 lines of enquiry were on-going with the roofing contractor as 
well as the police and RSA was still waiting  to interview Mr A. Arranging an interview with Mr 
A took some  time,  but I dont think RSA acted unreasonably in this respect. Once a date was 
arranged though this had to be cancelled at short notice and rearranged,  twice.  RSA has 
offered £100 compensation  for that and I think that reasonably makes up for the frustration 
Mrs A was caused  by these further delays.
Ref: DRN53584015Once the interview was completed RSA issued its claim decision two months later. I think 
that was reasonable in the circumstances   Ive seen the file and know  that during this time 
enquiries were being completed and consideration to the whole situation was being  given. 
Im satisfied there was no unreasonable delay.
In response Mr A said:
As it took two years to decide the claim more compensation  should  be paid.
RSA hasnt paid the compensation offered.
RSA didnt take into account his dyslexia.
Sometimes claims do take time to progress. I only award compensation though  where claims 
have been elongated due to failures  of the insurer. As I explained provisionally I dont think 
RSA caused delays during its handling  of this claim  apart from in respect  of the failed 
interview appointments. For the upset that resulted from that Im satisfied that £100  is fair 
and reasonable compensation. If Mrs A hasnt received this she should  contact RSA. 
I havent seen  any obvious indication on file that RSA made suitable arrangements  to 
account for Mr As needs. However, Mr A isnt RSAs customer  so if he feels upset by the 
way RSA dealt  with him, I cant  take that into account. I havent seen that Mrs As claim was 
compromised in anyway  due to a failure  of RSA to deal with Mr A in a way that best suited 
his needs. 
my final decision
Im not minded  to uphold  this complaint. I dont intend to make  any award against
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5358401