K820x#14complaint
Ms A says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a regular payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover her store  card repayments.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 10 April 2019,  a copy extract  of which is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was proposing not to uphold Ms As complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision. Neither FICL or Ms A have  given any further information.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows  that I do 
not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained previously, I do not uphold Ms As complaint against  Financial 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
copy extract of provisional decision
background
Ms A took out a store card. Around four months  later,  in 1997 she was sold a PPI policy over the 
phone to cover her card repayments. The policy  cost £1 per £100 of the balance  on Ms As store 
card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding  balance on the store card 
if Ms A was unable  to work due to accident  or sickness or lost her job.
Ref: DRN56437892Our adjudicator thought Ms As complaint should  be upheld because  Ms A had told him she wasnt 
working at the time she took out the policy and as such she wouldnt have been able to benefit.  
FICL disagreed. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
this case.
Im currently  considering not upholding Ms As complaint.
The sale took place over 20 years ago so unsurprisingly there is very little information  available from 
the time of sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what information I have and what I think is 
most likely to have happened.
FICL had to make  it clear to Ms A that she had a choice in taking the policy. The policy  was sold over 
the phone. From what we know of FICLs sales process and call scripts I think  its likely  that the sales 
adviser wouldve explained to Ms A she had a choice  in taking the policy. And because the policy was 
sold after the store card was taken out I think its likely  Ms A wouldve  known she had a choice in 
taking it and the policy  was taken because she chose to take it.
I dont think FICL advised Ms A to buy the policy. What this means is that FICL  didnt  recommend PPI 
to Ms A, they just gave her information about PPI. This information needed to be given in a way that 
was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an informed choice about  buying  PPI.
I cant  say whether FICL gave all the information as they shouldve. That being said even if FICL did 
give all the information  Ms A needed to make an informed choice on taking out the policy, I think she 
wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale:
Although Ms A says she wasnt  working  when the policy  was taken  out the CCA completed by 
Ms A a few months before  indicates  she was in full time employment. When asked to provide 
further information on her change in circumstances we received no response.  So on balance I 
cant say its likely she wasnt working  and wasnt eligible  for the PPI.
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the terms and 
conditions of the policy which  couldve made it difficult to make a successful claim.
I dont know what  if any sick pay Ms A was entitled to at the time of sale,  but the policy wouldve 
paid out on top of any sick pay or savings  and for potentially  longer. So I think the policy wouldve  
provided a useful benefit  for Ms A in her circumstances.  
During the life of the policy Ms A paid around £90 in premiums. Theres nothing  to suggest this 
wasnt affordable to Ms A and if she no longer wanted the policy she was able to cancel it. 
So I dont think it wouldve made  a difference in how the information was given to Ms A on the PPI. I 
think she wouldve still taken  out the PPI policy as it was of value to her.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im currently considering  not upholding Ms As complaint against 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited.
Ref: DRN56437893Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5643789