K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with the compensation paid by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) for a 
mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy taken out alongside a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage with Lloyds in July 1993 and at the same  time bought  a 
PPI policy. They complained the PPI was mis-sold and Lloyds  has agreed to uphold their 
complaint and pay compensation.
But Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with how Lloyds has dealt with their complaint  about the mis-
sold PPI. They feel that they should  be paid additional compensation for the time taken and 
the stress  and anxiety  caused in the way Lloyds dealt with their complaint.
Our adjudicator said what Lloyds had now paid in compensation  was fair. Mr and Mrs F do 
not agree  and asked for an ombudsman  to consider their complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr and Mrs F first raised a complaint with Lloyds in 2018 about  their PPI, it was taken 
to Lloyds by a third party. That complaint indicated they had been mis-sold PPI with their 
mortgage ending  0683. Lloyds responded saying  it was not upholding this complaint so 
Mr and Mrs F brought it to this service.
It was eventually agreed by Lloyds it would uphold the complaint that the PPI associated  
with mortgage  0683 was mis-sold and it paid compensation for the mis-sale. After  receiving  
the offer letter dated 30 August 2018 from Lloyds Mr and Mrs F questioned with Lloyds why 
the calculation  had only covered the period from 1998 to 2007. Mr and Mr F said they had 
taken out their mortgage in 1993 and it had run until July 2018.
After looking at its records following a request  from this service Lloyds indicated  that there  
may have  been  other mortgages  taken  out by Mr and Mrs F. It said it would investigate these 
separately and if they had any PPI which had been  mis-sold.   
It seems  Mr and Mrs F did take out their mortgage in 1993 and at the same  time took out a 
PPI policy. And although they had a mortgage  over a full 25 year period, this was technically 
three different mortgages as they moved house and so re-mortgaged on a new property. 
Each time a new mortgage was taken out a new PPI policy was also bought.
In this decision I am only looking at what is fair compensation for the mis-sold  PPI policy 
taken out with mortgage ending 6785 which ran from 1993 to 1998.  Other  policies have been 
considered and compensated separately.
I note that Mr and Mrs F believe when they first took their complaint to Lloyds  via the third 
party in 2018  they were  complaining about what they thought to be their only mortgage and 
PPI which  covered the time from 1993 to 2018. They  seemed to consider they had only had 
one mortgage  for a full 25 year period. But when they moved and refinanced  during this 25 
Ref: DRN52128442year period  the mortgage changed and so the PPI also was replaced.  Thus  there were 
technically three mortgages with different mortgage  numbers  during the period  1993 to 2018.
The complaint originally taken to Lloyds  specified it was about  mortgage 0683 with PPI and 
that is what Lloyds  looked at in 2018  when considering the complaint. And it is only this one 
PPI policy  that Lloyds paid compensation to settle  in September 2018.  The other two PPI 
policies with the two different mortgages  were not considered  at this time.
It wasnt until Mr and Mrs F questioned the amount of compensation they had been paid for 
the PPI mis-sold with mortgage 0683 that Lloyds identified in February  2019  that there may 
have been further mortgages and possibly PPI policies. Once this was done the complaint 
about the PPI sold with mortgage 6785 was considered by Lloyds. An offer of compensation 
was sent to Mr and Mrs F on 23 July 2019.
I have noted Mr and Mrs Fs comments about wanting some financial compensation and a 
penalty imposed  on Lloyds  for the length of time they say it has taken to resolve their 
complaint about  the PPI with mortgage ending 6785. But this PPI policy was not identified 
and formally complained  about until early 2019. And whilst Mr and Mrs F say that it had been 
raised in 2018  with their original complaint, as Ive explained,  Im not sure it was made  clear  
at that time to Lloyds that Mr and Mrs Fs complaint  was about any PPI policy  with any 
mortgage. It was stated to be about  PPI with mortgage ending 0683 and nothing  more.
The financial  ombudsman service is not the regulator of Lloyds and cannot  impose fines or 
penalties on financial businesses. We are here to informally  resolve complaints in a fair and 
reasonable manner. So when a consumer incurs a financial  loss because of something  a 
business has done wrong we make sure that the consumer is refunded any loss and also 
paid some compensatory interest on the amount they may have  been  out of pocket.
Mr and Mrs F are being refunded all the costs of the PPI sold with mortgage 6785 by the 
compensation Lloyds has paid. Also Lloyds are paying them compensation for being out of 
pocket for those costs.  The compensatory interest is paid from the date a payment was 
made by Mr and Mrs F to the date it was refunded. So they have got compensatory  interest 
on everything they paid until 2019 when Lloyds paid them  the compensation.
Mr and Mrs F have  requested they are paid a credit card rate of interest for the time  
between their first complaint was settled by payment  of the compensation in September 
2018 to the date they were paid the compensation for the PPI with mortgage 6785. They feel 
everything should have been  settled in one complaint.
I dont think that would be fair. It is accepted  that 8% simple  interest  is a fair level of 
compensation when a consumer is out of pocket. And that is the rate of compensatory  
interest Lloyds has worked out and paid. I can see no reasons to award a credit  card rate of 
interest on a mortgage  PPI payment.  
Also Mr and Mrs F have  been compensated for being out of pocket for the costs of the PPI 
and this is for the full period up to the date the compensation was paid and so I dont think  
they are due any additional  compensatory  interest.  The fact that the complaint about PPI 
sold with mortgage  6785 was settled  after their complaint about the other  PPI policy  means 
they get the 8% simple interest  for longer. 
Ref: DRN52128443Also as Ive indicated I cannot  impose  penalties on Lloyds for its actions. Any penalties are 
imposed by the regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority. And I can see no reason to make 
a further award  of £1,000  as requested  by Mr and Mrs F. 
I am afraid all complaints do take some  time and can cause some stress  and anxiety  for 
consumers. There was some confusion when Mr and Mrs F first went to Lloyds as the 
mortgage number  quoted  was separate to this mortgage, 6785. I understand Mr and Mrs F 
knew they had had a mortgage  with Lloyds from 1993 until 2018 but it wasnt  clear  to Lloyds 
that they were  complaining about  PPI with anything other than mortgage  0683. It wasnt until 
after the offer on the PPI policy with the other  mortgage was made that it the issues  about 
there being other PPI policies covering different periods arose.
I understand that Mr and Mrs F have been asked  to provide any documents  related to their 
mortgage and PPI. Lloyds do not have all documents about their accounts as it is over 25 
years since  the PPI started  with mortgage  6785  and businesses are not required to retain 
information for more  than six years.  Pursuing  a complaint and having to provide records  can 
be frustrating but many complainants have to do similar things.
Overall I dont think Mr and Mrs F have been put to a great deal more trouble and upset than 
other complainants therefore Im not making any additional award for trouble and upset in 
this case.
I think what Lloyds has offered and paid in compensation  for the PPI mis-sold with mortgage  
6785 is fair. It refunds the monthly premiums paid during the period this PPI policy  was 
active, from 1993 to 1998. It also pays compensatory interest on the amounts Mr and Mrs F 
were out of pocket from the date each payment was made to the date of final settlement. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above I think what Lloyds Bank PLC has paid to Mr and Mrs F 
for mis-sold  PPI with mortgage  6785  is fair and Im not telling it to pay anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 March  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5212844