K821x#15complaint
A, a limited  company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc incorrectly froze  its bank account 
which caused it consequential losses and impacted upon its reputation  and ability to conduct 
business. The complaint is brought here by the sole director of the company. 
background
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  how I intended to resolve As complaint. I said: 
This case was previously considered by an ombudsman here who issued a provisional  decision. 
Following that decision,  A made  further  representations. The case has since been passed to me 
to review and issue a decision. To avoid rewriting the factual aspects of the background of the 
case, where relevant, Ive replicated the same  from the earlier  provisional  decision.
A freezing order was granted  in March 2019  as part of divorce proceedings between the
director of A and her ex-partner. The application  of the order meant that A could not access
its business accounts from March to May 2019.  The freezing order  did not draw any
distinctions in its application to personal and business accounts belonging to the parties.
HSBC received a copy of a freezing order made  by a Court as part of the divorce
proceedings. It wrote to A and said that the bank accounts would be frozen. The director
says that HSBC should never have frozen the accounts of A as the order only applied to her
personal accounts. And that she had to incur legal costs to regain access  to the bank
account. This damaged the business of A and its reputation as it could not trade.
After access to the business bank account  was restored in May 2019, for a period of 18 days
in June HSBC  reduced  the limit on the commercial card account  without explanation.  The
director says that this meant A could not make payments whilst abroad on business and lost
that contract. HSBC paid A £300  as compensation for this. But the director  did not think that
this was sufficient. She wants to be compensated for the impact on A of losing business and
describes how this has affected  her both professionally  and personally.
The director  says that the erroneous application of the freezing order led A to incur legal
costs, lose contracts worth several  thousand  pounds, damage to its reputation  and adversely
affected her credit score. As the sole director of A, she says that her business suffered
significant financial losses such that she had to transfer cash from credit cards  to pay her
mortgage and living expenses as well as borrowing from family. She says that she also had
to take out high-interest Payday loans  in an attempt to keep A afloat. She says she wants
appropriate compensation for this which she estimates at around  £80,000  together with her
credit score reinstated to the level it was before the freezing order  was applied.
Our investigator recommended that HSBC pay A the legal  costs  involved and a further
£1,000 in compensation for inconvenience.  She said that:
In her opinion the freezing order did not cover A but nonetheless  the account  was frozen 
on 14 March 2019;
In addition  on 29 March 2019 HSBC  received  a letter from the directors  solicitors  saying 
that the business  account was not covered by the order  and this was endorsed by her 
ex-partners solicitors. Despite this, the account was not unfrozen until 7 May 2019.  She 
considered this to be an unnecessary  delay;
Ref: DRN56118752There was a problem with the direct debit for the commercial card account.  And the 
director could  not view this account  online.  The limit for the account  was not reinstated  
and this meant  that payments were  declined;
She said that HSBC  had not engaged with the director and so she had to arrange for a 
solicitor to help her. So these legal costs (which  based  on a schedule  provided by A 
were over £13,000)  should be paid by HSBC.  And given  the mistakes made by HSBC  
there was significant inconvenience to A as it could not trade for nearly two months. A 
further £1,000  in compensation should  be paid to reflect  this;
She was unable to consider the personal  impact  on the director  as this was a complaint 
by A, a separate legal entity.
The director  did not agree. She said that the impact of the loss of contracts and on As
reputation had not been reflected and said that a higher award was justified. HSBC  did not
agree with the recommendation and also said that it did not think that the legal costs all
related to defending the freezing order.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  relevant guidelines,
laws and industry practice in reaching my decision so far.
Firstly, I want to acknowledge what a difficult time the director has been through.  She has
detailed the impact the freezing order has had on her personally and professionally and I
want her to know that Ive read her testimony  in great detail and I do sympathise with her for
everything thats happened. This complaint  has been brought  by a company which  is a legal
entity of its own  and so its the impact upon  that which I must consider  however,  the fact
that it is run by a sole director who has built up her business over several years and has
suffered personally  because of whats happened to her business, is something which I want
her to know I have understood and appreciated.
I think its worth citing at the outset some  of the key dates which I consider  are material to
the consideration of this complaint:
9 January 2019  Decree Absolute granted
13 March 2019  freezing order granted
29 March 2019  the directors solicitors contacted HSBC  querying the scope of the 
order and seeking  to unfreeze both the personal and the business bank accounts; it 
included an endorsed letter from the ex-partners solicitors  agreeing to the directors  
bank accounts  being unfrozen
29 March 2019  HSBC wrote  to the ex-partners  solicitors seeking confirmation  that the 
business account could be unfrozen pursuant to paragraph 17 of the order
7 May 2019  the ex-partners solicitors confirm  that the block  on the business  account 
may be lifted  but not on the personal  account
7 May 2019  HSBC remove inhibits on the business bank account
7 June 2019  the freezing order is varied  so that the business accounts  are formally 
unfrozen
Its clear to me from the submissions made by the director, that the crux of As complaint is
about HSBCs application of the freezing order to its business bank  account  and whether this
was done legitimately. The director has raised a number of further  complaint points which all
seem to stem  from this key issue  so even  if I dont address each of those individually, Id
Ref: DRN56118753like to assure her that Ive taken everything into account. Ive given careful  consideration to
the application of the freezing  order and Ive reached out to As legal representatives at the
time for additional  information because I know how critical the outcome of this case is to the
director and I want to reassure her that Ive explored the available  evidence to satisfy myself
that the outcome Im proposing in this decision  is a fair and correct  one.
The director  raised  a number of points in response to the provisional decision issued on 5
February 2020, namely that:
The director did not attend the hearing when the freezing order  was made  because  the 
papers had been sent to an incorrect address;
The freezing order explicitly states that As business accounts shouldnt  be frozen;
The dates set out in the provisional  decision werent accurate in particular with regard to 
a project shed had to take abroad  because she couldnt  fulfil it here as a result  of the 
freezing order;
But for the application  of the freezing order to its business accounts, A would be in credit  
and it would be thriving as it had been previously;
HSBCs actions led to A being unable  to operate which was a breach of the Human 
Rights Act because the director  was unable to run the business;
The application of the freezing order caused  A significant financial loss.
The director  has also asked that I consider:
Whether HSBC breached the Equality Act 2010  by not making reasonable adjustments  
for the director;
Knowing the director  was vulnerable, whether HSBC ought  to have sent letters  as it did, 
chasing payments and warning her of her overdraft limit considering  her vulnerabilities  
around her mental health at the time;
Whether the directors accounts were restricted longer than they ought to have been.
As mentioned above, I can see that these  points largely stem from HSBCs  application  of the
freezing order to As accounts and whether this ought to have been  done  and so, thats
what Ill address first. However, Id like to remind the parties that this decision is focused on
the impact of the freezing  order on A  the business. And so I wont  be addressing any
arguments which particularly relate  to the impact of the freezing order on the director in her
personal capacity, as Im aware that this is being  investigated under a separate  complaint.
Freezing order
As position is that paragraph 22 of the freezing order is clear  that the terms of the order do
not extend to its business accounts. Paragraph 22 reads:
This Order does not prohibit the respondent from dealing with or disposing of any of
her assets  in the ordinary and proper course  of business.
It seems  to me that A has taken the term proper  course of business literally as the proper
course of running  its business  but I do not agree that this was the intention  of the order.
Case law does not strictly define  payment in the ordinary course of business and legal
precedent indicates  that it very much  turns on the specific  facts  of the case in question.
Generally speaking, this term refers  to fulfilling generic payments such as those  for utilities
and day to day expenses  and moreover,  it is applicable to all respondents whether they are
business owners or not.
Ref: DRN56118754Id like to draw As attention to paragraph 17 which is fairly standard  wording applied to
freezing orders. It says that the order covers:
any asset  which  (she) has the power, directly or indirectly, to dispose of or deal with
as if it were her own.
The director  was the sole director of A and she had direct control over it  therefore because
the order applied  to all assets owned by her, Im satisfied that A was caught by the order.  If
the director felt that the order shouldnt cover her business account, the next step ought  to
have been obtaining legal  advice and further  directions  from the court if she had any doubt
on the scope of the order. Ive looked  into the scope of instruction by A of its legal
representatives which has included considering  the breakdown of their bill of costs  to
ascertain whether they were  instructed  in relation  to the freezing order  specifically. The bills
show that they were  aware of the freezing order and acted for the director including
counsels representation on her behalf  at court. The directors testimony that her legal
representatives were  instructed after she was alerted to the freezing order  being  granted,  is
consistent with the dates  on those  bills.
The director  says that she was unaware  of the hearing taking place  because  the papers
were sent to her mothers address where she was registered as living  (and placed aside by
her mothers  carer) but she was temporarily  residing in London  whilst  working  on a contract
at that time. During this period, she visited the former matrimonial home and there  was an
altercation between  her and her ex-partner  which resulted in him being  forcibly removed by
the police. It was only then that she found the papers relating to the freezing order. The
director says that she instructed  solicitors immediately and met with them  the following day.
This explains the delay  between  the order being granted (13 March) and the first letter from
the directors solicitors to HSBC (29 March) stating that the freezing of the directors
accounts was in contravention of the order. The director says that she met with her legal
representatives the day after she discovered  the order.  I would  expect that a prompt
application to court would  have been made by her legal representatives if she wished to
have the order  varied  or was unsure of the extent of the order   and it doesnt  seem that the
directors legal representatives did this.
It is unfortunate that the director became aware  of the freezing order  over two weeks  after it 
had been granted because she was residing elsewhere temporarily  but I cannot hold 
HSBC responsible for this. It wouldnt have been  for HSBC to query  where the papers for the 
hearing were served as it wasnt a party to the proceedings but even if it did, the address for 
service was where the director  was ordinarily residing. Nor do I consider it unusual that 
HSBC didnt query whether the order was to be applied to the directors personal or business 
accounts; it seems to have applied  the freezing order to all of the directors  accounts 
because of paragraph 17.
However, the legal  representatives for the director wrote to HSBC  to challenge the scope  of
the order on 29 March.  On the same day HSBC wrote to the ex-partners legal
representatives to ask whether the directors business account was intended to be caught  by
the order. Regrettably, the ex-partners solicitors didnt confirm until 7 May that the directors
business accounts only could be released  from the freezing order. I asked HSBC what its
usual process would be when a variation by mutual  consent is obtained.  It confirmed that
variations could be referred back to court or simply agreed in writing   which was the case
here. It said that the length of time the ex-partners  solicitors took to respond was out of its
hands. Further, because  a mutually  agreed  variation is more cost effective and quicker, it
Ref: DRN56118755says this is its preferred  option but it appears that if the ex-partner  had refused  the variation,
HSBC may have reverted  to court  to obtain further  directions.
I asked HSBC to confirm its process  and protocols for me when a freezing order  is applied to
a customers account so I could understand what the director  needed to do in order  to allow
payments in the ordinary course of business to be made. HSBC provided us with a copy of
a letter  dated  20 March where it set out that for permitted payments to be made  out of the
accounts, the director would need  to provide either:
(i) confirmation from her own legal representatives  that it had made the ex-partners  
solicitors aware  of payments  leaving the account  or
(ii) written confirmation from the ex-partners solicitors detailing  any permitted withdrawals.
This letter was sent to the former matrimonial home and so for the reasons explained above,
the director would not have received this.
HSBC said that once the applicants solicitor or the court  has clarified the types of
transactions allowed, then a list would be recorded  on its customers file and any requests
for payments would be checked against this list which could also include automated
payments like direct debits. The accounts would remain inhibited, however the inhibit would
be removed temporarily  to allow the transaction  to go through and then replaced  later on the
same day.
HSBC has said that in fact, there was no explicit requirement that the director seek  consent
from the applicants  solicitors for business payments, and so it is unclear why consent or
clarification from the applicants solicitors for payments to be made was sought in this letter.
It does say however  that its likely that consent was sought because there were no
minimum/maximum amounts quoted  in the order which could be accessed  and its likely that
the bank wanted assurance from the applicants solicitors to avoid any potential  claim for
assisting in the dissipation of assets.  HSBC also said that its not clear  simply from
statements which payments constitute those in the ordinary and proper course  of business.
From what  Ive seen, Im satisfied that HSBC took prompt  steps  to reach  out to the ex partners 
solicitors to request  mutual consent  to the variation of the order. It was not obliged to do 
anything more in this regard. I say this because the freezing  order was not applied for by it. 
HSBC was a third party to the freezing order because it was in possession of some of the 
assets referenced  within it. This meant that HSBC  owed  a duty to the court  to ensure that it did 
not assist the breach of the order because it could be held liable for contempt of court.  
Furthermore, case law in this area suggests that a freezing order  against a respondent could 
extend to the assets of a company of which the respondent is the sole director and main 
shareholder. The evidence  shows that HSBC consulted its legal department  upon  receipt  of the 
freezing order  given  the severity of these  types of orders - and was advised what to do next.
The terms of the freezing  order were varied  on 7 June. From the evidence Ive seen, it
seems the order wasnt varied because  it wasnt intended  to cover As business  accounts.
Rather, the order was varied by consent  of the parties  so that the business  accounts could
formally be released from the order and A could resume business. The variation  also
suggests that the director was caught by its terms but that the court was willing to vary those
terms to allow her to resume her business.  If it was felt that a freezing  order was
disproportionate in the circumstances, an argument for it to be discharged could have been
made by the director or her legal representatives  - but this didnt happen in this case.
Ref: DRN56118756Its unclear to me why a freezing order was made in the first place. A freezing order  is a form
of injunction which prevents a party from disposing  of or dealing  with its assets. The purpose
of this order is to protect claimants against  the risk of defendants disposing  of their assets
before judgment  can be obtained and enforced. Freezing orders place severe  constraints  on
a partys freedom to manage their assets and so a court  would ordinarily give careful
consideration as to whether the circumstances of a case  merit the granting  of such an order.
Further, it would be for the applicant  in this case the directors ex-husband  to show that
there was a real risk that the assets in the marriage  could  be disposed of so that a later
judgement made by the court couldnt be satisfied.
For reasons only the judge can say, it was felt that a freezing order was merited  before the
financial proceedings relating to the dissolution of the marriage  were  concluded. Regrettably,
the director was not at that hearing  and so could neither object nor request further clarity on
the scope of the order. My reasons for setting  out this background are that HSBC  were not
the ones who requested  the order; this was instigated by the directors ex-husband. HSBC
were served the order and it applied this to the relevant assets within  the control of the
director  as it was expected  to. As soon  as the directors  legal representatives were alerted
to the freezing order, I would have expected them to make a prompt application to court to
vary the same. But it would not have been for HSBC to do this as it wasnt a respondent to
the proceedings. I can see that HSBC attempted to negotiate an informal  variation  to the
freezing order by mutual consent and it took the ex-partners  solicitors  five weeks  to confirm
its position. Beyond this, HSBC was not obliged to initiate any further  steps regarding  the
application of the freezing order.
Paragraph 21 of the freezing order states  that £500  per week from the bank accounts may
be accessed by the director for living expenses and legal representation. Having seen the
statements for both accounts,  I can see that payments in excess of this amount were leaving
the account allowing the director  to maintain  a degree of payments whilst the matter of
unblocking the accounts entirely, was under discussion. I appreciate that this didnt mean the
director could operate  her business  as usual  but it at least meant that some of her key direct
debits were able to be fulfilled.
For the reasons  Ive detailed above, I cannot say that HSBC  acted  unreasonably  in its
application of the freezing order to As accounts,  before  it was amended  on 7 June. And
nor was it under an obligation to return to court to clarify the scope of the order  once the
directors legal representatives had raised this challenge; this was the responsibility  of the
director and her legal representatives.
The director  says that A lost several  contracts because  it couldnt fulfil them without access
to funds in its business  account in April 2019. These included:
Being removed from the preferred supplier list of a prominent company because  it had 
failed to deliver on two deadlines which A says was because  it couldnt access  funds to 
do so. This contract was for just under  £50,000;
The termination of a contract  by a company worth £6,250  because  A couldnt deliver on it;
The termination of a contract  by a company because A had no funds available to pay for 
travel; cost of the contract was around £9,000.
Its clear that A suffered  not only financial loss but likely reputational loss too as a result of
the application of the freezing  order. It is regrettable that the director was not at the hearing
when the freezing order was granted nor was she represented there because at that point
she could have agreed with the ex-partners solicitors to exclude  any ongoing contracts from
Ref: DRN56118757the order, and her business  accounts entirely,  which would have mitigated her losses.  But
for the reasons Ive set out above,  I cannot hold HSBC responsible for this not happening.
I know how heavily invested the director is in this complaint and in particular  with regard to
this point about HSBCs  application of the freezing order to her personal and business
accounts. I know my findings in this regard will disappoint the director because  it means  that
Im not asking HSBC  to compensate her for financial losses  arising because A couldnt fulfil
its contracts without access to funds. But, as difficult as it may be to accept, I hope Ive
clearly explained  how Ive reached  this conclusion.
Notwithstanding the above, I recommend that HSBC places a notice  of correction on the
directors credit file explaining that the freezing order was applied  and debts accrued during
the course of divorce proceedings, so that some context can be considered  if the director
makes any future application  for lending.
The directors vulnerability  and its impact  on A
Ive considered whether HSBC ought  to have done more  once  it was alerted to the directors  
mental heath difficulties  in August  2019.  The director has told us that she suffered from post 
traumatic stress disorder and I can see from her evidence that she had been  through  a 
horrendous period in the run up to her divorce. I was saddened to hear that when  the freezing 
order was granted,  she attempted  to take her life. The director  says that HSBC  was aware of her 
of her mental health difficulties from as early as April 2019 as she had spoken to a representative 
of HSBC on the phone about  it and her sister had also visited  a branch to let them know.
In correspondence  with us, HSBC said that the only factual information it had about  the
directors vulnerabilities were from a Debt and Mental Health advice form it received in
February 2020. However, I do not consider this to be accurate. On 28 August 2019, the
director sent HSBC  an email threatening to commit suicide. In it she says all of her accounts
were due to be unfrozen in June and she is in a desperate financial state  having  borrowed
money from family to meet her expenses because she couldnt  access  her money.  She
attributes her lack of being able to access her personal and business bank accounts to her
ability to take on work  and generate  an income  which she says is HSBCs fault. The email
ends with what could  be perceived as a veiled threat  to imminently end her life.
Ive already explained that the order granted in June sought to formally vary the earlier  order
enabling A to access the business account, not to release all of the accounts controlled by
the director. Its clear that there was a misunderstanding on the directors part as to the
purpose of the June  order.  Notwithstanding this, I consider that even if HSBC hadnt  been
aware before August  2019 that the director was vulnerable, it was on notice from the point  of
this email that she was. And it is from this period that I would expect HSBC to act quickly
and to take steps to find out exactly what the status with As accounts  were and what  further
support it could offer the director. I asked HSBC more specifically about  this especially in
light of the regulators  guidance on the treatment of vulnerable consumers  and
disappointingly, it said that it had nothing further  to add and maintains that it acted  as soon
as it became aware in February 2020.
The director  says that HSBC didnt do enough  knowing that she was going  through such  a
difficult time; and Im inclined to agree. Its clear  to me that the effect of being  in an abusive
relationship, exiting that relationship coupled with a decline in her mental  health
understandably took its toll on her and on A. HSBC ought to have identified the director as a
vulnerable consumer as a result of the divorce  proceedings  at the earliest and if not then, at
least from the point  the director  expressed  her suicidal thoughts.  Its possible  HSBC  didnt
know the director had been suffering from mental  health issues  for some time in the lead up
Ref: DRN56118758to the divorce  and immediately afterwards so it couldnt respond to this specifically - but it
would have been aware that the freezing  order had been granted  following divorce
proceedings and the various  desperate emails from the director  about the lack of access  to
her accounts  should have  prompted it to refer her to its vulnerable customer  team   or at
least begin a conversation  with her about  her vulnerability. HSBC  did have this discussion in
February 2020 but from what Ive seen, the signs were there for a referral  to have been
made to its specialist team much sooner.
I agree  that these  steps were appropriate  given what the director was going through  and
the impact on A as a result  but I consider that HSBC should have implemented  them
earlier which  would likely have mitigated the stress the director was experiencing. The
impact of this on the director personally will be considered in the related complaint shes
brought to this service.
The director  says that HSBCs actions  are tantamount to a breach of the Equality Act 2010.
Whilst its not for me to make a legal finding  on whether the Equality Act has been  breached
(because this is something only a court  can do) I can take the Act into account when
deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. Firstly I cannot say
that A has been  treated  unfairly because it is a legal entity; not a natural person. However, I
do consider that HSBC  could have done more  to enquire about what reasonable
adjustments the director required once  it was alerted to her mental  health  difficulties and
instituted its interventions  sooner. Had it done  so, this might  have mitigated some of the
stress she was experiencing in trying to get A up and running  again.
Whilst A is the legal  entity thats  brought  the complaint here,  I cannot  ignore  that it has been
brought by its sole director who has experienced the distress personally and professionally
of her business being manifestly disrupted by the application of the freezing order  and it is
her health  thats  suffered in part because  of this. Whilst  it may seem as if Im splitting hairs,
the rules which  govern  our service are strict on when compensation awards may be made,
to whom and for what. With this in mind, I cannot make an award  to a legal entity (A) for pain
and suffering, because  this can only be experienced by a natural person  and so it is
appropriate that this aspect is considered in more  detail in the directors  related complaint
about her personal  accounts.
From what  Ive seen, access to the business  account was reinstated following the variation
to the freezing order in June 2019 as intended.  It seems that the director believed that all of
her accounts  ought to be unfrozen at this point which  isnt what  the order  intended. Ive seen
many emails  which seem panicked and stressed  in tone from the director  to HSBC  stating
that her current and savings account  remained blocked, including  the sensitive email from
August 2019.  But HSBC  were confined to act within the terms of the order which  only
directed the unblocking of the business account. As such, its difficult for me to make  an
award for inconvenience  because HSBC didnt unblock all of the directors  accounts as it
wasnt empowered to do this. Nor have I seen sufficient evidence to confidently say that had
HSBC made  a referral  to its vulnerable  customer unit sooner, this would have enabled A to
resume its business sooner.
Delay in unrestricting accounts
A says that it was unable to resume business because  of a delay in unrestricting its business
account and the directors personal  accounts which caused it further  financial loss. From the
evidence Ive seen,  Im satisfied that there  wasnt an unreasonable  delay in unrestricting
access to the accounts and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN56118759A says that the variation order permitted all the accounts to be unrestricted. The director
contacted HSBC on 12 June 2019 explaining that following the hearing, she should  now
have access to all of her accounts with it. HSBC said that it was only able to release all of
the directors personal accounts after receiving  consent from the applicants  solicitors to do so.
Its clear to me that in the order made  on 7 June  2019 the only accounts which are stated by
the Court  that can be unfrozen  are one personal  account and As business account   there
is no reference to any other accounts  being permitted to be released. Further,  Paragraph 11
of that order states:  the  freezing order made on 13 March  2019 shall remain  in force until
further order by consent  save for the following variations and goes on to list the
unfreezing of the two accounts  cited above specifically as being  released from the terms of
the order. This meant that the original freezing order placing all of As and the directors
accounts on hold remained  in place  but with a variation to allow access to these two
specific accounts. The order of 7 June 2019  didnt override  the order  of 13 March 2019, it
merely varied  it so it was expected that all of the other accounts would remain  frozen  (unless
both parties agreed  otherwise). If the director had any issues  or concerns about the extent of
the variation made on 7 June, it was for her or her legal  representatives  to negotiate this with
the applicants  solicitors or appeal to the court  for further directions.
The director  provided  an email to us which she sent to HSBC on 18 June 2019,  wherein  she
stated The court didnt  have all my account numbers at the hearing. If it was the case  that
further accounts were  to be released  from the freezing order  of 13 March, then it was up to
her or her legal representatives to furnish  the court with the additional account numbers so
that the order could be varied again  or to approach the applicants  solicitors with a list of the
accounts she proposed to be released.  Ive not seen any evidence suggesting that this
happened. The director says that she spoke to a court  clerk  however, following the 7 June
order, Ive seen no other orders that state further  accounts were also to be released.
And so it seems to me that HSBC acted on the specific  terms of the variation which  released  
the two accounts  only and from the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that it did this quickly 
once it had received  notice  of the variation. Im satisfied  also that HSBC received 
confirmation on 17 September 2019 from the applicants solicitors  that the remaining 
accounts could  be released from the freezing order and that it began the process for 
actioning this, that same day. For this reason, I cannot hold HSBC  responsible  for not 
releasing the directors other accounts  sooner.
Commercial card account
With regard to the limit not being correctly  reinstated to the commercial card account,  its not
in dispute that this was an error  on HSBCs part.
HSBC has shared a significant amount of information with me about its systems as well as
screenshots of As accounts, statements  and its own system notes. It may be helpful  here if I
detail some of the key points which I consider to be material to this particular complaint point
raised by the director:
21 March 2019  HSBC applied  a block to the commercial card account  following 
receipt of the freezing order. HSBC has confirmed  to me that on commercial card 
accounts there  are two limits; one limit for the individual and another for the business. In 
this case, the block was applied to both limits  on this date
Ref: DRN56118751010 May 2019   Due to the accounts  being released from the freezing order, both limits 
were reinstated to £3,000
10 June 2019  HSBC  reduced the individual  cardholder  limit to £0 but is unable to 
explain why this happened; the limit for the business  remained at £3,000. The impact of 
the individual  limit reducing  to £0 meant  that the card couldnt be used although any 
subscriptions/reoccurring transactions  would  continue to be processed and taken from 
the account
28 June 2019  HSBC  increased the individual  limit back  to £3,000 and paid the director  
£300 in compensation for the inconvenience  caused  to her.
The director  says that she attempted to use her card on 13 May but it failed.  I queried  why
this isnt showing as reported to HSBC  until 28 May.  She says that she reported it twice to
her local branch over this period.  Ive not seen  any evidence  from HSBC to corroborate  this
but Im mindful that its possible the branch discussions werent captured on its systems. In
the absence of any other evidence and how active the director  has been in pursing  her
complaint points, Im minded to accept that she did report the lack of access to HSBC in
branch  although its unclear from the evidence Ive seen, what  the issue  regarding  lack of
access was. I say this because from the evidence Ive seen,  the director was actively  using
her commercial card during this time.
The director  said that during this time her card stopped working and she was issued with a
new card.  From the evidence Ive seen, the director was actively  using the card when the
limits were  correctly in place and the card was only replaced in September  2019 after it had
expired.
However, its clear from the above timeline that from 10 to 28 June 2019, the director was 
unable to use the commercial card. The director has said that this had a material impact on 
A as she was on a project abroad at the time which she needed  to abruptly cancel because 
she had no access to funds  and this both impeded  As ability  to resume business and also 
caused it reputational damage.  A was reliant on the commercial  card to be able to fulfil this 
contract and generate some cash flow for its business after not being able to do so because 
of the freezing order. Ive seen As statements for the period in question and its clear to me 
that there  was an available balance to spend on it had the individual  limit not incorrectly 
been set at £0 by HSBC.
A says that it had to abandon two shoots during this period;  one in the UK from 31 May to 9
June and one in Belgium on 19 June. With regard  to the UK shoot, its unclear to me why A
had to abandon it as the evidence suggests that until 10 June, the account was operational
and there  was an available balance to spend. Moreover, transactions on the account  took
place during this period. For this reason, Im unable to say that the director was prevented
access to As account such that it caused her to abandon the shoot and experience
consequential financial loss. I know this will be disappointing for the director to hear but I
hope Ive explained clearly why Im not asking HSBC to refund the cost of this contract to A.
Turning to the second shoot in Belgium, I can see that the dates for this one did fall within
the period where the director couldnt access the commercial account. The director  said that
she tried to call the telephone  number on the back of her card when her attempted use failed
and she also telephoned her sister who visited the directors local branch. As her sister was
not a party  to the account, HSBC was unable  to discuss the account with her. I asked HSBC
for any contact notes of conversations  its representatives may have had with the director
Ref: DRN561187511during this period but it has failed  to provide any. I also asked if there were any disputed
transactions during this time but HSBC  said that there are no audit trails available to check.
The director  says she had no alternative  other  than to abandon the shoot and subsequently,
lose this contract. She also says that her family were worried  for her welfare because of the
stress of not being able to access any money  and so they arranged for her to return to the UK.
Its apparent to me that when  the payments were declined, the effect on A would have
arguably been more catastrophic  than for say a different business customer with alternative
sources of income.  Ive noted that the work As business  undertakes  is of a time critical
nature and if it is unable  to fulfil a contract, that work  is effectively lost and given to an
alternative supplier.  As media work  relies on being  able to deliver its part within a set
timeframe so that the project can move  to the next stage. If A were to take on work and not
deliver on what it had committed to, not only would this be a lost contract for which it
wouldnt get paid,  but for a business of As size, could cause significant reputational damage
and impact the sourcing of further work  in the future. In this case, with no alternative sources
of income and with its account limited reduced to £0 without notice or justification, I
understand why the director felt she had no option other than to abandon the shoot  and I
empathise with her having to make such a painful decision after shed finally  been able to
source a project  which, for all intents and purposes, would help get A back  up and running  again.
HSBC acknowledged  its error in reducing  the limit without explanation on 10 June 2019 and
it paid the director  £300 for the inconvenience  caused. But I dont consider that this payment
goes far enough  to reflect the total losses  incurred  by A.
HSBC told us that under its terms and conditions relating  to the commercial account, it couldnt 
be held liable for any consequential  loss incurred by A because  of any actions on its part. I 
was given a copy  of the terms and conditions which didnt relate to the period when As access  
to the commercial card was restricted. I requested a copy of the contemporaneous terms 
which have since been provided and which dont  address liability for consequential losses. 
However, even if the terms  did attempt to restrict liability, Im empowered  to consider 
alongside those  terms, relevant laws, the regulators guidance and industry  good  practice  as 
well as what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.
And having done so, it seems fair and reasonable to me that HSBC  should be held liable for
the consequential loss of the contract which flowed from its mistake in reducing  As
individual limit to £0 rendering it unable to use the card whilst abroad and resulting therefore,
in the shoot being abandoned. A has provided evidence to show that the cost of the contract
was £17,500 plus expenses and so I intend  to ask HSBC to repay this.
Furthermore, Ive seen an email to the director from the global cloud video production
service that enlisted  A to complete this contract,  stating that because A failed to complete
the shoot as scheduled they had to source  another producer and editor to start the project
from scratch causing them considerable difficulty in fulfilling its own contract  with the original
client whod  commissioned the work.  The production service then goes on to say that As
failure to complete the contract  seriously jeopardised our relationship with a major client
and as a result, it would  recommend terminating  As place  on the platform  where such
projects would  be sourced. The director  has told us that this was a huge  blow for A in an
industry where reputation is critical to building relationships  and sourcing further work and
because of As termination from that platform,  it lost a regular income of around  £25,000  a year.
Eventually HSBC did reinstate the individual limit on the card to £3,000 on 28 June but by then, 
As losses had been irretrievably incurred and I consider  those losses to be a direct consequence  
Ref: DRN561187512of HSBCs actions. For this reason, I consider it appropriate for HSBC to pay £17,500 for the lost 
contract as well as £2,000  for the damage  to As reputation  and impact  on sourcing further work 
from this established  supplier.  This is in addition  to the £300  already paid to A.
I know that the director may consider  that an award  of £2,000 for loss of reputation  and future 
business doesnt go far enough to reflect the damage thats been inflicted on her career and 
on A, in not being able to have funds to take on and execute further projects.  But I have to 
balance this against how much of this is attributable to HSBC and in so doing, I cannot hold 
HSBC entirely responsible for this. As Ive expressed earlier,  the biggest  impact on being  able 
to fulfil existing  contracts  and take on further work  was the application of the freezing order 
and the impact this had on A being able to access funds to do this. In particular, Im aware of 
an especially established contract A had with a prominent regular supplier of work (generating 
around £50,000 a year according to the director) which was lost in around March  2019 
because A couldnt  fulfil it. But HSBC  didnt apply for the freezing order and from the evidence 
Ive seen, it acted  according  to the terms of that order. Its very difficult to put an exact number 
of how many contracts A may secure in the future  and the value of those too. But Im satisfied  
that the award Im making acknowledges that HSBC had a part in A losing a contract because 
of an error  on its systems  and the possibility of sourcing further  work  from the same  supplier. 
Whilst also recognising  that there are several  other  factors which  may influence the sourcing 
of further work including the impact of the freezing order  initiated  by the directors  ex-husband 
and sadly, her own poor mental  health. I should add that Im aware  A has other complaints 
which are related to this complaint point  including one regarding the reinstatement of her direct  
debits. Because  these  are being dealt  with separately,  Ill not go into the detail of those points 
 or the related complaints  in this decision.
Summary
Overall its clear to me that the director has been through a horrific time personally and
professionally but I cannot say that HSBC was entirely the cause of this. I know  that this will
be disappointing for her to hear.  Rather, HSBCs actions played an unfortunate part in what
the director was going through and Im satisfied that it could have  done  more to support  her
 and by virtue of this, support A - once it was on notice that the director  was vulnerable.
And it could  have done more when the director  alerted  HSBC  to the impact the freezing
order was having  on A being able to function  as a business and the consequential  financial
difficulties which stemmed directly from this.
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied that HSBCs actions contributed to  but werent
solely responsible  for  As difficulties in resuming its business. And for this reason, HSBC
should pay A the consequential loss of the aborted project abroad and loss to reputation. I
know that A was seeking a far more substantial award but I hope Ive explained clearly  why
Ive reached this outcome, in my reasoning  above.
my provisional decision
Subject to any further comments or evidence from A or from HSBC  UK Bank  Plc by 7 July 2021. 
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint on the basis  stated above.
I consider proposing that HSBC UK Bank Plc should:
Pay A £17,500 representing  the cost of the abandoned shoot  because  the commercial 
credit card limit had been reduced  to £0 without explanation rendering A unable  to use it 
whilst abroad
Ref: DRN561187513Pay A £2,000 for the damage to its reputation  and loss of future contracts arising from 
the above shoot being abandoned and as a consequence of the individual card limit 
being reduced to £0 without  explanation
Place a notice  of correction on the directors credit file explaining that the freezing order  
was applied  and debts accrued during the course  of divorce  proceedings.
In my provisional decision I invited both parties to respond with additional information they 
wanted me to consider before I reached my final decision. We didnt hear back from HSBC. 
The director  responded with various representations  which Ill now address. 
what Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In so doing, Ive carefully considered  the 
further representations made by the director on behalf of A. These  are namely:  
That all loans and credit  cards with HSBC should  be written off as a gesture  of goodwill 
otherwise the director will be left with debts she wouldnt  otherwise have had;
The director disagrees with my provisional findings that HSBC  were entitled to freeze 
As business account and it should  be directed to compensate  it for all loses caused  to 
the business;
The director would like her mortgage to be moved to HSBC; 
She would like to know why in light of point 22 of the freezing order, HSBC stopped the 
direct debits  on the business bank account  for telephone,  broadband,  mobile,  software, 
email subscriptions and other services which meant that it couldnt  conduct its business;
The director says that A incurred legal costs because its representatives tried to resolve 
matters directly  with HSBC and she would like to be reimbursed for this;
She is unhappy that an extension was granted to HSBC to make  any submissions it 
wished to, to my provisional decision.  
Im satisfied that Ive adequately explained in my provisional decision that it would be 
inappropriate for me to hold HSBC responsible for all of the debts which  A has incurred 
because of the freezing order being  applied to its account. I remain satisfied that HSBC was 
within its rights to apply the freezing order to As accounts and that there was no undue  
delay in unfreezing As accounts  when  the ex-partners solicitors confirmed it could do this. It 
therefore follows that I will not be directing HSBC to write off As loans and credit cards  nor 
will I direct  HSBC to reimburse A for legal costs  incurred in corresponding with it, in relation 
to the application of the freezing order. 
The director  has also asked for a mortgage to be moved to HSBC because  it has a more  
favourable rate. It is outside  of the remit of this service  to make a direction like this. It is 
ultimately up to a business whom it chooses to lend to and so, I cannot direct HSBC  to port 
the directors mortgage to it.
The director  says that regular direct debits relating to the conduct  of As business  were 
stopped on the commercial  card account and this had a detrimental  impact on it. However, 
the evidence Ive seen shows that the direct  debits continued to leave the account   and the 
balance settled each  month  until there were insufficient funds in the current  account to be 
able to settle the commercial card debt from August 2019. So I disagree that items such  as 
the subscriptions on the business account,  were prevented from debiting the account.
Ref: DRN561187514I can see that the director disagrees with the findings Ive reached regarding  the application 
of the freezing order. I know that its disappointing to read and not the outcome she was 
hoping for  but I can assure her that Ive considered matters in great  detail and given all the 
evidence, Im satisfied that the outcome Ive reached is a fair and reasonable one in all the 
circumstances. I agree  that there  was a short delay in my final decision being  issued  
because HSBC had asked for an extension to respond.  It is at the ombudsmans discretion 
whether to allow an extension for further representations and in this case,  given the 
complexities involved,  I felt that it was fair to grant  this to HSBC. 
I provisionally upheld  As complaint and said HSBC  should pay it £17,500 for the lost 
contract and a further £2,000 for damage  to its reputation as well as placing a notice of 
correction on the directors  credit file. I still think thats the fairest way to resolve  As 
complaint and that the proposed level of compensation reasonably takes  into account all the 
circumstances and the impact of the issues raised, on A. As I still think HSBC should settle 
the complaint,  Im going  to proceed  with the award  I set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Pay A £17,500 representing  the cost of the abandoned shoot  because  the commercial 
credit card limit had been reduced  to £0 without explanation rendering A unable  to use it 
whilst abroad
Pay A £2,000 for the damage to its reputation  and loss of future contracts arising from 
the above shoot being abandoned and as a consequence of the individual card limit 
being reduced to £0 without  explanation
Place a notice  of correction on the directors credit file explaining that the freezing order  
was applied  and debts accrued during the course  of divorce  proceedings.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2021.
Reena Anand
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5611875