K821x#15complaint
Miss C is unhappy with Nationwide Building  Societys refusal to refund her for costs she 
thinks it is responsible  for paying.
background
Miss C bought a car, in part, using her credit card supplied by Nationwide  Building Society.
Miss C says prior to buying the car, she had a discussion  with the seller, a car dealership  
about all the things that were part of the deal. She says some of these things turned out to 
by untrue. Further these  representations were so specific that they also became terms of the 
contract. Also she suggests, not only did the dealership make verbal representations but 
there was written ones  too. The written representations were set out in the dealerships  
written advert for the car. These  were  all also terms of the contract. So there has been a 
breach of contract too. 
Miss C has explained  that she and a close relative, live in the same house,  and co parent their 
blended family. Miss C goes out to work and the relative takes on the role of a stay-at-home 
parent for the entire family. In short,  they are one household, it just so happens  that their 
household is not a traditional one. However, they are no less a family  unit than any other.
Very soon after Miss C bought  the car things went wrong with the car and repairs that Miss 
C was told would be done didnt happen. Worse  still, the dealership then went out of 
business. Miss C complained to Nationwide. Miss C relies on the rights she says she has 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Nationwide saw things  differently. It thought  the fact that the relevant paperwork was all in 
the name of Miss Cs co parent meant  that there was no valid debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship, in this situation. On that basis it decided  not to progress the matter  as it didnt 
think it was obliged to.
Dissatisfied with Nationwides  response Miss C came to our service.
Our investigator looked into things. She was satisfied that Miss C and her co parent were  
essentially a family in the way they organised their lives. She didnt think it was significant 
that the paperwork was only in the name of the co parent. That would be normal  enough in 
many a family. She looked at the wider circumstances,  and when she did, she thought the 
contracting party here was Miss C. She thought that was important because  Miss C being  
the contracting party meant there was a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship  here for 
the purposes of Section 75.
Next she took a look at what  she thought had most likely happened when Miss C entered 
into the contract to buy the car. She was persuaded that the seller  had made false  
statements of fact that induced Miss C into the contract. She was also satisfied that specific  
terms of the contract  had been breached.
For all of these reasons our investigator recommended upholding the complaint.
Ref: DRN55018152Miss C accepted this recommendation, Nationwide  did not. In summary it repeated its previous 
position. Plus it rejected  the idea that Miss C was the contracting  party and it pointed out 
things like the insurance arrangements for the car which it suggested supported its stance.
Nationwide asked that an ombudsman review Miss Cs complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding what is a fair way to resolve Miss Cs complaint Ive taken 
Section 75 into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, 
for example, a court  might reach if Miss C pursued a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract. This service  is an informal alternative to the court system.
As both Miss C and Nationwide are aware the general effect of Section 75 is that if Miss C 
has a claim for misrepresentation or breach  of contract against  the supplier, she can also 
bring that claim against Nationwide provided  certain conditions are met. 
One of these conditions is that there  must be a very specific relationship  in place,  that is, a 
valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship.
Nationwide says there is no such relationship in place. Its position  is Miss C may have 
provided the finance to buy the car but in reality she wasnt  a contracting  party her co parent 
was. All Miss C did was discharge the co parents obligation to pay under the contract. 
In support of what it says,  Nationwide points to the fact that what  it sees as the relevant 
documents are only in the co parents name. That is, the purchase and repair  invoices the 
roadside recovery and the car insurance policy. It infers from this that the owner of the car 
and by extension  the only contracting party is the co parent.
However, I think Nationwides  take doesnt  go fully to the heart  of the matter.  I think  it needs  
to take into account  all the relevant wider  circumstances. I dont think  the position with the 
written documents  it tells us about, by itself, establishes who the contracting party  was here.  
And this is crucial as I think  that is the crux of the issue.
When I look at the wider circumstances Miss Cs role in matters becomes much  more central 
and compelling.  She does  not appear  to a bystander who was just helping  out the co parent. 
Miss C appears to be the one who searched  for the car. She did the negotiations with the 
dealership. She was the one who went looking for the dealership to complain to it when 
things went wrong. She has given  us a detailed first-hand account  about what  the deal 
included and why, she can do this because she was there. 
Ref: DRN55018153Also, the car is big enough for the entire  extended family. It can fit in all the kids in one go for 
the school run for example.  Miss C also says they as a family  use the car for after school 
activities, days out and holidays, all the things  a family does together. Miss C and the 
co parent live in the same house.  When I look at these  wider circumstances, I think  she was 
contracting in her own right for the family car.
Moreover, I accept on balance that the realities  probably are, as Miss C tells us, that the two
relatives, living together as they do in the same  house, share household expenses in some 
way which  suits them and that one operates as the agent for the other for all household 
purposes. So the fact the documents  Nationwide  mentions are in the name of the co parent 
does not undermine the notion that Miss C was the contracting party.
Further, Miss C explains  that they only put the co parents name on the document to help 
build up her credit history.  I realise  Miss C was mistaken as to what  information  helps build a 
credit file profile. But that does not take away from the fact that I find her reasons for putting  
everything in the co parents name persuasive.  In other words I find it likely she thought by 
doing this she was assisting the co parent.
Im not persuaded that because Miss C isnt insured to drive  the car is important  for the 
purposes of this point.  Miss C says she isnt insured to drive  it because she doesnt drive it. 
On a day to day basis  it is the co parent  who is ferrying the kids around.  I think it may just be 
as simple as this, as the parent who works  outside  the home which includes driving  on 
weekdays, maybe Miss C relishes the opportunity  to let the co parent do the family driving. 
Not all family tasks are divided equally in some  families.  The way the car is insured, does not 
by itself make me think Miss C wasnt a contracting party.
It is perfectly  legitimate  for Nationwide to question the existence of the debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship. Perhaps  though,  it might  not have raised these particular issues  if this 
had been a more traditional family  set up.
For all of these reasons, I am satisfied there is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship here.
Next, Ive thought  about if any misrepresentations or breach of contract  occurred. In this 
context, a misrepresentation is a false statement of fact made by the seller which induced 
the buyer to enter into the contract  and which caused the buyer to suffer  a loss.
I can see what the advert said, and I am satisfied Miss C relied on this. In particular what 
was said about  a warranty.
Further, Miss C says money was tight.  She suggests the dealership told her it would fix the 
issues mentioned  on the MOT. I think that she wasnt in a position to go spending more  
money on a car after she had just bought it so I find it likely she was told this. I also think this 
was a term of the contract they made.
In any event Nationwide hasnt objected to this analysis. Its focus has been  on whether there 
was a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship as I have already  said.  It has had a fair 
chance to tell us what  it thinks  of this part of the complaint.
It follows that I uphold  this part of Miss Cs complaint. I note that before we reached this 
stage Miss C accepted  that the battery  she replaced was just a wear  and tear item which 
she was responsible for so that does  not form part of my award.
Ref: DRN55018154my final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society  must refund Miss C:
£100 for two tyres.
£62 for the roadside cover.
£220 for diagnosing  and repairing the oil leak problem.
£120 for the engine fault experienced in February 2018.
For each sum refunded as set out above Nationwide must also pay 8% interest  simple  
per year, the interest is to run from the date each of the payments were made until the 
date of the settlement.
Nationwide must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it 
Miss C accepts my final decision.  
If it considers it is legally required to deduct  income  tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Miss C can reclaim the tax if she is able to.
Miss C should refer back to Nationwide if she is unsure  of the approach it has taken  and 
both parties should  contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know  more about the tax 
treatment of this portion  of the compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5501815