K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that Standard Life Savings Limited has failed to deal with the tax 
implications of her pension payments in a reasonable manner. She complains that as a 
result she has received a rebate that she wasnt entitled to and is now left with a debt to 
HMRC that she is repaying  in instalments.
background
Mrs G holds pension savings with Standard  Life. Mrs G has taken income  from her pension 
on a number of occasions. But when she was paid that income, in December 2016  and 
February 2018, Standard Life also added an income  tax rebate. But later, when Mrs Gs tax 
affairs were assessed  by HMRC she was told that she hadnt paid enough tax. So she is 
now having to repay  the additional  tax she owes through a monthly  direct  debit.
Standard Life didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint. It explained that any tax deductions,  or 
refunds, it makes are as instructed by HMRC. So it didnt think it was responsible  for any 
problems that Mrs G had faced in that regard. Mrs Gs complaint has been assessed  by one 
of our investigators. She also didnt think  that the complaint should  be upheld.  
Mrs G didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint  hasnt been  resolved informally,  
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
The payments that Standard Life made to Mrs G are treated  as income. So Standard Life is 
required to consider whether it should take tax off that income. It does this by being  provided by 
HMRC with information about  the tax status  of a consumer in the form of a notice of coding. 
That notice provides the information that Standard Life needs  to assess  the taxation  implications  
of an income payment  it is making.  I can see that from time to time Standard  Life was given 
updated information by HMRC on the tax code that it should  use for Mrs Gs payments.
When Standard  Life made  each of the payments to Mrs G, the tax code it had been  issued  by 
HMRC resulted in an income tax refund being due. But to be clear, this wasnt  money  that 
Standard Life was holding for onward payment  to Mrs G. HMRC had calculated that Mrs G had 
paid too much tax earlier in that tax year. So when the next payment was made to her, that 
overpayment was corrected in the form of a refund being issued. But that refund could just have 
easily been made by another  company should  Mrs G have been taking an income payment 
from there instead. Or it would have been refunded by HMRC direct later in the tax year.
So I cannot conclude  that Standard Life did anything other than follow  the instructions it was 
given by HMRC on the calculation  of the income  tax treatment it needed to apply to Mrs Gs 
income payments.  In most cases that treatment would result  in the deduction of some tax  
but in Mrs Gs case it resulted in a refund being  added.
Ref: DRN56674292I dont know why Mrs G also received a refund of the tax direct from HMRC. It might have been, 
for example, because  HMRCs systems hadnt  correctly added  the payment that Standard Life 
had made.  Or it might have been because Mrs G inadvertently  provided  HMRC with some 
incorrect information about the income  shed received  when she sent in a repayment  claim in 
February 2018 telling it about the payment shed received from Standard Life. But in all the 
circumstances that I think  are likely here I dont  see anything that would suggest Standard Life 
was at fault for the additional repayment  that Mrs G received from HMRC.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing from Mrs G. And it might be that she 
wishes to discuss the matter further with HMRC if she now considers  that organisation to 
have been at fault. But I havent seen anything that makes me think  Standard Life did 
something wrong here, or that it was responsible for the refund  being duplicated.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Standard Life Savings  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5667429