K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Hub Financial Solutions  Limited recommended that they 
take out an equity release plan that was unsuitable for them.
background
Mr and Mrs L took out an equity release plan through Hub in 2015. This meant Mr and 
Mrs L got a loan of about £190,000.  In 2016  following  a revaluation  of his property, Mr 
and Mrs L applied for a further loan through Hub and got a further loan of £5,000. But Mr 
and Mrs L applied again in 2017 to Hub but were  unable  to get further  equity released.  
Mr and Ms L are unhappy with the service provided  by Hub and say that
They didnt get a competitive interest  rate when they took out the lifetime 
mortgage.
They were assured that they could take out more equity if there was more  
equity in the property.
They believed that they could repay the lifetime  mortgage early.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld as she didnt 
believe that Hub had done anything wrong.  Mr and Mrs L disagreed and asked  for a 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry  to hear that that Mrs L is ill and I understand  that Mr and Mrs L are looking to 
sell their property and purchase a retirement  flat but face paying  a high ERC. I have to 
look at whether Hub did anything wrong when it advised Mr and Mrs L to take out this 
lifetime mortgage.  
Mr and Mrs L met with an adviser  from Hub in January 2015.  There  is a record  of what  is 
discussed in a fact find dated 5 January 2015. Mr and Mrs L had an existing mortgage at 
that time.  They had a good deal of equity in their house but no surplus income and 
limited savings. Mr and Mrs L wanted to raise  money to pay off the existing mortgage  
and to have some extra for a number of other purposes. Hub recommended a lifetime  
mortgage. Given Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances  at that time, this doesnt appear an 
unreasonable recommendation. 
Mr and Mrs L dont believe they got a competitive rate of interest. The interest  rate on 
Lifetime mortgages is generally higher  than ordinary mortgages. Hub says that it acted 
on Mr and Mrs Ls behalf to get the maximum loan available  on an enhanced  basis.  So, 
it says it sourced the most  money that could  be released at the beat interest rate 
available, given the enhancement.  Hub has provided us with information  on the interest 
rates available and has evidence that it obtained  the best interest  rate that Mr and Mrs L 
were eligible  for given their circumstances,  I have no evidence to suggest that Mr and 
Mrs L to achieve  their objectives would have been  eligible  for a lower rate of interest on 
their lifetime  mortgage. 
Ref: DRN54469752Mr and Mrs L say they were assured that they could release  more  equity if there  was 
more equity in the property. The suitability  letter  of 29 January 2015 in which  Hub 
recommend the mortgage has a section on releasing further  sums  which  starts with As 
you have released  the maximum  amount possible,  its unlikely that you will be able to 
release any more equity  in the future. If a further advance does become possible,  this 
will be dependent on a number of factors such as your age, property  value, the interest 
rate at the time and the amount you already owe. I consider that Hub put the prospects 
of a future  advance fairly. It was unlikely but possible. Mr and Mrs L managed  to get a 
further advance  on this mortgage  in 2016 but not in 2017 I dont agree that Hub misled  
Mr and Mrs L to believe  that if they took out this mortgage they would be assured of 
getting a further  advance.  
Mr and Mrs L say they were told they could repay  the mortgage early. Unfortunately  
most lifetime mortgages will have an ERC. Usually this is much larger than the ERC for 
an ordinary mortgage.  As the suitability letter says Equity release plans are designed to 
be long term arrangements which will end either  on your death or should you move into 
long term care. Therefore there can be significant  costs if you decide  to redeem the plan 
early. We would expect  that the adviser  should  make the borrower  aware of the ERC. I 
can see that the amount of the potential ERC  is highlighted in bold in the suitability  letter. 
So, I cant agree  with Mr and Mrs L that they werent informed about this. For the above  
reasons, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to accept or reject  my decision 
before 3 August 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5446975