complaint
Mr T complains that NewDay Ltd wont refund payments made on his credit cards that he 
says he didnt authorise.
background
Mr T has two credit  cards with NewDay. In August  and September 2018, payments were 
made from these accounts to two gambling companies. The total value of the payments was 
£1971.09 and they were made  online. Mr T says that he didnt make or authorise them.  He 
says he initially noticed these payments when he received his October  statement.
He notified NewDay.  He said that, although  hed made payments to these  websites in the 
past, he hadnt done so since  July 2018.  NewDay investigated and wrote  to Mr T saying that 
the payments that you have  disputed  on your account have indeed  been verified as genuine, 
therefore, we are not in a position  to reverse them.
NewDay was satisfied  that the payments were  carried out by Mr T because the device 
from which they were made  had the same IP address as was used for previous payments 
which Mr T says were  authorised. In addition to rejecting  Mr Ts complaint, NewDay  
recorded information with CIFAS.
Mr T wasnt happy with NewDays response  and so he referred the complaint to this service.  
He told an investigator  that his phone was lost or stolen in August. He said it wasnt  password 
protected and that it contained photos of his credit  cards. He also told us that his card details 
and gambling  site log-in details wouldve been  stored on the phone.
The investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. In a subsequent conversation  with the 
investigator, Mr T recalled  that his friends  son had stayed with him for approximately  three 
months and that hed borrowed  Mr Ts phone during this period. Mr T used an alternative  
phone. He speculated that his friends  son wouldve had all the necessary information on the 
phone to be allow him to place  bets using Mr Ts accounts. He told the investigator that it was 
his friends son who had lost the phone,  not him as hed originally said.
The investigator said that it was more likely than not that Mr T had authorised  these 
payments. But she didnt think NewDay had strong enough evidence  to justify  recording a 
CIFAS marker  against  Mr Ts name.  NewDay disagreed with the investigators opinion  and 
so the complaint was passed to me to consider.
I issued my provisional findings on 5 December 2019 which said:
were the payments authorised?
The basic  position  is that NewDay can hold Mr T liable for the disputed  payments 
if the evidence  suggests its more likely than not that he made them or authorised 
them. Ive carefully  considered the evidence thats been provided  by both sides  
and Im persuaded NewDay is reasonable in holding Mr T liable for the payments.
I say that because:
NewDay  has provided evidence showing that there was repeated access  to Mr 
Ts mobile banking facility  throughout the period of disputed activity. And 
NewDays evidence shows access was granted following  biometric  validation  (I 
understand access was granted  using  fingerprint recognition). Mr T didnt raise  
any concerns about these payments until October 2018. If he hadnt authorised 
Ref: DRN5546020them, Id have expected him to have alerted the business much sooner than he 
did.
NewDay  has provided evidence from one of the gambling companies  showing 
a transaction which Mr T accepts he authorised was carried  out via the same 
IP address as each of the payments  which he disputes.
Each payment was made  in connection  with Mr Ts online gambling  accounts. 
Evidence provided by those gambling  companies  suggests that a confirmation 
email would be sent to the email address connected with the account each time 
a bet was placed. This wouldve meant Mr T received  84 emails in total. He says 
he was making active use of his email account at the time,  but he didnt see any 
of these emails.  Given the volume  of payments, I think its unlikely that he 
wouldnt have  noticed at least one of these  notification emails.
Mr T has placed bets online before and told the business that he had placed 
bets with one of these  gambling companies when he reported the payments  
so these arent  unusual or out of character. Furthermore,  its unclear why a 
purported fraudster  would place bets on Mr Ts behalf.  They wouldnt obtain any 
direct financial  benefit from doing  so given  that any winnings  would be paid 
back to Mr Ts account. In fact, Ive seen evidence that £50 of winnings being 
paid into Mr Ts account on 21 September 2018.
Overall, I find it reasonable for NewDay to hold Mr T liable for these payments 
because the evidence suggests its more  likely  than not that he authorised them.
CIFAS marker
NewDay says it recorded a CIFAS marker against Mr Ts name.  It says he misused 
his account by making a false fraud  claim. I need  to consider whether it was fair for 
NewDay to apply that marker,  based on the evidence  it had and the investigation it 
carried out. Ive also taken into account what the relevant rules say about when 
CIFAS markers  can be applied.
Ref: DRN5546020K820x#14Having done so, Im satisfied that NewDay has sufficient evidence to justify 
recording a CIFAS marker. I say that because Mr Ts explanation of the events 
surrounding these  payments has changed throughout the life of the complaint. 
When he first notified NewDay of his concerns, he confidently said that 
payments to one of the gambling  companies were  made by him only to change  
his mind when he identified the specific payments he wanted  NewDay  to look 
into. He also told the investigator that his phone had been lost or stolen and later 
told us that this didnt happen. He also said that he thinks his friends son must  
have accessed  his online banking even though NewDays evidence shows that 
this access was granted following a biometric log-in  and Mr T says he typically  
accesses his online banking with fingerprint  recognition.
These inconsistencies make it exceptionally  difficult to give much weight to Mr 
Ts version of events.  There  is strong evidence that Mr Ts account of events 
isnt accurate and that he was responsible for these payments but told NewDay  
that he wasnt. In the circumstances,  I think it was reasonable  for it to record  a 
CIFAS marker  in the way it did.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  NewDay  didnt respond to my provisional 
findings. Mr T responded and made  the following arguments:
He said he didnt authorise the single  gambling  transaction that I referred  to in my provisional 
decision. He says he simply got mixed up over the details. But even  if I was willing  to accept 
that he might  have had his recollections mixed up, I still think  the weight of the evidence  
supports NewDays decision to record the CIFAS marker.
He said that, before  he went  away, he set up fingerprint recognition  on the phone so that his 
friends son could  use it. He says this wouldve  given him access  to his online banking  
facility. But the evidence NewDay has provided  says that the access to online banking  was 
subject to fingerprint authentication  mere access to the phone  wouldnt have been enough 
to allow  his friends son to be accessing  Mr Ts online banking  on his behalf.   
He said he didnt receive any emails from the gambling sites  that hes checked his inbox 
and cant find any. But the information Ive been provided says that it would be its normal 
process to send a confirmation email following each bet placed. I think the likelihood  that 
these emails werent sent to confirm any of the bets is very low. 
Finally, Mr T has said that the bets were placed  by his friends son because he wanted  to 
win some money to thank Mr T for allowing him to stay at his home.  Ive considered  this 
point carefully but it doesnt persuade me to change my decision that Mr T told NewDay that 
he wasnt responsible  for payments that were most likely made by him. 
Ref: DRN55460205my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5546020