K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained that Zenith Insurance plc unfairly refused a claim he made  on his 
motorbike insurance  policy.
Reference to Zenith includes  its agents.
background
Mr Js motorbike was stolen from outside his house.  He claimed on his policy.  Zenith refused 
to pay the claim. It said that as Mr Js bike wasn't  in a garage at the time of the theft it was 
excluded from cover. Mr J didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. Our 
adjudicator thought Zenith had dealt  with the claim fairly. Mr J didnt  agree  so the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Im aware that Mr J also has concerns about the policys  sales process. But Zenith isn't 
responsible for the sale of the policy Mr Js broker was. So I don't intend to comment  on any 
of Mr Js point concerning the sale of the policy in this decision.
It's not in dispute that Mr Js bike was not in his garage at the time it was stolen. Zenith 
refused Mr Js claim because his policy has an endorsement which  says that, if the bike was 
stolen within  500m  of his house, then it wouldn't be covered unless it was in his garage. And 
as it was outside his house  and not garaged, in line with the endorsement added to his 
policy, Zenith declined  to pay the claim.
Mr J said that the policy  documents  didn't make the endorsement  clear. But I've seen the 
letter his broker sent to him after he took out the policy.  And near the beginning of that it 
says that its important that Mr J read and understand the terms and endorsements  that 
applied to the policy. The letter said that the endorsements could be found  on the policy  
schedule. The endorsement is clearly printed on the policy schedule showing that the bike 
wouldn't be covered if it was stolen when  kept at home but not in Mr Js garage. So I think 
that the endorsement is clear enough  within the policy documents.  And as Mr J didn't comply  
with the requirements  of that endorsement I think it was reasonable for Zenith to refuse his 
claim.
For completeness, in answer  to some points Mr J made in response to our adjudicators  
assessment of the complaint, Ill confirm  that as the underwriter of the policy Zenith is 
responsible for its terms and conditions including any endorsements added to it. Also,  Im 
aware of other motorbike  policies which require the insured bike to be garaged during the 
day while outside the insured address. But even  if that wasn't the case  I think Zenith made  
the endorsement clear  in Mr Js policy documents. So I think  its reasonable for it to rely on 
that.
Mr J asked why Zenith  chose to add the garaging requirement as an endorsement rather  
than to include it in its standard policy wording. But thats not something I need to know  to 
decide whether  or not Zenith dealt with the matter fairly. It might  be that Zenith decides 
Ref: DRN50022132whether or not to apply  the endorsement depending  upon the size, model and security 
features of the insured  bike or there could be other  reasons why Zenith chose not to include 
it as a standard feature  of its policy booklet.  But thats a business decision Zenith is entitled 
to come to when deciding whether or not it wishes to offer to cover a specific  bike. So I don't  
think it acted unfairly  in applying the endorsements  terms, which are clear  in the policy  
documents, when  considering Mr Js claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5002213