K821x#15complaint
Ms O is unhappy with how Tesco Personal  Finance Plc T/A Tesco  Bank (Tesco) handled  
disputed transactions  made on her credit  card.
background
On 6 January  2018 Ms O got in touch with Tesco  to let them  know  that her credit card was 
missing. She told them that she believed her son had taken it and wanted  a block  added. 
Tesco let Ms O know that the card had been used for several contactless payments the 
previous evening and early  that morning, and that the block  would remain until she got in 
touch with them to say otherwise.
About a week later Ms O got in touch with Tesco and asked them  to remove the block.  She 
also asked if they could remove the ability to use the card for contactless payments, Tesco 
advised that this wasnt  possible. But Tesco  advised  that if transactions  were done, she 
could call and they could deal with it.
In February 2018  Ms O got in touch with Tesco again to say there had been fraud on her 
credit card and that she needed to block her card. She said that the transactions appeared 
to start after she had the block  removed. Ms O told Tesco  that once she had her card back 
from her son, she thought  it was ok which was why shed removed the block. Ms O let Tesco 
know that she believed  the transactions she was disputing were all completed by her son.
Tesco told Ms O that as the transactions were completed by someone known to her, they 
wouldnt be able to handle  it as fraudulent activity unless she got in touch with the police 
and got a crime reference number.  They said that if Ms O did this and got back  in touch, they 
could help get the money back for her. Tesco  did tell Ms O that the transactions were  done 
via am e-money provider  and it appeared her son had paid his friends, so they suggested 
she get in touch with that provider and remove her card from the account  held with them.
Three days later Ms O got back in touch  with Tesco and confirmed she had spoken to the 
police. She also let them know that another  £610 had gone through on her credit  card,  which 
she felt shouldve been stopped when she called previously.
The call handler put Ms O through to the fraud team  to continue the call. Ms O was told that 
Tesco would do an investigation  and either  the call handler or her manager  would call Ms O 
back within 48 hours.
The next day Ms O talked to Tesco again.  Ms O advised that shed found  her card details 
registered on some devices in her home  but had removed them,  thinking  that had covered 
her and would therefore prevent any further  disputed transactions, which is why shed 
decided to unblock the card. Ms O also said the card hadnt  left her possession.  Tesco  
asked if Ms O replaced her card when she blocked it, but she said she thought  she had put 
all the provisions in place to solve the problem so only blocked  it and didnt order a 
replacement card. Tesco told Ms O that they could  deal with the disputed  transactions  as 
fraud and get them  refunded back to her. They reviewed exactly which  transactions  Ms O 
disputed, and let Ms O know that if they were to find the transactions  were genuine theyd 
get in touch with her. In total 48 transactions were identified which  totalled  in excess of 
£3,800. Ms O asked  who the investigation  would affect, saying she didnt want her son 
charged.  
Ref: DRN50767442The call handler said they would need  to check as it would  be handled by another  team.  But 
that they would look into it and get in contact with Ms O to give her options on what would 
happen if she was to go forward with the case.
Following an investigation Tesco refunded  Ms O for all of the 48 disputed transactions  and 
raised a chargeback with the e-money  provider - where the transactions went. Tesco only 
raised a chargeback on 13 of the transactions totalling  just over £2,660, as they said they 
could only raise chargeback on a maximum of 15 items  so they selected the highest value 
transactions for the chargeback. But Tesco didnt get in touch with Ms O to let her know  what  
was happening.  She was unaware a chargeback with the e-money provider was being  
raised.
A month later in March 2018 Ms O got in touch with Tesco. She let them know that she was 
upset that no one had got in contact with her as promised. She told them that her son was 
receiving threatening  messages due to the e-money provider carrying  out an investigation 
and getting in touch with the recipients of the funds to try and recover  the funds affected by 
the chargeback.  Ms O explained the serious  impact  this was having  on her son.
As Ms O wasnt happy with Tescos actions she got in touch with our service and asked us 
to look into her concerns.  Ms O said she had expected Tesco to get in touch before they 
took any action  and that she expected the interest  being charged on the disputed 
transactions to have  been stopped. She also felt Tesco shouldve stopped the two further 
payments that went out after she reported  the fraud,  and that they shouldve  notified her 
when the transactions started happening  as they were  unusual. Ms O felt that if they had, 
she couldve  limited her liability and prevented  further transactions.  Ms O stressed that if 
Tesco had contacted her before recalling the funds from the e-money provider,  that the 
situation with her son being threatened  wouldnt  have happened and that they wouldnt have 
experienced the level of distress they did.
At the end of March 2018 Ms O agreed to honour  the disputed  transactions  and asked 
Tesco not to pursue recovery  of the funds  from the e-money provider  in the hope  that this 
would stop the harassment  she and her son were  receiving from the recipients of the funds. 
Tesco got in touch with the e-money provider at the end of April 2018 and let them know 
they were stopping the investigation and were  no longer pursuing the funds from them.  And 
within two weeks of this Tesco  returned the funds theyd received  to the e-money provider.
Tesco told our service  they carried out Ms Os request to block  the card, and then unblocked  
it when asked to. They say that when  Ms O raised the fraud complaint with them they 
refunded the transactions as requested by Ms O, and that they couldnt  control  the e-money 
providers actions. They say that as Ms O has asked the funds to remain with the e-money 
provider, she is liable  to meet  the balance created on her credit  card by agreeing to honour  
these disputed transactions.
Tesco offered Ms O £250 for the poor customer service, acknowledging that they shouldve 
called her back as promised and for how they handled her concerns  when  she contacted 
them. Ms O wasnt  happy  with Tescos offer and asked us to look into her complaint.
Ref: DRN50767443An investigator looked into Ms Os complaint and upheld it. Ultimately, they said that Ms O 
hadnt authorised  the contactless disputed transactions made  on 5 and 6 January 2018, so 
Tesco should refund  these transactions  along  with any associated  interest  and charges. But 
that by agreeing to pay the disputed  transactions back  that occurred after the block was 
removed, Ms O had effectively authorised them and therefore Tesco  could hold her liable for 
them. The two payments of £310.40  which appeared to be made after Ms O cancelled  her 
card, were  in fact made before the card was cancelled  therefore Tesco  werent required to 
refund them.  But had Tesco returned the funds to the e-money  provider in a more  timely  
manner, a lot of the trouble and upset Ms O experienced couldve been  avoided. On that 
basis they recommended that Tesco pay Ms O £750  in compensation.
Ms O agreed with the investigators recommendation.  Tesco replied agreeing  to refund the 
contactless payments  on 5 and 6 January 2018 for £70.75 and offered Ms O an additional 
£100 for not having done this at the time  taking their overall offer to £350. They  disagreed 
with the investigators  award of £750,  saying it was based on Ms Os sons  distress rather  
than hers. Also, that it didnt take into account that most of the distress Ms O experienced 
was caused by her son using  her card without her permission.  They  also highlighted that 
when Ms O told them she wanted to honour the disputed transactions to the e-money 
provider, they had arranged for the funds  to be returned - which  they werent required to do.
Tesco did review their offer following the investigators opinion  and increased their offer to 
£375.00 in total.
As Tesco disagreed  with the investigators  recommendation  of £750, the case was passed to 
me for a decision.
my provisional decision  
In my provisional decision,  I said: 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also thought  very carefully about the 
situation Ms O found herself in, and what happened with regards to her sons  use of her 
credit card.
the contactless payments on 5 and 6 January  2018
Its clear from Ms Os calls to Tesco that the contactless payments on 5 and 6 January 2018 
were done  without her knowledge or her consent.  Tesco has already  agreed to refund these 
transactions which total £70.75 - which is what I wouldve recommended. Tesco  should  also 
remove any interest and charges applied to Ms Os credit card relating to these transactions. 
And I think the £100 they offered Ms O in relation  to not refunding these transactions  at the 
point she raised them  as fraud, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
the transactions that happened between 24 January 2018 and 23 February 2018
As Ms O has already agreed to honour  all of the disputed transactions  that happened  via the 
e-money provider, Im satisfied its reasonable for Tesco to hold her liable for these 
transactions.
But if Ms O is having any difficulty in paying  off the balance owing on her Tesco  credit card, 
she should get in touch  with Tesco to discuss what options are available to her.
Ref: DRN50767444how Tesco  handled  Ms Os fraud  investigation
Most of Ms Os complaint relates to the steps that Tesco took after she told them  that 
fraudulent transactions had been made  on her credit card for the second  time. But there are 
a number of different parties that became involved  in this situation, and its worth noting  that 
I can only look at the actions that Tesco  took,  whether they did anything wrong, and in 
considering how things should  be put right  what  impact their actions had on Ms O. I realise 
that a lot of the impact was on Ms Os son, but he isnt a customer of Tescos  and as such  I 
can only look at what distress Ms O experienced herself.
When Ms O contacted Tesco in February  2018 to let them  know about the disputed 
transactions, she was very upfront about it being her son who had completed  the 
transactions. And once shed talked to the police, she also told Tesco on several occasions 
that she wouldnt be pressing charges against her son due to the impact this would have his 
future. It was clear that Ms O was concerned about  the potential  impact  on her son of any 
action she was taking.  But Ms O also told Tesco she wanted to have the funds refunded to 
her, as she didnt feel she should  be held liable for the transactions  her son had charged to 
her credit card.
Having listened  to the calls Ms O was expecting a call back  both before Tesco investigated  
the fraud and after Tesco  had investigated the fraud - to find out what  options  were open to 
her and what the potential consequences would be for her son. Tesco  has accepted that it 
didnt call Ms O as promised, and that it shouldve.
So, Ive thought about what  is most likely to have happened if Tesco had called Ms O as 
promised, how that would  potentially impact on the actions Tesco  took, whether it means 
they wouldve  acted  differently and whether it made  Ms Os situation worse.
Its worth  noting that it is very difficult to predict what mightve  happened,  and I accept that 
one or both parties may not agree on this matter. But in order to reach  a decision I need to 
be persuaded as to what I think is most  likely to have happened based on the evidence and 
information available.
I think that if Tesco had called Ms O back its most likely that they wouldve told her that if she 
wanted to be refunded  for the transactions, that they would  need  to raise them as disputed  
or fraudulent with the e-money provider.  I think its very likely  that Ms O mayve expected 
that she would then be refunded the money  and the e-money provider would be out of 
pocket for the funds. But Im not sure that Ms O wouldve  realised or made  the link that this 
would mean  that the e-money provider would seek reimbursement  from the individual  
recipients or how they may go about  doing that. And I think  its unlikely that Tesco wouldve 
spelt this out in detail as a possible consequence. I say this because Tesco couldnt know 
exactly what steps the e-money provider would  take and whether or not they would  seek 
recovery of the funds from the recipients   although  it was likely they would especially for the 
larger payments.
Although I realise  that Ms O may think that Tesco  shouldve spelt  out very clearly everything 
that couldve possibly  happened once they recalled the funds from the e-money provider  I 
cant fairly say that this is what  they shouldve done. Also I think  its highly possible that     
Ms O wouldnt have  questioned Tesco more to clearly  understand  what  further steps  the           
e-money provider might  take. 
Ref: DRN50767445Having listened  to the calls Ms Os concerns  voiced  to Tesco  seem to focus more on 
whether her son will be subject to legal or criminal proceedings  through  her actions, and the 
funds being recalled were  unlikely to result in this without  the e-money provider first 
attempting to claw back its money from the individual recipients.
I think with hindsight Ms O is now aware  of the repercussions of the e-money provider 
seeking redress from the recipients, and the serious impact this has had on her and her son. 
But Im not sure that Ms O wouldve expected her sons friends and family to react  in the way 
they did. I think its very possible that Ms O mayve expected  the recipients of the funds to 
get in touch with her first and try and get funds  from her, rather  than taking the quite extreme  
steps they appear to have taken.
I would like to reassure  Ms O that I have  thought  about this very carefully, and I am very 
sympathetic to her situation  but I cant fairly  or safely reach  the conclusion that if Tesco 
had called her back  as promised that the actions taken by Ms O and Tesco would 
necessarily have been different to what actually occurred. Therefore, I cant fairly hold Tesco 
liable for the overall trouble and upset that Ms O experienced.
what happened once  Ms O said she wanted the payments honoured
From what  Ive seen, Ms O told Tesco that she wanted the payments honoured at the very 
end of March  2018,  but Tesco didnt let the e-money provider know until the end of           
April 2018. So, I think they couldve been  prompter in taking  this action. Although  I can see 
that they returned the money to the e-money  provider within two weeks  of letting them  know 
that they were  no longer pursuing  the funds  which doesnt seem  an unreasonable length of 
time.
While Tesco did delay  getting  in touch  with the e-money  provider, I also have to take into 
account that Tesco couldve told Ms O that it was up to her to arrange for the funds to be 
paid back to the e-money provider or directly to the funds recipients. I think  Tesco has acted 
more than reasonably  in offering to send the funds  back for Ms O. And I think  this shows  that 
Tesco did sympathise with Ms Os situation  and were trying to help her.
I realise that during this time Ms O and her son continued to experience  harassment  and 
threats until the recipients were actually in receipt  of their money. But I think a lot of this 
distress was due to a delay in the e-money  provider allocating  the funds Tesco had sent.  
The e-money provider  received the funds in early May 2018, allocating  most of the payments 
within two weeks, but three of the payments werent  allocated until four weeks  later at the 
end of June 2018 - which I cant fairly  hold Tesco liable for.
In the circumstances I think Tesco couldve acted more promptly once Ms O told them she 
wanted to honour  the payment, by updating the e-money provider. And I dont think the 
additional £275 that Tesco has offered Ms O fairly  reflects the level of distress she 
experienced during this time period. So, Im recommending that Tesco pay Ms O £400  for 
her trouble  upset, rather than the £275.
Ref: DRN50767446should Tesco have  picked up the transactions as unusual or out of character
Ms O has raised a point  that she feels the transactions  made by her son were so unusual 
and out of character that they shouldve been noticed by Tesco, who should then have 
contacted her. Ms O feels if this had happened that she couldve cancelled  her card and 
prevented most of the transactions  from happening.  So, Ive reviewed  Ms Os statements 
and considered this point.
The transactions debited Ms Os credit card over the course of a month, and there were only 
two - three payments per day. Also the highest  individual transaction  amount was for 
£310.40, but over half of the amounts were quite  a bit smaller  at under £100 each. Having 
looked at Ms Os previous statements she used her credit card regularly in the months prior 
to the disputed transactions, and often  used it several times a day for separate  transactions. 
She had also made payments in prior months through  the same  e-money provider  that her 
son used, although  with less frequency and for lower amounts. Based on what Ive seen I 
dont think Tesco acted  unfairly in debiting Ms Os account when the instruction for these 
payments was given.
I appreciate that over £3,800 in total was debited  from Ms Os credit card, but the prior 
month she spent over £3,000 on her credit  card so even the total amount that debited by the 
disputed transactions  wasnt  particularly out of character.
I understand that part of Ms Os concern relates to her having previously blocked her card 
and her feeling that due to this Tesco shouldve been more vigilant. But Ms O unblocked 
the card prior to these transactions happening. So, I cant fairly say that Tesco  ought to have 
been concerned  about  payments that didnt look unusual or out of character for her normal  
spending.
the additional two payments of £310.40
Ms O had raised a concern about two payments being allowed to go through by Tesco,  after 
the fraud had been reported. But based  on what Ive seen, while  the transactions were 
showing on her account after she had reported the fraud, the transactions  were actually 
made and authorised prior to her reporting  the fraud. And this isnt unusual  with credit card 
facilities, where a payment may take a day or two to show on a statement.
I appreciate that this caused Ms O some confusion and frustration, but I think  its likely  that 
the payment may not have been visible to the staff member Ms O originally talked to  so 
they werent able to let her know about the additional two payments that were pending. On 
this basis I dont think it would be fair to ask Tesco to refund these  payments,  as Ms O asked 
Tesco to honour  all the payments made  by her son on her credit card which  includes these 
two payments.
in summary
Im persuaded Tesco shouldve  refunded the contactless payments made on                         
5 and 6 January 2018 and should refund these to Ms O along  with any interest and charges 
they incurred.  I think  that the £100 compensation that Tesco  has offered Ms O in relation to 
this is fair in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN50767447I think that Tesco shouldve called Ms O as promised, but Im not persuaded that if they had 
 what is most likely to have been  discussed in those calls wouldve resulted  in Ms O or 
Tesco taking  different actions. But I think Tesco shouldve contacted the e-money provider 
sooner to let them know  that they were  no longer  pursuing the funds.
I dont wish to upset  Ms O, but a lot of the distress that Ms O has experienced is due to her 
son taking her credit card information  without her permission and charging more than 40 
transactions totalling over £3,800 to her card and the consequences  of that. And I think that 
based on everything Ive seen,  that Tesco should pay Ms O an additional  £400  for the 
overall trouble  and upset shes experienced. This is not in addition  to the £375 theyve 
offered. This means the total award Im recommending  for Ms Os trouble and upset is £500.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco responded and accepted my provisional decision. Ms O responded and said she was 
disappointed with the outcome, but didnt provide any new information  for me to consider. 
Therefore, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to the one I reached in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Os complaint.
To put things right Tesco Personal Finance Plc T/A Tesco Bank  should:
refund  the contactless payments made  on Ms Os credit card on 5 January 2018 and
6 January 2018 (which total £70.75)  - if they havent already done so
refund  any interest and charges  associated with the above payments
pay Ms O £500 for the trouble and upset shes experienced (they  can deduct any
portion of the £375 theyve offered, if theyve already paid it to her)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5076744