K820x#14Complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service provided by National  Savings and Investments  (NS&I).
Background
Mr H has complained about three areas:  NS&Is handling of a Data  Subject Access  Request  
(DSAR); the fact an NS&I call handler  described  herself as a qualified solicitor  and the 
general way NS&I operate their business. He raised concerns about the conduct of senior 
employees, the way in which  complaints  are handled, the underperformance of NS&I and 
their use of public  funds. 
In March 2019 Mr H called NS&I. The handler  he spoke to said she was a qualified  solicitor. 
Mr H was unhappy she said this and referred to the seriousness of saying she was a 
qualified solicitor if it turned out not to be true. 
In addition, NS&I  contacted Mr H as part of a mailing exercise  to request some personal 
details. Mr H was concerned about this, and raised  a DSAR, which he thought was poorly 
handled. 
 
Mr H has written various letters  to senior members  of staff at NS&I  in which  hes raised 
concerns about,  amongst other things, the way NS&I conducts  its business, whether theyve 
complied with statutory  and regulatory  obligations, whether management has sufficient 
oversight and the performance of NS&I.  He has asked for an external review  of NS&I.
NS&I investigated  Mr Hs concerns. They accepted they hadnt provided an acceptable level 
of service in handling Mr Hs DSAR. As a result, NS&I paid Mr H £250 compensation. In 
relation to Mr Hs telephone conversation,  NS&I  said its handler wasnt employed  as a 
solicitor and shouldnt  have said she was a qualified  solicitor. In recognition of the error NS&I  
offered Mr H £100. NS&I  provided assurances to Mr H about their governance, procedures  
and monitoring.  Mr H was unhappy with NS&Is  response and brought his complaint to this 
service to consider.  
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint.  She said that although a handler at NS&I  
said she was a qualified  solicitor, she didnt say she was practicing as a solicitor for NS&I. 
The investigator explained we look at the impact of a mistake on a customer. Taking  this in 
to account she felt the £100 paid by NS&I  was reasonable.  In respect of Mr Hs DSAR the 
investigator said NS&I had apologised and paid £250, which she thought was reasonable. 
Finally, the investigator  explained that we look at individual  complaints rather than at how a 
business is run. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator and has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an
ombudsman. So its been passed to me. Mr H didnt provide the investigator  with any 
specific reasons as to why he disagreed.  He wrote to our Chief  Ombudsman and asked 
questions in relation to some of the investigators comments, to which we have responded.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  NS&I have done 
enough to address the concerns Mr H has raised. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN59751962Im aware Mr H has made  other complaints about  NS&I, which  are being dealt with 
separately and do not form part of this decision. 
DSAR
NS&I asked Mr H to confirm his personal details because  some information was missing  
from their records.  When Mr H questioned why he was sent the request he was told it was 
because NS&I didnt  have his telephone number on record. I can understand  why Mr H was 
concerned to receive the request, as he had previously provided his telephone number on a 
Premium Bond application to NS&I.  NS&I have accepted they should  have updated  Mr Hs 
records based on the information  in his application, and failed to do so. NS&I later explained  
that even if theyd properly updated Mr Hs records, they would still have sent the information  
request to him. This was because they didnt  have an email address for Mr H. 
Turning to Mr Hs DSAR  the ICO is the organisation best placed  to decide whether NS&Is  
handling of his personal data constitutes a breach of data protection  legislation. But we can 
look at the service provided by NS&I in handling Mr Hs request as an activity ancillary to 
their provision of financial services. 
NS&I have accepted they didnt deal with Mr Hs DSAR as well as they could. They sent a 
generic acknowledgement letter that didnt refer to Mr Hs DSAR  request and wasnt  signed, 
didnt send the information to Mr H in time and didnt initially  include everything Mr H asked  
for (such as details of parties his information  was shared with). This meant Mr H wasted time 
and was inconvenienced by having  to chase NS&I,  and he didnt receive all the information 
he asked for at once.  NS&I have acknowledged  they made mistakes and have apologised 
and paid Mr H £250 compensation.  Im satisfied NS&Is £250 payment to Mr H is sufficient 
compensation for any problems Mr H experienced in relation to their handling of the 
information request  and DSAR.
Phone call on 22 March 2019
NS&Is call handler shouldnt have told Mr H she was a qualified  solicitor, and this is 
accepted by both parties.  I understand she told Mr H this to show she understood data 
requests. Initially NS&I didnt make  an award  to Mr H, but this decision  was later reviewed 
and they paid Mr H £100 compensation. I dont consider Mr H was significantly 
inconvenienced or distressed by what he was told, so Im not going  to require NS&I to pay 
further compensation.
External review and performance  of NS&I
Mr H has a lot of concerns about  the way NS&I conduct their business, their processes and 
procedures. But my role here is to look into his complaint and set out what - if any  steps I 
consider necessary in order to resolve that complaint.
Overall, Im satisfied that NS&I have treated Mr H fairly. They  have accepted that in some 
areas their service could  have been  better and have acted reasonably  in compensating 
Mr H. I think thats  an appropriate way for NS&I to resolve Mr Hs complaint and I dont 
require any further  action to be taken in respect of the concerns he mentioned.  
Ref: DRN59751963My final decision
Noting that National  Savings and Investments have already paid Mr H £350 compensation, 
my final decision is that they dont  need to do anything further to settle the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5975196