K820x#14complaint
Miss F has complained that Bank of Scotland plc has discriminated against her, because it 
declined her application for an overdraft.
background
Miss F applied to Bank  of Scotland for an overdraft, but it declined  her application. It 
explained that this was because it has a policy not to lend to customers who are 
unemployed, without  independent means. Miss F receives disability  benefits,  and feels  shes  
been discriminated against because of this policy.
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. Although she sympathised  with 
Miss Fs position, she didnt think Bank of Scotland had been unreasonable. She considered  
its decision to have  been based on its assessment of a customers ability  to repay  a loan.  
Here, it had applied  its lending criteria, which include not lending if someone is unemployed 
without independent means.
Miss F disagreed but didnt add anything further. She requested  that her complaint be 
passed to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that Miss F must feel very 
frustrated by Bank of Scotlands decision. Im aware  it has caused her considerable upset, 
and Ive considered  what  shes told us very carefully.
Its not my role to decide whether discrimination has occurred  this can only be decided  by 
a court.  My role is to decide  whether  or not Miss F has been treated fairly. This means  
considering the law, any relevant guidance, and what  I consider  to be fair and reasonable. 
In assessing this, I have  taken  into account  the Equality Act 2010.  The Equality Act says that 
people with protected characteristics, which include disability,  must not be discriminated 
against. Miss F has explained that she receives disability benefits. Accordingly,  Im satisfied 
that she has a protected characteristic.
Bank of Scotland has explained that as Miss F didnt have the required income additional to 
her benefits,  this didnt  meet its lending criteria - and because of this, it didnt continue her 
application. While I note Miss Fs comments and understand why she is upset, the reason 
her application  wasnt progressed wasnt because she received benefits, but because she 
didnt receive any of the other additional  forms of income that would  have allowed her 
application to be assessed further.  Bank  of Scotland needs to ensure its customers can pay 
back loans without it causing hardship. Here,  it wasnt satisfied that Miss F could. This was 
because of her income, rather  than because she has a protected  characteristic. 
I know my decision will be disappointing for Miss F, and I understand her frustration. But I 
dont feel Bank of Scotland has been  unfair  in applying its affordability criteria.
Ref: DRN59663242my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision not to uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2020.
Elspeth Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5966324