K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy that Covea Insurance plc wont pay their claim for stolen money 
under their business  insurance.
background 
Mr and Mrs K are partners in two retail  businesses which Ill refer to as S and G. In 
August 2017 Mr K and his son went to the bank to withdraw  £9,000 in cash. Unfortunately 
they were robbed  of all the money  when arriving back at their business premises. There 
were two business policies separately covering Mr K trading respectively as S and G. Mr K 
initially made a claim for the full £9,000 under the policy covering S, which was underwritten 
by a different  insurer. He recovered £5,000, which was the limit applied by that insurer when 
money was stolen and the person carrying the money wasnt  accompanied by two or more 
employees.
Mr K then sought to make  a claim under the Covea  policy. He did this through  his broker 
who said that the intention had been initially to make a claim to both insurers  at once but due 
to a staff error this wasnt done. Mr K said that the remainder of the money belonged to G, 
so Covea should pay it.
Covea said that from examination of the records it couldnt say that the money belonged to 
G. It was removed from Ss bank account,  and Mr K didnt keep proper records to allow  it to 
say the money  belonged to G, which was the only business it insured. It also said that Mr K 
was in breach  of a condition precedent in the policy which required him to keep proper 
records.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator found that, as Mr K was a sole trader, all the 
assets of both businesses belonged to him. He said the cover for loss of money applied 
anywhere in the UK, so it didnt matter  to which business the money might belong. He said 
on a proportionate basis Covea should  pay £3,465.  Covea disagreed  and further pointed out 
that Mr K was also in breach of the policy term concerning the maximum amount of cash to 
be carried in one bag and accompanied by employees. On that basis it calculated  that its 
maximum pay-out would be £2,500.
Our adjudicator didnt  think it would be fair for Covea to rely on this term. He said that in the 
circumstances of the theft he didnt think that strict  compliance with the term would  have 
reduced the risk of loss.
Covea agreed  to reassess the claim, but wouldnt agree to pay it without such  
reassessment. Mr and Mrs K wouldnt agree to that and said that they wanted Covea to 
agree to pay the claim.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I wasnt persuaded by the argument that as a 
sole trader/partnership the assets of both businesses were covered. I found that Mr K had 
been unable  to show that it is more  likely  that the money belonged to G, and was covered by 
Covea, rather than to S.
Mr and Mrs K didnt  accept my decision. I shall go into the reasons  in my findings.
Ref: DRN51553822my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out below my provisional findings:
Mr Ks position as a sole trader
We were informed initially that Mr K was a sole trader trading as, respectively S and G. 
That is reflected in the policy schedules  for Covea and, in the bank account for G. The 
account for S is headed  the partners t/a [S]. The heading  for the trading accounts  refers 
just to Mr K. We have since been advised  that Mr and Mrs K are a partnership.  Our 
adjudicators assessment  of this case was based  on Mr K being a sole trader. He argues 
that in that case  the businesses S and G are not separate legal entities and that all the 
assets of both businesses belong to Mr K. 
There are separate  insurance policies underwritten by different insurers, for Mr K trading as 
S and Mr K trading as G. They operate out of separate premises in different locations. But, 
as the policy  term covering loss of money applies to loss in the whole UK, and isnt limited  to 
the particular premises, it is argued  that the loss of the money neednt be tied to a particular 
business. I dont  find that argument  to be particularly persuasive.  Mr K clearly  took out 
different policies to cover  each business and neither  he nor his broker have  argued  that they 
intended for the separate policies to cover Mr or Mrs K overall, no matter what  the source of 
the money. They would have obtained  separate quotes and the different insurers  would have 
taken on the risk of the business  operating out of the named premises. They could have had 
a block policy naming each business  but no doubt it was more cost effective this way. We 
have since been  told that Mr and Mrs K are partners, and I think this weakens further the 
argument that the assets belong to a sole trader.
As Ive said,  G and S have separate bank accounts  and separate  trading accounts. I think  
the term covering  loss of money  in both insurance policies  covers only the money belonging 
to either  business.  The jurisdiction issue, in that money is covered anywhere in the UK 
doesnt in my view relate to the ownership  of the money, but where the theft or loss took 
place. I think that it was for Mr K to show that the stolen money  belonged  to G.
which business did the money belong  to?
On the face of it, the money  was withdrawn from the account in the name of S. Mr K initially 
made a claim to Ss insurer for the full £9,000. This has been explained by the broker as a 
member of staff making a mistake while the broker dealing  with Mr Ks business was on 
holiday. And Mr Ks broker  says he spoke to the loss adjuster for the other  insurer who told 
him to hold fire on claiming to Covea until the other insurance claim was settled. But the 
clear indication from Mr K and his broker is that £5,000 belonged to S and £4,000 to G. Mr K 
contends he wasnt  asked about it by the other insurer and didnt think to volunteer the 
information. But the reason given for the other insurer not paying  out the full amount was 
because of a breach  in the condition concerning  the carrying  of cash, not because  that was 
the amount determined  as belonging to S. 
Looking at what happened, I think its most likely that Mr K made a claim for the full amount  
to the insurer  of S, and it was only upon finding  that the full pay-out wouldnt be made, that 
Ref: DRN51553823he sought to claim from Covea. Thats not to say that he shouldnt  be given an opportunity  to 
prove that the money was withdrawn to pay to G as I understand it to fill up a cash  machine.
It is for Mr K to prove his loss, as it would be for any policyholder. Its clear from the accounts 
given by Mr K that he doesnt keep the monies belonging to the businesses fully separate.  In 
particular, the bank account in Gs name  deals with all payments to the cash  machine 
company, whilst there are cash  machines in both premises.
But this is an accounting issue.  On the face of it the money was withdrawn from Ss bank 
account which is why, I would think, the insurers of S accepted  the money was covered 
under their policy. Mr K at first told Coveas loss adjusters that he didnt keep a record  of 
what money is used where. His broker later explained that Mr K was confused and meant 
small records like window cleaning expenses.
Coveas loss adjusters  referred the matter  to their accounting department.  They reviewed 
the records given  to them and came to the conclusion they couldnt be verified as showing 
which money belonged to which business.  They sampled the accounts for earlier weeks  and 
it wasnt possible to identify that for instance Mr K made  similar cash withdrawals in previous 
weeks and deposited  the same amount into the respective cash machines. Mr K purports to 
be able to explain the discrepancies but I take the view that this is a question of accounting 
expertise. Whilst I can look at the accounting evidence I have to accept the interpretation of 
that which was given by Coveas expert.
I take the view,  which our adjudicator agrees with  that Mr K has been unable  to show that 
it is more likely that the money  belonged  to G, and was covered  by Covea, rather than to S.
breach of condition
Covea also says that Mr K was in breach of the following condition
It is a condition precedent to Our liability  that You keep  a complete record of all Money held 
by You and deposit that record in a secure place other than in a safe or strong room 
containing Money
Its argument is that as Mr K has been unable to show what money  belonged  to either 
business, hes in breach  of that condition,  thus entitling it not to pay out on the policy. Im not 
inclined to find that Mr K was in breach  of that condition. He did have records of the money 
belonging to both businesses  he was simply unable to separate  them sufficiently  to satisfy 
this claim.  I dont think this was a breach of that condition.
overall
Overall I dont think that Mr K has been able to show that the money stolen belonged to the 
insured business,  G. Im not persuaded by the argument that the money  belonged  at once to 
Mr and Mrs K and both businesses. Therefore, I dont think  it would be fair to make Covea 
pay the claim under the policy for Mr K trading as G.
Mr and Mrs K responded that they felt the reason for rejection to be ambiguous. They  
thought the reason for rejection was that they didn't keep  an accurate record of accounts, 
but what they have provided is quite comprehensive and their appointed chartered 
accountants had no problem reconciling  their accounts. They  need  to know what more they 
could have done to have  had this claim honoured so they know to put this right for next time. 
Ref: DRN51553824Mr and Mrs K may well feel that their accounts  are comprehensive. It may be that they are 
for tax purposes. But they run two businesses which are separately insured  under different 
policies. So it was for them to show which money  belonged to which business. My function is 
to review the evidence  and, taking that evidence into account,  decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. I set out my thoughts in this respect on 
this complaint when  I issued my provisional  findings  which Im satisfied set out clearly why I 
couldnt uphold  Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Im not an accountant so I have to be informed by 
the relevant expert evidence. I havent seen any expert evidence  from Mr and Mrs Ks 
accountant. And the expert evidence I have seen couldnt determine which  money belonged 
to the insured business, G.
I cant say what evidence  would have been sufficient  as it isnt up to this service to advise 
complainants or policyholders.  And even if I could, I dont know what  might happen or be 
needed in the future.  But Mr and Mrs K may want to seek professional advice as to what can 
be done to better demonstrate Gs earnings  in case such is needed for a future claim. I am 
sorry though that Mr and Mrs K had to go through such a traumatic  experience and I 
appreciate that my review of this case, particularly as it has resulted in my not upholding it, 
may feel unsympathetic. My intention isnt to cause distress but it is often the case that a fair 
and reasonable assessment of the evidence results in a loss for one or other of the parties 
involved.
I maintain the findings in my provisional  decision which now form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman   
Ref: DRN5155382