K820x#11complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr W says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Capital One had to make  it clear to Mr W that he had a choice about it. 
But Mr W says the PPI was added without his knowledge.
Capital One says the PPI was sold during a phone call to activate Mr Ws credit  card.  And 
its sent us copies of the scripts  it says wouldve been used for these types of calls at the 
time.
Based on the evidence  I have, and what I understand about Capital Ones sales  practices at 
the time,  I think its likely  that it wouldve been  made  clear to Mr W in the phone  call that he 
had a choice about the PPI. And so I think its likely that he chose to take the PPI, knowing 
he didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Capital One gave  Mr W any personalised advice about the 
PPI. So I dont think it recommended the PPI to him. This means  it didnt have to check  if it 
was right for him. But it did have to make  sure Mr W got the information he needed  to decide 
if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  And Mr W 
has told us he wouldnt have received any sick pay and didnt have any other means he 
couldve used to make  his repayments  if he wasnt earning. So the PPI would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put Mr W off taking it out.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr W, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN56895282my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5689528