K822xcomplaint
Mr H is unhappy that Halifax,  a division of Bank of Scotland Plc, removed his (now) ex-wife  
from their joint bank  account without him knowing.  Mr H wants Halifax  to reduce the 
outstanding debt on the account to £5,000. He also wants the bank to refund 50% of the 
interest and charges that have been  added to the account since  he split up from his ex-wife. 
background 
Mr H and his then wife had a joint bank account with Halifax. Around October 2011 his ex-
wife asked Halifax to remove  her as an account holder. At that time the account was 
overdrawn by just under £10,000. This seems  to have been  an agreed overdraft. 
Mr H told us he only found out that the account  had been changed to just his name when 
divorce proceedings started in 2017. He complained to Halifax the following year.  The bank 
initially said it wouldnt investigate the removal  of his ex-wife as this had taken place over six 
years before. Halifax didnt agree to refund any interest or charges. It said these had been 
correctly added to Mr Hs account. 
Mr H wasnt happy with this response. He brought his complaint to our service where one of 
adjudicators looked into it. At first, the adjudicator also thought we couldnt look at the 
removal of his ex-wife as the complaint  had been made too late. But after receiving further 
information, he changed his view. The adjudicator said although the event  being  complained  
about took place more  than six years ago, it was only in the last three  years  that Mr H would 
reasonably have known he had cause  to complain. 
The adjudicator went on to say he thought the complaint should be upheld. He found  that 
Halifax hadnt followed its internal procedures when  removing the ex-wife from the account. 
He thought the bank  should reduce Mr Hs overdraft by 50% and refund  50% of the fees 
added to the account since  4 October  2011.  
In response, Halifax accepted the complaint  was one we could look at. But it didnt agree 
with the redress  the adjudicator had outlined. In summary, it thought  the liability  for the 
overdraft was a matter that was, or should  have been, more appropriate for Mr Hs divorce  
proceedings. 
Our adjudicator reviewed  the file again. He still thought Halifax had made a mistake when 
agreeing to remove Mr Hs ex-wife from the account.  But he also thought that as it was 
originally a joint account, Mr H and his ex-wife  were jointly and severally liable for the 
overdraft. This meant the bank could choose  to pursue either account holder for the debt. 
The adjudicator said this meant  Halifax  could  choose to ask just Mr H to pay the debt even if 
it had remained a joint account. This would have been the same position  even if his ex-wife 
was still an account  holder.  With this in mind, the adjudicator didnt think  Halifax needed  to 
reduce the overdraft or refund any fees or interest. He did think  the bank should pay Mr H 
£300 for the distress and inconvenience  hed been caused by his ex-wife being removed 
from the account without his knowledge. 
Halifax accepted  the adjudicators view. Mr H didnt. In summary, he said that due to 
Halifaxs error, during  his divorce proceedings, he wasnt able to put forward  a claim that his 
ex-wife was liable for half of this debt. As Mr H didnt accept  the adjudicators view, this case  
has been passed to me for a final decision. 
Ref: DRN57640052my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, it seems  clear to me that Halifax didnt follow  its internal procedures  when it 
removed Mr Hs ex-wife  as an account holder back in 2011. In brief,  I can see these state 
that the account should stay in joint names if the account is overdrawn. But while  Halifax 
didnt stick to this, it doesnt mean the bank  needs  to reduce the overdraft by 50% or refund 
any fees, charges  or interest. 
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions. These make it clear  that for joint accounts, 
Halifax can choose to claim  any money owed from either account  holder. This means that 
even if the account was still a join account,  the bank could choose to ask just Mr H to repay 
the whole  overdraft. This is exactly the position hes now in with the account being in his sole 
name. 
Mr H still owes  the same amount to Halifax on this account that he would  have done  even if 
his ex-wife was still an account holder. The overdraft hes liable for hasnt doubled because 
Halifax didnt follow its procedures when removing  her from the account. So Im satisfied it 
wouldnt be fair and reasonable  for me to tell the bank to halve this debt. 
Im also satisfied that Halifax added interest  and charges to this account  in line with its terms 
and conditions. It follows that theres also no reason for the bank to refund any of these to 
the account. 
Mr H told us that, during  his divorce  proceedings, he couldnt put forward  a claim against his 
ex-wife for half of this debt because by then, the account was in his name only.  But I cant 
safely say what the outcome  would have been  during  the divorce proceedings had the 
account still been in joint names. 
If the Halifax account had still been  in joint names  at that time,  it doesnt mean  Mr H would 
automatically have  had the debt halved as part of his divorce  settlement. Im not in a position 
to fairly and reasonable say what might  have happened during the proceedings if this was 
the case. 
Taking all the above into consideration,  while I accept Halifax  didnt follow its own 
procedures, I cant fairly  and reasonably find that this has increased the amount Mr H is 
liable for on the account in question. 
But I accept that Halifax caused distress and inconvenience to him by removing his ex-wife 
from the account without his knowledge. In the individual circumstances  of this complaint I 
think £300 is an appropriate amount for Halifax to pay for this. 
Mr H has commented that he is considering  taking  legal action over this matter. If he doesnt  
accept my decision by the below deadline,  he is of course able to do this. But as I sure Mr H 
will be aware, legal action  is expensive.  He may wish to seek  professional  advice before 
pursuing any such course of action.  
Ref: DRN57640053my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland Plc should pay £300 to Mr H.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5764005