K820x#14complaint
Miss L says MBNA Limited  (MBNA) mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1998. The policy  was added to
Miss Ls credit card account following a phone call shortly after the credit  card was set up.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Miss L disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Miss Ls credit card application form. It included  a section about PPI, 
with options to take or decline the cover. Miss L didn't select either  box to take or decline 
PPI, she left this section blank. MBNAs  records show that PPI was added to Miss Ls 
account following  a phone  call shortly after Miss L had completed the credit card 
application. 
Ive seen a copy  of a MBNA phone sales script. But this is dated after the sale of this PPI. 
So, I dont know whether a similar  script  wouldve been used when  PPI was discussed 
with Miss L.  But as Miss Ls account was initially set up without PPI, I think  it wouldve 
been clear to her that she didn't have to take the PPI in order  to get the credit card. So, 
taking everything into account, I think MBNA probably made  Miss L aware that the PPI 
was optional, and she chose to take it.
MBNA didn't recommend  the PPI to Miss L, so it didn't have to check it was suitable for 
her. But it should have given her enough  clear information to enable  her to decide if the 
policy was right for her and she wanted  to buy it. 
I cant see that PPI was inappropriate for Miss L. Ill explain why.
Miss L appeared eligible for the policy and couldve made a successful claim if she wasnt  
able to work. 
Miss L initially  told us she was working for a different employer to the one mentioned  on 
the credit  card application form. She then remembered she was working  for the employer 
mentioned on the form and said shed received three weeks  sick pay in the past when she 
was off work  sick. We asked Miss L to clarify her sick pay arrangements  and, if possible, 
provide proof, given  the previous inconsistencies.  Miss L explained that she now 
remembered that she wouldve got three  months  worth of pay at full pay and six months 
worth at half pay if she was off work sick. She said a family member was related to the 
Ref: DRN57201802owner of the business she was working  for. Miss L didnt provide anything to back  up her 
sick pay arrangements. 
As some of the evidence here is either  incomplete  or contradictory, I have to make  a 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  looking at whats  available. 
I dont know what Miss Ls sick pay arrangements were  at the time. Miss L has mis-
remembered some  things  from the time of sale, perhaps understandably so, given how 
much time has passed. As a result, I dont feel I can fairly  rely just on Miss Ls recount of her 
sick pay arrangements at the time.  I accept that Miss L is genuinely trying to recall events 
from the time, but memories can fade over time.  So, I dont have enough to fairly  conclude 
that Miss Ls work  related  benefits clearly made the policy unsuitable for her. In the event of 
a successful claim, the policy  wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months if Miss L was to become 
involuntarily unemployed and paid out until she was able to return  to work or the balance 
was paid off in full if Miss L was too sick to work. So, I still think  the policy couldve been 
useful to her in these  circumstances.
Miss L said she had some savings, but couldnt remember how much  she had. The policy 
wouldve meant her savings couldve remained intact for their original purpose or other 
emergency. So I think Miss L couldve benefitted from having the policy.
It doesnt look as if Miss L was affected by any of the main things the policy  didn't cover   
such as having  a pre-existing medical  condition  as an example. So I dont  think  having more  
information about the policys main  exclusions or limitations wouldve made any difference  
to her decision to take out the PPI.
Its possible the information MBNA  gave Miss L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  And even  though the policy benefit  was low, she chose to take it out  so it 
looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it wouldve been  useful for her if 
something when  wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  that better 
information would have put Miss L off taking out the cover.
Ive taken  into account all of Miss Ls comments. But because of what Ive said,  these points 
dont change my mind.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have explained above, I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 December  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5720180