K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains Indigo Michael  Limited  (trading as SafetyNetCredit) (SNC) lent to her 
irresponsibly.
background
The full background to this complaint, and my initial findings on it, can be found in my 
provisional decision which is attached to and forms a part of this final decision.
In brief summary however, Mrs S entered  into a running-account credit  agreement with SNC 
on 10 March 2016 with a credit  limit of £400. This credit limit was then increased six times 
between that date and 12 October 2016.  Mrs S fell behind on her repayments and later 
complained that SNC had lent to her irresponsibly.
In my provisional decision I said I was of the view that SNC  had not been wrong to give 
Mrs S the account or any of the increases to her credit limit. However,  I also said SNC 
should have stopped Mrs S from borrowing any more  money  on the account  from 
15 November 2016. This was because I thought  it should  have  been  apparent  to SNC that 
Mrs S was experiencing  problems repaying  what she owed. I said I was minded to direct 
SNC to take certain actions to put matters right.
SNC said it accepted  my findings. Mrs S said she accepted she should  repay  money she 
had received and was willing to make arrangements to do this. However, she said she 
believed it should  have been apparent to SNC from March 2016  that she had a repetitive 
pattern of borrowing, repaying  and then borrowing again over a short period of time.  Mrs S 
noted shed borrowed  £700 even in her first month of using the account, and provided 
supporting evidence of her borrowing  and repayment history.
After considering Mrs Ss points, I came to a revised  set of findings on her case which  I 
shared with both parties and invited them to comment on. Neither SNC nor Mrs S replied to 
my revised findings so it appears they have nothing more to add.
my findings
Ive considered once  again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive taken into account  the law along 
with any relevant regulatory guidance and good industry practice at the time.
The remaining  question in dispute  is at what point SNC should have realised Mrs S was 
having problems  making repayments on her account  to the point where it should have 
stopped letting her borrow.  The reasoning in my provisional decision centred around Mrs S 
showing a pattern of repetitive borrowing from SNC, combined with her beginning to take out 
payday loans  from other  lenders.
Mrs S says she had a pattern of repetitive borrowing with SNC  where she drew down 
funds, repaid and then drew down again  which began  much earlier  than I suggested in my 
provisional decision. Ive reviewed Mrs Ss borrowing history and I accept that her pattern of 
borrowing did at times fit the description shes given it.
Mrs S was generally paid on the 15th of the month,  except for May 2016 when she was paid 
on 13 May. In the table  below Ive noted  how long it took her to begin borrowing again on her 
Ref: DRN55624742SNC account after payday,  and how much she borrowed on that day compared  with how 
much shed most recently  repaid:
Month AmountRecent 
RepaymentDays After 
Payday
March £200.00 £150.00 3 days
April £150.00 £402.00 4 days
May £50.00 £405.00 11 days
June £580.00 £551.00 15 days
July £300.00 £654.00 7 days
August £300.00 £422.00 1 day
September £880.00 £894.00 3 days
October £720.00 £1,020.00 1 day
November £720.00 £1,020.00 Same day
Mrs Ss borrowing  appeared to decrease  in urgency between March  and June  (although her 
repayments generally increased), so I dont think a responsible lender would necessarily  
have thought she was about  to get into payment difficulties. From July onwards  however  the 
level of urgency in her borrowing  began to increase again, with her borrowing coming  soon 
after she was paid.  This suggested  she was running  out of money shortly  after payday and 
that her financial situation  was at risk of becoming  unsustainable.
From September the amounts Mrs S borrowed increased dramatically and  as I noted in my 
provisional decision  she had begun borrowing from a payday lender earlier in September. 
On reflection I think this combination of factors should have alerted a responsible lender to 
there being a high risk that Mrs S would encounter payment difficulties. 
So having  considered Mrs Ss arguments  alongside  her pattern of borrowing and repayment, 
I think SNC should have  had concerns  about the way the account was being operated  as 
early as her request to draw down  £880 on 18 September  2016.  There was evidence that 
Mrs S had developing financial  difficulties, and my view is it would have been responsible to 
prevent further  lending  from this point (including  the £880 drawdown).
However as SNC continued to provide further  lending  to Mrs S, its done something wrong 
and needs to take action  to put things right.
putting things right
Mrs S shouldnt have to pay interest,  fees or charges on the drawdowns she was allowed to 
take from 18 September 2016 onwards, or have them affect  her credit file in a negative  way. 
So to put things right SNC must:
Remove all interest, fees and charges  from Mrs Ss account relating to any 
drawdowns taken  on or after 18 September 2016.
Treat any repayments  Mrs S has made towards her account since 18 September  
2016 as though they had been repayments  of outstanding principal. If this results in 
Mrs S having made overpayments then these should be refunded  to her along with 
8% simple interest* calculated from the day the overpayments would have arisen, to 
Ref: DRN55624743the date the refunds are made. 
Remove any adverse  information recorded about the account with the credit  
reference agencies.  If an outstanding  principal  balance  remains  then SNC must 
attempt to arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mrs S for that principal 
balance. So long as this plan is set up and maintained the account should be marked 
as up to date and then settled once the remaining balance is repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take tax off this interest. SNC must give Mrs S a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if Mrs S asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my attached provisional decision I uphold Mrs Ss 
complaint in part and direct  Indigo  Michael Limited to take the actions set out in the putting 
things right section  of this final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Will Culley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN55624744COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs S complains Indigo Michael Limited (trading  as SafetyNetCredit) (SNC) lent to her irresponsibly.
background
Mrs S applied for an account  with SNC in March 2016. SNC accounts are a type of running-account  
credit where  a person  can borrow  money up to a set credit  limit. Mrs S was given an initial credit limit 
of £400 on 10 March  2016. This limit was increased six times between  then and 12 October  2016. 
To work out how much  it should take in repayments (and when),  SNC had read-only access  to Mrs 
Ss bank account.  SNC  watched for large  credits into the bank account   such  as Mrs Ss salary. It 
then used a continuous  payment authority on her debit card to take full repayment of whatever she 
owed at the time, so long as the repayment wouldnt take her bank  balance below a certain level. If 
SNC was unable to take repayments in this way then, contractually, Mrs S had to repay either  £20 or 
5% of her outstanding balance  each  month  whichever was larger. Ive listed Mrs Ss credit limits  
below along with an estimate of the minimum repayment she would have to make if she borrowed up 
to her limit and made no interim repayments for a month:
Type Date LimitMinimum 
Repayment
Initial  Limit 10/03/2016 £400.00 £25.40
Increase 13/04/2016 £430.00 £27.31
Increase 18/05/2016 £490.00 £31.12
Increase 20/06/2016 £580.00 £36.83
Increase 12/08/2016 £730.00 £45.99
Increase 13/09/2016 £880.00 £55.88
Increase 12/10/2016 £960.00 £60.96
Mrs S fell behind with her repayments  in December 2016 and I understand there is still an unpaid 
balance remaining on the account. Mrs S complained early in 2017 that SNC had lent to her 
irresponsibly. SNC disagreed, saying  in essence that it had considered  her financial  situation 
thoroughly before lending to her or increasing her credit limit, and each time it had done so it had 
thought she could afford to make her repayments.
Dissatisfied with this response,  Mrs S brought her complaint to this service for an independent  
assessment. One of our adjudicators looked into her case and concluded that SNC had not been 
wrong either to open  her account with its initial credit limit, or to increase her credit limit. Mrs S said 
she disagreed with these conclusions. She said she didnt think it was right to count money she 
received from her husband  as income, and noted that she had made  other complaints about 
unaffordable lending  from around the same  time which had been  upheld.
Ultimately, no agreement could  be reached and Mrs S asked for her case to be reviewed  by an 
ombudsman. The case has now been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive taken into account the law along with any relevant regulatory  
guidance and good industry practice at the time.
Ref: DRN55624745SNC had to assess Mrs Ss application for her initial credit  limit, and subsequent significant  increases, 
to check  if she could afford to make her expected repayments without undue difficulty. SNC needed  to 
do this in a way which  was proportionate to the circumstances. It then needed to assess whether, 
based on the information it had gathered from its proportionate  checks, Mrs S could afford to make 
her loan repayments  sustainably.  The industry regulator during the period over which  Mrs S borrowed 
from SNC explained that repayments are sustainable if theyre made from income or savings, while 
meeting other financial commitments.
As I mentioned earlier,  SNC  had read-only access to Mrs Ss bank account. It used this access  to 
monitor her financial situation not only for the purpose of taking repayments,  but also to assess 
whether it should lend to her or increase her credit limit. Prior to opening the SNC  account for Mrs S, 
SNC reviewed  her bank  transactions  from 14 December 2015 onwards. 
This is a particularly detailed level of checks and I think it is difficult to argue  that SNC did not go far 
enough in gathering information. In my view a lender would normally be able to determine  whether  or 
not it would be responsible to lend to someone by reviewing their bank statements, which is 
essentially what SNC  did. But it isnt enough just to gather enough  information  with which to make a 
responsible lending decision   the decision should be based on a reasonable interpretation of that 
information. This is something I will now consider.
Mrs Ss general financial  situation, and SNCs  decision  to open her account
Based on the transaction  information collected by SNC  before it opened her account, Mrs S had a 
monthly income of about  £2,350. Her expenditure on household bills included  £675 monthly mortgage 
repayments, a £60 water bill, £12.12 for a TV licence, and £123.50 for gas and electricity. Mrs S also 
had a significant  monthly spend on supermarket shopping, coming to about  £450.  So I think a 
responsible lender would have put the general  cost of running her household at about £1,320 per 
month.
Mrs S however, had various other  sources of regular  expenditure.  Travel costs, which included petrol, 
road tax and car insurance came to around £290 per month. Repayments towards  credit cards,  
catalogues and other loans accounted for about  £245, while various  insurance policies totalled about 
£150. Mrs S also appeared to be making  token repayments to various  historic debts (about £30 per 
month) and other repayments to HMRC  of about £23.50 per month.
In total then,  I think a responsible lender would have thought  Mrs Ss regular household  expenditure 
came to around £2,060 per month. Although this was relatively high in comparison  with her income,  it 
was enough to afford  her minimum repayment. Mrs S also regularly transferred amounts  between 
herself and her husband  but overall she received more money  than she sent  around £230 in the 
month before her application to SNC. I think this made the SNC account  appear more affordable,  and 
I agree with our adjudicator that it wouldnt  have been unreasonable of SNC  to consider  these 
transfers to be contributions to the household budget.
In light of what Ive said above, I dont  think SNC  was wrong to open the account  with an initial credit 
limit of £400.
the subsequent credit limit increases
Ive considered Mrs Ss financial situation  as seen  in the transactions SNC had access to  for the 
various credit limit increases  she was granted between April and October  2016. Over this period  Mrs 
Ss income remained more  or less the same and her expenditure  increased only gradually.  Any 
increase in Mrs Ss expenditure  was also covered by a corresponding (and in fact proportionately 
bigger) increase  in net transfers from her husband. I think at all times it would  have appeared as 
though she could make  her minimum repayments.
Ref: DRN55624746So having studied Mrs Ss bank account  transactions I think SNC  was not wrong  to believe that all of 
its credit limit increases looked affordable  and I cant say it was irresponsible to grant these  
increases.
signs of financial or repayment difficulties
SNCs duty to lend responsibly did not end with checking  whether  Mrs S could  afford  her credit limits  
at the time they were granted  It also needed to be alert to signs of actual  or potential  repayment 
difficulties and act on these appropriately. As SNC had more or less real-time access to Mrs Ss bank 
account transactions and appears to have reviewed her financial situation at least  once per week,  it 
was in a unique position to spot signs of potential problems.
Mrs S didnt experience any obvious repayment difficulties until she fell into arrears  on her SNC 
account, but I think there were earlier  signs  that she had potential repayment difficulties. I think some  
early warning signs began to emerge  in September 2016 when it would  have been apparent to SNC 
that Mrs S had started taking  out payday or other high-cost short-term (HCST)  loans. A pattern also 
began to develop of SNC taking full repayment  of its outstanding balance  on Mrs Ss payday, and Mrs 
S then borrowing the same  or a similar amount within a couple of days. This suggested she was 
struggling to afford  to repay her balance in full and meet her other financial commitments.
However, I think SNC should have considered Mrs S was at a very real risk of imminent repayment 
difficulties on 15 November 2016. On this day SNC had claimed a repayment of £1,014.37 in the early 
hours of the morning after Mrs Ss salary had been paid into her bank account. Later that day Mrs S 
took an £800  loan with a HCST  lender and, a few hours later, requested a £720  drawdown on her 
SNC account. 
I think  this behaviour should  have concerned a responsible lender  it appeared to show that Mrs S 
had taken out a HCST loan, and was re-borrowing from SNC,  in order to cover the shortfall  in her 
finances left by her SNC repayment.  The pattern  of rapid re-borrowing from SNC had persisted for 
three months and had now been joined  by same-day  borrowing from other lenders.  These aspects  of 
Mrs Ss financial situation (which were visible  to SNC) were,  in my view, signs that her situation was 
becoming unsustainable and she was in a position where  she would begin to experience  repayment 
problems imminently.
what action should SNC have taken in the circumstances?
Given the evidence that Mrs S was experiencing difficulty making her repayments  without having to 
borrow further, I think the most reasonable thing for SNC  to have done would have been to decline 
Mrs Ss request  for the £720 drawdown  on 15 November 2016  and prohibit further borrowing  on the 
account. I dont think it was right to grant further drawdowns.
However SNC did grant the £720 and a number of subsequent drawdowns. This means it lent money  
to Mrs S when  it shouldnt have  and it needs to take action to put things right.  It wouldnt be fair for 
Mrs S to have  to pay interest, fees or charges  on her drawdowns from 15 November 2016  onward, or 
have them affect her credit file in a negative way. It would  however  still be fair for Mrs S to repay  any 
money she has actually received  in other words the principal she borrowed via those  further 
drawdowns.
putting things  right
In light of what Ive said above, to put things right I intend  to direct SNC to:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from Mrs Ss account relating to any drawdowns  taken 
on or after 15 November  2016.
Treat any repayments Mrs S has made towards her account after 15 November 2016 as 
though they had been repayments of outstanding principal. As an example, assuming she has 
Ref: DRN55624747made no repayments since 13 February 2017 this would  mean she still has around £898 to 
repay.
Remove any adverse information recorded about the account with the credit reference  
agencies and attempt to arrange an affordable  repayment  plan with Mrs S for the remaining 
principal balance.  So long as this plan is set up and maintained the account should be 
marked as up to date  and then settled once the remaining  balance is repaid.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above I intend to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint in part and direct Indigo 
Michael Limited to take the actions set out in the putting things right section of this provisional  
decision.
I now invite  both parties to the complaint to respond to my provisional decision  by 11 January  2019. I 
will then review the case once more.
Will Culley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5562474