K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mrs S in 2006, in connection  with a
credit card. The policy provided cover for Mrs S if she couldnt work because  of accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Im aware that Mrs S has put time and effort into her complaint, and that shes provided a lot 
of detail about how she bought the policy, and her circumstances while  its been in place. Id 
like to reassure her that Ive thought about  everything shes said,  even if I havent referred to 
every point in this final decision.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below. 
Mrs S says she was told she had to take the PPI to get the credit  card,  and that Halifax 
didnt give her a proper choice. Ive noted everything Mrs S has said.  
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Halifax  and 
Mrs S when the policy was sold. Mrs S says she applied for her credit  card over the 
phone. It seems Halifaxs adviser completed  the application electronically and the credit 
card agreement was then sent to Mrs S to sign.  
The agreement is completed to show that Mrs S wanted the PPI. There  was another  
type of insurance  cover  available on the agreement, but it seems Mrs S chose not to 
take this. There is nothing in the agreement to suggest that taking the PPI was a 
condition of getting the credit card.
So without anything  else to support  what Mrs S has told me, I dont think  it would be fair 
or reasonable for me to say that Halifax didnt make  her aware she had a choice  about  
buying the PPI. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs S so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example Mrs S wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and 
she seems to have had a need for the cover.
Ref: DRN55539262Mrs S has told me she was entitled to generous sick pay from her employer, and that 
she couldve  relied on support from her family,  so the cover  wasnt  of any use to her. But 
the policy wouldve  paid out in addition to Mrs Ss employer benefits and would do so, it 
seems, for longer.  And it wouldve meant  she didnt  have  to rely on her family. So I think 
Mrs S wouldve  had some use for the policy, despite  her existing arrangements.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been  useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit  share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about  that. Because  Halifax didnt tell Mrs S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back  to Mrs S any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5553926