complaint
Mr I complains about the advice from LP Financial Management Limited  (LP) to transfer  
funds into the Lifetime  Self  Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP) and subsequently invest in 
Harlequin, an unregulated property fund.
background
In 2012, Mr I transferred  £19,290.16 into a Lifetime  SIPP. The funds were  transferred from 
the cash within his existing SIPP with D P Pensions  Limited. Mr I met with Atlantic Overseas 
(Atlantic), an unregulated investment company which was represented by Mr H. Mr I had 
previously dealt with Mr H in Mr Hs capacity  as a director at LP Financial Management  (LP) 
who advised him on his earlier transfers into the D P Pensions SIPP.  
Mr I signed the SIPP  application form on 21 August 2012. The pension transfer was 
processed and funds transferred over in October  2012.
The Harlequin investment has since become illiquid and Mr I complained to LP and Atlantic  
about the advice to transfer his pension. 
The complaint against Atlantic  could not be considered as it was an unregulated business.
LP said it gave Mr I no advice and was not involved in the transfer. 
In July 2013, subsequent  to the transfer, LP conducted a retrospective review of the transfer 
advice. Following which Mr I signed an execution only authorisation form. He was sent a 
settlement payment of £100 by LP.
Mr I complained to LP in February 2015.  LP responded to the complaint in August 2015 and 
confirmed the letter of July 2013 brought your attention  to the fact if you were  not happy  with 
the outcome of our review  you could take the matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service  
and that you had a 6 month period in which to do so. We would therefore consider that this 
matter would now be time barred by the FOS. You also accepted  our payment of £100 each 
in full and final settlement  on the matter, which was paid in acknowledgment of the time you 
had taken to assist us with the review.
In May 2016, following  a letter from our service to LP, LP wrote to Mr I again. The letter said 
Mr I had six months from the date of the letters in July 2013 and August 2015  to take the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman  Service. Therefore, it was not obliged to consider the 
complaint further.  Mr I brought his complaint  to the Financial Ombudsman  Service.
 
An adjudicator looked into the complaint;  she addressed the issue  of timeliness. 
Mr I signed the application  form on 21 August 2012. LP had said that a pension review  was 
conducted in July 2013 and that Mr I had been given the referral rights to this service.  He was 
also paid £100  towards settlement of the matter; however, LP had confirmed that it was as a 
gesture to thank him for completing the review. 
In the adjudicators opinion, the letter of July 2013  issued after the review was conducted was 
not in response  to this complaint brought by Mr I and therefore  it could not be considered  as 
a final response letter.
The second  letter issued  by LP in August 2015 in response  to the complaint of February 2015 
did not give Mr I the referral rights to this service. Therefore, this letter could not be 
considered as a final response letter. Accordingly, Mr Is complaint can be considered  here.
She then looked  at the merits of the complaint.
LP provided evidence  that Mr I had signed  a declaration in July 2013  that confirmed that he 
did not receive any advice. Also, that the investment was done on an execution  only basis. 
This had been  evidenced  by a declaration signed as part of the application to Lifetime in 
August 2012.  
Ref: DRN5810425LP also said that Atlantic facilitated  the transfer from D P Pensions to Lifetime  SIPP directly 
with no reference  to LP. Also, LP werent copied into the correspondence  between Lifetime 
SIPP and Atlantic. The application was completed with the name Lansdown Place  as the 
adviser, but this was not authorised by or agreed  by any adviser at LP and was done so by 
either Atlantic or Lifetime SIPP without  its knowledge.
It also pointed out that no fee or commission was paid to LP for this transaction.
This service has not been provided  with a suitability report or written recommendation but 
looking at the circumstances involved,  the adjudicator concluded  it was highly likely that Mr I 
did receive advice  for this transfer from Mr H. The reasons for reaching this conclusion  were:-
There is no evidence Mr I researched the Harlequin investment  himself.
The adjudicator  considered that Mr I was not an experienced  investor.  So it was 
unlikely that he would  have concocted a series of complex transactions that involved 
transferring the cash element from his existing  SIPP into a new SIPP  that would be 
willing to accept an unregulated investment like Harlequin without receiving advice.
She said that it was clearly unwise of Mr I to have signed the execution only document  and 
also accept the £100 settlement along  with a declaration that he provided  to LP. But on 
balance, that further indicated  that Mr I was an inexperienced investor.  
She considered LPs main argument that LP had not carried  out the transaction  that Mr I 
complained about,  and it was instead  carried out by Atlantic Overseas  Investment. 
The adjudicator noted that the party involved as the investment manager listed  on the 
Lifetime SIPP application is Atlantic  Partnership LLP. This entity appears to be yet another 
unregulated business linked to Mr H as he was listed on Companies House as its director  at 
the time.
She thought  it likely that Mr H used  Atlantic  Overseas and/or Atlantic Partnership LLP to give 
advice about the Harlequin Investment. Mr H had probably used these companies as a 
vehicle for him to introduce and recommend  the Harlequin Investment to Mr I. 
She considered even  though Mr H was not directly authorised by the regulator to undertake 
regulated activities   he was a director  of LP at the time of the transfer,  which was a 
regulated firm and had the authority  to use LP for his actions.
She had also seen evidence that Mr H was liaising with Mrs I (wife of the complainant)  about 
the transfer of funds  to Lifetime and Harlequin using his LP email address. 
Furthermore, if LP had no involvement in the transfer, she did not think it would have felt
obliged to conduct the review and make an offer which specifically related to the transfer.
In her opinion the second SIPP with Lifetime  was only set up to allow  investment in 
Harlequin, an unregulated investment, which DP Pensions would not allow.
The evidence therefore indicated that Mr H involved LP in his capacity as a director of that 
regulated firm and as such LP had professional and regulatory obligations. It should have 
questioned the transfer when it received a request from lifetime SIPP. 
There is not persuasive evidence to show that LP carried  out even basic  checks  to confirm 
that an assessment  of appropriateness was applied. In her opinion,  had LP done  so, it would 
have concluded  that Mr I could not reasonably  be treated on an execution only basis.
She concluded from the evidence, that the transfer into the SIPP and then investing  in 
Harlequin was unsuitable.  And that as LP was involved in the transfer it was accountable  for 
Mr Is complaint. 
LP did not agree  although it did not make any further discrete comments  in respect of Mr Is 
complaint. Consequently,  the matter has been referred to me. 
Ref: DRN5810425my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If evidence is incomplete or not available, I take into account the balance  of probability. In 
other words, what I consider is most  likely to have  happened  in the circumstances.
Having considered all the evidence, I have  reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator 
and for the same  reasons.
LP says it is not responsible for the transaction that Mr I complains  of. It says responsibility 
rests with Atlantic Overseas Investment. However, I note that the party involved as the 
investment manager  listed on the Lifetime SIPP application is Atlantic Partnership LLP. This 
entity appears to be yet another unregulated business linked to Mr H as he is listed  on 
Companies House  as its director at the time.
I think its likely that Mr H used Atlantic  Overseas  and/or  Atlantic Partnership LLP to give 
advice about the Harlequin Investment. I think Mr H used these companies as a vehicle for 
him to introduce and recommend the Harlequin  Investment and collect  commission.
In my opinion,  even  though Mr H was not directly authorised by the regulator to conduct  
regulated activities   he was a director  of LP and had the authority  to use LP for his actions. I 
have been provided with evidence that Mr H was liaising with Mr I regarding  the transfer of 
funds to Lifetime and Harlequin using his LP email address.
I have noted that the Lifetime  SIPP application  form which Mr I signed on 21 August 2012 
confirmed that his Independent Financial Adviser was Lansdown Place. Further  evidence  
confirmed that Lansdown  Place is a trading style of Lansdown Place Financial Management  
Ltd which Is authorised  and regulated  by the Financial Services  Authority. 
I am satisfied by the Financial Services Register  that LP Financial  Management Limited is 
now the appropriate firm against which this complaint is brought.
In my opinion  the second SIPP with Lifetime was only set up with the intention  of allowing the 
investment into an unregulated investment  like Harlequin which  D P Pensions would more 
likely than not have  declined. I have not seen evidence to persuade me that there was any 
other purpose in setting  up the SIPP. 
I am persuaded it is more likely than not that Mr H involved LP in his capacity as a director of 
LP. As the regulated party I agree with our adjudicator that LP had professional and 
regulatory obligations to Mr I. It ought  to have questioned the transfer when it received a 
request from Lifetime SIPP. 
I have not seen evidence to persuade me LP carried out such  checks, to confirm  the 
suitability of the proposed transaction.  Had it done so, it would or should  have  concluded that 
Mr I could not reasonably  be treated on an execution only basis and that furthermore,  it was 
required to give Mr T suitable advice.  It did not do so and so failed in its duty to Mr T. 
Consequently, it did not meet its regulatory obligations or act in his best interests.
Atlantic acted in an unregulated capacity introducing Mr T to Harlequin. LP has said it was 
unaware that Mr T had been approached about Harlequin by the unregulated business  or that 
the transfer had taken  place. 
However, I agree with the adjudicator that their letter to Mr T of 11 December 2012 indicates 
otherwise. It recorded that the transfer  was processed by LP as Lifetime SIPP requires all 
pension transfers  to be completed by a firm that is regulated. 
LP later offered to review the process that was implemented to complete the transfer. When 
this offer was accepted by Mr I, LP later paid him £100 for the time and trouble.and in full 
and final settlement in relation to the transfer of your pension  to the Lifetime  SIPP. 
In my view, this is inconsistent with LPs assertion that it played no part in the transaction.  If 
that was the case, I am surprised it offered to review it and then wanted a full and final 
settlement confirmation  from Mr I in respect of it.  
Ref: DRN5810425In summary,  I have concluded LP was involved with this pension transfer in a regulated  
capacity. In processing the SIPP  application,  LP would have seen the Lifetime  SIPP 
application form which recorded the Harlequin  Investment Questionnaire and Supplementary  
Notes on the front cover. It would therefore have been aware of the proposed investment 
once the new SIPP was opened.
I agree  that Mr T could not be defined as a sophisticated investor or that he had capacity for 
risk or loss such that transferring his funds to invest in an unregulated investment was 
appropriate or suitable. I have not seen  any evidence  to persuade me that the appropriate 
investigations or required processes were carried out to confirm Mr Is status as a 
sophisticated or insistent  client.  It is unacceptable  that the evidence  for such post dates the 
transactions complained of.
Harlequin, an unregulated, high risk overseas property investment was an inappropriate 
investment for him. As the second  SIPP was only set up to allow the investment it follows that 
it too was unsuitable.
In the circumstances,  I have concluded that the transfer into the SIPP  and then investing in 
Harlequin was unsuitable.  As I have explained,  in my view LP, a regulated firm, was involved 
in the transfer  and investment. Accordingly, it is accountable for Mr Is complaint.
fair compensation
I think Mr I would have  invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr I's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
what must  LP Financial Management Limited do?
To compensate Mr I fairly it must:
    Compare the performance of Mr I's investment with that of the benchmark  
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there  is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
If there  is a loss, it must pay into Mr I's pension  plan, to increase its value by the amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow  for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. It shouldnt pay the compensation  into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If unable to pay the compensation into Mr I's pension plan, it must pay that amount direct to 
Mr I. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. 
Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr I's actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected  retirement age. For example, if Mr I is likely to be a basic  rate taxpayer at 
the selected retirement age, the reduction  would equal the current  basic rate of tax. However, 
if Mr I would have been able to take a tax free lump sum,  the reduction should  be applied  to 
75% of the compensation.
    In addition, it must pay Mr I £250 for his trouble and upset  in relation to the 
uncertainty and the loss of his pension benefits.
    It is fair that LP pay Mr I an upfront sum equivalent to five years  worth of SIPP 
fees (calculated using  the previous years fees) This gives a reasonable period for 
the parties to arrange  for the SIPP to be closed. There are a number of ways they 
may want to achieve  that but this will give some  confidence to Mr I that he will not 
be subject to further SIPP fees.
Ref: DRN5810425K821x#15Awarding a lump sum for an amount equivalent  to five years  fees is a fair balance. It is 
possible that any residual  illiquid unregulated holdings in the SIPP could be removed from 
the SIPP in less than five years. However,  overall  five years worth of fees is a fair way to 
resolve the issue now.
    It must provide the details of the calculation to Mr I in a clear,  simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid.  If LP considers that it is required by  HM  
Revenue & Customs to deduct income  tax from that interest, it should tell Mr I how much has 
been deducted. It must also give Mr I a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment name
status Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end date)additional interest
Harlequin
Propertiesstill existsFTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Indexdate of 
investmentdate of 
settlementnot applicable
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
My overall aim in determining fair compensation is to return  Mr I to the position he would 
have been in but for the unsuitable advice. This is complicated where the investment is 
illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open market) so it may be difficult to find the 
actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at 
fair compensation. LP should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount  should  be deducted from 
the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If unable to purchase the investment the actual value  should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculation. LP may require Mr I undertakes to pay it any amount he may receive  
from the investment  in the future. That undertaking must allow  for any tax and charges that 
would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. LP will need to meet  any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. Any additional  sum paid into the investment should be added  to the 
fair value  calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point  on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, I will accept if LP total all those payments and deduct that figure at the 
end instead of periodically.
Ref: DRN58104256why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because Mr I wanted capital growth and was 
willing to accept some  investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income total return  index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different  
asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It is a fair measure for someone  
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr I's 
circumstances and risk attitude.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
LP Financial  Management  Limited must redress Mr I as I have  set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020.                                             .
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5810425