K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about  the charges The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  have 
applied to their account  and way the bank have  treated them.
background
On 15 August 2017 Mr and Mrs R complained to RBS that the charges and fees on their 
joint account were keeping them in a cycle  of debt and worsening  their financial hardship. 
They asked RBS to remove  the charges and interest applied  to the account over the last six 
years and to remove the defaults from their credit  file.
RBS said theyd applied  the charges in line with the account terms and conditions.  They  told 
Mr and Mrs R it wasnt for the bank to assume  they were  in financial difficulties and until their 
letter of 15 August 2017 RBS found  no evidence that such financial difficulties  had been  the 
case. RBS said once they were aware  of the difficulties theyd acted in a positive and 
sympathetic way by refunding some charges  and also suggesting Mr and Mrs R contact their 
specialist team for customers in financial difficulties. Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with the 
response and brought the complaint to us.
In both of the views he issued on 1 June  and 6 August 2018 our adjudicator  didnt think RBS 
had applied  the charges  to Mr and Mrs Rs account incorrectly  or unfairly.  And he thought  
RBS had responded to Mr and Mrs R financial  difficulties by offering help in trying  to arrange 
a consolidation  loan,  refunding some  charges and offering its helpline  for the specialist  team 
for customers in financial difficulties. So he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with the views. They thought the first one contained some 
incorrect information and it failed to take into account many  factors  and the big picture.  
They didnt initially respond to the second  view but later said they were very disappointed in 
the way this service  had handled the complaint  and believed  the decisions reached  directly 
caused the escalation of further difficulties with the RBS. They  repeated concerns that RBS 
had failed to comply with the Lending  Standards Boards lending code. Mr and Mrs R also 
thought their complaint hadnt  been  investigated  fairly in the first instance  and that the 
investigator had failed to investigate  and review their response  to his initial conclusions in 
the second view. Mr and Mrs R later sent in evidence relating to Mrs Rs health  difficulties 
and said they expected  a thorough  review into the outcome  of the assessment.  And they 
recently told us theyd found  RBS had applied a default to their account which they 
considered wrong  as any action shouldve been placed on hold whilst  their case  was being 
investigated by this service. They asked for the defaults to be removed and that they are 
compensated for the ongoing  unfair  treatment.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  that Mr and Mrs R feel our 
adjudicator hasnt properly understood aspects of their complaint. Ive looked  at everything 
afresh before reaching an independent view.
 
In the first instance  Im very sorry to learn of the health difficulties  both Mr and Mrs R have 
suffered in recent years. I can only imagine how difficult  this situation has been for them and 
Im saddened to hear about  the domestic  circumstances they find themselves living  in now.
Ref: DRN56146992Its clear that Mr and Mrs R have strong  feelings about this complaint. Theyve  provided  
detailed submissions in support  of their view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in 
their entirety. However, I trust that Mr and Mrs R will not take the fact that my findings focus 
on what I consider to be the central  issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less 
detail, as a discourtesy or in anyway  dismissive. The purpose of my decision  isnt to address 
every point raised, but to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching  them.  For 
reasons that have  been explained to Mr and Mrs R Im just looking at their joint account 
here.
The central issue is Mr and Mrs R have experienced long term financial difficulties; made  
worse by Mrs R having to leave work due to long term health problems and more  recently  Mr 
Rs health has suffered.  They say despite making  RBS aware of their difficulties  in calls 
before and at an appointment on 2 December 2015 RBS didnt respond appropriately and 
offer them enough help with their difficulties and this has made the position worse. They say 
all they were offered  in 2015 and 2016 was a re mortgage and a downgrade of their bank 
account from a packaged  account.  They were unable to consolidate their credit  cards into 
more affordable borrowing as theyd hoped. They now want RBS to refund the fees and 
charges on the account going back to 2011 with interest and for them to remove the default  
on the account.
I understand Mr and Mrs R feel that RBSs  charges  and their treatment of his account has 
added to his financial  difficulties. Theyve told us told us they refer to fees snowballing  and 
being stuck in a cycle  of charges. Although  Im sorry to hear that Im afraid, after reviewing 
everything thats happened, Ive come  to the view that this isnt a complaint I can uphold. 
Here are the reasons why I say this.
My role is to look at whether RBS has acted  fairly  and reasonably. Its been decided  in court 
that it generally isnt possible  to challenge  bank charges as being unfair or too high. Since  
that decision, although changes in the industry have meant charges wouldnt be made in the 
same way we wouldnt  expect the new rules  to be applied retrospectively. So, as the 
adjudicator set out, Im not able to consider whether the charges are too high,  or whether 
RBS were able to change their charging structure.  Theres an element of the complaint 
about packaged bank account fees. When it downgraded in February 2016 to a no fee 
based account Mr and Mrs R say the interest  and charges  increased  but RBS shouldve 
made this clear. But I dont agree. The banks records show  Mr and Mrs R both upgraded 
and downgraded this account  on several occasions from October 2005 so I think they ought 
reasonably to be aware of the implications  and the impact of the charging structure and the 
impact this would  have on their situation.
From everything Ive seen  Im satisfied the charges  have been applied to Mr and Mrs Rs 
account in accordance with the banks  standard terms  and conditions. So I cant fairly say 
RBS werent entitled to apply the fees and charges it did to Mr and Mrs Rs account.
 
In coming to my final decision, Ive also thought carefully about  whether those  charges  were 
applied fairly  and reasonably in Mr and Mrs Rs particular  circumstances.  I appreciate they 
think the charges  added to their financial difficulties. And Ive taken into account that we 
expect banks always to treat customers who are in financial difficulty positively and 
sympathetically. 
Banks can only act as wed expect them to once  theyre aware a customer is in financial 
difficulty. And thats important here as Mr and Mrs Rs complaint in 2017 is that RBS 
shouldve done  more to help them with their difficulties from 2015  when they were  made  
Ref: DRN56146993aware. RBS say that contact in August 2017 was the first notification of any difficulties. And 
the records theyve  sent us support  this and show the action they took in refunding  certain 
fees and signposting Mr and Mrs R to a free debt advice  charity or their own financial 
difficulties team. I consider that to be a reasonable response.
Mr and Mrs R told us on 21 June 2019 information  about medical  issues were sent in several 
letters by recorded  delivery that was received by the RBS and that this evidence was 
submitted to our service and asked us to refer to it rather than ignore it. But Im afraid after a 
thorough review of the information  the only evidence of recorded  delivery  documents  being 
sent to RBS is on 21 December 2017,  so after the complaint  was lodged in August 2017 and 
relates to another matter.  The first reference  I can see of any reference  to health problems is 
in a letter dated 16 July 2018,  where  an undated  GP letter  is referred to in the enclosures. 
But even if I accept Mr and Mrs Rs case that they made RBS aware of the difficulties in 
December 2015  theres nothing  before me to suggest the action RBS took then, in 
agreement with Mr and Mrs R, wasnt in line with their responsibility to act positively and 
sympathetically. That responsibility doesnt  mean RBS must  cancel  all overdraft  charges  on 
request. Or that it cant  or shouldnt - continue to charge if the account  is overdrawn. 
Although, in response to the difficulties  in August 2017, RBS did refund some charges and 
invite Mr and Mrs R to contact their specialist financial difficulties team which  I cant see that 
Mr and Mrs R have done.
So, overall, Im not persuaded that RBS were  made  aware of the problems any earlier than 
August 2017 and I think their response  then was a reasonable one. And on the evidence 
before me I cant say RBS werent entitled  to default this account.
During our investigation, in October 2018, Mr and Mrs R made payment towards the balance 
on this account  and are unhappy that although  they intended it to be in full and final 
settlement of their liability this wasnt treated  as such and the account remains  open. They  
think this is double standards as when RBS made them a payment in another matter, stating 
it was in full and final settlement, this was binding on them. So they think their payment 
should now bind RBS to close the account. But Im afraid I cant agree  as I think  the 
situations are different.  It seems to me the payment  from RBS was an offer after some 
negotiation whereas the payment sent by Mr and Mrs R was sent without notice, negotiation 
or engagement with the financial  difficulties team.
Mr and Mrs R have expressed  concerns  about  the impartiality of this service. I hope Ive 
explained why Ive come  to the decision I have based on the evidence  before me. Although I 
know Mr and Mrs R are likely to disagree,  I think,  looked at overall, RBS have responded 
reasonably to his complaint so I cant ask them to take any further action.  
Mr and Mrs R feel very strongly about whats happened so they may want  to pursue the 
matter further through other routes   theyve  already  told us they intend to raise concerns 
about what they see as systemic  issues within FOS with their MP should  this service fail to 
reach a satisfactory  conclusion for them. But my decision  brings to an end what  we  in 
trying to resolve their dispute with RBS informally   can do for them.  Im sorry if this 
disappoints Mr and Mrs R.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN56146994Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 September 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5614699