K821x#15complaint
Mr W says CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid) irresponsibly lent him payday  
loans.
background
This complaint is about seven payday  loans Quick Quid provided  to Mr W between  January 
2014 and May 2017. Mr Ws lending history  is as follows.  From what I can see, all his loans  
were to be repaid  in two or three  monthly  instalments:
Loan 1, 3 January 2014  for £350. Largest expected  monthly instalment £437.76. 
Repaid four months late on 31 July 2014.
Loan 2, 31 July 2014 for £550. Largest  expected monthly instalment £712.25.  Repaid  
on time 31 October 2014. 
Loan 3, 5 January 2015  for £400. Largest expected  monthly instalment £497.28. 
Repaid on 31 March 2015.  
Loan 4, 19 April 2015 for £600. Largest expected monthly  instalment £773.28. 
Repaid on 27 May 2015. 
Loan 5, 2 January 2016  for £600. Largest expected  monthly instalment £748.80. 
Repaid on 14 January  2016.  
Loan 6, 5 February 2017 for £200.  Largest expected monthly instalment £244.80. 
Repaid on 28 April 2017. 
Loan 7, 5 May 2017 for £600. Largest expected monthly instalment about  £740. 
Repaid on 11 July 2017. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ws complaint and thought the loans from loan two onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Quick Quid disagreed and the complaint was passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN54133092the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quick Quid was required to establish 
whether Mr W could  sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
For loan one, Quick  Quid asked Mr W for information about his income and expenditure and 
it carried out credit checks.  Given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time and his history with Quick Quid, I dont think  it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr W provided  or the information 
Quick Quid shouldve been aware  of, which meant  it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what Mr W was saying. So I cant say Quick  Quid was wrong to approve  loan one. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan two would most likely  have 
shown that Mr W:
Had to repay a significant proportion of his monthly income in one of the three 
monthly repayments required. This was £712.25  from his stated income of £1,423. 
There was a significant risk that Mr W wouldnt be able to meet his existing 
commitments without  borrowing again.  
He was having trouble managing his finances,  as shown by the four roll-overs  for 
loan one. So Mr W would most likely  be unable  to sustainably  meet  his repayments  
for this loan. 
So I think it was wrong for Quick  Quid to approve loan two.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids  lending  history with Mr W, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Quick  Quid should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Quick Quid should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Ref: DRN54133093Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ws case,  I think  that this point was reached by 
loan three.  I say this because:
By loan three, Mr W had been borrowing from Quick  Quid  for about  a year.  Hed 
repaid loan one four months late. So Quick Quid ought to have realised it was more 
likely than not Mr W was having  to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying his 
previous loan was leaving  in his finances  and that Mr Ws indebtedness  was 
increasing unsustainably.
Mr W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Quick Quid. Loan four 
was taken out sixteen months  after Mr Ws first. And it was for a larger  amount. So 
Mr W had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to Quick  Quid  
over an extended period.
I think that Mr W lost out because Quick Quid continued to provide borrowing for loans three 
and four because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness  by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Ws ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept him in the market  for these 
high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans three and four.
 
There was a break in Mr Ws borrowing between loans four and five and I think this gap was 
significant. I think its reasonable to treat this as the start of another  chain of borrowing. But I 
think that proportionate checks would have  most  likely shown that Mr W was unable  to 
sustainably meet his repayments for loans  five, six and seven. This is because:
The largest instalments for loans five and seven required  Mr W to repay over half his 
monthly income. With what Quick Quid knew about  his monthly expenditure, I think  it 
should have seen that these  loans were unaffordable for him as he didnt have the 
disposable income to meet his repayments. 
For loan six, the largest  repayment  was less. Thered been a gap of a year in Mr Ws 
borrowing. But I think what Quick Quid already knew about Mr Ws borrowing history 
should have concerned  it and prompted further  checks. It still relied on what Mr W 
had told it about his stated income  and expenditure from 2015.  But I think  
proportionate checks would have shown that this loan was unsustainable for Mr W. 
This was because his regular  outgoings for his normal living costs and regular credit 
commitments accounted for all his disposable  income. 
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans five to seven  and I think Quick Quid  should 
put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr W paid on loans two to seven;
Ref: DRN54133094pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans two, five, six and seven from Mr Ws 
credit file;
the number  of loans taken for loans three and four means any information recorded  
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loan three and four should be removed 
from Mr Ws credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Ws 
complaint. I require CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) to pay Mr W 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5413309