K821x#15Complaint
Mr N complains, in summary  about  the quality  of the replacement  doors  and windows which 
were installed  at his family  home in December 2017.  He brings his complaint against 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited,  trading as Barclays Partner Finance, under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background
Mr N took out a loan with Barclays  Partner Finance to pay for the new doors and windows. 
Fairly soon after they had been  installed,  Mr N identified  a number of problems. The 
contractor made some  repairs, but other  issues remained  unresolved  and new issues  
emerged. Over the subsequent period, Mr N was in frequent  contact with the contractor  
about their workmanship,  and also the customer service he was receiving  from them. 
However, problems continued   so, in late 2018,  Mr N contacted Barclays Partner Finance 
to make a section 75 claim.  
Following their liaison  with the contractor further repairs  were  made,  but other issues  were  
not resolved. By then,  Mr N had lost faith in the contractor  such  that he wanted either a full 
replacement of the installation by another contractor  or a full refund. He was also unhappy 
with the way Barclays Partner  Finance  was dealing with his claim  in part because he 
considered they were  taking the contractors  side. Although Barclays Partner Finance 
offered Mr N some compensation, including for the service it had provided, he did not 
consider that to be enough to reflect all the losses and inconvenience he had experienced.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ns concerns. She noted, first of all, that  under  section  75  
Barclays Partner Finance  was jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the contractor in the provision of the goods  and services  it had financed. She also noted  
that, under the Consumer Rights Act 2015,  the supply of goods  and services such as the 
replacement doors  and windows Mr N had bought should be carried out with reasonable 
care and skill and in a reasonable time. In accepting there  was no real dispute that the 
problems had arisen because the contractor had not completed the installation  as required, 
she recommended  that, to resolve Mr Ns complaint, he could either (in summary):
1.have Barclays Partner  Finance arrange  for the outstanding issues to be carried out by 
another contractor  of his choosing; or
2.for the contract price to be reduced by £500  to allow Mr N to arrange and pay for the 
work himself. 
In addition, the investigator  recommended  that Barclays  Partner  Finance should  pay Mr N 
£200 compensation for any inconvenience  arising from the way it had handled his claim. 
This was to be in addition  to the £75 Barclays Partner Finance  had already paid.
Mr N did not accept either of the investigators recommended  options.  By way of his initial  
response he said he was in total disbelief at the proposed outcome, that we had not 
considered all the evidence (especially phone  calls),  and that the compensation should be 
much higher.  He further felt that we had approached this whole matter with a bias towards  
[Barclays Partner Finance] and what is more agreeable to them than what would be right 
and fair to a customer who has been  messed  around and ripped  off from the very start.
Mr N then complained  about  how the investigator had looked into his complaint. Her 
manager, an ombudsman, replied setting out  in summary  the basis  of how we approach 
Ref: DRN57389452complaints like his and, in particular, that we look to see what  a proportionate outcome 
should be. He also said that it would be right for Mr Ns complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman (in practice, a different ombudsman) and for a Final  Decision to be issued,  as 
provided for under our procedures.  
Mr N replied to say that he didnt think he was being understood  in part because  the 
recommended outcome  was what the investigator  had proposed from the very beginning 
before any calls, emails  or other correspondence  was requested  or viewed. .. It is also 
exactly what [Barclays Partner Finance]  have  tried to force  me to do with the exception of 
the involvement of a third party.  He was also concerned that the lack of care and skill 
principle had been ignored.
My Findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments in order to decide what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint.
Preliminary Matters
Mr N has made extensive submissions in relation to his complaint, all of which  I have 
carefully considered   even if I dont make specific reference to one or more individual points 
in this Final Decision. I intend no discourtesy  by this; rather,  it is more  a reflection of our 
practical approach  to assessing and determining complaints   focusing on what  we consider 
to be the central  points  in order to determine  this complaint about Barclays Partner Finance. 
Mr N has had a number  of phone calls with the investigator about his complaint, and he has 
also spoken with other  members of this Services staff, in part arising  from his complaint 
about how the investigator  initially  looked  into his concerns. In addition, I have spoken with 
Mr N several times, partly because  he has said he considers  it easier to make  himself 
understood on the phone (and initially because emails were sometimes  difficult for him).  
I have also sought  to help Mr N try to find a mutually  acceptable mediated settlement 
between him and Barclays Partner  Finance   at his request, although that has not been 
successful, hence  the need for me to determine the complaint by way of this Final  Decision.
More recently, Mr N has asked  several times   for me to delay issuing this Final Decision. 
His complaint was referred to me for review  some months ago; during that time we have  
made considerable progress (most specifically as a result  of the independent  inspection  of 
his doors  and windows installation, about  which I will comment  further later in this Final  
Decision). But I am satisfied that we have now reached the position where any additional 
evidence which Mr N has explained he is attempting to obtain is either not relevant to my 
consideration of this section 75 complaint about  Barclays Partner Finance and/or will not 
improve upon the appropriate  and proportionate  outcome  I propose  to award. I therefore 
consider it is both fair and reasonable, for all parties, for me to determine the complaint now.
The Installation   and section  75
There is no doubt that Mr N is very unhappy  with the quality of the installation of the 
replacement doors  and windows at his home.  More  or less from the outset  now three  years  
ago  he has been complaining about  it. Over that time,  some  work has been done  but Mr 
N and his family have  evidently been caused a significant amount of distress  and 
inconvenience in trying to get things put right.  This includes his having to take time off work 
for repeat visits by the contractor. Quite some while ago Mr N explains that he lost faith in 
the contractor, and he also considers that Barclays Partner Finance has not acted fairly 
Ref: DRN57389453towards him in trying to resolve  the problems. Indeed, he questions  the basis of their 
approach  arising, in part, because of the partner relationship between them and the 
contractor. There is also no doubt  that the installation  was not completed correctly at the 
outset, and that further work still needs  to be done. I am, therefore, satisfied that it was not 
undertaken with the required level of care and skill. That is why, after the complaint  had 
been referred to me for review, I arranged for Barclays Partner Finance to pay for an 
independent inspection.  
I will return to the detail  of the outcome of that inspection later in this Final Decision. But 
what I need to start with is the legal basis upon which a lender, such as Barclays  Partner 
Finance, can be held jointly liable for the wrong actions of a contractor. I particularly  do so 
because, both from having carefully  read all that we received prior to my involvement and 
subsequently, in my view Mr N may continue  to misunderstand the underlying  law and 
consequent extent to which a lender can be held liable to a borrower in these circumstances.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  provides  for a connected lender (so, Barclays 
Partner Finance  for Mr Ns replacement doors and windows) to be jointly liable for a breach 
of contract  and/or  misrepresentation by a supplier  of goods and/or services.  But the 
complaint against  the lender  which is the only complaint  this Service  can consider  is not 
the same  as any broader claim Mr N may have against the supplier about the goods or 
services supplied under the contract. It is solely about whether  and how  the lender dealt 
with its obligations  under section 75.  
I do recognise that this can appear  a difficult distinction. But what  it means  in practice is that 
a lender is not liable  for anything the supplier might  have  done wrong  other than the alleged 
breach of contract and/or misrepresentation. In Mr Ns case, the issue  is the contractors 
failure to complete the installation to the correct standard  at the outset. So, any customer 
service issues  or other consequent actions by the contractor fall outside the scope of section 
75 such that, even  where  it is evident  they arose, the lender cannot legally be held liable for 
them. It follows from this that I cannot  consider, let alone determine, any such  other issues. 
Putting this another way, in looking to resolve a complaint such  as this I can  if I consider it 
appropriate  only require a lender to:
1.put the original  contract right (in one of a number of ways);  and
2.pay compensation for its own wrong actions (if any), but not any other wrong actions  
(such as customer service issues) by the supplier, including  their consequent impact.
When I first started to review this complaint it was clear to me that there were indeed  issues 
with Mr Ns doors and windows which still needed to be resolved. But  given all that had 
happened over the preceding period  it was not immediately clear  to me what  they were.  
So I negotiated with Barclays Partner  Finance for it to pay for an independent inspection.  
Mr N has received a copy of that inspection, and he has told me he broadly agrees with it.  
The report  concluded  with the inspector saying:
The Windows are manufactured from the Duraflex  Profile, one of the leading UK Profile  
extruders. High quality  hardware  has been included in the build with additional security 
enhancements added over and above what  would be expected as a standard UK window.
Whilst the documentation sets out numerous  issues from an installation  perspective the 
installation that I assessed exceeds  the minimum standards as set out in BS8213-4.
Ref: DRN57389454I can confirm that we have undertaken a review of all the Building Regulations pertaining  to 
Fenestration Installation and save the issues set out in the scope of works the installation  
meets the criteria in this regard.  
The scope of works details exactly the works  that need to be undertaken to meet  the 
requirements of BS8213-4 2016  Code of Practice for Installation  of Windows and Doors 
Appendix 1.
No further works other than those set out in the Scope of Works are required.
SCOPE OF WORKS
Aperture No 1
Remove and replace  the DGU in the Fixed aperture. The new DGU must incorporate  a Low 
E coating
Aperture No 1, 2 & 5
Either replace the side hung sashes with ones that include a Trickle Vent or Install  on site a 
Trickle Vent to the existing sashes. Note - If carried out on site the routing needs to be 
undertaken with the sashes flat on trestles
Aperture No 4
Remove and Replace  the Cylinder with one of the correct length and must incorporate  a 
Yale Security Key!
Aperture No 8
Additional silicone required to the outer  cill  junction with the brick horn
Aperture No 10
Remove and store  the door slab
Remove and clean the existing Outer Frame
Sit a new outer cill LEVEL  on a robust  silicone bed
Reinstall the existing Outer frame ensuring  that the frame  is sat LEVEL on the Cill, 
SQUARE, PLUMB and FREE FROM TWIST. Ensure that the jambs do not suffer from 
distortion or bow in any plane
Whilst the Slab is loose  sit on trestles and install a new Gasket  Carrier and Gaskets
Re hang the Slab and ensure that the gap between the frame and slab is equidistant on all 
4 sides. Adjust and pack the frame to suit
Fix, Foam,  Tape and Seal the Outer frame
Install new Glazing Cassette
Install new DGU [Must contain Low E Coating]
NO FURTHER  WORKS REQUIRED
Ref: DRN57389455Putting Things  Right
Barclays Partner Finance  has told me that it also accepts  the conclusions  of the independent 
inspection report.  So, in light of that, I asked Mr N what  he wanted to be done  in order to 
resolve his complaint. I did so because he had asked me to help him seek a mediated 
settlement with Barclays Partner  Finance. Mr N then asked me to put the following 
settlement proposal  to Barclays Partner Finance, which  I did: 
1) profit margin deducted from quoted price for installation, due to no guarantee/
untrustworthy guarantee.
2) 66% reduction of remaining price after profit margin reduction,  due to 66% of installation  
under standards. 
3) no interest charged,  as apology for not investigating complaints made against BPF 
section 75 claim team,  bribery, forcing of their preferred resolution and closing case via 
deception. 
4) Corrective works to be completed to or above industry standard in line with report.
5) Work to be inspected  to check if compliance  with item 4.
6) Compensation for the stress,  inconvenience,  loss of time and costs  incurred by this saga. 
Matching the original  quoted cost for the work.  
7) I will accept  no onward guarantee if all other  items agreed  and new balance/total agreed.  
I will also require  BPF to action the SARS request I made over 1 year ago in full to date, so 
I have all the calls and correspondence should  this matter need to be escalated. This is 
already a request that they have breached, and also needed to establish how this has been 
investigated by FOS in line with my previous  calls and emailed requests.
Barclays Partner Finance  did not accept Mr Ns proposal. In summary, it said it would pay for 
the remedial work to be done as set out in the independent inspection  report  and for it then 
to be inspected and certified, and that it would also pay compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience to Mr N in relation to the service  he has received from [itself]  and the 
inconvenience caused, if instructed to do so by the Ombudsman in the Final  Decision, if of 
course Mr N accepts the decision in full and final settlement of his complaint.  
The remedy  for a breach  of contract claim  under  section 75 ranges from arranging  for the 
service to be carried out properly/the goods to be repaired through to a refund, either in full 
or in part. In Mr Ns case, it is apparent from the independent inspection report that much  of 
the original installation was undertaken to an acceptable standard, albeit that a number of 
issues remain outstanding   including some which have existed from the outset, and some 
which are essential  to be put right such as fire escape routes. But, in my view, overall this is 
not a basis for saying  that the whole installation should be removed and replaced, that Mr N 
should receive a full refund, or that his loan should  be written off (either the total amount  he 
borrowed or the amount now outstanding). Rather, in these  specific circumstances I find  
much as the investigator  did  that the fair and proportionate way to put matters right is for 
the remediation  work,  as outlined in the independent inspection report, to be undertaken, 
Ref: DRN57389456such that Mr N will get what he always should have received. I acknowledge what he says 
about his property having been left in a worse state than before the original installation work 
was carried out and that items required by the standards are not present.  I do understand 
why Mr N feels this way, but the remediation work   once  completed to the correct standard  
 is intended to put all of this right, including his specific point about fire escape  routes.
I therefore also agree with Mr N that, once the remediation  work has been  completed, it 
should be inspected  by an independent third party to ensure that it has been  done to a 
satisfactory standard. Its fair to say, however, that Barclays Partner Finance already accepts 
that this should happen   and, in my view, subject only to there  being  a compelling 
alternative reason,  it would appear  to make  practical sense for this to be done by the same  
firm which  undertook the earlier inspection. That is, however, a matter  for Mr N and Barclays 
Partner Finance  to agree between them  as are all the logistics concerning  when the work 
should be done, including the possible  involvement  of the contractors  trade body.  
On this, Mr N has recently told me that he is now prepared for the original contractor to do 
the remedial work  on the basis that that will simplify the position in relation to the ongoing 
10-year warranty, which I understand will continue to run from the original  installation  date. It 
is, however, not for me to say that the original  contractor should be required to do the work if 
it is not prepared  to do so. That is a matter  which Barclays  Partner  Finance will need  to 
address, should  it arise,  as part of the process  for having the work completed.  But even if a 
different contractor ends  up doing  the work, the original contractor has already expressly  
agreed that any work done by a third party wont invalidate its warranty.
This, then, brings me to the question of additional  compensation. There is, as I said earlier,  
no doubt that the consequences of the installation have caused Mr N (along with his family) 
a considerable  amount of distress and inconvenience. But it is the case  as I have also 
already set out  that I can only require  Barclays Partner Finance  to compensate  Mr N for its 
part in the whole process. I cannot  order compensation in respect of any distress and 
inconvenience arising from, for example,  the contractors handling of the matter, including  
the customer service it provided, or any other failings Mr N considers it should be held 
accountable for. This seems, in truth, to be the main cause of what  Mr N has experienced  
and he fears it will result only in token compensation being awarded.
I am, nevertheless, satisfied that Barclays Partner  Finance could have  dealt with Mr Ns 
claim more  efficiently and effectively than it did  including, for example (but not limited to) 
commissioning an independent  inspection  to clarify precisely what needed to be done to put 
the installation  right  at an earlier  stage.  But Barclays Partner Finance already accepts this 
overall point in principle,  and the investigator  did so as well. Indeed, we do not need   for 
example  to listen to any more phone calls than we have to be persuaded by what  Mr N 
says.  
So the question  becomes  one of amount; so far, a total of £275 has been recommended.  
Barclays Partner Finance  has, of course, also already paid for the inspection report   which  
I believe is relevant to bear in mind because of the comfort this independent assessment 
brings. Having regard to the general level of awards  we make,  and taking note of Mr Ns 
interactions with Barclays  Partner Finance over a lengthy period, I consider he should fairly 
receive more than the £275 so far recommended  of which  £75 has already been paid.  
But before I come to my final view on this I need to comment on Mr Ns more recent related 
request  which is for Barclays  Partner  Finance to cover the cost of his familys relocation 
while the work is being done, and also his loss of earnings for having to take additional 
unpaid leave  to be at home  when the work is being  done.
Ref: DRN57389457The original  installation was done  in a day, and my understanding is that the remediation 
work should similarly be done within no more than one working day. But Mr N is concerned  
about Covid-19  risks to his family  (even when the work may be permitted to take place, 
which it cant at the time of writing because of lockdown), especially his very young  new 
baby. I can see his concerns, along  with noting  that his family  cannot currently   for 
example, and for the same  reason   visit other  family members for the day. So, on the 
assumption that this remains an appropriate concern at the time the work is done  and they 
are able to obtain  hotel  accommodation for one day, I think  it would be fair to say that 
Barclays Partner Finance  should cover the reasonable  cost of such accommodation. 
Similarly, on the basis that Mr N is able to demonstrate to Barclays Partner Finance that he 
has had to forego a days pay to be present while the work  is being completed I find that the 
bank should reimburse him for that. Barclays Partner Finance has, in fact, already offered to 
pay £150 for both of these, but I cannot currently know exactly how much these expenses/
losses will amount to. So I propose  that Barclays  Partner Finance  should cover these 
reasonable (and supported) costs, up to a maximum of £250 combined.
That brings me finally to compensation  for distress and inconvenience. In my view,  a fair 
sum  in addition to what I have just set out  is £500 (inclusive of the £75 already paid, 
meaning that £425 should now be paid). I appreciate that Mr N is likely to see his concerns 
about a token payment being borne out by this. But the point is this; I am not awarding 
compensation for the totality  of the inconvenience and/or costs Mr N and his family  have  
experienced  just that which I believe I can fairly, and lawfully, attribute to Barclays  Partner 
Finance arising  from its responsibilities under section 75. Any further  losses for which Mr N 
may still seek reimbursement and/or additional  compensation  are purely a matter between  
him and the contractor; they do not fall within the scope of Barclays  Partner Finances 
obligations towards him under section  75. 
Other Matters
Before I conclude this Final Decision there are a handful of other matters Mr N has raised 
which I consider it appropriate  to comment  on.  
Firstly, Mr N says that Barclays Partner  Finance has failed to respond  fully to his earlier  
Subject Access  Request.  Compliance with the relevant legislation falls primarily within the 
ambit of the Information  Commissioners Office  but Barclays Partner Finance has said to 
me that, if Mr N considers there  is information  outstanding, it will look again at what it has 
supplied to see if there is any additional  information  it can provide. It is, therefore, for Mr N 
and Barclays Partner  Finance to liaise between themselves about this  where  Mr N may 
wish to set out what  he thinks may still be outstanding.
Secondly, Mr N has specifically asked me to comment on our earlier investigation into his 
complaint, including our not arranging an independent inspection  report at an earlier stage.  
Mr N did not accept the investigators  conclusions and, as he was entitled  to, he asked for an 
ombudsman to review  them. That is the proper process if one party is not content with the 
initially-proposed outcome, and there is nothing inherently wrong in a complainant  
disagreeing with our approach to a complaint or any initial  conclusions.  But what I cannot 
comment on here, however, is the level of service Mr N received from us. I understand that 
he has already raised a number of complaints about the service he has received whilst we 
have been looking  into his complaint, and he has received responses from relevant 
colleagues. My responsibility is limited  to considering the merits of Mr Ns complaint as it 
now stands and to come to my final conclusions on it, which  is what I have done.
Ref: DRN57389458Finally, Mr N has often  said to us that he feels we have  preferred  Barclays Partner 
Finances position  over his and have been biased  in its favour.  Mr N has pursued his 
concerns with tenacity  and he feels  very strongly about them  but I consider that we have 
adopted a fair and balanced approach throughout. As a further reflection of that, I have 
noted Mr Ns concerns about the relative  shortness  of our usual response  timeframe to a 
Final Decision. I am therefore  doubling  it in this case  so giving him two months in which to 
consider how he wishes  to proceed and whether or not to accept this Final Decision.
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my Final  Decision is that I uphold  this complaint.
In settlement  of it I find that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance,  should:
1.Pay for the remediation work, as outlined in the independent inspection report, to be 
completed to a satisfactory  overall  standard.
2.Pay for a subsequent  independent inspection report (or inspection reports if, in the event, 
more than one becomes  necessary), to confirm that the remediation  work has been  
completed to a satisfactory  overall  standard.
3.Pay (1) reasonable relocation costs  for Mr Ns family for the duration of the remediation  
work, which is expected  to last no longer than one working  day, and (2) cover Mr Ns 
reasonable loss of earnings for the duration of the remediation  work, which  is expected 
to last no longer  than one working day, to a maximum of £250 for (1) and (2) combined, 
and for which  Mr N should provide appropriate  supporting confirmation.
4.Pay additional compensation  of £425.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N either  to 
accept or to reject my decision before 24 January  2021.
David Millington
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5738945