K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aquacard) has treated her unfairly because 
its increased the interest rate on her credit card twice and hasnt treated her sympathetically 
in her financial difficulties.
background
The interest rate on Miss Gs Aquacard credit card was raised  twice  in six months. When  
Miss G complained in January 2018, she wasnt happy with the information Aquacard gave 
her. She told Aquacard  she was in financial difficulties so was struggling to make payments 
on the card and told it she wasnt able to discuss her account over the phone  due to health 
issues that made it hard for her to cope. But Aquacard continued to call her about her 
account numerous times. Miss G wrote to Aquacard again about her financial  difficulties  and 
the issues she had with dealing with the problem over the phone.  She also complained 
about the level of charges for late payment.
Aquacard investigated  Miss Gs complaint. It said it was entitled to increase the interest rate 
on the account but recognised it hadnt responded well to Miss G when she told it about  her 
financial difficulties and health problems. So it offered £100 as compensation for this and 
refunded charges for a period in 2018. Miss G wasnt satisfied so she came to this service. 
Our investigator thought Aquacard should  pay Miss G £250 as compensation for its failings 
in addition to the refund of charges it had offered. Aquacard disagreed  with the level of 
compensation and asked  for review by an ombudsman.  In the meantime, it froze   interest 
and refunded charges on the account pending the outcome of the complaint and the 
organisation of a suitable payment plan. 
Having looked  at the circumstances of the case, I recommended an increase in the 
compensation to £500 but Aquacard disagreed  with this recommendation so I issued a 
provisional decision to that effect. Miss G accepted my provisional  decision but Acquacard  
sent further comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also taken account of Acquacards 
comments in response  to my provisional  decision but my conclusions  as set out in my 
provisional decision remain unchanged.
Aquacards terms and conditions allow  it to raise interest rates  for a number of reasons. Its 
not obliged to provide detailed reasons for the interest rate increases because  they could be 
commercially sensitive.  But Im satisfied that Aquacard  increased the interest  rate in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions.
But Miss G contacted Aquacard to tell it that she was having trouble making payments on 
the card because of her circumstances and the increased interest rates.  Businesses are 
obliged to treat consumers sympathetically  and positively when they find themselves in 
financial difficulties and I dont think Aquacard did this. Its accepted its service levels werent 
good enough so I need to consider what compensation  would be appropriate in the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN57542622Miss G suffered  from anxiety  which  she told Aquacard about. She explicitly asked it not to 
call her because she couldnt  cope with discussing the issue  over the phone. But it continued 
to try and call her several times over a few days. Miss G says she told Aquacard  about her 
financial difficulties in January 2018  but it says it didnt receive  her first letters though it 
accepts it knew about her problems from early  February 2018 at least.  But it didnt send her 
an income and expenditure form until July.
Acquacard says, if shed  requested a medical  pack, it couldve sent her one. But I think  
Acquacard had enough information  from Miss G to understand it needed to send her 
information on steps she could take to help manage her situation.  Acquacard failed to offer 
solutions and this mustve  made her even more  anxious about  the problem. Aquacard  also 
failed to take account of her request for it not to call her because of the anxiety this caused 
her. Instead, it carried on trying to make phone contact in February with several  attempted 
calls over a few days. 
Aquacards said Miss H didnt say she wanted a payment plan in her correspondence. But I 
find she did make  it clear  she was suffering from financial difficulties and was struggling  to 
make the monthly  payments. In those circumstances, Id expect a business to get in touch 
with her about options to address those problems. Aquacard failed to do this for several 
months after it knew about her difficulties.  In the circumstances,  I find that Aquacard  should 
pay Miss G £500 as compensation for the degree of stress its caused her over several  
months in a situation where it was already aware  of her anxiety and shouldve been  more 
proactive and sympathetic to her financial  difficulties  and her difficulties with phone  contact.
I understand that Aquacards now frozen  interest and charges on the account. It has an 
ongoing responsibility to treat Miss G positively and sympathetically in finding a way to 
manage her finances including  the agreement of a realistic payment  plan.  Miss Gs made it 
clear she cant  discuss  things over the phone  because  of her anxiety so Aquacard should 
engage with her in writing  to sort things out.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  should be upheld  in 
part. NewDay Limited should pay Miss G £500  as compensation for its failure to engage with 
her positively and sympathetically  in her financial difficulties or to take her communication  
needs into account. It should  engage with her in writing to arrange a realistic  payment plan 
for the future.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5754262