K821x#15complaint
Mr J has complained about the advice he received from Kingswood Financial Advisors to 
transfer the benefits from his occupational  pension  scheme to a Self Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP).
background
A brief summary of the circumstances  leading to this complaint, and my initial  conclusions,  
were set out in my provisional decision, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. 
In short,  Mr J says he was advised by Kingswood to transfer the benefits from his defined  
benefits occupational pension scheme  to a SIPP in order to facilitate investment in a 
Harlequin overseas  property scheme. He says the advice he received to transfer was 
unsuitable. And he says he suffered a financial loss as a result  because of the subsequent 
performance of the underlying property investment and the ongoing  charges for his SIPP.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was intending to uphold  Mr Js complaint. I 
invited both parties to provide further  comments.  Kingswood didnt provide any further  
comments. Mr J accepted my decision but made  a small  number of comments  on my 
proposed compensation, which I address below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following my provisional decision, neither  party made any further comments on my findings 
in relation to the advice Kingswood gave to Mr J to transfer the benefits from his 
occupational pension scheme  to a SIPP. With this in mind,  I see no reason to change my 
conclusions in this respect. That is, the advice given to Mr J was unsuitable. And if 
Kingswood had given suitable  advice, Mr J would not have transferred his pension,  would  
not have ended up in a SIPP and would not have  been  invested in the Harlequin property 
development. It follows that I find Kingswood  to be responsible for the losses  that resulted, 
and that Kingswood should, therefore,  compensate  Mr J for those losses.
Mr J has, however, commented  on the compensation I proposed in my provisional decision. 
He says I should allow for the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (the FSCS) to take 
on the underlying  assets in his SIPP so that it can look at a potential linked complaint against 
the SIPP provider.  My provisional decision  allows for Kingswood to take ownership of these 
assets or for these assets to be assigned to Kingswood. So it appears that Mr J is concerned 
that Kingswood  may not subsequently allow the FSCS to take on the assets which  may 
prevent him from pursuing this other complaint. However, I dont think  it would be 
appropriate in this instance to alter the approach  to compensation because  of the possibility 
of a different  complaint against a separate business (the SIPP  provider) which would  be 
dealt with by a different organisation entirely (the FSCS). 
Mr J also says payment should be made to him direct, rather  than into his pension  fund, 
because paying  into his pension would have allowance  implications. The compensation I 
proposed does allow for this. So if Mr J is impacted  in this way, then Kingswood  should  pay 
the redress directly to Mr J as a lump  sum in line with the approach  detailed  in my 
Ref: DRN54370282provisional decision and repeated below.  Its now for the parties to work this out between  
themselves. 
fair compensation
Kingswood should put Mr J, as far as possible,  into the position he would now be in but for 
its unsuitable advice.  
The transfer from Mr Js occupational pension scheme
Kingswood must undertake a redress  calculation  in line with the regulators pension review  
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017. 
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions published at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Js acceptance of the decision. 
Kingswood may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain 
Mr Js contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme  on Mr Js SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. 
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mr Js pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance. 
If payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been  paid.  For example, if Mr J would have 
been yet to take a tax-free cash sum from the occupational scheme, 25% of the future loss 
would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed  according to his likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction of 15% from the future  
loss adequately reflects this. 
treatment of illiquid assets held within the SIPP 
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment held within it. I think it would be best 
if the investment  could  be removed from the SIPP. Mr J would then be able to close  the 
SIPP, if he wishes. That would then allow him to stop paying the fees for the SIPP. 
The valuation of the relevant investment may prove difficult  as there is no market  for it. For 
calculating compensation, the business  should  agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value. It should then pay the sum agreed plus any costs and take ownership of 
the investment.  
If the business is unable, or if there  are any difficulties, in buying  Mr Js illiquid investment, it 
should give the holding a nil value for the purposes  of calculating compensation. In this 
instance the business may ask Mr J to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from the relevant holding. That undertaking 
Ref: DRN54370283should allow  for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr J may receive  from the 
investment and any eventual sums he would be able to access  from the SIPP. Kingswood 
would need to meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking. 
The contract between  Harlequin and Mr J is for 30% of the property. That is the loss I am 
trying to redress. It looks like Mr Js investment was simply a deposit.  If it was then there  is 
another part of the contract for the remaining  purchase price of the property that hasnt been 
paid yet. No loss has been suffered yet for this part of the contract so it isnt being 
compensated for here.  But the loss may still occur. If the property is completed,  Harlequin  
could still require those  payments to be made.  I think its unlikely the property will be 
completed, so I think its unlikely there  will be further loss (and notes on the case  file suggest 
that Harlequin is prepared to cancel  the contract for the remaining 70%).  Even  so, Mr J 
needs to understand this, and that he wont be able to bring a further complaint to us if this 
contract is called  upon. Mr J may want to seek independent advice on the cancellation of 
any ongoing contracts.
pay five years worth of future fees owed  by Mr J to the SIPP 
Had Kingswood  provided  suitable advice, Mr J wouldnt have opened his SIPP. Its therefore 
unfair he is continuing to pay his annual  SIPP fees if that SIPP  cant  be closed. 
Ideally the business would take over the illiquid  holding to allow the SIPP to be closed. This 
is the fairest way of putting  Mr J back in the position he would have been in. However,  third 
parties are involved and we do not have the power to tell them  what  to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that the business pays Mr J an upfront lump sum 
equivalent to five years  worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the most recent years fees).  
This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.  
There are a number of ways they may want to seek to achieve that. It will also provide Mr J 
with some confidence that he will not be subject  to further fees.  
compensation for distress and inconvenience  caused to Mr J. 
Kingswood Financial Advisors should  pay Mr J £350  compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the loss of his pension  funds.
determination and money award
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must, where possible, be paid to Mr J
within 90 days of the date Kingswood Financial Advisors  receives  notification  of his 
acceptance of my final decision.  Further  interest must be added to the compensation amount
at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement
for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes Kingswood  Financial Advisors  to pay Mr J
this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period described above.  Any period of time where 
the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from the DWP may be 
added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Ref: DRN54370284recommendation
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation  exceeds  £150,000, I 
recommend Kingswood Financial Advisors pays Mr J the balance. I also recommend
interest is added  to this balance  at the rate of 8% per year simple  for any time, in excess
of 90 days, that it takes Kingswood Financial Advisors to pay Mr J from the date it receives
notification of his acceptance of the final decision, as set out above.
If Mr J accepts my determination, the money  award is binding  on Kingswood Financial
Advisors. My recommendation  is not binding on Kingswood Financial  Advisors.
Further, its unlikely that Mr J can accept  my determination and go to court  to ask for the
balance (if there is any) of the compensation owing  to him after the money award  has been 
paid. Mr J may want to consider getting independent  legal  advice before deciding  whether to 
accept my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and within my provisional decision, which  is attached, I uphold 
Mr Js complaint and direct Kingswood Financial Advisors to compensate Mr J as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.  
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN54370285COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr J complains about the advice he received from Kingswood Financial  Advisors.  He says he was 
advised to transfer the benefits from his occupational  pension scheme to a Self Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) in order  to facilitate investment in a Harlequin overseas property scheme. 
Mr J says the advice he received to transfer  was unsuitable. He says he suffered a financial loss as a 
result because of the subsequent performance of the underlying property  investment and the ongoing 
charges for his SIPP.
background
In July 2011,  Mr J met with an adviser  from Kingswood with a view to transferring  from his defined 
benefits occupational  pension scheme to a SIPP.  The SIPP was to be used to buy a commercial 
property being developed by Harlequin. The transfer value of Mr Js occupational pension was just 
over £82,000.
Kingswood drew up a Pension Transfer  Report, which was sent to Mr J on 1 August 2011. The report  
noted that Mr J had been  to a seminar which looked at the Harlequin  development  and had been told 
that the property  could be purchased through a SIPP. Mr Js personal circumstances at the time,  as 
recorded in the report and fact find, were as follows:
Single, aged 44 with no dependents 
Income of £29,000 per year 
Living in a rental property
No savings, investments  or emergency funds
Credit card debts  of £25,000
In the Pension Transfer Report, Kingswood said it was not giving Mr J advice on the suitability of 
using his pension fund to invest in the Harlequin  development. It said its advice was limited to the 
wrapper  the SIPP  that was needed  to facilitate that investment. 
In the reports  recommendations  section, Kingswood explained  Mr J faced  a stark choice of either  
keeping the promised guarantees from his occupational  scheme  or losing those guarantees by 
transferring to a SIPP to enable the property  purchase.  The recommendations section went on to note 
that Mr J still wanted to proceed with the transfer and that transferring to a SIPP was the only way to 
do this. The disadvantages of Mr J taking this approach were then summarised.  Kingswood then 
recommended Mr J transfer to a SIPP provided  by provider G.
Mr J opened his SIPP  and in September  2011 the benefits from his occupational pension scheme  
were transferred over. In October  2011 the SIPP purchased a 30% share  in the Harlequin property  for 
£72,000. The remaining 70% share was to be purchased when the property was built. 
In July 2013,  G sent Mr J a statement showing the Harlequin property was worth just £1. Statements 
in 2014 and 2015 gave  the same  valuation.
In 2015 Mr J complained  to Kingswood  about the advice hed been given. Kingswood didnt  uphold 
his complaint. It said it wasnt asked to provide advice on the underlying property investment. It said 
another regulated  entity provided this advice. It said Mr J had already made up his mind  to make the 
investment in the Harlequin development. And it said the risks of doing  so were  outlined  to Mr J. 
Ref: DRN54370286Mr J brought his complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator  upheld the complaint.  He thought 
Kingswood had a responsibility to give suitable advice  but hadnt  done so. He concluded that Mr J 
wouldnt have transferred from his occupational  pension  scheme if he had been given suitable advice. 
Kingswood disagreed for broadly the same reasons as it had given previously. The matter has 
therefore come to me for a decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, my provisional decision is to uphold Mr Js 
complaint.
what did Kingswood do and what  should  it have  done?
Kingswood has argued that it only provided  advice in relation to the SIPP and didnt give advice on 
the underlying  investment  made  in the Harlequin development. It says Mr J had already received 
advice from another  adviser about Harlequin and had already decided  to go ahead  with the purchase. 
Ive given  this careful consideration. However, Kingswood  had a duty to act in Mr Js best interests 
and give suitable advice under the Conduct of Business (COBS) rules. Im satisfied it couldnt do this 
without considering the overall transaction, including  the suitability of the transfer and the investment 
strategy that the SIPP was taken out to facilitate. Given Kingswood recommended the SIPP to hold 
one specific investment,  the recommendation of the SIPP wrapper cant  be detached from the risks of 
that specific investment in the way Kingswood  has argued.
The regulator  covered this particular issue in 2013 when  it issued an alert reminding advisers that 
when advising on a transfer to a SIPP, consideration should  be given to the suitability  of the SIPP  
wrapper and the intended  underlying investments:
The FSAs  view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of the other 
investments held by the customer  or, when  advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for 
investment in other products (such as SIPPs  and other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of 
the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected  underlying investments  in unregulated 
schemesFor example, where a financial adviser  recommends a SIPP knowing  that the customer  
will transfer out of a current  pension  arrangement to release funds to invest  in an overseas property 
investment under a SIPP, then the suitability  of the overseas property investment must  form part of 
the advice about whether the customer should transfer into the SIPP.
Clearly, Kingswoods recommendation came before this alert. But the alert was issued because the 
regulator found issues with how some advisers  were  operating  in this area. So the alert was a 
reminder of existing  obligations under  the COBS  rules.  It did not introduce a new set of obligations. 
I accept Kingswood did explain the benefits available  to Mr J from his occupational pension  scheme  
and it did explain  these would be lost on transfer.  But this wasnt enough to fulfil its obligation  to 
provide suitable advice to Mr J because Kingswood shouldnt have recommended  the SIPP without 
considering the suitability of the transaction as a whole.  
what would suitable  advice have been?
When advising on a transfer from a defined benefits occupational pension scheme, an adviser  should 
start by assuming the transfer is unsuitable. The transfer can only be considered suitable if it can be 
clearly demonstrated that the transfer is in a clients  best interests  (COBS  19.1.6 G).
Its not clear to me why giving  up valuable guarantees from his occupational scheme would have 
been suitable  for Mr J. And his pension  funds were being moved  to an investment  that exposed  him to 
significant risk. The underlying investment was an overseas hotel development. It was unregulated  
Ref: DRN54370287and relied  on the development  being completed and on the development then generating  income. 
Mr J didnt have other pension savings either, and he had no other savings  or investments.  So he was 
essentially putting all his financial assets into this one unregulated, high risk and speculative 
investment. Although relatively young, it doesnt look like Mr J had the means to make good the 
potential losses from the investment.
Furthermore, Kingswoods  analysis showed Mr J would require an annual return of 7% just to match 
the benefits he was giving up. A separate transfer analysis report put this figure at 8.6%.  Given  
pension providers were required to provide  illustrations on assumed growth  rates of 5%, 7% and 9%, 
Kingswood should have realised a return of 7% (or 8.6%) was relatively high and made the viability of 
the transfer questionable.  The cost of the SIPP would also have to be met by Mr J. 
Taking all the above into account, Im satisfied that the advice to transfer to the SIPP wasnt suitable.
I note that Mr J was recorded as having an attitude to risk of 8 on a scale of 1 to 10. But this isnt 
enough for me to change my mind given the strength of the evidence  outlined  above  that the 
transfer was unsuitable for Mr J.
In sum,  Kingswood should have made it clear to Mr J that giving up his valuable occupational  scheme  
benefits and transferring to a SIPP  was unsuitable given his circumstances and the nature  of the 
proposed underlying investment. If Mr J chose to ignore such  advice, then Kingswood could  have 
treated Mr J as an insistent  client and documented  this clearly. But Mr J wasnt told his transfer was 
unsuitable, and theres no other indication that Mr J was acting against Kingswoods advice. 
what would Mr J have done?
Mr J was introduced to Harlequin before Kingswoods  advice. And it looks like he had made  some 
initial commitment to invest in the Harlequin  property  scheme prior to receiving Kingswoods  advice. 
Even so, Im satisfied Mr J could still have chosen not to go through with the transfer, and property 
purchase, had he been advised against doing so because the signing of the property contract  wasnt 
completed until September which was after the date of Mr Js advice. And I see no persuasive reason 
why Mr J would have gone  ahead had he been clearly advised, by a professional adviser,  that it was 
unsuitable to do so. 
Taking everything into account, if Kingswood had given suitable advice Im satisfied Mr J would not 
have transferred his pension,  would  not have ended  up in a SIPP and would not have been invested 
in the Harlequin property development. 
the role of other parties
Theres conflicting evidence as to how Mr J became  aware of the Harlequin development. In its 
Pension Transfer Report, Kingswood said Mr J attended  a seminar where it was discussed. It says 
this seminar  was hosted  by an advice network and one of that networks advisers gave Mr J advice. 
The Pension  Transfer Report also says in its investment considerations  section that Mr J had taken  
advice from a named individual, although it doesnt provide any further information  on that individual 
(the firm he worked for, or the exact capacity he was operating in, for example). Mr J says he didnt 
attend a seminar,  and had never heard of the individual named in the Pension Transfer  Report. Mr J 
says he was introduced to Harlequin  by a different person who obtained  his contact details  from a 
colleague. 
Either way, its clear Mr J started the process of investing in Harlequin prior to Kingswoods 
involvement. Kingswood  has argued that the responsibility for the suitability of the investment should 
therefore lie with those that Mr J engaged with previously. 
However, the evidence doesnt support Mr J having received regulated advice prior to meeting 
Kingswood. More importantly, as outlined earlier,  Kingswood had a duty to provide suitable advice 
taking into account the intended purpose of the SIPP. The involvement  of other parties does not 
Ref: DRN54370288negate this. Once  Mr J was introduced  to Kingswood,  Kingswood took on the responsibility for 
providing him with suitable  advice. 
For the reasons  given  earlier, the advice  given to Mr J was unsuitable. So I think Kingswood is 
responsible for the losses that followed from that unsuitable advice. It follows that my provisional 
decision is to uphold Mr Js complaint. 
fair compensation
Kingswood should put Mr J, as far as possible, into the position he would now be in but for its 
unsuitable advice. 
I think  Mr J: i) would have  kept his existing  pension; ii) wouldnt have invested in Harlequin; and iii) as 
a result, wouldnt  have opened the SIPP  and therefore be subject to ongoing SIPP  fees. To address 
these points, Kingswood should take the following steps.
The transfer  from Mr Js occupational pension scheme
Kingswood must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension  review guidance 
as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.  
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most recent 
financial assumptions  published at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken  or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following 
receipt of notification  of Mr Js acceptance of the decision.  
Kingswood may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Js 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme  (SERPS or S2P).  These details 
should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which  will take into account 
the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme on Mr Js SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation  should, if possible, be paid into 
Mr Js pension  plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. 
The compensation  shouldnt  be paid into the pension  plan if it would  conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance. 
If payment into the pension isnt possible  or has protection  or allowance  implications,  it should be paid 
directly to Mr J as a lump sum after making  a notional  deduction to allow  for future  income  tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. For example,  if Mr J would have been yet to take a tax-free cash 
sum from the occupational scheme, 25% of the future loss would  be tax-free and 75% would have 
been taxed according to his likely income  tax rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%. So making  a 
notional deduction  of 15% from the future loss adequately reflects this. 
treatment of illiquid assets held within the SIPP  
The SIPP only exists  because  of the illiquid investment  held within  it. I think it would  be best if the 
investment could be removed from the SIPP. Mr J would then be able to close the SIPP,  if he wishes. 
That would then allow him to stop paying the fees for the SIPP. 
The valuation  of the relevant  investment may prove difficult as there is no market for it. For calculating 
compensation, the business  should  agree  an amount with the SIPP  provider as a commercial value. It 
should then pay the sum agreed plus any costs and take ownership of the investment.  
If the business  is unable, or if there are any difficulties,  in buying  Mr Js illiquid investment, it should  
give the holding  a nil value for the purposes of calculating  compensation. In this instance the business 
may ask Mr J to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP 
may receive from the relevant holding.  That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and 
Ref: DRN54370289charges on the amount  Mr J may receive  from the investment and any eventual sums he would  be 
able to access  from the SIPP. Kingswood would  need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking. 
The contract between Harlequin  and Mr J is for 30% of the property.  That is the loss I am trying to 
redress. It looks like Mr Js investment was simply a deposit. If it was then there is another part of the 
contract for the remaining  purchase  price of the property  that hasnt been paid yet. No loss has been 
suffered yet for this part of the contract so it isnt being compensated for here. But the loss may still 
occur. If the property is completed,  Harlequin could still require those payments to be made. I think its 
unlikely the property  will be completed, so I think its unlikely there will be further loss (and notes on 
the case  file suggest  that Harlequin  is prepared  to cancel the contract for the remaining 70%).  Even 
so, Mr J needs to understand this, and that he wont be able to bring  a further complaint to us if this 
contract is called upon. Mr J may want to seek independent advice on the cancellation  of any ongoing 
contracts.
pay five years worth of future fees owed by Mr J to the SIPP 
Had Kingswood provided suitable advice, Mr J wouldnt have opened  his SIPP. Its therefore  unfair he 
is continuing to pay his annual SIPP  fees if that SIPP cant be closed. 
Ideally the business  would take over the illiquid holding to allow the SIPP  to be closed. This is the 
fairest way of putting Mr J back in the position he would  have been in. However,  third parties are 
involved and we do not have the power to tell them  what to do. To provide certainty to all parties, I 
think its fair that the business pays Mr J an upfront lump sum equivalent  to five years worth of SIPP 
fees (calculated using the most recent years fees). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP  to be closed. There are a number of ways  they may want  to seek to 
achieve that. It will also provide Mr J with some confidence  that he will not be subject to further fees. 
compensation for distress and inconvenience caused to Mr J. 
Kingswood Financial Advisors  should pay Mr J £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the loss of his pension funds.
determination and money award
I intend  to direct Kingswood  Financial Advisors to pay Mr J compensation  as set out above,  up to a 
maximum of £150,000.
The compensation  resulting  from the loss assessment must,  where possible, be paid to Mr J within 90 
days of the date Kingswood Financial Advisors receives  notification  of his acceptance  of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days, 
that it takes Kingswood Financial Advisors to pay Mr J this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean  that the actual time taken to 
settle goes beyond the 90 day period described  above. Any period of time where  the only outstanding 
item required to undertake the calculation  is data from the DWP  may be added  to the 90 day period in 
which interest wont apply.
recommendation
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I will also 
recommend Kingswood Financial Advisors pays Mr J the balance. I will also recommend interest is 
added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Kingswood Financial Advisors  to pay Mr J from the date it receives notification of his acceptance of 
the final decision, as set out above.
Ref: DRN543702810If Mr J accepts my determination, the money award is binding on Kingswood Financial  Advisors. My 
recommendation is not binding on Kingswood  Financial Advisors.
Further, its unlikely that Mr J can accept my determination and go to court to ask for the balance (if 
there is any) of the compensation owing to him after the money award  has been paid. Mr J may want 
to consider getting independent legal  advice before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, and subject  to any further comments and evidence I may receive, I 
intend to uphold this complaint. 
If I do uphold this complaint, I will be asking Kingswood Financial Advisers to calculate and pay 
compensation as set out above.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5437028