K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained about the service  he received  from esure Insurance Limiteds 
approved repairer  (AR) and the standard  of repairs. Mr W made a claim under his car 
insurance policy. 
background
Mr W made a claim to his insurer, esure following  an incident in June 2018.  esure  arranged  
for Mr Ws car to be repaired by an AR in July 2018.
Mr Ws car was returned to the AR twice  after the initial repairs for rectification work.  Mr W 
remained unhappy and complained to esure.  He said there were swirl marks on the 
paintwork. 
esure apologised to Mr W for the ARs  failings. In its final response letter it said an 
independent engineer whod inspected Mr Ws car for a second time said that when he 
inspected the car it hadnt been washed. So it was possible that the swirls  became 
noticeable after that. 
To resolve  Mr Ws complaint,  esures AR paid him £150 compensation. 
In September  2018 Mr W asked us to look at his complaint. He initially asked that his car be 
inspected by an independent garage. But he told us he has since sold his car. Mr W 
provided a copy message  from a car care specialist which said Mr W had paid £150 to have 
the swirls  on the paintwork repaired. 
Our investigator recommended esure pay Mr W a further £150 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused by having to have his car returned to the AR twice  after the initial 
repairs. 
Mr W accepted the investigators view.  esure  didnt agree. It said Mr W hadnt provided 
enough evidence  to show he paid £150 to repair the swirl paintwork damage   and so hed 
essentially been compensated  for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
The investigator said that even if Mr W hadnt  used the payment to repair the swirl damage, 
this was up to Mr W  but this is what esure paid it for. And so she thought esure hadnt fairly 
compensated Mr W for the distress and inconvenience it had caused him. 
esure didnt  agree. It believes  we are effectively recommending it compensate  Mr W by £300 
which it says is excessive.  So the case has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. 
I agree  with the investigators recommendations to put things right. Mr W was put to time and 
trouble in having his car returned to the AR twice  after the initial repairs  which  he was 
unhappy with. Mr W said after he received his car back following the second visit, nothing  
had been done and the same problems were  there.  
Ref: DRN57052922Following the second  visit, esure instructed an independent engineer  to assess the repairs.  
He found that the repairs  werent  carried out to a good standard and upheld all of Mr Ws 
concerns. 
Mr W remained unhappy after the third set of repairs  even though after a further  inspection  
by an independent engineer, the repairs were signed off as being commercially acceptable. 
However, esure spoke  to the independent engineer who told it that it was possible there was 
swirl damage to the paintwork.  
So the fact remains  that Mr Ws car had been  to the AR three  times.  And esure seems to 
have accepted that his car hadnt been  returned  to him in the condition  it should have. The 
AR paid Mr W £150 to resolve  his complaint. 
esure says that because  there isnt enough evidence to show Mr W used  this sum to repair 
the swirl damage, it should  be considered as reasonable compensation overall.  But I 
disagree. I think the payment of £150 seems fair to compensate Mr W for the ongoing 
damage to his car following  the third set of repairs. This is the amount  it cost  according to 
the message Mr W sent us from a car care specialist  to polish out the swirl marks. Its up 
to Mr W if he chose to use the £150 to carry out the repair or not. But I dont think  esure has 
compensated Mr W for the distress and inconvenience caused by having  to have his car 
taken to the AR three  times. 
So I think a fair and reasonable outcome is for esure  to pay Mr W a further £150 
compensation. And this means  Im upholding Mr Ws complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
esure Insurance Limited  to pay Mr W a further £150  compensation  in addition to the £150 its 
AR has already  paid him. This is for the distress and inconvenience  caused  by having his 
car with the AR three times for repair.
esure Insurance Limited  must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If esure  Insurance  Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should  
also give Mr W a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5705292