K821x#15Complaint
Miss S has complained  that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) unfairly continued  applying  charges 
to her overdraft when she was experiencing financial difficulty .
Background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that Lloyds should  have  
realised that Miss S was experiencing difficulty in December 2016 and so it needed to refund 
all the interest, fees and charges it added  to Miss S overdraft from this point. Lloyds didnt 
agree in full and as Miss S didnt accept Lloyds alternative offer of settlement the case was 
passed to an ombudsman for review.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Lloyds will be familiar  with all the rules, regulations and good  industry  practice we consider  
when looking at whether a bank  treated a customer fairly and reasonably  when applying  
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  I also think Lloyds acted  unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest  and associated fees after it renewed Miss S overdraft 
in December 2016. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Miss S might have been 
experiencing financial difficulty and it ought  to have taken corrective  action in relation to her 
overdraft. 
A look at Miss S statements leading up to the renewal shows that she hadnt had a credit  
balance on her account for a prolonged period. In these circumstances, it ought  to have 
been apparent  that Miss S was unlikely to be enough  to repay what  she owed within  a 
reasonable period of time with overdraft interest,  fees and associated  charges being added. 
Ive seen what Lloyds  has said about Miss S overdraft usage being a personal choice. But 
having looked at the transactions, I disagree  as on the whole it was her committed 
expenditure and living  expenses which were  keeping her in her overdraft. And even then it 
looks as though Miss S was only making minimum repayments to some of her credit 
commitments rather than amounts sufficient  to repay them  within a reasonable period of 
time. 
For the sake of completeness, Id also add that Miss S ability  to stop using her overdraft,  in 
2020, seems to have  come about  as a result of an increase  to her income, rather than as a 
result of choosing not to meet her existing commitments. So I dont think  the fact that Miss S 
was able to exist her overdraft means that she wasnt experiencing difficulty  in 2016, or that 
it isnt the case Lloyds ought fairly and reasonably to have realised this.  
As this is the case, Im satisfied that Lloyds should  have  stopped providing the overdraft on 
the same  terms, in December 2016,  and treated Miss S with forbearance rather than adding  
even more fees and charges on the overdraft. All of this means that Lloyds should  have 
realised Miss S was experiencing financial  difficulty, wasnt using  his overdraft as intended 
and shouldnt have  continued offering it on the same  terms. As Lloyds didnt react  to Miss S 
Ref: DRN59315342overdraft usage  and instead  continued charging  in the same  way, I think  it failed to act fairly 
and reasonably towards her. 
Miss S ended up paying additional interest,  fees and charges on her overdraft at a time 
when she was already experiencing difficulty.  So I think  that Miss S lost out because  of what 
Lloyds did wrong  and that it needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what  Lloyds  needs to do to put things  right for Miss  S.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss S complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Miss S current  overdraft balance  so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from December 2016 onwards are removed.
AND
The effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges will result in Miss S having 
repaid more than she needed to in order to clear  her overdraft with Lloyds. So the 
extra Miss S paid should be treated  as overpayments and returned to her along 
with 8% simple interest  on the overpayments from the date they were made until 
the date of settlement. As no outstanding  balance  will remain after all 
adjustments have  been made,  Lloyds  should  remove any adverse  information it 
has recorded, if any, from Miss S credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Miss S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, upholding Miss S complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC to put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5931534