K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited  cancelled  his motor  
insurance policy because  he didnt provide certain  information. 
background
Mr A employed an insurance broker to secure  a policy with Watford  Insurance Company 
Europe Limited (WICE) to insure  his car. A welcome letter was sent to his home address 
on 27 January 2019  and the policy started on 3 February 2019. 
WICE required proof of Mr As address,  to support the accuracy of the information hed 
given. So, the broker sent a letter to him dated 8 February 2019. This letter  explained that 
the proof of address should be in the form of a recent utility  bill or council tax bill, which was 
addressed to Mr A and dated within the last three months. It also said that correspondence 
needed to be marked with the policy number  as a reference. The letter gave a deadline of                         
15 February 2019 at 17:00 for this information to be received; otherwise the policy  would be 
cancelled. 
Mr A called before this deadline on 15 February  2019, and the advisor  said that, if the 
required information was sent that same day, the cancellation could be avoided.  The advisor 
also repeated what  proof would be deemed acceptable. Mr A couldnt get the council tax or 
utility bill, because he lives at his parents house  and the bills are not addressed  to him. So 
instead, he emailed  a copy of a letter  hed recently  received  from a different insurer. He 
thought this letter would be acceptable,  as it was dated in January 2019 and addressed to 
him at the address registered on the policy. 
However, WICE went ahead with the cancellation,  because this letter didnt meet  what it 
deemed to be acceptable  proof and Mr A had referenced  the email  with an incorrect  policy 
number. The broker sent a letter, dated 15 February 2019, explaining that cover ended  that 
day. It said that Mr A owed charges for the insurance to date and gave a breakdown of the 
outstanding amount.
Unhappy with this, Mr A raised  a complaint. He thought the cancellation was unfair, because 
he was unable to send what was necessary. At the time, he wanted WICE to reinstate the 
cover. He said the broker had previously sent him an email on 3 February 2019 telling him 
all his information had been validated  so hes been given conflicting information. And he 
was also unhappy  to find out that WICE sent an email to another customer  about his policy 
in error,  potentially breaching his personal data. 
WICE acknowledged  that Mr A mightve  had difficulty  getting the proof  it asked for  but 
pointed out that he didnt  raise this as a problem until the day the policy was due to be 
cancelled. Had he raised it earlier, its possible the cancellation wouldnt have gone ahead. It 
apologised for sending a third-party  an email, which it explained had happened as a result of 
Mr A including an incorrect  reference  number in his email.  But in any event, it assured Mr A 
that this hadnt  breached his data rights.  WICE  again refused to reinstate cover  and 
maintained that the outstanding balance is payable because there had been a claim while  
cover was in force.  
Ref: DRN50852112Mr A remained unhappy,  so he brought the complaint to our service  and one of our 
investigators looked into it. In light of the evidence, he found the cancellation to be 
reasonable and thought WICE could  pursue  Mr A for the outstanding balance.  WICE  agreed  
with this opinion.  
Mr A doesnt  agree.  He wants the outstanding debt to be written off, especially when hed 
previously made WICE  aware that hes a student residing with his parents. So, it was aware  
of his living arrangements   yet still asked him for proof that he couldnt obtain. He submits 
that WICE should award compensation to put right the error it made in sending information  
to an unrelated third-party. And has explained that not having use of his car has caused him 
inconvenience. Overall,  he says the whole  situation  has caused him considerable distress.  
Because Mr A doesnt agree, the complaint has been escalated  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
According to the policy  terms and conditions,  WICE had the right to cancel the policy  at any 
time by giving Mr A seven  days notice in writing, where there was an exceptional  or valid 
reason for doing so. Amongst other things, the policy states  that cover may be cancelled:  
Where We do not receive evidence of Your no claim discount, licences for all drivers named 
on Your Policy  or any other  valid requests to support  the accuracy  of information You gave  
Us and on which Your insurance  Terms are based upon. When first taking out the 
insurance, Mr A asked for the cover  to be based  upon the vehicle being kept at the same  
address that the policy was registered  to. It follows that WICE was entitled  to request proof 
that this was in fact his address, so it could validate the accuracy of the information it had 
been provided with. 
Its not in dispute  that Mr A was provided  with a letter seven days  before the day of 
cancellation which said that; It has been requested by your Insurers, Watford Ins Co Europe  
Limited, that you send  to us proof  of your current address. This should be a recent utility bill 
or council  tax bill dated within the last three months.  The same  letter  goes on to say that: 
Proof of your address  must be received by the 15/02/2019 [at]17:00 or your policy  will be 
cancelled and there will be no cover  in force. In light of this, its my judgment  that Mr A was 
given reasonable notice  about the certain  information he needed to provide and the 
consequences of not providing  it by the required  time.
I can appreciate Mr As argument that he didnt have  the means to obtain what was needed 
and WICE ought to have  been aware of this. Indeed, according to the information he gave at 
the policys inception,  its true that WICE was told about his living arrangements. So, Ive 
thought carefully  about whether this meant the policy was cancelled  unfairly. Moreover,  Ive 
also considered  Mr As submission that, once he sent what he could provide, he didnt 
receive a response  from WICE notifying  him that this was unacceptable.
Ref: DRN50852113In my opinion, the nature  of a utility or council tax bill allows it to be considered  as practical 
evidence that an individual resides at an address.  Indeed,  in my experience  of the insurance  
industry, such information tends to be commonly  used to validate a policyholders  address. It 
also strikes me that information thats  recently  dated  is naturally more likely to be accurate. 
So, overall, Im not persuaded that WICE was unreasonable in its request to ask Mr A to 
provide this particular  information.
But in any event, WICE has said that, if Mr A had explained his living  arrangements before 
the day of the cancellation, it couldve been  sufficient for him to arrange a copy of a bill in his 
parents name(s), along with an accompanying letter. Therefore, its possible that Mr A 
couldve avoided the cancellation  had he made WICE aware of his difficulty in getting what 
it asked for sooner  than he did. 
Ive considered the documentary evidence and Im satisfied that (following the letter 
requesting proof of his address), Mr A first called WICE the same day the policy  was 
cancelled and not beforehand. He called  shortly before the deadline of 17:00 that day, which  
meant the policy was still in force.  
Ive listened to a call recording of this conversation and its apparent  that the advisor didnt  
spot that Mr A resided  at home with his parents. As mentioned, WICE was aware of Mr As 
living situation when  the policy was first taken out. But nevertheless, that doesnt necessarily 
mean it was aware,  or ought to have been  aware,  that he was unable to provide the 
necessary proof of address   because its possible that someone with the same living 
arrangements as Mr A could provide  a utility or council  tax bill addressed in their name. 
In any case, Mr A didnt  raise the problems he was encountering with obtaining  the required 
information, despite the advisor reiterating  what  was needed and the fact that calling so 
close to the expiry of the deadline undoubtedly left little time for information  to be received in 
time. In my opinion, the advisor gave helpful  and accurate  information  by explaining that if 
this wasnt sent, the policy  would be cancelled  and he would be liable  for an outstanding 
balance. Indeed, the advisor encouraged Mr A to call back once hed sent information, in an 
attempt to help check the validity of what he intended to provide.  So, as I see it, if Mr A had 
called back  the concerns hes raised about not being told what he sent was unacceptable 
could likely  have been avoided.   
Mr A had previously submitted a copy of his driving license to the broker, when the policy 
was first taken out i.e. before  the aforementioned  deadline of 15 February 2019. However, I 
understand this license  wasnt dated within the past three months  and therefore  WICE  
required more recent proof.  The broker did send an email to Mr A the same day that the 
policy started, telling  him that all his information had been validated.  But, by his own 
admission, Mr A acknowledges that he was subsequently asked to put forward  information 
that had not previously been provided.  As mentioned,  reasonable notice was given that he 
needed to do more to validate  the information  hed represented  so Im not satisfied he was 
given conflicting  information. Rather, he was simply told that more  was needed to support 
the accuracy of some  of the information  WICE had based the policy terms upon.
Ref: DRN50852114Ultimately, Im persuaded that WICE  made  a reasonable request for information and this 
wasnt complied with  so it was within its rights  to cancel the policy,  because  it had a valid 
reason for doing so. Once the policy had been cancelled, WICE was entitled to decide  not to 
reinstate it. The letter  sent to Mr A on 15 February 2019 makes it reasonably clear that the 
cancellation was effective immediately and no subsequent letters  or correspondence  stated  
that it had been reversed,  or that the policy had been reinstated. Therefore, WICE  arranged  
for appropriate information to be sent to Mr A and Im satisfied that it was not misleading  
about when cover was in force.  
WICE handled Mr As information  while administering this policy and it was therefore 
required to keep it secure. With this in mind, Ive considered what  WICE  sent to the         
third-party. Its not in question that the incorrect reference number Mr A marked  on his 
correspondence led to WICE sending an email to a third-partys email address. This email  
pointed out that, because  the recipient email address was not registered on the policy, WICE  
was unable to take any further action or provide  information, in light of data protection  
requirements. 
WICE separately emailed Mr As correct email address,  asking for him to provide personal 
information and some policy details  should  he wish for the unrecognised email  address to 
be used for this policy on future occasions. For this reason,  I cant safely conclude  that 
WICE divulged any of Mr As personal or policy information to the third-party. Im satisfied 
there were measures in place to keep such information secure, because it appears  that      
Mr As information wouldve only been shared if he consented to it. 
WICE has pointed  to the policy terms and conditions,  which  state that an amount is payable  
because a claim has been raised. In light of my findings, I do not require WICE  to remove      
Mr As liability to pay this outstanding  amount.  Nor, do anything differently for the complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020
Matthew Belcher 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5085211