K820x#14complaint
Mr O and Mrs K complain  about a number  of over limit overdraft charges applied  to their joint 
account by HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
background
Mr O and Mrs K say their joint account went over its agreed limit on some occasions.  But 
they made an attempt  to cover the deficit whenever possible by transferring  money  from 
other accounts before 11.45pm on the same day using the banking  app or online banking. 
Theyre unhappy that the banking system  didnt clear the transfers until the next working day 
and some £5 over limit charges were applied.  They  want them  refunded.
HSBC said in its final response that the relevant transactions were captured by its system 
after the 11.45pm cut off time. While  Mr O and Mrs K mayve transferred the funds in before  
that time it didnt receive this until after the recommended time. HSBC  hasnt made  an error. 
It allows customers to exceed  any arranged overdraft limit under certain situations. Each 
decision to allow an unarranged overdraft is taken individually and it will always  try to 
approve an attempted payment.  Whenever  an unarranged overdraft is allowed theres a £5 
charge for each  day the account  is overdrawn. It doesnt charge more  than £80 in any 
charging period  and stops charges if the account remains  overdrawn for more than 30 
consecutive days.  The charges on Mr O and Mrs Ks account were applied  correctly and line 
with its policy and it cannot refund them.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
HSBC sets out the cut off times for processing  payments in its terms and conditions.
The available evidence on HSBCs system shows  when the account  went  overdrawn 
and when payments  were made  by Mr O and Mrs K were  captured by the system.  
HSBC says there is no record of any system errors  at the relevant times.
Mr O says six payments were made the day before  they were recorded  on HSBCs 
system. But theres no confirmation of when he made the payments. She cant  
therefore be sure the payments were  made  on the day Mr O suggests.  
Mr O and Mrs K dont  agree and have asked for an ombudsman review. They say HSBCs 
obligation to process  payments made correctly hasnt been taken into account. Six of the 
payments were made  in advance of the cut off time but did not clear the account until the 
next day. Five of these were  made  online from other HSBC accounts and shouldve  cleared 
immediately. One was done  on the phone.  
HSBC says that due to the timescales that have passed its unable to provide any further 
information about when Mr O logged online or phoned or used his app to make these 
payments. It only keeps phone calls for a maximum of two years. The screenshots its 
already provided  are enough evidence to show the payments were made after the cut off 
time. It cannot provide a screen shot for the payment from the other bank. But the HSBC 
transactions were  processed and captured by the system instantaneously. Theres no 
evidence to show the payments Mr O says he made  were  done before the cut off time.
Ref: DRN57567602my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
Mr O and Mrs K complain  about 12 over limit overdraft charges applied to their joint account 
by HSBC. Mr O says he would normally receive  an alert about going  overdrawn at about 6 to 
10pm and he wouldve  normally  made  a transfer  to rectify things before going to bed at 
11pm. But despite this he says some  payments he made werent credited in time and in 
some cases  until the next day resulting in £5 over limit charges  being wrongly applied.
Mr O has asked to speak  to me but I dont think that would  assist me in making my final 
decision. Overall, although  theres a limited amount of hard evidence available to me in this 
case Im aware of all Mr Os submissions and I consider I have enough information to allow 
me to make my final decision.
Its unfortunate that HSBC cant provide some of the further information its been asked for 
due to the passage of time, for example about  a phone call Mr O made to it. But the screen 
shots its provided show the times  its system captured the payments made. And its 
confirmed that internal  transfers between customers own accounts are instant and transfers 
from external accounts can take up to two hours to be received. Its also said that it hasnt 
any record of system problems at the relevant dates and times  of Mr Os payments. HSBC 
also cannot provide  evidence  of when one payment was made from an account with another  
bank.
Mr O cant provide more evidence, including from his own devices, of the times he says he 
made the transfers and payments. 
Taking everything into account  I think its more likely that HSBCs  screen  shots accurately 
show the time the payments or transfers were captured by its system, than not.
And I think the screen shots most likely show that these payments were, despite  Mr Os 
recollections, made after the cut off time shown in the accounts terms and conditions.  Some 
payments were admittedly received by HSBC very shortly, and in some  cases  only minutes,  
after the cut off time and others  were  processed  on the next day. But the simple  fact is that I 
think on balance that its most likely all 12 transactions  were made after the cut off time. And 
as such I think HSBC  was entitled  to apply  the £5 over limit charges as set out in its terms 
and conditions.
I recognise Mr Os strength of feeling  and frustration. And I realise my conclusions  will come 
as disappointment to him and Mrs K. Even  so I dont  think I can reasonably  conclude  on the 
available evidence that HSBC has done  anything wrong or that I can fairly require it to refund 
any of the over limit charges it applied to Mr O and Mrs Ks account as theyd  like.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN57567603Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5756760