K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that the early  repayment charge (ERC) theyve been told 
theyll need to pay if they want to move  to a new preferential interest rate with Bank of 
Ireland (UK) Plc is unfair. 
background
Mr and Mrs B have  a mortgage with Bank  of Ireland, and in May 2015 applied to transfer it 
onto a new fixed rate. The mortgage  offer explained that if the mortgage  was repaid before 
30 June 2020,  an ERC  would  be applied,  up to a maximum  of £9,766.70.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs B asked about moving to a new preferential interest rate to save them  
money. They then complained when Bank  of Ireland  said an ERC would be payable.
Bank of Ireland  didnt uphold the complaint,  so it was brought  to us where an adjudicator 
looked at it. She didnt  think  the complaint should be upheld  as by switching the mortgage 
Mr and Mrs B were,  in effect,  redeeming their previous mortgage. Mr and Mrs B didnt agree 
and so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont doubt that this is very important for 
Mr and Mrs B, but although Ive read and considered  the whole file Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because  I dont think I need  to comment on it in order  to reach the right 
outcome. 
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power  under our rules to comment on, or otherwise 
determine, how financial businesses  operate in general terms. Im satisfied the terms of the 
ERC are set out in a manner  that met the regulators requirements. There  was no regulatory 
requirement for Bank  of Ireland to do anymore, or to provide any further explanation 
specifically relating to taking  a new preferential interest rate within  the ERC period.
Lenders generally raise  money to offer preferential rates  for their mortgage customers (both  
new and existing)  on the wholesale money  markets. Theres  a cost to that, and its generally 
fixed in advance. But the lender expects to receive a return to outweigh  those costs  in the 
form of interest on the mortgages it makes using the money  its borrowed. If a mortgage 
ends early, it doesnt get that interest,  and so doesnt make back  the costs in raising the 
funds to offer that preferential rate.
Ref: DRN58813052Mr and Mrs B say the ERC isnt applicable as they dont want to redeem their mortgage, they 
just want to take a new preferential  interest rate. It seems Mr and Mrs B have misunderstood 
how it works when they take a preferential rate product.  Even though theyre existing  
customers and Bank  of Ireland wouldnt be lending them any more money, it did (in 2015) 
and would (now) have  to obtain money from the wholesale  money market at a rate low 
enough to allow it to transfer Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage onto a new low rate. 
Bank of Ireland  cant afford to just transfer its customers  onto new preferential rates without 
carrying out such deals,  and there  are costs involved in that. Its only right those costs are 
passed onto Mr and Mrs B if they wish to end the deal early.  This is completely normal in the 
mortgage market  when a consumer takes  a fixed interest rate and not at all specific to 
Mr and Mrs B and/or  Bank of Ireland. Whilst Mr and Mrs B wouldnt see it as its an internal 
process, when taking a new interest rate theyre   in effect  redeeming  one mortgage  and 
taking another  and that triggers the payment  of the ERC.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied Bank  of Ireland  is entitled to charge  Mr and Mrs B the 
ERC set out in their mortgage  contract if they switch to a new interest rate before 3 June 
2020.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision 
before 19 December 2019.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5881305