K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Connells Limited delayed  starting his life and critical illness  policy, which  
resulted in him being unable to make a claim on this policy.  
background
I issued my provisional decision on 20 February  2020. A copy is attached  and forms part of 
this final decision,  so I dont intend  to repeat it in full here. In summary, I said I was minded 
to uphold this complaint  in part. I thought  Connells Limited had been  sufficiently clear that 
Mr Ts policy would  not commence until he had exchanged contracts  on his property 
purchase.
However, I agreed with our investigator that some upset was caused by Connells not 
passing on the revised terms in June and July 2017, but for different reasons. As I said in my 
provisional decision, I thought it was likely when Mr T was caused  some worry about 
whether the correct processes had been  followed after he discovered the revised terms 
hadnt been passed on. I provisionally concluded  that £100  compensation fairly recognises 
the limited impact the failure to pass on the revised  terms  in June and July 2017 had on 
Mr T. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Connells accepted  my provisional decision, and Mr T did not respond.  Having reviewed this 
complaint afresh,  I dont  intend to depart from the conclusions  I reached  in my provisional 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  Ive upheld this complaint in part and 
require Connells Limited to pay Mr T £100 compensation, if it has not already  done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN52283372Provisional decision  20 February 2020
complaint
Mr T complains that Connells Limited delayed  starting his life and critical illness  policy, which  
resulted in him being unable to make a claim on this policy.  
background
In 2017, Connells sold Mr T a life and critical illness  insurance policy with an independent 
insurer. The policys sum assured of around  £77,000 was designed  to cover the mortgage 
on a property purchase; Connells brokered  the mortgage with a high-street  lender on Mr Ts 
behalf. Mr T paid Connells £598 in fees for its services.
On 14 March 2017, Connells sent Mr T a letter setting  out of Mr Ts demands and needs. 
The letter listed  the insurance products Connells had recommended,  and which Mr T had 
decided to buy. The last paragraph of Connells letter said:  
Generally, your policy(s) will be put into force on exchange of contracts, unless you 
have requested otherwise. However,  this should not be assumed as cover Is not in 
force until any application  has been fully assessed (underwritten) and accepted  by 
the Insurer and confirmation has been received  by you. If you are in any doubt, or 
have not received confirmation of cover  at the appropriate time, please do not 
hesitate to contact me.
The insurer  issued a document with terms for accepting Mr Ts policy a few days  later. The 
insurer offered cover  in return for increased policy  premiums and excluded any claim for 
deafness or severe hearing loss. The document said the terms offered were  available until 
16 April 2017, and that the terms could  change if Mr T had another  birthday in the meantime  
or notified the insurer of a change in his health. Connells emailed the terms to Mr T on 
18 March 2017  and Mr T confirmed he was happy  to proceed with the policy on the terms 
offered.
By 19 May 2017,  the policy was not yet in force  and the insurer decided to revise the 
acceptance terms by increasing the premiums payable because Mr T had another birthday 
in April 2017. The insurer said the terms were valid until 19 June 2017, after which  the terms 
may still be available but could  change  if Mr T passed another  birthday or notified the insurer  
of a change in his health or circumstances.  The insurers letter went on to say:
To accept our offer, please contact your adviser to start your policy  its important 
you understand that you remain  responsible  for notifying [the insurer]  of any change  
to the information provided on your application before your policy  commences. 
Connells emailed Mr T a copy of the insurers letter to let him know about the increased 
premiums. It said Mr T didnt need  to take further  action if he was satisfied with the new 
terms. The email went on to say Mr T should  inform  Connells of any changes in his health 
between the application and the policy being  put on risk. 
On 5 June 2017, Mr T sought medical  advice  for a lump which had been  present for about 
three weeks. He was referred  for an ultrasound scan. On 14 July 2017, Mr T was referred for 
further tests. Mr T says he was not told the lump may be cancerous until 25 July 2017.
Ref: DRN52283373In the meantime, on 16 June and 15 July 2017, the insurer sent Connells updated 
acceptance terms which were each valid for a month. Connells didnt pass  these terms on to 
Mr T.
Mr T exchanged contracts on his property purchase  on 20 July 2017, and Connells arranged 
for his policy  to be placed on risk from this date. Connells said it didnt follow its usual 
process of obtaining  Mr Ts consent  to proceed on the non-standard  terms offered by the 
insurer. 
On 21 July 2017, the insurer sent Mr T a copy of the answers he gave to questions  about his 
health when he first applied for the policy. Originally, Mr T answered  no when the insurer 
asked him if he had any lump or growth of any kind or been advised to have any medical 
investigations, scans or blood tests  within the last five years. The insurer said the policy 
certificate would  be forwarded  to Mr T shortly.
Sadly, Mr T was diagnosed with advanced cancer  a few months after the policy was set up. 
Mr T made a claim to his insurer,  which  it declined. The insurer said that if Mr T had 
informed them of the change in his health, it would not have  offered  him the policy. The 
insurer voided Mr Ts policy since its inception  and refunded the premiums he paid for the 
policy. Mr T forwarded Connells email  to the insurer  in March 2018. Mr T told the insurer 
Connells email of 19 May 2017  left him under the impression the policy  would have started 
on 19 June 2017,  when the revised  terms expired. Mr T was surprised when he received 
confirmation from Connells on 24 July 2017 that his policy started  on 20 July 2017.
Mr T complained to Connells about  the service and mis-communication he received. He 
asked Connells to pay his critical illness claim along with compensation for the stress, 
anguish and financial hardship he says Connells caused. He said Connells told him in March 
2017 that the policy would be in place before the terms expired in April 2017.  He re-signed 
the policy documents, signed the direct debit mandate for the premiums  and assumed the 
policy would start imminently. Mr T also said Connells didnt send  him the revised terms in 
May 2017 and, if it had, he would have known the policy had not yet started  and he would 
have informed the insurer of the changes to his health. He said he wasnt sent the insurers  
updated terms in July 2017 either. Connells declined to pay the amount Mr T asked for, but it 
did offer to refund Mr T £598 of fees he paid for its services as a gesture of goodwill.
Unhappy with Connells  response,  Mr T referred  his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators said he could see why Mr T assumed his cover would start before 
19 June 2017  and, if Connells had sent the insurers revised terms in June  2017,  Mr T would 
have been aware  that the cover had not commenced. The investigator said Mr T could then 
have told his insurer about the changes  to his health  following his referral for tests earlier in 
June. Our investigator thought Connells should pay Mr T £200 for the upset caused, in 
addition to refunding the £598  fees it charged  him.
Connells didnt accept  Mr T was caused any additional upset caused by it not updating him 
in June 2017, and it pointed out Mr T had already been made aware from previous 
communication that he had an ongoing duty to inform it of any changes  to his health.  Mr T 
didnt accept our investigators  view either. He said if Connells had done its job properly in 
June 2017, his cover would  have  been in place  and his claim would have been successful.
In response to both parties to this complaint, our investigator noted Mr T was aware he had 
been referred for further tests  by 16 June 2017,  at the latest, and that a cancer diagnosis 
was a possibility  on 14 July 2017  (before  his policy started). Because  Mr T did not pass  on 
information about these changes to his health before his policy started, the investigator  said 
Ref: DRN52283374he could not hold Connells responsible for the insurers decision to decline Mr Ts claim as it 
wouldnt have offered cover if it had been  told of these changes. The investigator  
recommended Connells  pay Mr T a reduced amount  of £100 for the upset caused. 
Connells agreed to pay Mr T £100 compensation, but Mr T remained unhappy. Mr T said he 
thought he had a torn muscle until he got the results  of his ultrasound  in July 2017, so he 
didnt think he needed this was a change  in his health that he needed to tell the insurer 
about. Mr T also said another investigator  reviewed his separate complaint about the insurer  
and said Connells were  at fault, not the insurer. So this has come  to me for a decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  I should 
uphold Mr Ts complaint. Im very sorry to hear of Mr Ts cancer  diagnosis,  but the question  
for me to answer here is whether  Connells  was obliged to set up Mr Ts policy  sooner than it 
did or whether it made any other error  that affected Mr Ts opportunity to make  a successful 
claim on his life and critical illness policy. 
On each occasion revised acceptance terms were issued, the insurer made it clear  that Mr T 
could accept the terms offered by contacting Connells to start the policy. And Connells email  
of 19 May 2017 told Mr T he needed  to take no further action, which  he assumed meant the 
policy would be set up before these revised  terms expired on 19 June  2017.  I think  its likely 
the email was sent to, and received by, Mr T because he forwarded  it on to the insurer when 
writing to it about his claim  in 2018.
However, the original  demands and needs  statement Connells gave Mr T informed him that, 
generally, his policy  will be put into force once he exchanged contracts, unless he requested 
otherwise. Connells also told Mr T that he should not assume cover was in force  until Mr T 
received confirmation  from the insurer. It said if Mr T was in any doubt, he should contact 
Connells. I think this explanation means Connells was sufficiently clear that it would not 
arrange for the policy to start until contacts  were exchanged and that Mr T should not 
assume the policy was in force until he received confirmation from the insurer.
I know Mr T says he was told the policy would be in force  once he signed the revised  policy 
terms and direct debit mandate for the policy premiums around  May 2017. But this 
contradicts what is documented in the demands and needs document.  Further, Mr T 
received an updated premium  in May 2017,  so I dont think  it was reasonable for Mr T to 
assume that Connells would arrange  for the policy to begin  once he signed the revised terms 
and direct debit mandate.
Similarly, I dont  think there was any indication in Connellss email of 19 May 2017 that it 
would arrange  for the policy to begin. I think it was reasonable for Connells to tell Mr T he 
needed to take no further action as the policy would not be in force until he exchanged 
contracts, given it told him in the demands and needs document that it wouldnt arrange for 
the policy to begin before contracts  were exchanged, unless he asked  for it to be. As Mr T 
didnt ask for the policy to be set up, and he didnt receive confirmation from the insurer  that 
the policy had been set up, I dont think it was reasonable for Mr T to assume that Connells 
would arrange  for the policy to begin  in June 2017. And if Mr T did think Connells would 
arrange this, I would have expected him to check the policy  had begun  with Connells or the 
insurer sooner than he did. Instead, Mr T received  confirmation from the insurer  that the 
Ref: DRN52283375policy had been  set up once he had exchanged contracts, which  is in line with what I think  
Connells originally told him would happen.
I dont think it makes  a difference to the outcome of this complaint  that Connells didnt 
provide the updated terms to Mr T in June  or July 2017. I dont think  it was reasonable to 
assume the policy would be set up in June 2017 for the reasons explained above and I think  
Connells had already told Mr T that he needed to update it of any changes to his health in 
the meantime.  
I know Mr T doesnt  think that he needed  to tell Connells or his insurer about what he 
thought was a pulled  muscle. But when  he applied for the policy,  he was asked if he had any 
lump or referral  for tests in the last five years.  Mr T answered no at the time, but this had 
changed before his policy was in force. When the policy began,  the insurer  did write to Mr T 
to ask about any changes to the answers  hed given previously  and so I think he would have  
needed to update the answers hed given about  the lump and referral  for further  tests.  
To be clear, Ive not considered whether  the insurers decision to decline  Mr Ts claim was a 
reasonable one because  he didnt  disclose changes to his health before the policy  began. 
This has been looked at as a separate complaint by an adjudicator  at this service. Mr T has 
had the adjudicators opinion, but he has not asked for an ombudsman to review it and issue 
a final decision.  Mr T may request an ombudsman review his case  if he wants  to. 
To summarise, I dont think Connells was obliged to set up Mr Ts policy before July 2017  or 
that it told him it would  set up his policy sooner than the exchange of contacts. I think 
Connells was sufficiently  clear that Mr T should let Connells know if his medical information 
changed before the policy  was in force. And I note Mr T sought  medical  advice for a lump on 
5 June 2017 and was referred for an ultrasound  scan   before he assumed cover  would 
begin by 19 June 2017. I also think he was made  aware that he should not assume the 
insurers policy was in force until it received its confirmation. It follows  that I dont think  
theres any grounds to ask Connells to pay Mr Ts claim for critical illness  benefit.  
I note Connells said it didnt follow its own processes  for checking Mr T wanted  to go ahead  
with the most recently revised  terms offered  by the insurer.  I could have considered whether 
Mr T would still have  gone ahead with the policy, but the insurer has already refunded all the 
premiums Mr T paid.  So, theres no further financial loss for me to consider here.
I agree  with our investigator that some upset was caused by Connells not passing on the 
revised terms in June and July 2017,  but for different  reasons.  As Ive said above, I think  
Connells was sufficiently  clear that it wouldnt set up the policy until Mr T exchanged 
contracts. But I think when Mr T discovered  the revised terms hadnt been passed  on, he 
was caused some worry about whether  the correct processes had been  followed. I think  
£100 compensation fairly recognises  the limited impact the failure to pass on the revised  
terms in June and July 2017 had on Mr T. 
my provisional decision
I realise my provisional decision will disappoint  Mr T. But for the reasons explained above, 
my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part and require Connells 
Limited to pay Mr T £100 compensation. 
Ref: DRN52283376Victoria Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5228337