K820x#14The complaint
Mr and Mrs S says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a Total Mortgage Protection 
Plan (TMPP)  policy in 2004, with their mortgage.  
What happened
A TMPP  is a type of protection policy which typically includes mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) together with other features,  such as life insurance and critical illness cover 
(CIC). The individual elements of the TMPP can be added or taken out as the consumer 
wishes. 
Only Mr S was covered  under the policy and for the PPI and the life insurance elements. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
Did Mr and Mrs S agree to the TMPP?
BoS should have made  Mr and Mrs S aware  the TMPP was optional. 
These events were obviously a long time ago now. We dont have much documentary 
evidence to refer to because BoS no longer  has any copies. This is unfortunate, but not 
particularly unusual given  how long ago the sale was.
However, Ive looked at the main points  of complaint put forward by Mr and Mrs S. The key 
one is that they were  under the impression it was essential to take the TMPP to have the 
mortgage approved.  Whilst I accept  this may well be their genuine belief now, weve seen 
quite a few similar sales to this from that time period. And as a result, weve  looked in detail 
at what BoSs sales processes were like.
We know for example  that consumers were  normally  sent or given a letter about the types 
of cover theyd agreed to at the mortgage  interview. This usually set out that consumers, 
like Mr and Mrs S, had accepted the recommendation  to have certain, or all, elements of 
the TMPP policy.
We were also sent some  screenshots of BoSs internal computer system. Ive seen  quite a 
few of these before and I also know from experience that they show, as in this case, that    
Mr and Mrs S was asked several  questions  relating  to the cover theyd agreed to buy. 
Because I think what was keyed into the BoS computer  system, would have been done at 
the time of the mortgage interview  I think its most likely all aspects of the TMPP were  
probably discussed in some  detail. 
Finally, I can see that only Mr P was insured under the policy   and that only the PPI and 
life elements were  selected. This further leads me to think  they discussed different forms of 
protection with BoS and took the level of cover  most  suitable  for their circumstances.
Ref: DRN53623562So overall, I think its more likely  Mr and Mrs S agreed to the TMPP at the time of the 
mortgage interview and sale.  
Were Mr and Mrs S given suitable  recommendations?
BoS accepts it recommended the TMPP to Mr and Mrs S. So, it had to make  sure it was 
suitable for them  in particular Mr S  as the policy only covered him.
Looking at everything, I agree with our adjudicators findings that BoS should  have sold Mr 
and Mrs S a decreasing  term assurance, instead  of a level term assurance.  This is because  
their outstanding mortgage debt was being  gradually  reduced  so the life cover should 
have reflected this over time too. 
While BoS has explained at the time it didnt actually sell decreasing term assurance,  we 
asked it to see how much it would have cost had it sold Mr and Mrs S the correct  term 
assurance to make  sure Mr and Mrs S hasnt lost out. BoS has provided evidence to show 
that the decreasing term assurance  would  have been more  expensive, so Mr and Mrs S 
havent been financially disadvantaged  by taking the level term assurance.   
Mr and Mrs S say Mr S had good  sick and redundancy benefits  from his employer. But the 
PPI element of the policy would have paid out alongside these employee benefits.  
The life cover was designed to help Mr Ss next of kin cope with unforeseen or sudden  
financial uncertainty and I dont  think it was unreasonable that BoS recommended  this 
element as part of the overall TMPP policy. 
For the PPI element, I also think the recommendation that they take this was suitable. Only 
Mr S decided to buy it and he appears  to have been eligible for the PPI cover and not 
affected by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. Their mortgage 
was also secured against their home  and so the consequences of them  not being able to 
make the repayments  could have been  serious. The PPI policy,  on the other  hand,  was 
designed to pay a monthly  sum for up to 24 months if he had needed  to claim.
Were they given enough information?
During the sale BoS shouldve provided  information  which was clear. I cant  say Mr and Mrs 
S were told or given all the information  they should  have been, but I think  they would have 
been easily able to see how much the TMPP cost and what  was covered. I think they would  
have also been  given a copy of the policy rules.
Having carefully considered this case,  I think its much more  likely that Mr and Mrs S 
tailored the TMPP  cover  to suit their needs  of the time. I think  they probably agreed to the 
elements of the cover because it was something  they thought would be useful to have.  
All this means I dont  think Mr and Mrs S has lost out by anything BoS might have done  
wrong. 
Ive also thought about whether BoS needs to give Mr and Mrs S some of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling, and rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Ss 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So, BoS 
Ref: DRN53623563doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs S paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 February  2021.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5362356