K821x#15Complaint
Mrs M complains that the car she acquired  through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as MotoNovo  Finance  MotoNovo) wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. She wants to reject the car.
Background
Mrs M entered into a HPA to acquire a used car on 30 August 2018. In December 
2018, the car broke down. Mrs M incurred costs having the car towed to the garage. 
The car was investigated, and a replacement engine was required.  The repairs were 
carried out, but Mrs M said she had lost faith in the car. She said the replacement 
engine only had a warranty  of six months.
After the car was returned the engine management light came  on. She took the car to 
the dealer and diagnostics were carried out. Fault  codes regarding  the ignition coils 
and cylinders were identified. She said the codes were  cleared and the garage road 
tested the car and the lights didnt come  on again and so it said she should  continue  
to drive the car and come back if the issue returned. Mrs M wasnt happy with this 
and wanted to reject the car.
MotoNovo said that the given when the issue arose it had a right to undertake  
repairs. It said the dealer and warranty  company  worked  together  and the repairs  
were carried  out at no cost to Mrs M. It paid her £325.33 in February 2019 to cover  
the costs she had incurred in the vehicle recovery.
MotoNovo said that it hadnt received evidence that the repairs  had failed. It noted 
the diagnostics  report sent through but said this wasnt dated and didnt have the 
vehicle details on. It said it wasnt clear if the fault codes  were  current  or historic.
After investigating  this complaint, our investigator upheld  this complaint.
MotoNovo didnt agree.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In summary, I concluded the following:
Mrs M acquired  a used car through a HPA with MotoNovo. Under  the regulations, 
specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA 2015),  MotoNovo could be held 
liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory  quality 
takes into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and what  a 
reasonable person would expect taking  into account all the circumstances. In this 
case, the car was around two years old and had been  driven  over 52,000  miles at 
acquisition.
The car broke down  less than four months after acquisition and needed  a 
replacement engine.  Given  how soon the issue arose after acquisition,  and the 
limited mileage Mrs M had completed, I found it more  likely than not that the issues 
causing the engine to fail were present or developing at the point of supply. I found it 
reasonable that repairs were undertaken at no cost to Mrs M. Mrs M accepted the 
repairs and while I noted that she had said she wanted to reject the car, under the 
regulations it was right that MotoNovo had an opportunity to carry out a repair.
Mrs M was told that the car had been repaired on 22 February 2019. This meant that 
she was without the car for two months while repairs were taking place. She was 
refunded for the recovery costs and some  hire vehicle costs, but I found it reasonable 
Ref: DRN57546542that she was refunded  the payments she made while she didnt have use of the car 
that is from 23 December  2018 until 22 February 2019.
After the car was returned, Mrs M said that the engine management light came on 
again and she took the car back to the dealer. I understood why Mrs M wasnt happy  
with the car and her reasons for wanting to reject  it. However,  for me to say 
MotoNovo should accept the rejection I explained I needed to be satisfied that the 
repairs undertaken in January 2019 had been  unsuccessful.
A screenshot showing  fault codes was provided along with a photograph of the EML 
on (on which mileage  is recorded  as 54,557). I noted the comments made by 
MotoNovo about the information  not having  a date or vehicle details. However,  based  
on Mrs Ms testimony I accepted, on balance,  that the information provided was the 
results of the diagnostics carried out on 29 March 2019.
Mrs M said that the garage  carried out the diagnostics then deleted the fault codes 
and test drove the car over the weekend to see if the faults returned. The faults 
codes didnt return and so Mrs M was told to continue  to drive the car. I understood 
why Mrs M was upset about  the issues. However, without  further evidence I didnt 
find I could say that the repairs  failed.  I noted the fault codes being  recorded after 
repair but said these  could have been  historic. Had they returned  after they had been 
cleared then I would  have  been able to say there  was an ongoing issue.
Mrs M hadnt  said that any of the faults  had returned although she had noted the oil 
needs topping  up regularly. The repairing garage was asked about this and said this 
was common for the type of engine.
Mrs M had been driving  the car for an extended  period since repair and since the 
fault codes were cleared and I wasnt aware the issues had re-occurred. The car 
underwent a MOT in September 2019  and although  it initially  failed the MOT  this 
wasnt due to any issues mentioned in this complaint (missing wheel fixing).  The car 
then passed the MOT and the mileage at that time was just over 56,700 showing 
Mrs M had continued  to use the car.
Without further evidence to show  that the repairs  undertaken in early 2019  failed to 
resolve the issues, or that there were ongoing  issues that were present of developing 
at the point of supply,  I didnt find that I had enough evidence to uphold this part of 
Mrs Ms complaint.
I noted that the car was provided  without a service history which meant there  were  
issues with the warranty. Given this I found  it reasonable  to say that the warranty  
wasnt fit for purpose  at the point of supply and should be cancelled and that the 
payments made towards it should be refunded to Mrs M along with interest.
I also thought  that Mrs M has been caused  distress and inconvenience due to the 
issues with the car. She acquired  a car without  a service  history but was provided  
with a warranty that required this. Because of a lack of maintenance, the car failed 
within the first six months and following repair, she needed  to undertake  further 
diagnostics. While  I dont find I have enough  evidence to say the repairs failed, I 
found that these  issues  have caused  unnecessary distress and inconvenience  and 
thought Mrs M should be paid £250 because of this.
Ref: DRN57546543My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MotoNovo accepted my provisional decision and I didnt  receive  any further information 
which would change my decision. Therefore, as I set out in my provisional decision, I do not 
find that I have enough  evidence to say that the repairs undertaken in January 2019  failed 
and so I dont  uphold this part of the complaint.
I do think that Mrs M was sold a car without a service history  causing an issue  with the 
warranty and so her payments towards this should  be refunded along with interest.
Mrs M was without  her car for a period of time while it was in for repair  and so I think it 
reasonable she is refunded the payments made while she didnt have  use of the car. I also 
think she was caused distress and inconvenience due to the issues she experienced, and 
that £250 compensation is reasonable in this case.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  this complaint. FirstRand  Bank Limited should:
refund  Mrs M all payments  she has made towards the warranty  along  with 8% simple  
interest from the date of payment  to the date of settlement;
refund  Mrs M the payments she made towards her agreement while her car was in 
for repair from 23 December 2018  to 22 February 2019 along with 8% simple  interest  
from the date of payment to the date of settlement; and
pay Mrs M £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  she has been 
caused.
If FirstRand Bank Limited considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs M a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 September  2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5754654