K820x#14complaint
Miss M says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her payment  protection insurance (PPI).
background
In my provisional decision of 6 February 2020 (a copy of which Ive attached to this final 
decision), I explained why I didnt intend  to uphold  Miss Ms complaint about the sale of her 
PPI. But I said I thought the offer of compensation Bank of Scotland has made  to her was a 
fair and reasonable way to resolve  her overall  complaint.
Miss M has given me some comments on my provisional decision. Bank of Scotland  hasnt 
responded. So Miss Ms complaint  has now come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  along with Miss Ms most recent 
comments.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this complaint.
Having done so and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Ive decided  not to 
uphold Miss Ms complaint about  the sale of her PPI. But I think Bank  of Scotlands offer of 
compensation is a fair and reasonable way to resolve her complaint overall.
Miss M says shes disappointed with my provisional  decision. She thinks its unfair  Ive 
decided her complaint  on the basis of what I think is likely to have happened.  And she thinks 
a large organisation like Bank of Scotland  should be able to confirm exactly  when the PPI 
was added to her mortgage,  even after such a long time. She says its not her fault Bank of 
Scotland has no records to confirm  the details of the PPI and it should be up to the Bank to 
prove she agreed to have  it.
I understand the points Miss M makes.  But I dont  agree with her. Her PPI was sold around 
20 years  ago. Its not at all unusual for a bank not to have detailed records going back  that 
far; and I wouldnt necessarily expect  it to have them.  
What this means in Miss Ms case is that Ive had to decide her complaint on very limited 
evidence I have from the time of the sale. This has made it difficult. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, as it is here, I must decide  what I think is most likely to have happened, based 
on the balance  of probabilities. So to uphold Miss Ms complaint Id have to think its more 
likely than not Bank of Scotland  added  the PPI to her account  without her knowledge and 
agreement. And the evidence Ive got  which, essentially, is what  Miss M has said has 
happened, recalling events from around  20 years ago  isnt strong enough  or clear enough 
on its own and without  anything else to back it up for me to think  its more  likely than not this 
is what happened. So, for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I dont uphold    
Miss Ms complaint on this point.
I know Miss M is still concerned  about the date the PPI was sold and the information she 
was given about the date of sale by a bank  representative. As I said in my provisional  
Ref: DRN57050912decision, I cant explain why Miss M was given the dates she was. But as I also said, my 
decision would be the same even if the PPI had been sold later, as Miss M thinks  it was.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given here and in my provisional decision of 6 February 2020, I dont 
uphold Miss Ms complaint about  the sale of her PPI. But I think the offer of compensation 
that Bank  of Scotland plc has made  to her is a fair and reasonable way to resolve  her overall  
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN57050913COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION OF 6 FEBRUARY 2020
complaint
Miss M says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her payment  protection insurance (PPI).
background
Miss M took out a mortgage  with Bank  of Scotland in 1998, following a mortgage 
recommendation from an independent financial adviser. Miss Ms mortgage was supported 
by an endowment policy which also gave her life and critical illness  cover.
Bank of Scotland also added a PPI policy to Miss Ms account, which  Miss M says she was 
unaware of and didnt agree to. Its not clear when or how the policy was added. Bank  of 
Scotland has assumed it was around  the same  time as the mortgage was taken out. Miss M 
thinks it was three or four years later  but it seems Miss M thinks this because of a 
conversation she had a little while  ago with a Bank of Scotland  representative.
The adjudicator who looked at Miss Ms mis-sale complaint didnt uphold  it. Miss M 
disagrees. More recently, Miss M has also complained about how Bank of Scotland has 
handled her requests for further information  about  her mis-sale complaint. Bank of Scotland 
has apologised for how it handled her mis-sale complaint and has offered Miss M £300 for 
the distress and inconvenience  this has caused  her. Miss M hasnt  told us whether or not 
she accepts this offer. Both aspects of her complaint have now come to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, I dont intend  to uphold Miss Ms complaint about the sale of her PPI. I 
know this will disappoint her but I hope the reasons Im about  to give help her to understand 
why Ive reached this conclusion.
the mis-sale complaint
Bank of Scotland needed to make it clear to Miss M she had a choice about PPI and get her 
agreement to it. Miss M remembers nothing of a sale  she says she didnt ask for the cover  
and didnt agree to it. And Bank of Scotland doesnt  have  any paperwork that might help me 
to understand  what happened.  But I should say thats not surprising or unusual  after such a 
long time.
Where, as in Miss Ms case,  I have very little information  and, in this case, even the date 
the PPI was added to Miss Ms account is uncertain   I have to decide what  I think  is most 
likely to have happened during the sale. I must do this based on the information I do have 
and also on what I know about how Bank  of Scotland generally sold PPI around  this time.
Miss M says she didnt agree to her independent financial advisers recommendation to take 
out a permanent health insurance policy  and so questions  why she would then have 
agreed to have PPI. While I understand Miss Ms argument, I also know people often change  
Ref: DRN57050914their minds  when making decisions  on financial matters  so I think its equally  possible this 
is what happened here.
 
To uphold  Miss Ms complaint on this point, Id have to think its likely Bank of Scotland 
added to the PPI to her account without  her knowledge or consent. And the information I 
have on this complaint  isnt clear enough  or strong enough for me to think I can fairly and 
reasonably reach this conclusion. I think its more likely that, at the time, Miss M decided to 
protect her mortgage  which  was a major financial commitment  against sickness, accident 
or unemployment by taking out the cover (although understandably after so long, she no 
longer remembers doing  so). And I think  its likely this is why PPI was added to Miss Ms 
account.
Bank of Scotland has treated the sale of Miss Ms PPI on the basis  it recommended  it to her. 
I think its fair for me to do the same because that meant it needed to make sure it was right 
for Miss M based on her particular circumstances.  With so little information  on this complaint, 
I dont know what steps Bank of Scotland took to do this. But, from the policy details Ive 
been given by Bank of Scotland and the information Miss M has given us about  her 
circumstances at the time, I think it was. I say this because:
I think its likely Miss M was eligible for the cover and it doesnt seem there was 
anything in her personal circumstances to stop her claiming  the full policy  benefit if 
shed needed  to.
I think the PPI couldve been of use to Miss M. She says she only got statutory  sick 
pay through her work, although  she does  say she had some  savings. But the PPI 
wouldve paid a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months  for each successful  sickness,  
accident or unemployment claim Miss M made. This wouldve meant  she didnt need 
to use any savings  she had  and which she mightve needed  for other  living 
expenses if things  got difficult or wanted to keep  intact for the future  to pay her 
mortgage. And while it seems Miss Ms endowment policy gave  her life and critical 
illness benefits, these  are different from the benefits PPI gives.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Miss M couldnt afford the cover.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Miss M, Bank of Scotland also had to give    
Miss M enough clear  information about  it for her to be able to make an informed decision 
about whether  she wanted it. I dont know what steps Bank  of Scotland  took to do this. But, 
as Ive said, I think its more likely  than not PPI was added to Miss Ms account because  she 
agreed to it. And I think it couldve been useful for her in her circumstances. So I think  
clearer information, if it had been needed,  would only have confirmed this to her and 
wouldnt have changed her decision.
Finally, I know  Miss M is concerned she was initially told by a Bank  of Scotland 
representative that the PPI was added to her account a few years after her mortgage  was 
taken out (I believe she was told this was on 29 April 2002)  only to be told by us later that 
Bank of Scotland couldnt say when it was added although it thinks it was likely  when the 
mortgage was taken out in 1998. I dont know why the Banks representative mightve given  
Miss M this information, although I suspect he may have been  confused  by information 
about the policy on its internal records which I understand shows  the date the policy was 
added to its systems (rather than when it was taken out). But my decision would be the 
same even if the PPI had been sold later  for example in April 2002,  as Miss M suggests. I 
dont think I can fairly  and reasonably uphold her complaint  about  the sale of her PPI.
Ref: DRN57050915the handling of Miss Ms complaint
I turn now to Miss Ms complaint about  the service shes had from Bank of Scotland  in the 
course of her complaint. It might be helpful  if I outline what  I understand are some of the 
difficulties Miss M has experienced and which Bank of Scotland  has acknowledged.  In June 
2019 Miss M contacted Bank of Scotland to request copies of the evidence  it had used when 
it reviewed her complaint,  as well as recordings of all calls made. The person she spoke to 
advised this would be arranged. However, Bank  of Scotland  says Miss M made  weekly  calls 
to follow  up this request,  and was repeatedly told it was in progress. 
Miss M was told in August that her complaint was with our service  and Bank of Scotland  
couldnt correspond  with her, and then told in September that her call recordings had been 
ordered and would be with her soon.  In total Bank of Scotland  says Miss M made  18 calls to 
it, the majority having  been on a weekly basis from the beginning of July 2019.
Following this, Miss M told Bank of Scotland she wanted to raise a formal complaint about 
the service shed had received, and to be sent an apology in writing. Bank of Scotland says 
that a representative called and spoke to Miss M in December 2019 and gave an oral 
apology. But it says the letter that was sent to her only summarised  her complaint without 
apologising or explaining what Bank of Scotland had done to rectify  the situation.
Having looked  at everything, Bank of Scotland has told us it apologises to Miss M for how it 
has handled her complaint.  It also says its process  for subject access requests received via 
telephone is to guide the customer to complete this themselves using the online form while  
requests raised  by phone  can take several  weeks to be responded to. Bank of Scotland  says 
its unclear why Miss M wasnt advised to do this in June 2019.  It says nevertheless, once  
her verbal request had been  logged,  it shouldve ensured this was dealt with appropriately.
Bank of Scotland goes on to say it seems many of the representatives whod been involved 
with Miss Ms complaint were unclear about whether they could  assist  her or contact her 
because it remained open with our service. Despite this, it says Miss Ms request shouldve 
been better progressed.  Bank of Scotland says its arranged  for feedback  to be given to staff 
responsible for, as it says, letting Miss M down.
From this outline it is clear  Miss M has struggled to get information  from Bank of Scotland  
that she wanted and was entitled to. Its also clear  that trying to progress her complaint with 
Bank of Scotland has been  a more confusing, distressing and frustrating experience  for  
Miss M than it shouldve been. I think Bank  of Scotland is right to have apologised to her in 
the way it has. And although,  as Ive said, I dont currently think  the PPI was mis-sold to her, 
I think its offer of £300 is overall a fair and reasonable way to resolve  the issues  shes 
raised. If Miss M wishes to accept this compensation, she should let Bank  of Scotland  know.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont intend to uphold Miss Ms complaint about the sale of her 
PPI. But I think the offer of compensation that Bank  of Scotland plc has made to her is a fair 
and reasonable way to resolve  her overall  complaint.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN57050916
Ref: DRN5705091