K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Mr N complain that Accord Mortgages Limited refused to allow them  to port their 
mortgage to another property. And they are unhappy  that they incurred an early  redemption 
charge (ERC) when  they redeemed their mortgage.
background
Mr W and Mr N took out a joint mortgage  with Accord in 2013. And they took out further 
borrowing in 2014.  
In 2018 their initial fixed rate came to an end. And they transferred to a new five year fixed 
rate product  in June 2018.
In October  2018 Mr W and Mr N were looking to move house. They made an application 
through a broker  to increase their borrowing and port their mortgage. But Accord declined  
the application.
Mr W complained  to Accord, but Accord didnt uphold  their complaint. 
Mr W and Mr N redeemed  their mortgage in April 2019 incurring  an ERC of around £10,500. 
And they brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that their complaint should be upheld.  She said, in 
summary:
Mr W and Mr N had taken advice from a broker when they took out the new fixed rate 
product in June  2018. So if they had any concerns about  what they were told about 
the portability  of the product that should be raised with the broker.  And although  
Mr W had said that he spoke to Accord at that time, she hadnt  seen any evidence  of 
this;
The product  that they took out had an ERC if they redeemed the mortgage before 
30 September 2023. The purpose of the ERC  was to compensate Accord for its costs  
if they ended  the contract early;
The fact that a product associated with a mortgage is portable  doesnt mean that 
there are any guarantees of lending if the customer decides  to move. A lender would 
still need to ensure  that an application for a mortgage on a different  property  fitted its 
lending criteria, and that it was satisfied  that the property represents suitable  security;
In October 2018 Mr W and Mr N approached a different broker to provide  advice  
about porting  their mortgage to a new property. Any complaint  about that advice and 
recommendation would be for the broker to address. However, the broker relies  upon 
the lender to find out whether the application would be approved, and this cant  be 
tested until the application is made and the lender  has the opportunity  to assess it;
The new mortgage  Mr W and Mr N applied for was much higher than the existing 
borrowing, so the application needed  to pass affordability and a credit check. The 
application didnt  pass once the credit  check had gone  through;
She could see from the available documents  that the broker  did try to find out 
whether there as a way around the application  to get it accepted.  It involved both the 
lenders sales team and underwriting department and various  scenarios  were 
considered. Based  on what  shed seen Accord did as much as it could  to see if the 
lending or reduced lending  could  be approved;
Ref: DRN56176902Mr W and Mr N had said that theyd provided written details to explain information on 
the credit  check. Accord had said it had no record of this document. Any concerns 
that Mr W and Mr N had about  this would have to be referred  to the broker,  and didnt 
fall under the scope of this investigation;
In any event, the original underwriter  had confirmed that even if it had received  the 
additional information it would not have changed  the outcome.
Overall, she felt that Accord had given  the application its full consideration before 
confirming it could  not be approved. She didnt  feel that its decision  was unfair. And 
so she couldnt  say that the ERC was unfairly  charged  either.
Mr W and Mr N dont  agree  with the investigators view of the complaint. Mr W says in 
particular that the point  of their complaint is that they were  subject to the ERC because of 
the lenders decision  not to lend them the funds. He doesnt think  it is fair that they can be 
financially penalised because  of Accords decision.  And he says that Accord hasnt been 
transparent about the rationale behind its decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
Accord has done anything  wrong.  I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to 
Mr W and Mr N so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Ive seen a copy  of the product transfer offer dated 2 May 2018.  Paragraph  10 of the product 
transfer offer sets out the ERC  that applied to the mortgage. I can see that this provides that 
an ERC would  be payable if the mortgage  was redeemed before 30 September  2023.
Paragraph 10 also provides  that the product  was portable (i.e. could be moved to another  
property) provided certain conditions were met. One of these conditions was that you and 
your replacement property meet our lending rules at that time.
Im satisfied from this that the fact that the product had an ERC was clearly  set out in the 
documentation. And Im satisfied that, although the product was portable, the offer letter 
explained that this would  be subject  to lending rules at the time.
I note that Mr W says that he believes that he spoke to Accord about  the product  transfer.  
But the product  transfer offer makes it clear that the product was recommended  by a broker  
and I havent seen any evidence that contradicts  this. So I agree with our investigator  that 
any further complaint  Mr W and Mr N have about the advice they received at the time should 
be addressed to the broker.
As our investigator has explained, Mr W and Mr N wanted to take out additional borrowing 
when they ported the mortgage  to a new property. I agree that it was reasonable for Accord  
to assess the application  against  its criteria  before agreeing to the application.  
From the information Ive seen, Im persuaded that Accord declined  the application after 
seeing the results  of the credit check.  And although I note that Mr W and Mr Ns broker tried 
to find out whether there was a way around  this, Accord  didnt change  its decision. Mr and 
Mr N were applying to borrow  a considerable amount more than Accord had already lent. So 
Im persuaded that it was reasonable for Accord to assess whether  the application for further 
borrowing met its lending  criteria. 
Ref: DRN56176903I appreciate that Mr W and Mr N say that they submitted a letter giving further information 
about the issues highlighted in the credit check.  Accord says that it has no record  of 
receiving this. But, in any event, the original  underwriter has confirmed  that this would not 
have changed  the outcome. Given that the broker had told Accord by that point that only one 
of the applicants would be living in the property I think thats fair.
Mr W is also unhappy about the lack of transparency. But Accord has explained that its 
lending criteria are commercial sensitive.  
Overall, Im not persuaded that Accord acted unreasonably when it considered Mr W and 
Mr Ns application, or in applying the ERC  when  they redeemed their mortgage. So I dont  
require it do to anything  further. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 July 2020
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5617690