K822xcomplaint
Mr A has complained about Haven Insurance Company Limited.  He isnt happy about  the 
way it dealt with a claim under his taxi insurance policy.
background 
Mr A was involved  in an accident  in October  2018.  He made a claim through Haven  and his 
car was repaired and returned to him. Unfortunately, it wasnt  repaired properly and had to 
be returned for rectification work on a few occasions.
A while after it was returned Mr A noticed that there  were still a few problems with the car. 
So, he returned it to Haven who had it inspected by a main dealership. It concluded that any 
outstanding damage to the stop-start system  wasnt related to the original accident. It said 
Mr A would have to get some independent  evidence to support  his position it he wanted it to 
look at the issue  again. Mr A remained  unhappy and so he complained  to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and partly  upheld his complaint.  He thought 
Haven had clearly  delayed things. And that Mr A should be paid £250  compensation for the 
clear stress and inconvenience  he had to face in having to return the car for repair  on a 
number of occasions. But he didnt feel he could ask Haven to do anymore  about  Mr As 
problem with the stop-start system  without any evidence that the remaining issues  were 
accident related.
As Mr A didnt agree  the matter has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree the complaint 
should be partly upheld. Ill explain why.
It would seem both sides appear to accept that Mr A should be awarded  £250 compensation 
for the stress  and inconvenience  he has had to face.  He had to return  the car for rectification 
work on a number of occasions and Im sure he found all of this stressful  and inconvenient. It 
really shouldve returned the car completely repaired in the first instance. 
So, the key remaining issue to decide is whether Haven is responsible  for the remaining 
repairs that are required  to Mr As car. And I dont think there is sufficient evidence to say the 
outstanding problems with Mr As car are linked  to the accident or the repair  work  
undertaken.
I say this as Haven had Mr As car inspected by a main dealership. It concluded that the 
problem with the stop-start system  on Mr As car wasnt related to the accident or 
subsequent repairs.  And it noted  that when  the car had been in for repair  previously the 
system was fine when the car was road tested. 
I know Mr A believes the problem he is having with the stop-start system is accident related. 
But there isnt any evidence of this, and I note his own garage has identified an electrical  
fault with the gearbox. But it hasnt  confirmed that this is accident related, so this doesnt 
support Mr As position. 
Ref: DRN56973022I can understand why Mr A doesnt want to pay to get an independent report,  given the 
expense. But without any independent  evidence  to support his position  I cant uphold  his 
complaint. This service is an evidenced based organisation and we look to weigh up the 
evidence in deciding  what is most  likely to have happened. And in this instance,  I dont  have 
sufficient evidence to sway me that the problems Mr A faces now are related to the accident.
If Mr A decides to gain any further  evidence, I would expect Haven to consider this and 
reimburse his costs if that evidence supports his position.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5697302