K821x#15complaint
Miss H has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited.  She isnt happy  that it 
cancelled her car insurance policy.
background
Miss H took out a car insurance policy through a price comparison website. But Advantage 
went onto cancel the policy. It said that Miss H gained a number of quotes using different 
details.
Miss H wasnt  happy about this. She explained  that she was simply checking  things  online.  
And that she wasnt sure whether her partner needed to be on the policy as he may be 
abroad through part of the policy. Miss H said she didnt  want  to pay unnecessary costs. But 
Advantage maintained its position so Miss H complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for her and upheld her complaint. She was satisfied that 
Miss H was simply trying to gain a greater understanding of the various  costs  of her 
insurance policy. And as Advantage had not established if any of the final details Miss H 
entered were  inaccurate in anyway. She thought it should remove any record of the 
cancellation from any internal and external records and provide a letter of explanation to 
Miss H.
Advantage didnt  agree  with the investigator. It asked for proof  of various  details Miss H 
provided when  her application  was finalised through this service.  Our investigator explained 
that checking whether the details  provided were accurate  or not was a matter for Advantage, 
not this service. And made it clear  to Advantage that this was something it shouldve  looked 
to have done before cancelling the policy. She advised Advantage that she would refer the 
matter to an ombudsman  and that they may award compensation.
So the matter  has been passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think that the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
It isnt in dispute that Miss H ran a number of quotes on line and that the majority of the 
information she provided was consistent.  Advantage didnt look to explore Miss Hs 
explanation about why she ran a few quotes  or establish if any of the information she used to 
set up the policy was in anyway inaccurate,  which  is surprising.
As Advantage has outlined it is free to cancel a policy if it wishes. But Id expect it to act 
reasonably and I dont think it has in this instance.  I wouldve  expected it to get to the bottom 
of why Miss H got a number of quotes. And to have established if any of the information  she 
used was inaccurate.
So I dont  think,  in the particular circumstances of this case, that Advantage has acted fairly. 
As such I agree that it should provide  a letter  explaining that the policy was cancelled in 
error. But I also think that it should  pay Miss H £100  compensation. I say this as this has 
clearly caused Miss H a degree of distress  and impacted on her ability  to gain insurance.  
Ref: DRN59291652my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited  to remove any record of the cancellation from all databases. It 
should also provide a letter explaining  the policy was cancelled  in error and pay Miss H £100  
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 October  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5929165