K821x#15complaint
Miss P complains  that Sainsburys Bank Plc declined her section 75 claim when she 
complained about a car purchased with her Sainsburys credit card.
background
In July 2017 Miss P purchased a car using her Sainsburys credit card. Miss P saw the car 
advertised online and discussed it with the dealer by telephone. She says she was told on 
the phone  that the car was in perfect condition/as new. At the time of purchase the car had 
covered approximately 1,937 miles.
Miss P agreed to purchase the car and it was delivered to her in late July 2017. She noticed 
some damage inside the car and asked  the salesman to take photos of this to take back  to 
the dealership.  Miss P says it was raining and getting dark outside  so she was unable to 
inspect the outside of the car. She says she felt pressured to sign the paperwork so the 
salesman could go.
Miss P contacted the dealer the following day. She said the salesman had taken pictures  of 
the damage. She also complained about  the steering wheel lock at a strange angle, a loose 
handbrake and the tyre monitor  light being illuminated all the time.
The dealership agreed to carry out repairs and ask Miss P to book the car in. Because of the 
distance Miss P was unwilling  to do this, so the dealer suggested that Miss P obtain a quote  
from a local garage.  Miss P did this but the dealer  said the quote was too high.
Miss P then discovered further damage to the exterior  of the car which  she complained 
about. The relationship between Miss P and the dealer broke  down without any repairs 
having been carried out. 
Miss P contacted Sainsburys and complained under section 75.
Sainsburys declined  the claim. It said it couldnt  see that there  had been a breach of contract 
or a misrepresentation. It said there was no evidence to show  that the car was to be supplied 
in perfect condition and felt that the merchant had offered an acceptable  resolution  which  
Miss P had declined. It also said Miss P should  have inspected  the car before agreeing  to 
purchase it.
Miss P wasnt happy with the response to her section 75 claim. She was frustrated that 
Sainsburys had lost her original documentation and said this had caused inconvenience and 
delay.
Sainsburys acknowledged that there had been delay in dealing  with Miss Ps complaint and 
offered compensation of £150.  Miss P remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said she was persuaded that Miss P had been  
given an assurance  by the dealer  that the car was in perfect condition. She didnt think it was 
reasonable for a car which  had been  described  as being in perfect  condition  to require 
repairs of the nature  identified. The investigator said that given the age and mileage  of the 
car, she wouldnt expect it to have the issues reported by Miss P so soon after purchase.  
She concluded that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality  and that there had been a breach  of 
contract. The investigator said that Sainsburys should cover  the costs of repairing the car.
Ref: DRN53645782Sainsburys didnt  agree. It said Miss P had signed a declaration to confirm  that shed been 
informed of possible defects to the car and that she had viewed the car before accepting  it. It 
also said Miss P appeared to have paid a discounted price  for the car and suggested  this 
was because it wasnt sold in perfect condition.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Miss P has a like claim against 
Sainsburys as she does against  the dealer for breach  of contract  and/or  misrepresentation.  
For the purposes of section 75, a breach of contract  is where the supplier fails to do what  the 
contract says it must, either expressly  or by implication. For example, theres a breach of 
contract where goods have been paid for but not supplied, or are not up to standard.  
In considering a complaint against  a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. Rather, in deciding  whats  a fair 
and reasonable way to resolve  Miss Ps complaint Ive taken section 75 into account. But 
that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for example, a court might 
reach if Miss P pursued a claim  for breach of contract.
Miss P says she was assured that the car was in prefect condition.  I havent seen a copy  of 
the advertisement for the car. Miss P has said that during a telephone  conversation  with the 
dealer the car was described  as being  in perfect  condition and as new.  Miss P has provided 
some handwritten notes  which she made at the time. In these notes, Miss P has written  
down the price of the car and a checklist of things to do before delivery. Shes also written 
perfect/as new in two different places. I think its more likely than not that these words  
reflect the assurance which was given to Miss P by the dealer. And I think its likely that Miss 
P relied  on this and that it was one of the main factors in her decision to purchase the car.
I can see that Miss P contacted the dealer to complain about  some issues  that day after the 
car had been  delivered. Based on what Ive seen, the dealer accepted  that the the car had 
issues which required repair, because it offered to repair the car free of charge.
A car which  has issues requiring repair so soon after purchase  cant be said to be in perfect 
condition. So I dont  think the assurance  by the dealer was true.
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied that the dealership  misrepresented the condition 
of the car to Miss P.
Ive also considered whether theres  been  a breach of contract. The relevant law says that a 
car must be of satisfactory quality at the point of sale, taking account of factors such as age, 
mileage and price paid.
When Miss P purchased the car it had only covered 1,937 miles. It was sold as a second 
hand car, and appears to have been a demonstrator. Miss P paid £7,375  for the car. Ive 
looked at some valuation guides  and Im satisfied  that Miss P paid market value for the car 
taking into account  its age ad mileage. I mention this because Sainsburys has suggested 
that Miss P paid a discounted price  for the car. I havent seen anything  to suggest that this is 
the case.
Ref: DRN53645783Taking into account the age, mileage and price  paid for the car, I dont think a reasonable 
person would expect  to have to repair all of the issues which  Miss P reported  so soon after 
purchase. I dont think the car was of a standard that a reasonable person would expect. 
Miss P reported the issues the day after the car was delivered to her, so I dont think  there  
can be any suggestion that the damage wasnt present at the point of sale.
Based on what  Ive seen I dont think the car was of satisfactory  quality, which is a breach of 
contract.
Ive taken into account the points  which Sainsburys has made.  Ive already mentioned  the 
purchase price point  above and explained why I dont agree. I appreciate  that Miss P signed  
to say she accepted  the car when it was delivered.  But what  I think is most persuasive  here 
is that she asked  the salesperson to take pictures  at the point of delivery and she contacted 
the dealer to complain  the next day. This isnt consistent with someone who has accepted 
the condition of the car.
Taking everything into consideration, Im persuaded that theres been  a breach of contract 
here. I dont think Sainsburys  has responded  to the section 75 claim fairly. I think Sainsburys  
should take steps to put things right for Miss P.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Sainsburys Bank  Plc must  arrange for the 
repairs as listed in the quote from the third party garage to be carried  out at a garage  of Miss 
Ps choice  and cover the costs upon  receipt  of an invoice.
Any repairs  not listed on the quote remain Miss Ps responsibility.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5364578