K822xcomplaint
Mrs K complains about end of contract charges when she ended  her agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (trading as Audi Financial Services  ) (AFS).
background 
Mrs K was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement  with AFS. When  
the agreement  ended  the car was inspected and damage was found. AFS asked Mrs K to 
pay charges.
Mrs K disputes the charges. She says the car was returned  in good condition  and that any 
damage is within fair wear  and tear.
During the investigation of the complaint by this service,  AFS agreed to remove some of the 
charges.
Mrs K remained unhappy  and said she still disputed the charge for the dent in the left hand 
front door.
Our investigator looked at the inspection  report and concluded that some of the damage 
didnt exceed  fair wear  and tear. AFS has agreed to remove the charges in respect of those 
items. The investigator said the charges  for the scratched rear bumper and dented left front 
door were fair. In relation  to the reminder  notices which AFS had sent to Mrs K, the 
investigator said AFS hadnt done  anything wrong  because there was a balance  on the 
account. 
Mrs K didnt agree so Ive been asked  to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the agreement  say  that Mrs K must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds  fair wear and tear is the customers  
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these guidelines are 
accepted as an industry standard  in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear  and 
tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos. This identifies  5 separate  items  of 
damage. AFS has now agreed that 3 of the items   are within  fair wear  and tear according to 
the guidelines. So Ive focussed  my decision on the remaining 2 items  the scratched rear 
bumper (£55.20)  and the dented left hand front door (£138.00).
Rear bumper - scratches
The BVLRA guidelines say that scratches and abrasions up to 25mm are acceptable,  
relative to the cars age and mileage, and provided that the primer or bare metal  arent  
showing. Looking  at the images, Im satisfied  that the scratches  exceed  25mm and have 
Ref: DRN51036602exposed the primer in parts. Based on the images and taking into account  the guidelines, I 
think this charge is fair.
Left hand door  dent
The BVLRA guidelines say that dents up to 10mm in diameter are acceptable provided that 
there are no more than two per panel and the paint surface isnt broken. Looking  at the 
images, Im satisfied that the dent is larger  than 10mm  in diameter. Based on the images 
and taking into account the guidelines, I think the charge  is fair.
Taking into account the charges which AFS agreed to remove following intervention by this 
service, this leaves charges of £193.20 which I think are fair and which I think  Mrs K should 
pay.
Ive noted Mrs Ks disappointment  that she was sent payment reminder notices. However,  I 
dont think AFS has done anything  wrong  by sending these because  there  were  outstanding 
charges.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  in part. Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited should remove the three  charges relating to the scratched front bumper (£55.20), the 
scratched right hand front door (£110.40) and the scratched right hand  front wing (£21.00). 
The remaining  charges  are fair and leave a balance for Mrs K to pay of £193.20.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5103660