K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) to Mr P. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2000 . The policy was sold to 
Mr P at some point after his card application  had been approved.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  Barclays  disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what Barclays has said, but Ive still decided  to uphold Mr Ps complaint. This 
is because I dont have  enough evidence to show  that Barclays made clear  the PPI was 
optional. Barclays has said the PPI was added during a phone  call 23 days  after the card 
account was opened. Barclays doesnt know what kind of call this was  such as an 
outbound sales call or an inbound call started  by Mr P. But I can see that Mr P didnt tick 
to take PPI on his original  postal application for the card,  and so it seems didnt want PPI at 
that point. And I have  no information to show what prompted Mr P to call 23 days  later, but I 
can see it would be quite  likely to do something  important, such  as to activate his card. And I 
dont have any evidence  to show that he wasnt led to believe he must agree to PPI before 
the process could  be completed.  
I think Mr P has lost out as a result of Barclays's likely failings in this case  I dont think  hed 
have taken out the policy if hed been properly informed.
fair compensation
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put Mr P in the financial  position hed be in now if he hadnt 
taken out PPI.
A.Barclays Bank UK PLC should  find out how much Mr P would have owed when he 
closed his credit  card account  if the policy hadnt been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should then refund the difference between  what Mr P owed 
when he closed his account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr P made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Barclays Bank UK PLC can take 
off what he got for the claim from the amount  it owes his.  
Ref: DRN57950542B.Barclays Bank UK PLC should  add simple interest on the difference  between  what  Mr P 
would have owed when  he closed his account from when  he closed it until he gets the 
refund. The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Barclays Bank UK PLC works  out what Mr P would have owed each month 
without PPI  Mr P paid more  than enough to clear  his balance,  Barclays Bank UK PLC 
should also pay simple interest on the extra Mr P paid. And it should carry on paying  
interest until the point when  Mr P wouldve owed Barclays Bank UK PLC something on 
his credit  card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.Barclays Bank UK PLC should  tell Mr P what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays Bank  UK PLC to take off tax from this interest. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC must give Mr P a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken  off if he 
asks for one.
If Barclays has already made  payments related to commission on this account, it may deduct 
that amount  from the above payments. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint.  
I require Barclays Bank  UK PLC to pay Mr P compensation in accordance  with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5795054