K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading as Halifax, wont  refund to him the money  
that hes claimed for some spectacle  frames that he says were misrepresented to him. 
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties and have been  set out by the 
investigator so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
In certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 gives a consumer an 
equal right to claim against the supplier of goods  or services or the provider of credit if 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier. To be able to uphold 
Mr Rs complaint about Halifax, I must be satisfied that theres  been  a breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the frames and that Halifaxs  response to his claim 
under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im not determining the outcome of Mr Rs claim 
under section 75 as only a court  would  be able to do that.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr R bought the frames in July 2017  and they broke in February 2018;
he says that he was told that the frames were  unbreakable so they were  
misrepresented to him;
he complained  to the supplier and the frames were repaired by the manufacturer   
but Mr R claimed the amount that hed paid for the glasses, and the cost of sending 
them to the manufacturer, from Halifax;
it said that: hed claimed too late for it be able to make a successful chargeback  
claim; it didnt accept that the supplier had breached its contract  or that any 
misrepresentation had been proven; and the warranty  on the frames had expired but 
the manufacturer repaired the glasses and Mr R only paid for postage and 
packaging;
I consider it to be more likely than not that Mr R did have a discussion with the 
supplier about  the strength and durability  of the frames - but Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that the supplier told him that the frames  were 
unbreakable and theres no written guarantee or warranty that the frames were 
unbreakable;
the frames have been repaired  by the manufacturer and Im not persuaded that 
theres been a breach of contract  or misrepresentation  by the supplier so Im not 
persuaded that Halifaxs response  to Mr Rs claim was unfair or unreasonable  in the 
circumstances; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Halifax refund to Mr R the 
money that hes claimed - or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
Ref: DRN54193982my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5419398