K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that his mortgagee The Mortgage Business Plc has miscalculated his 
mortgage arrears, failed to respond to repeated requests for information,  sent 
correspondence of a bullying nature and applied to the court  for permission to enforce a 
possession order without  giving reasonable notice.
background
Mr B has a mortgage with TMB.  He got behind with his monthly repayments and on 
29 October 2008 the court made a possession  order  and a money judgment. However the 
order and judgment  were not to be enforced as long as Mr B made his contractual  monthly 
payment (CMP) and paid £250 per month  off the arrears which were stated to be £5,023.40.
It appears from Mr Bs letter of 19 June 2014  to TMB that hed defaulted again (or TMB 
considered he had) and TMB and its solicitors  had written to him about enforcing the order.
Mr B wrote to TMB on 15 December 2014  saying hed increased  his weekly standing  order  
from £250 to £275,  equivalent to £1,191.66 per calendar month  against  a CMP of 975.38. 
He asked TMB to stop ringing him to set up a payment arrangement  to reduce the arrears.
Mr B wrote to TMB on 13 January 2015.  He said:
I would like to draw your attention to the judgement of High Court Judge  Master Ellison on
20 August 2014  in which he stated  that double billing of  mortgage  customers who were 
in arrears but whose  arrears had also been  capitalised and on which they were  thus also 
paying interest, was unconscionable. In line with the substance of this judgement I was told 
on the telephone by one of TMBs staff in the collections  department that my arrears had 
already been taken  into account in the fixing of my monthly repayment amount: i.e. in other  
words, you had already  capitalised the arrears. I would like a full statement of the total 
amount that I have  paid off my arrears including the amount that I have been double  billed 
for.
TMB didnt reply.
On 2 October 2015 Mr B wrote to TMB:  
Please find two letters enclosed. One is  and the other concerns capitalisation of arrears 
which has led to the situation of double  billing  regarding interest, as stated in a landmark 
judgment in the High Court by High Court Judge  Master Ellison on 20 August 2014. My 
financial position has now normalised and payments will return to their previous amount  
which was £275  paid weekly by standing order. This worked out at £1,100 every 28 days, 
which aggregated to £1,191.66 per calendar month.  Given the fact that my mortgage 
payment is £975  pcm (an amount which is said to include a payment towards arrears), my 
payments were £216.66 in excess of my scheduled payment.
On 10 May 2016 TMB  wrote to Mr B:
Consolidation of your arrears
Thank you for maintaining your monthly mortgage  payments  over the past six months. As a 
result, we are pleased  to be able to offer you the option to clear  your arrears by making  them 
part of your standard mortgage balance. We call this consolidation. Taking up this 
consolidation option would mean  that you would repay the arrears  over the remaining term 
Ref: DRN55578552of your mortgage, rather than being  expected to make up the amount over a shorter period.  
It is, however, important that you continue to make your full mortgage payment on time each 
month to keep the option of consolidation available.
On 16 May 2017 Mr B wrote to TMB:
Thank you for your letter dated  6 May  addressing  the arrears  on my account. The arrears 
appear to have grown considerably despite the fact that I have not missed  a payment in two 
years or more. I assume that this is due to interest  separately charged on the alleged  
arrears. If so, I would  be grateful for a statement specifying the interest  so charged.
Back in 2009  I was offered the choice of capitalising several thousand pounds of arrears  
which I took up. I subsequently found  that this re-capitalisation of the arrears,  whilst being 
good for you, served no useful purpose  to me as it penalised me in interest  payments,  did 
not discharge the arrears, nor remove the suspended warrant for repossession. I brought  
this to the TMBs attention in recorded  delivery  correspondence. Please find enclosed  a 
letter dated  2 October  2015.
In the meantime I refer you to the article below  concerning the ruling  of High Court Judge  
Master Ellison in 2014 regarding the practice  of  double billing mortgage payers who had 
their arrears  recapitalised,  stating  that the banks behaviour had been unconscionable. I 
would therefore  be grateful if you would be so kind as to send me your calculation of the 
amount that I have  been overcharged  as a result of double  billing  since  2009, and make an 
offer for the wrongfully  levied monies to be reimbursed with the appropriate interest.
On 20 February 2018 TMB wrote to Mr B repeating in identical terms the offer of 
consolidation made in its letter of 10 May 2016. On 7 March 2018 TMB wrote to Mr B calling  
for payment of arrears of £5,280.38.
On 13 April 2018 TMB wrote to Mr B:
As youre aware, we have obtained  a possession  order  on your property  and if its terms are 
not kept or if a subsequent payment arrangement  isnt maintained, it allows  us to enforce the 
order. As you havent kept with the terms of the possession order  or any subsequent 
payment arrangement,  the bank is able to enforce the possession  order  by instructing our 
solicitors to apply for an eviction date.
The agreed payments  are now outstanding  and your arrears are now £5280.48. If we dont 
hear from you or the arrangement  which  was agreed in court is not brought  up to date, we 
may instruct our solicitors to enforce the possession order.  This means  that they will apply 
for an eviction date and will mean  your property is at risk of being repossessed.
On 23 April 2018 Mr B replied:
.Just to clarify, this order has been  in place  since 2008 and the arrears at that time were 
completely extinguished,  although the possession  order will never be lifted.
I have asked on a number of occasions for a breakdown of these arrears because they 
seem to keep growing despite  the fact that I have not missed a payment for around three 
years. I have never received  an answer  to any of the letters sent to you.
Ref: DRN55578553In addition you have  asked me on several  occasions, including quite recently, whether I am 
in agreement with having these alleged  arrears recapitalised in the principal mortgage loan, 
as "you have shown  that you have conducted  your account without further default: an actual  
quotation from the letter that you sent me addressing this matter  only 3 months ago. To 
suddenly go from offering to capitalise the arrears to threatening eviction seems rather  
draconian in view of the fact that I have  dependents and around 80% equity.  The option that 
you are presenting to me is simply this: consent  to capitalisation of the arrears or you will be 
evicted.
You have  been  made aware  of my reservations  regarding this offer, and I have asked you to 
clarify whether this would  extinguish both the arrears and the order for possession,  because 
I would be happy  to be able to re-mortgage with another lender without being financially 
penalised by having arrears listed against  my account, thus prejudicing me in terms of 
favourable interest  rates with a future  lender. I have  additionally sought clarification about 
whether the capitalised arrears, whilst thus forming part of the outstanding balance, are also 
charged at a different interest  rate applicable  to the whole, which would amount  to double 
recovery of interest payable on said arrears. As yet you have not addressed these points.
Please give this matter  your urgent attention  and let me know whether the arrears can be 
extinguished upon capitalisation and also that I will not be doubly  penalised  in interest, as 
stated above.
It appears TMB wrote to Mr B on 27 April 2018 reminding him of the arrears,  but I havent  
been provided with a copy of this. Mr B replied  on 8 May 2018:
You will doubtless  be aware that I have not missed  any payments for three years or more. I 
would be grateful if you could arrange for all my mortgage statements to be sent to me from 
2011. I will pay the necessary costs.
I think that one of the reasons my account  moved into arrears was because  for several years 
I was paying the TMB  on a weekly standing order of approx. £250 which worked  out as 52 
annual payments (i.e. 13 months payments to the year). This amounted  to a considerable 
overpayment, and on occasion  (some  years ago now), I missed  a calendar monthly payment 
because I thought that my account was well in credit due to these above mentioned 
overpayments. I am not a trained accountant, but looking  back  on it, it may well have been 
that the annual mortgage statement  merely  recorded all payments made in that particular 
year and did not allow for subsequent occasional missed calendar monthly payments in the 
following year (which  would not have carried evidence of the previous financial years  
overpayments) in the mistaken belief that those overpayments were still evidenced in the 
mortgage record.
I need those requested statements so that I can verify this.
TMB didnt reply.
Evidently Mr B then complained to TMB by telephone because on 19 June 2018  it wrote to 
him by way of final response:
Thank you for taking the time to contact  us about your complaint.Youre unhappy about 
our request  to increase  your payments  to ensure the balance  is repaid by the end of the 
term, and that we continue to chase for additional  payments to cover the arrears.
Ref: DRN55578554The FCA has asked all lenders to exclude mortgage arrears from the balance  they use to 
calculate monthly payments on repayment (and part-repayment) mortgages.
Currently, when we recalculate your monthly mortgage payment the calculation  uses  the full 
mortgage balance,  including any arrears. We do that to ensure you pay everything that 
needs to be paid, within the term of your mortgage.
When your payment was recalculated in December  2017 your mortgage was in arrears. We 
didnt immediately consider your account  to be up to date following the recalculation 
because those arrears  were still outstanding. Once weve  made the changes requested by 
the FCA, all future payment recalculations  will exclude mortgage  arrears. This means that if 
you are in arrears at the time of a recalculation, the new monthly payment wont be enough 
on its own to repay  everything  owed  by the end of the mortgage  term. In such  cases youll  
need to make a separate arrangement with us to repay any outstanding arrears.
On 4 June 2018 we reduced your arrears  by £1,843.28 This was to align  them with the 
position they would have  been in, if we had calculated your CMP in line with the  FCAs 
instruction at an earlier point in time. While your mortgage balance will remain the same, a 
comparison of payments that were due with those  that have been  received will result  in a 
different arrears amount today. This is why we made changes to your account. Any historic 
impact on your credit file will also be adjusted.
I am aware  you have  asked several times for information  regarding how your arrears have 
accrued and feel this has not been  provided.  I can see we have issued, copies of your 
mortgage statement  instead of details specifically relating to your arrears. As a way of an 
apology for the poor service you have experienced when requesting  information  relating to 
your arrears  history I would like to offer you £100.00 for any inconvenience caused.
In October  2018 TMB applied to the court for permission to enforce the possession  order 
made on 29 October 2008.  I dont have a copy of the application but the statement of truth 
dated 27 October 2018 said there  were arrears  of £3,560.12 and that the last payment made 
was on 29 October 2018, a strange  statement as this date was after the statement of truth.  
The application was necessary because  more than six years  had elapsed since the date of 
the possession  order.
On 24 November 2018 Mr B wrote  to TMB confirming that he had increased  his monthly 
standing order to £1,016.91 at its request.
On 27 November 2018 TMBs solicitors  wrote to Mr B enclosing by way of service  their 
notice of application for permission to enforce the possession order.
On 3 December  2018 Mr B wrote to TMBs  solicitors:
I refer to your letter  dated 27 November in which you state that you are applying to the 
Court to enforce  the Court Order  made  on 29 October 2008. You also stated my arrears 
were approx.  £3,500 on 29 November. This figure  was subsequently reduced  to approx. 
£2,500 on 30 November in accordance with my calendar monthly payments.
Over a period  of 3 years  I have asked for specific information of all charges made against 
my account,  including aspects of double recovery from the consolidation of arrears back in 
2009. The TMB have chosen to ignore all such correspondence. The alleged arrears are 
contested.
Ref: DRN55578555On 10 December 2018 the county  court made  an order giving TMB permission to enforce 
the 2008 possession order but added that this had been done  without  considering 
representations from the parties.  The parties had the right to apply to have the order  set 
aside, varied or stayed.
It was at this point that Mr B brought his complaint to this service. In his letter of complaint 
dated 18 December  2018 he said that his main points of complaint were:
1.Although he was in arrears, the arrears kept increasing despite  the fact that he had 
missed no CMPs  for about  three years or more.
2.He had written many  letters over several  years asking for an explanation  as to why there  
were continual  incremental increases in the arrears  figure, but all of these requests went  
unanswered.
3.On 20 February 2018 TMB had offered to capitalise his arrears,  which  then stood at an 
estimated £5,280.48.  He had responded with a letter (I think his letter of 23 April 2018) in 
which he had asked  TMB for details  of the advantages and disadvantages of 
capitalisation of the arrears.  He had pointed out that its threats to repossess if he refused 
capitalisation seemed particularly draconian and unnecessarily threatening.
4.He had asked  for a review of his mortgage as he believed the claimed arrears were 
grossly inaccurate.  The subsequent  review revealed that he was correct and the amount 
outstanding was reduced by approximately £1,300.
5.For the previous  two years hed made a monthly payment of £1,015.00 which  was more 
than his CMP. 
6.On 26 November 2018 hed received a phone call from TMB demanding that he pay 
£1,016.41 per month. Mr B pointed out that this was no problem as it was almost exactly  
what hed been paying for several years. But on 27 November TMBs solicitors served 
him with an application for permission to enforce the possession  order.
7.The solicitors noted in their correspondence that because there was already a 
possession order in place, they would not have to make any further  application to the 
Court.
8.This action had come out of nowhere  after:
an offer to capitalise the outstanding  arrears;
those arrears had been  subsequently  proved to be false and the remainder  were  
contested;
there were no missed CMPs for over three years and hence  no alteration of the status 
quo, other than to prove that TMB was in error about the arrears;
there had been several years worth  of unanswered  correspondence asking poignant 
questions that needed clarification i.e. double recovery on arrears and capital after 
apparent consolidation of arrears  within  the capital sum;
the CMP was now much lower than it had been  for several  years;
TMB had instructed  solicitors to commence possession proceedings without warning, 
and whilst still within the period  for appealing their decision to this service, as stated in 
the letter of 19 June 2018.
Ref: DRN55578556He said hed been subjected to voluminous correspondence of a bullying nature from TMB 
over a period  of years predicated upon  inflated  arrears.
On 24 December 2018 Mr B wrote  to the court by way of application to have the order  of 
10 December set aside.  His application  was listed for hearing on 15 February 2019. The 
order of that date records that TMBs solicitors and Mr B attended. The order was that the 
order of 10 December 2018 be set aside and that TMBs costs of the application be not 
debited to Mr Bs mortgage account.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend Mr Bs complaint be upheld.  She didnt agree that TMB 
had miscalculated  Mr Bs arrears, which related to missed  payments during 2015, 2016 and 
2017 rather than accounting errors. In her view the account was correct. She hadnt seen 
anything to suggest that TMBs records were incorrect. 
Shed considered TMBs calculations of the account  both before and after the instruction 
from the FCA, and confirmed theyd been  conducted  correctly  and in accordance with the 
instruction. As this involved two separate calculations, she confirmed that the account would 
have been in arrears  regardless of which calculation  was applied, so she couldnt agree that 
TMB had made accounting errors.
She understood TMB had now addressed how the arrears had accumulated. It had 
previously sent copies of the mortgage statements. TMB had upheld this aspect of Mr Bs 
complaint and offered him £100  for not providing  the exact information hed requested. The 
adjudicator believed this was fair.
Mr B had received  frequent telephone  contact and mailings from TMB about his intentions  to 
pay the arrears. But it had a duty to keep him informed and make  these enquiries, so the 
adjudicator was unable to agree this constituted  harassment.
The adjudicator said that at July 2018  the arrears balance was £3,560.12. At this point TMB 
had commenced  legal  action and wrote  to Mr B to advise  him of its intention  to seek 
possession. There was already a suspended possession order obtained in October 2008 so 
TMB had the right to return to court.
Mr B didnt accept the adjudicators assessment and asked for the situation to be re-
evaluated. He said that when his arrears were reduced by about £1,843 in June 2018, he felt 
vindicated in his initial assumption. He felt that for the amount of £5,280 to be seemingly 
arbitrarily reduced by nearly  £2,000,  there must be a strong likelihood that the amount may 
still be incorrect. Such an error would have  gone  completely unnoticed  unless he had 
questioned the amount of the £5,280 arrears.
He said that if he had accepted the offer that was plainly made in the letter  from TMB dated 
20th February 2018 (albeit allegedly made in error  in hindsight), the amount of £1,843 which  
was subsequently deducted  would  never  have come  to light. If he hadnt  made  a formal 
complaint which  led to an internal review of his account the amount of £1,843  would not 
have been deducted. Why did TMB  not review his account on its own initiative to implement 
the new ruling by the FCA?
He said it seemed premature for TMB to accelerate  immediately  to possession proceedings, 
when it had previously  been prepared to offer consolidation of £5,280,  now that the figure 
had been reduced by about £1,843. It was also wholly inequitable for the TMB to go straight  
Ref: DRN55578557to a repossession procedure  without  first giving written notice that this would occur,  which 
would have given  Mr B the opportunity  to reduce  the arrears further.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs complaint form contains only a brief list of the matters  of complaint and Ive therefore 
taken them instead  from his letter to this service  dated 18 December 2018  which  is much 
more comprehensive.  Its summarised above. Following the same numbering:
1.TMB doesnt agree  that Mr B hadnt missed any CMPs for three years or more,  and says 
in its letter to Mr B dated 18 January 2019 that no payments  were received for the 
following months:
 September 2015
 October 2015
 January 2016
 December  2016
 April 2017
 September 2017
 December  2017
Ive looked at the statement of transactions provided to me and this appears from the 
statement to be correct  save in one respect, namely  that the statement provided to Mr B 
with TMBs letter of 19 June 2018 shows no payment for May 2017 rather  than for 
April 2017. However  that doesnt seem to me to affect the issue.  Mr B didnt respond 
disputing any of the transactions shown in the statement, and didnt put forward  any 
alternative calculation.  Indeed his next letter to TMB  is dated 24 November 2018 and 
merely confirms that he had amended  his standing order.
2.TMB acknowledged  this failing in its letter of 19 June 2018. It had provided only 
mortgage statements  and not a specific explanation of Mr Bs arrears  figure.  It offered to 
pay him £100 compensation for the poor service hed experienced.
3.TMBs  letter of 20 February 2018 about  consolidating  Mr Bs arrears  into the mortgage 
balance doesnt  contain any threats to take possession  of his property if he refuses.      
Mr Bs letter  of 23 April 2018  refers to a letter  sent three months  previously but I havent 
been provided with a copy of this.
4.Ive looked  at the mortgage transactions enclosed with TMBs letter of 19 June 2018  but 
theres no reference to the arrears having been  reduced by about £1,300. The nearest  I 
can find is an adjustment of £1,258.79 but this appears to be the amount  of one CMP 
and was nearly fourteen years ago.
5.Not a matter of complaint against TMB.
6.I havent received  a copy of this application but I do have the accompanying statement of 
truth which is dated 27 October  2018. It therefore seems probable that the application 
was made before,  not after, the phone call of 26 November 2018.
Ref: DRN555785587.The solicitors letter of 27 November  2018  serving the application doesnt say that 
because there was already a possession order in place, they would not have  to make 
any further application to the Court.
8.I dont agree that the application for permission to enforce the 2008  possession order 
came out of nowhere or that TMB instructed solicitors without warning. TMB gave  
warning in its letter of 13 April 2018 from which Ive quoted above.
Mr B says that if he hadnt made  a formal complaint which led to an internal review  of his 
account the amount of £1,843 wouldnt have been  deducted. He asks why TMB didnt review 
his account of its own initiative to implement  the new instruction by the FCA. My 
understanding is that the FCA instruction was given to mortgagees as a result of the court 
judgment in August 2014. In consequence  TMB reviewed mortgage  accounts which  were  in 
arrears, including  Mr Bs account, and made  the required adjustments to CMPs. TMB says in 
its letter of 19 June  2018 that the account  was later adjusted by £1,843.28 to place Mr Bs 
arrears in the same position as if his CMP had been adjusted earlier.
In its letter  to Mr B of 18 January 2019  and the enclosed transaction statements, TMB set 
out how the CMPs were  calculated  and hence how the arrears arose in consequence of the 
payments actually made. Mr B hasnt challenged this or disputed any of the entries, or put 
forward any alternative calculation.
Mr B hasnt identified the TMB letters which he regards as being  of a bullying  nature, and 
having reviewed  those which have been  copied to me I dont consider that any of them fall 
into that category.
TMB has admitted failing  to respond to correspondence  and has offered to pay 
compensation of £100 for this which I consider  to be fair and reasonable. Its repeated  failure 
to reply to Mr Bs enquiries was wrong and unjustified  but it seems  to me that his complaint 
about this has had the desired effect  in that TMB has provided a detailed explanation in its 
letter of 18 January 2019. For the reasons stated above I dont consider that TMB has 
otherwise acted unfairly towards Mr B.
my final decision
TMB has already made  an offer to pay £100  to settle the complaint and I think  this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances. So my decision  is that The Mortgage Business Plc should pay 
Mr B £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5557855