K820x#14complaint
Miss H says Bank  of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss H took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1996. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy. In the event of a successful claim the PPI covered Miss H for accident, sickness and 
unemployment for up to 12 months. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss H says she wasnt aware shed been sold PPI with her mortgage in 1996.  Due to how 
long its been  since the policy was sold, theres  not a lot of information  available for me to 
consider. So I dont know exactly what would have been discussed or what Miss H would 
have seen. And I cant say exactly how the policy was presented to Miss H. So Ive thought  
about what I think most likely happened. 
Ive thought about what Miss H has said. But I also have  to take into account the possibility 
that, as it was so long ago, she understandably just doesnt remember agreeing  to the cover. 
Based on what I know about Halifaxs PPI sales  from around this time, Miss H would have 
been required to sign separately for the PPI within the mortgage application and she would 
have also had to complete  and sign a separate Mortgage Repayments Insurance  
application form.
Also Ive not seen anything to suggest  that Halifax added PPI to mortgages automatically. Or 
that people were required to take PPI in order to be approved for a mortgage.
Taking everything into account,  I havent seen enough in this case to make  me think the 
policy wasnt presented  as a separate optional  product or that Miss H didnt agree to take it 
out.
Ref: DRN55177162I think its likely Halifax recommended the PPI to Miss H and it seems to have been right for 
Miss H based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Taking a mortgage  is a large, long term financial commitment. If repayments arent met 
borrowers stand to lose their home. Although Miss H received good sick pay from her 
employer, the policy would pay out in addition to this and for longer than Miss Hs full sick 
pay lasted.
In the event of a successful claim the PPI would covered the mortgage  repayments for up to 
12 months for each  claim if Miss H wasnt able to work because of sickness  or if she lost her 
job.
Miss H has said her family could have  helped her meet  any repayments if needed, so didnt 
need the PPI.
I dont doubt that Miss Hs family  would have  wanted to help her in a time of need, but 
peoples circumstances  can and do change and they might  not have been in a position  to 
help when needed. Plus Miss H was solely responsible for meeting her mortgage 
repayments. Insurance is there to protect  against  the unforeseen and having  it in place 
meant that Miss H wouldnt  have  needed to rely on her family  and would have had the peace 
of mind that her mortgage repayments  would  be met in the event she was unable to work 
because of an accident or sickness, or if she lost her job.
So, all things considered,  I think it provided a useful  benefit. 
As Halifax cant give us the documents from the time of the sale,  I cant  say whether it 
explained the cost of the policy clearly to Miss H. But Ive thought about the benefit she 
could have got if she made a claim,  together  with the cost of the policy and her 
circumstances at the time. And even if Halifax  had explained the cost clearly, I think  she 
would have still bought the policy.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But Miss H 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things. So I dont think more  
information about this would have  changed  her mind.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5517716