K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service hes received in relation to a claim made  under his Electrical 
Emergency and Breakdown cover  which is underwritten  by Aviva Insurance Limited.
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes their agents.  
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of the key points here.
Mr H made  a claim to Aviva because his burglar alarm wasnt  working  correctly.  Aviva sent 
an electrician to assess the issue. Mr H says the electrician didnt call ahead  of his arrival (as 
he is supposed to). He also says that the electrician believed he was there to fix a security 
light, rather than to attend to the issue with the alarm.  The electrician did then look at the 
alarm and concluded that it had been  incorrectly installed.  As such  Aviva  declined to do 
further work  on it, as there was an exclusion to the policy that they say applied to incorrectly  
installed equipment.  
Mr H complained, he believes the electrician couldnt have known  how the alarm was wired  
without lifting the carpet,  which he didnt do. Aviva responded to the complaint. They 
accepted the engineer didnt call ahead and that there was some confusion  as to the 
purpose of the callout   and they apologised for this. But they said it was fair for them to rely 
on what their engineer had said in relation  to the alarm wiring and installation.  
They explained to Mr H that if he got an electrician  to look at the alarm and to provide a 
report in conflict with what their electrician had said  then they would look at it again. And 
they would  consider reimbursing the costs  of getting  the report. 
Mr H obtained and provided a report which he says supported  his position. Aviva looked  at 
this and made numerous attempts to contact the individual  or company that prepared the 
report. They wanted to make  sure it came from a qualified  electrician as this wasnt  clear 
from the information Mr H had provided.  
Ultimately Aviva couldnt establish that the report was from a qualified electrician. So they 
were still relying on their own report, and couldnt  assist further  with the claim.
The matter  was referred to our service and one of our investigators  looked into it. He 
concluded Aviva  had acted fairly in the circumstances. Mr H disagrees and has asked for an 
ombudsman to review  his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for largely the same reasons. 
Mr Hs policy  says: The following are also excluded  from cover  systems / equipment  / 
appliances that have not been installed serviced or maintained regularly according to British  
Standards and/or manufacturers instructions
Ref: DRN58722332The electrician noted following  attending  Mr Hs address that The alarm panel  is wired 
directly off a 13a socket in hall and not a 3a spur. It is on the 32a ring main, so incorrectly 
installed. I think its fair for Aviva to rely on what their electrician said when  making a 
decision about a claim.  And I think an electrician is suitably qualified  to know  if an alarm has 
been correctly  installed in line with the above policy term.  It follows  that I dont think  Avivas 
decision to decline the claim based  on this was unfair. 
Mr H sent Aviva a video of his hallway which he says shows the electrician was wrong.  Ive 
looked at that video  clip and I dont  think it shows anything  that clearly  goes against what  the 
electrician said. But, I think it was good practice for Aviva to offer to reconsider if Mr H got an 
electricians report of his own.
Ive looked at the report Mr H provided to Aviva. This report  doesnt give sufficient 
information to show that it was written by a qualified  electrician. And Aviva couldnt confirm  
this either  by making their own enquiries. Mr H too has been in touch with the person he 
instructed who is now no longer in the UK and is unable to assist further or provide details of 
qualifications. I think it is fair for Aviva to insist  that the report  is from a qualified electrician 
before giving the matter further consideration. 
Mr H doesnt think Aviva made clear enough  to him that his report would need to be from a 
qualified electrician. I think to a certain  extent this requirement would be self-evident   but 
having listened to the call between Aviva and Mr H where this was discussed,  Im satisfied  this 
requirement was made sufficiently clear. Further to this the letter  Aviva wrote  to Mr H in 
February 2019 refers  to a qualified electrician. So overall, I think Mr H ought to have known 
that a qualified electrician was required. 
If Mr H were to now provide another report which he could evidence comes  from a qualified 
electrician, Id expect  Avivas to consider it. But as things stand, I dont think  they need to do more.
The Service
Aviva couldnt evidence that their electrician had called ahead (as is their policy) and 
accepted he thought he was there  initially in relation to a separate  issue.  I can understand 
why Mr H found this frustrating. But Im not persuaded the impact  of this is such that 
compensation needs to be paid. The electrician did look at the alarm, so I dont think  a 
significant detriment  or inconvenience was caused.  
Mr H raised several further points  for my consideration after our investigators view. Most of 
these I feel Ive already  addressed above  or they relate to a lack of further response from 
Aviva whilst the complaint  has been with our service. Once a business has given their final 
response they arent obliged to keep communicating with a customer.  So I dont think  its 
unreasonable that theyve  awaited  the outcome from our service and havent responded. As, 
Ive said above,  if Mr H were to provide a further,  suitable report, Id expect Aviva to consider 
it. But I dont think they need to do anything  further to resolve this complaint and I make  no 
award against them.
Ref: DRN58722333my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5872233