K822xcomplaint
Ms L on behalf of the executors of the late Mrs A has complained that Mrs A was 
overcharged for her home insurance policy  by CIS General  Insurance Limited.
background 
Mrs A insured her home with CIS for many years. Up to 2006  she had three separate 
policies for buildings, contents and personal possessions. From then on she had a combined 
policy. In 2015  she was quoted £357 by CIS to renew her policy. Ms L obtained  a quote for 
her online from CIS for £109.
Mrs A didnt think it was right that there  should  be such a difference in the two quotes. She 
complained to CIS. It said premiums change from year to year as it regularly reviews the 
rating factors used  to calculate premiums.  It said it had always sent her a renewal quote  
before her policy was due to renew  and it was the customers responsibility to ensure they 
were happy  with the premium. It didnt agree to refund  any of her premiums. Mrs A didnt 
renew with CIS. 
Ms L brought a complaint to this service  on behalf of Mrs A. There  was some delay before 
this service was able to consider the complaint. Sadly Mrs A passed away in the meantime.
After discussion with our adjudicator, CIS agreed to pay £502.85 to Mrs As estate. This was 
based on the difference between the premium Mrs A had paid in 2007  and what shed paid 
on each renewal from 2008 to 2014 plus interest  and £100  compensation  for the trouble and 
upset it had caused her. Our adjudicator thought that was a reasonable offer.
As Mrs As executors didnt agree, the matter  has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The freedom that consumers have to move  between insurers and shop around  for the best 
price is a key factor in determining whether pricing decisions of insurers are fair or not. But 
its not enough that the consumer have the option to shop around.  We recognise  that some  
consumers can suffer a loss even when there is choice available  but where that choice isnt 
exercised, either due to consumer vulnerability, a lack of awareness  or simple customer 
inertia. 
The price  of Mrs As combined policy rose steadily over the years (from £284 in 2007 to 
£357 in 2015) and its clear that until 2015 she didnt query the price of it with CIS. Mrs A 
was over 80 years of age when she switched to a combined policy. She hadnt  made  any 
claims and I think  its likely there would have been  an expectation in her mind  that her loyalty 
to CIS and good  claims history meant she wasnt paying more than she needed to for her 
insurance. 
CIS said in its more recent renewal documentation  that Mrs A might benefit from buying  one 
of its newer products that were available. But in view of Mrs As age and the fact that she 
hadnt previously  queried  her renewal quote, I think CIS should  have realised that Mrs A 
would be unlikely to contact it to make  enquiries  about changing to a different policy when 
her existing policy appeared  to meet her needs. I think this led to Mrs A being treated 
Ref: DRN57914332unfairly by CIS because  she didnt change from a product that she was unaware had 
become uncompetitive  and so paid more  than she needed to for her renewal premiums.
The last time I can be sure that Mrs A was actively engaged in the renewal process was 
when she agreed  to switch from separate policies  to a combined  one. It seems to me that 
the premium in 2007 is an appropriate starting  point for looking at how much CIS should 
refund of her premiums because this was the earliest date Mrs A could have switched to an 
alternative policy with CIS. CIS has agreed to pay £266.96 being the difference between  the 
2007 premium and each annual premium  from 2008  to the last renewal in 2014. It has also 
agreed to pay interest on those amounts  from the date the premium was paid to the date of 
settlement at 8 per cent simple. I think thats  a fair and reasonable offer.  
I expect Mrs A would  have been  upset and disappointed to find out how much shed been 
overpaying when Ms L got an online quote for her in 2015. I think the sum of £100 is 
appropriate compensation for the trouble  and upset she suffered.
Finally Id like to apologise for the fact that this service has taken longer than usual to 
conclude this complaint.  Weve been  looking carefully into pricing practices in the insurance  
industry and Mrs As complaint was one of a number that weve been thinking very carefully 
about.
my final decision
CIS General Insurance Limited has already made an offer to resolve this complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that CIS General Insurance Limited must pay Mrs As estate:
£266.96 as a refund of premiums;
interest* on the sums refunded at 8% simple a year from the date that Mrs A paid each 
renewal premium  until settlement; and
£100 compensation  for trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the executors of 
Mrs As estate  to accept or reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*If CIS General Insurance  Limited  considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs As executors how much  its taken  off. It should  also give Mrs As executors  a 
certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN5791433