K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr P took out a mortgage in 1992  and alongside that a monthly premium PPI policy. The PPI 
policy covered Mr P for accident, sickness and unemployment. It cost £15 per month  for 
£300 per month of mortgage repayments cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed, so his complaint was passed to 
me. In the main, he said he was coerced into taking out PPI, because he was led to believe 
the success of his mortgage  application was linked to his PPI application. He also said he 
didnt need the policy because of his sick pay and redundancy cover. Finally,  he said his 
parents wouldve paid his mortgage  if he couldnt,  having helped with the deposit. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our general approach to complaints 
about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.  
Where the evidence is incomplete  (as some  of it is here), I have to base my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other  words,  on what I consider is most likely,  given  the 
available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland no longer have Mr Ps paperwork from the time of sale,  but thats not 
surprising as this mortgage was closed  around  25 years ago. I dont know  how the policy  
was sold to him. Mr P says it was sold at the same time as he took out his mortgage at a 
meeting with the bank, he may well be right about that.
I cant know what was discussed at the time with Bank of Scotland. But, I dont feel I have 
enough, based on what Ive seen, and what Mr P remembers, to fairly  conclude that Mr P 
was misled by Bank of Scotland  into believing he had to take the PPI to get the mortgage. I 
appreciate that Mr P strongly believes he was misled, but this is a very subjective area. I 
think it equally likely he was told PPI was optional and decided  to take it. So, I cant  fairly 
uphold his complaint on this ground.
Bank of Scotland has proceeded on the basis  that it recommended the PPI to Mr P. To be 
fair to Mr P I have too. By doing  so, Bank of Scotland  had the additional responsibility of 
considering whether the policy was suitable  for Mr P. It also had to give him information that 
was clear, fair and not misleading so that he could make an informed choice about whether 
to buy PPI.
Bank of Scotland no longer has a copy of the policy document  that applied  at the time of 
sale. Its sent in a policy from afterwards. From  dealing  with other Bank  of Scotlands cases, 
I think the terms and conditions were likely to have been similar  when Mr P took out PPI.
Overall, I think it likely the PPI was suitable,  based on what Ive seen of Mr Ps 
circumstances at the time. I think the policy was likely  to be suitable  because:
Ref: DRN58408232 Mr P appeared eligible to take out the policy. 
 Mr P said he wouldve got statutory sick pay through work.  But, I still think the policy 
couldve been useful  to him to help protect  his home. It wouldve paid out on top of any sick 
pay, for up to 24 months per successful  accident  or sickness claim. So, this was likely to 
have been for longer than he wouldve got statutory sick pay for. It wouldve also paid out if 
he was made involuntarily unemployed, for up to 12 months per successful claim. Mr P said 
he had statutory redundancy  benefits.  But, I note hed only been  working  for his employer for 
three months, so its possible the policy wouldve provided more  protection.
Mr P said his parents  were well off and couldve helped out. He said theyd  helped  with this 
house deposit. Mr Ps parents had guaranteed  his mortgage, so if he got into financial 
difficulty not only would his home  be at risk, but he would  be putting his parents in a difficult  
financial situation too. I think it likely that Mr P wouldve wanted  to protect his home and his 
parents situation.  Also,  situations can change,  so I havent placed much  reliance  on his 
parents help, even  though I accept they may have  wanted to assist him.
 Mr P said he had around 3 months of pay in savings. But, I cant  see that this made  
the policy unsuitable for him. It wouldve allowed him to use his savings to meet his other 
household expenses. 
 The policy appeared affordable. The monthly premium couldve been  cancelled at 
any time, without Mr P losing out financially.
 I cant see that Mr P was affected by any of the main limitations or policy exclusions. 
So, I think it likely that he couldve benefitted  from everything the policy offered.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt give Mr P all the information he needed before he 
decided to buy PPI. But, as Ive said above,  it appears to have been affordable and suitable 
for the reasons set out. I also dont know when Bank of Scotland first pointed  out the main 
things the policy didnt cover. But, as Mr P wasnt affected by any of the main limitations or 
exclusions in the policy, I dont think having  better information about  these  things wouldve 
changed his decision  to buy PPI.
I cant see that Mr P has lost out as a result  of anything that Bank  of Scotland couldve done  
better. So, it follows that I dont think this policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  think PPI was mis-sold, so I dont uphold  Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN58408233
Ref: DRN5840823