K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs A says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Mrs A took out in 2001. It was 
sold to her in-store.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs As complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs A aware  the PPI was optional and gain her consent  before adding it 
to her card. Ive seen a copy  of Mrs As store card application where she has signed in the 
box to confirm she wanted to take out PPI. This is separate to agreeing to the card itself.  
With this in mind I think Mrs A wouldve realised the PPI was optional. On balance I think  
FICL made it clear  that Mrs A didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs A so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs A got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs A.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Ref: DRN57400192Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5740019