K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains, in his own right and on behalf of the late Mrs D that Bank of Scotland plc 
mis-sold them payment  protection insurance  (PPI) in connection with their mortgage.
background
In 1994 Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage with Halifax - which  later became  part of Bank of 
Scotland. At the same  time Mr and Mrs D took out PPI to cover  Mr Ds income and protect  
their mortgage payments  in the event  Mr D couldnt  work through  accident, sickness  or if he 
lost his job.
The policy cost £69 a month and it provided  a benefit of £1000  per month.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 12 months per claim.
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage and the PPI policy ended in 2000.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
Mr and Mrs D disagree so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Bank of Scotland is unsure whether this was an advised sale but it is happy  to treat it as 
such, which is to Mr and Mrs Ds advantage. This is because  in an advised  sale,  it not only 
had to provide  Mr and Mrs D with enough  information about the policy  so they could  make  
an informed decision about  it. It also had to ensure the policy was right or suitable for them 
based on their needs  and circumstances at the time.  Ive taken this into account in my 
consideration of the case.
This isnt an easy complaint to decide.  There is limited evidence  available  from the time of 
sale, around 25 years ago. So, I must carefully weigh up what is available to me when 
reaching my decision.
did Bank of Scotland make it clear to Mr and Mrs D that they had a choice about PPI?
The PPI policy was sold in August  1994. Neither  Bank of Scotland  nor Mr D could recall 
whether it was sold in a branch or over the phone or in some other way. I dont know  what  
Bank of Scotland said to Mr and Mrs D and I dont have an application  form or agreement 
from the time. But Mr D has provided a welcome letter  from Bank of Scotland  sent to him 
after the mortgage account was opened. 
Mr D says they were pressured  into taking  PPI out and told they had to have it. He says it 
was included in their mortgage offer without  any discussion  about it. He also says Bank of 
Scotland confirmed  to him that theyd had to have  it as a condition  of the mortgage. I have 
Ref: DRN59413932reviewed the letter  he received from Bank  of Scotland confirming his mortgage account is 
open and it lays out the payments he will make  for the mortgage, the PPI and a mortgage 
indemnity fee. Ive seen that he has annotated the letter in his writing saying that he had 
spoken to the bank  in August 1994 and that it had said the mortgage indemnity fee and the 
PPI were conditions of the mortgage.
A mortgage indemnity fee was sometimes charged  by a lender to buy an insurance policy  to 
cover itself so that if a borrower was unable to repay the mortgage,  a lender could sell the 
house and recover  its money with either  no loss or very limited loss. In this way a lender was 
minimising its risk, and this usually happened if the loan to value ratio was high. It was not 
unusual for this to be a compulsory part of mortgage  lending,  although  I dont know  if it was 
compulsory in this case.
However, this complaint  is about  PPI, which is taken  out by borrowers to reduce their risk of 
being unable  to make  repayments  and possible losing their home. I accept it is possible 
Bank of Scotland didnt give Mr and Mrs D a choice about taking  PPI. I also accept it is 
possible Bank of Scotland gave them the impression they had to take it out. But it seems 
more likely Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs D the opportunity  to take out the policy  or 
decline it as part of their mortgage application,  and that they chose to take it out, but Mr D 
has simply forgotten in the years that have now elapsed. 
I say this because  I think  its likely  that Bank of Scotland had minimised  its risk through a 
mortgage indemnity  policy  and so didnt need  to sell the PPI, although I accept it might have 
wanted to. But also this service does not have any systemic evidence from this time that 
Bank of Scotland were  pressuring consumers into taking PPI with their mortgages,  or that 
they were telling consumers they had to have it. And the £1000  per month of cover Mr and 
Mrs D bought was significantly  less than the whole of the repayment amount for the 
mortgage of £1249. And I think its more likely than not that if they were being  pressured into 
taking PPI or it was not optional they would have had to take out a higher level of cover that 
would cover the whole monthly repayment. So, the cover being  less than the whole of the 
repayment suggests to me its likely that there were discussions and Bank of Scotland told 
Mr and Mrs D that they should take the PPI rather than they had to take the PPI and Mr and 
Mrs D agreed  to this.
This means  Im not persuaded (as I must  be to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint) it is more 
likely than not Bank of Scotland  presented the policy to Mr and Mrs D as compulsory, 
pressured them into taking it  or that it didnt tell them about the policy  at all.
did things  happen  as they should have done  were Mr and Mrs D properly advised 
and informed?
if not  have Mr and Mrs D lost out?
I dont know what Bank  of Scotland said or did when it recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs 
D. I also dont know what information  Mr and Mrs D were given about PPI. For example 
whether the policys  costs  and benefits were  made  clear to them  and if they were told about 
the significant exclusions and limitations  of cover. I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs D agreed to 
take the cover out without knowing anything about it, but I dont know if they received 
everything they needed to know to allow them to make an informed decision. Mr D feels they 
didnt.
Ref: DRN59413933So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when Bank  of 
Scotland recommended to Mr and Mrs D that they take out PPI to cover  Mr D. I accept Mr 
and Mrs D may not have  been treated fairly  and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mr and Mrs D lost out as a result. I say 
this because, given what Ive been told about Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances and needs at 
the time,  I think the policy cover for Mr D was suitable for them.  And I find it unlikely that Mr 
and Mrs D would have  acted differently  and not gone ahead  with the cover if Bank of 
Scotland had given  them more or clearer information. My reasons are as follows:
Mr D was eligible for his cover and all its benefits
Mr D was employed and in good health at the time, so it doesnt appear he would 
have been affected  by any of the key exclusions  / limitations  of his cover  such  as 
existing medical condition exclusions or unusual  employment terms.
Mr D has said he had up to 12 months of full sick pay entitlement from his employer, 
which could have  helped  them make  the mortgage payments  if Mr D was off work ill. 
And he says he wouldve had 6 months of redundancy  pay if he lost his job. As Mr D 
himself says this was a very generous level of entitlement from his employer and it is 
not one that this service often sees.   Mr D has been asked to provide some  evidence 
of his entitlement, but hasnt done so. I accept it may be difficult to get such  evidence  
after all this time. But based on what this service usually sees,  I think on the balance  
of probabilities his memory is probably mistaken  and its more  likely that he had less 
cover than he says. Also the policy would anyway have  paid out in addition  to Mr Ds 
sick pay and for up to 12 months  for each  claim.  It would also pay out for up to 12 
months if Mr D lost his job on top of the redundancy payment he got. And the fact 
that Mr and Mrs D chose  to cover Mr Ds income rather than split the benefit  between 
them suggests to me that they were  substantially more dependent on Mr Ds income  
to maintain their mortgage payments and their lifestyle than on Mrs Ds income which  
was much lower. They were borrowing a large amount over a long period, secured 
on their home, and the effect of not keeping up their repayments  couldve  been 
serious. So I think Mr and Mrs D had a need  for Mr Ds cover  and that it would have 
been useful to them if Mr D found he was unable  to work. It could have helped them 
financially at what would be a difficult time - it could have helped them protect their 
home.
I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs D would have agreed  to something without having some  
understanding of the cost. And I think its unlikely they would have declined it solely 
on the basis of its cost had it been  made  clearer to them. Ive already said they had a 
need for it and at approximately £69 per month it appears to have  been  affordable  for 
them. And as they were  paying for the PPI monthly, they could cancel  it without 
further cost if their situation  changed  or they no longer wanted it. And I note that the 
welcome letter made the cost of the policy clear.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and 
Mr and Mrs D may not have been treated  fairly and reasonably by Bank of Scotland in its 
dealings with them, I find they didnt lose out. This is because, on balance, for the reasons 
Ive detailed above, I think Mr and Mrs D would have been  in the same position if Bank of 
Scotland had done more and properly advised and informed them  - I think  they would have 
still taken out the PPI.
Ref: DRN59413934my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr and Mrs D did not lose out as a result of 
taking out PPI with their mortgage, so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5941393