K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains about the charges Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclaycard) applied to her 
credit card account when  she fell into financial  difficulty. She also complains that Barclaycard 
did not offer her sufficient support and registered a default which  she feels  was unfair.  
background
The adjudicators background summary  covered all the relevant facts  and is known to both 
Miss M and Barclaycard so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore, if Ive not 
mentioned something  its not because Ive ignored  it, but because  I dont think  its relevant to 
the issues. However in summary it is this; 
In the second  half of 2017 Miss M missed a number  of payments to her credit card. 
Barclaycard rang her in December 2017  and she advised them that she was receiving  
maternity pay until March 2018 and then more broadly  of her financial difficulties at that time. 
Barclaycard responded by refunding interest  of £75, late payment  fees of £24 and over limit 
fees of £24. They also froze interest  for 30 days and advised  her to seek  help from the debt 
charity Step Change, which she agreed  to do. Miss M called Barclaycard in January 2018 
and discussed  her position again. On this occasion the advisor  discussed  her options with 
her and said she could  take details of Miss Ms income  and expenditure at that point or 
Miss M could re-contact Step Change with a view to allowing them  to complete their advice 
and process. Miss M elected the latter  and the advisor placed the account on hold for a 
further 30 days.
Barclaycard issued a default notice on the 20 April 2018 as by that time 7 payments had 
been missed. Subsequently the default was registered with the credit reference agencies  
(CRAs).
Miss M complained as she felt Barclaycard had not done enough to help her and felt they 
ought to have offered her a payment plan in January. Further that they had issued  the 
default notice  when they knew  she was still receiving maternity  pay. Barclaycard responded 
to apologise for the inconvenience  caused  and paid £50 to Miss Ms credit  card account by 
way of compensation. They also refunded all interest and charges applied  since  the 
December refunds were  made, in addition confirming that no further interest  and charges 
were being  applied after her account had been  transferred  to their recoveries dept. However 
because the last payment Barclaycard received  from Miss M was on the 4 September 2017 
they felt the Default had been correctly registered  with the CRAs. 
Miss M is also unhappy that throughout her complaint and dealings with Barclaycard, their 
debt collections agents have written to her and called her which she feels  is unfair.  She feels  
that such action  ought to have been suspended.
Miss M was unhappy with Barclaycards response  and so the adjudicator looked into the 
complaint but didnt  think Barclaycard had acted unfairly. As Miss M didnt  agree,  the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
Ref: DRN52490022do. What I need  to decide is whether Barclaycard acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  
with Miss M. I take into account both Barclaycards view and that of Miss M. The purpose of 
my decision  isnt to address every single point raised. So, my aim is to reach a fair and 
reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory, I am bound to reach  a 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, I consider  what  is more likely  to 
have happened  in the light of that evidence and the wider circumstances of the case. 
When a bank knows their customer is in financial difficulties they are obliged to treat that 
customer sympathetically and fairly.  The Lending Code sets out some things banks can do 
when a customer is in financial difficulty and that includes suspending  charges on the 
account. But they dont have to do that - what they have to do is deal positively and 
sympathetically with customers once they know  they are in financial difficulty,  and they can 
do a range of things,  depending on the customers circumstances.
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. Miss M 
made Barclaycard aware of her financial difficulties in December  2017.  They  immediately 
responded positively and sympathetically by removing charges and interest and allowing her 
some breathing space.  They also directed her to Step Change  and froze  interest for 30 days.  
That was effectively repeated a month later. All of that was good practice and very 
reasonable.
I appreciate the Miss M now feels that Barclaycard  could have offered her a payment plan in 
January 2018  or even the month before. Ive listened to both calls Miss M had with 
Barclaycard and it is clear  that she was keen to explore her options with Step Change. Ive 
also considered  what the position  would have been  had she entered  into a payment  plan 
with Barclaycard instead of approaching Step Change. It seems  to me to be more likely  than 
not that the Default would have been registered  anyway, because  as a fact Miss M made no 
payments at all to her account leading up to the Default. That also indicates to me that it is 
more likely than not that Miss M would not have made payments under any payment plan, 
since quite clearly she could not afford to make any payments at all.
But Barclaycard did not register the Default until April, which  is after the date Miss M notified  
them that her maternity  pay period would end. And she indicated that her pay would return  to 
normal around March.  So I cant say Barclaycard acted  unfairly,  because  they waited until 
April before taking action, and only did so in the absence of any positive response from 
Miss M. And the reporting of the Default was in my view appropriate since it accurately 
reflected the true position,  which is something  Barclaycard  are required to do.
I have considered the issue  of the collection agents calling and writing to Miss M, and as far 
as I can see they only did so after Barclaycard had issued the final response letter. That is 
justified in my view since the balance Barclaycard were chasing  was legitimately due, and 
had been clearly notified to Miss M. I cannot see that there is any good  reason as to why 
Barclaycard ought  not to have continued with recovery action at that time. Barclaycard had 
refunded all the interest and charges applied and were thus pursuing the original debt. 
Miss M, as far as I can tell, only remained disputing whether  the default ought  to have been 
applied.
I know Miss M will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same conclusion  
as the adjudicator and for similar reasons. So I cant say Barclaycard have acted unfairly and 
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Ref: DRN52490023my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Barclaycard.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 February  2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5249002