K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in February 2004. The policy  was 
added to Mrs Ts credit card account when she applied for the card in person. The policy 
cost 78p per £100  of the outstanding card balance and following a successful claim, it would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim,  for up to twelve  months. Mrs T 
cancelled the policy in August 2007.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think  Halifax  made Mrs T aware  that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it. 
Ive seen a copy  of the application  form and note that the option  of PPI was checked 
and the application form was signed  by Mrs T. Ive taken note of the fact that the 
application form was pre-populated, but on the basis that this was an advised sale,  and 
was conducted  in a branch, face to face,  I think its reasonable to assume  that a 
discussion took place. And I think that the form, including  Mrs Ts personal details; her 
name; date of birth; mothers maiden name;  employer;  salary; outgoings was typed 
because the form was completed on-screen  during that discussion. Moreover, as this 
was a monthly policy it wouldve appeared on Mrs Ts monthly credit card statements  
so I think she wouldve queried it much sooner if it had been added  to his account  
without either  his knowledge  or his consent.
I dont know whether the significant exclusions and limitations of the policy  (such  as 
those relating to pre-existing medical  conditions) wouldve been  clear to Mrs T from the 
information given to her by Halifax.  So Ive considered this very carefully because Mrs T 
told us she had a medical condition, the details of which  are known to both parties.
But in this particular  case, I dont think this wouldve made a difference. I say this 
because Mrs T told us that she managed her illness by making the appropriate lifestyle 
choices and taking  medication and because  of this shed taken very little time off work. 
So I dont  think her condition wouldve caused her to worry about whether shed need to 
make a claim on the policy because of it. And unlike many other policies, there  was no 
exclusion against related illnesses or medical conditions.  So the policy  wouldve 
provided valuable  cover against  any other kind of illness or injury, related or otherwise.
Its possible  the information Halifax gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But she chose to take out the policy  and so appears to have wanted 
Ref: DRN52181072this type of cover. And it seems like it wouldve been  useful for her if she wasnt working 
because of an accident, sickness or unemployment as she had limited work benefits   
this policy  wouldve paid out in addition to these. It also looks like it was affordable. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mrs T has said, but these  points  dont change  my decision. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs T paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs T back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs T now Ive issued my final decision.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5218107