K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs (RSA) handling 
of their car insurance policy following a claim.
Reference to RSA includes their agents.
Mrs J is the policy holder and Mr J is a named driver. As Mr J was driving at the time of the 
accident and has been dealing with RSA and our service, for ease, I will refer to him 
throughout this decision. But reference  to Mr J should be taken as including Mrs J.
background
Mr J was driving and Mrs J was his passenger when an accident occurred in March 2018. 
Mr J said the road was a two lane road and he was in the outer lane signalling  to turn right 
when the other car crashed into his left hand side. The other driver said Mr J was over taking 
him and crashed into him. There is CCTV of the aftermath of the accident.
RSA investigated  the accident and decided, after getting a legal opinion, Mr J was to blame 
for it. They paid the other drivers claim.  Mr J complained saying RSAs decision was 
unreasonable as all the evidence suggested the other driver  was to blame. RSA didnt 
uphold Mr Js complaint.  Mr J didnt think that was fair so he brought  his complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators looked  into it. He felt that RSA had dealt with Mr J fairly.  As 
Mr J didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr J, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ive considered all of Mr Js points carefully.  But, in this decision, I will focus on what  I 
consider to be the key issues. My role isnt to decide  who was at fault for the accident, its to 
decide if RSA have dealt with Mr J in a fair and reasonable way.
Under the policy, RSA have the discretion to settle claims as they feel appropriate without  
the need to get Mr Js agreement. But I expect them to exercise  that discretion in a fair and 
reasonable way.
Ive seen that RSA reached their decision after investigating the accident. Their  investigation  
included consideration of the following:
Mr Js version  of events.
The other drivers version of events.
CCTV footage.
Photos and maps.
Legal advice.
Police report.
Ref: DRN58499462Mr J feels that RSA have placed  too much significance on the CCTV without taking into 
consideration the events before the relevant footage. Although he feels the CCTV also 
supports his case. He said the footage shows the aftermath  and his car was only straddling 
the middle of the road (with half being on the wrong side of the road) because  the other car 
pushed him out. But RSA and the solicitor  believe  its unlikely that Mr Js car could have  
been pushed out into the middle of the road by the other car. Mr Js car is substantially 
bigger and more  powerful than the other  car. And if Mr Js car was ahead of the other car, 
there would have been little room for the other car to have come from behind; undertake 
Mr Js car; and push him out into the middle  of the road.
Mr J is insistent that the road he and the other driver were on has two lanes and that the 
other driver was in the inner lane and he was in the outer lane.  I have seen the evidence 
provided by Mr J. The road isnt marked as having two separate lanes travelling in the same 
direction. Its possible for two cars to drive side by side on the road at the same time.  But 
very little space is left on the road when  two vehicles are side by said. And as RSA have 
said, the fact that its physically possible  for two cars to be side by side doesnt  mean  it is a 
two lane road. RSA and the solicitor are both of the view that it is a single lane road and that 
a court  would make  a finding to that effect.  
RSA said that the evidence  supports the other  drivers  account  that Mr J was overtaking  
when he shouldnt have  done so. Thats because it was a single lane road with the other  car 
correctly proceeding  ahead  of Mr Js car. And to overtake the other  car Mr J partially drove 
on the wrong side of the road.  The solicitors  opinion was that the evidence  supported  the 
other drivers  account and that the court was likely to find against  Mr J.
Im satisfied that RSA have investigated  the accident circumstances and considered all the 
evidence before deciding Mr J was at fault for the accident. On the evidence  Ive seen I think  
that was reasonable. I wouldnt expect RSA to engage  in costly litigation where they have 
been given legal advice that they have very little chance of success. And I note that Mr J 
hasnt provided  a legal opinion to counter  RSAs solicitor opinion. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 May 2020.  
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5849946