K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with FCA 
Automotive Services UK Ltd (FCA) has not been  of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr M took receipt of a new car in 2018. The collection  date was set for the end of January 
but the car couldnt be collected  as the dealership found a fault with it. Mr M was eventually 
able to collect the car on 17 February  2018.  He financed the deal through a Personal 
Contract Purchase agreement with FCA. 
Mr M has experienced problems with the vehicle, as follows:
prior to collection the alarm could not be stopped, the battery drained and an update 
was required to the Body Control Module (BCM). This delayed collection of the car;
in May 2018 the car was inspected by the dealership for noisy brakes; a problem with 
the key entry  and a problem with the phone volume  no work was completed;
On 17 July 2018 the car was returned to the dealership for the same key entry 
problem; the clocks would not synchronise and needed a software update  and there 
was a faulty collision sensor replaced along  with the indicator stalk. The BCM was 
replaced at this point;
Mr M has also reported  problems with the tyre pressure which  varies  and causes  the 
warning light to illuminate. 
In July 2018 Mr M therefore  asked FCA to allow him to reject the car and terminate his 
finance agreement  with them. But they refused. They  said the first faults  determined  on the 
car were determined after more than six months  had passed  and they were  allowed an 
opportunity to repair them. They commissioned an independent inspection of the car in 
January 2019  and the engineer confirmed there were  no problems with the car.
So Mr M referred his complaint to this service  and our investigator  provided her opinion.  She 
thought Mr M should be allowed to reject  the car and that his deposit  should be returned to 
him. She noted  there  had been delays in Mr M receiving  responses from FCA and that hed 
been without the car for some time whilst it was being repaired. She thought  it was clear hed 
been inconvenienced by this and she therefore  suggested FCA should also pay him £250 
compensation in light of these experiences.
FCA agreed to pay £250 compensation  but they didnt think  Mr M should be allowed to reject 
the car. They said they were allowed one chance  to repair it and they had done. They  said 
the independent engineers report confirmed the car was now working satisfactorily. They  
explained that the two faults noted  were the drained battery and the replacement  of the BCM 
six months later. They said these  faults were unrelated and they went on to explain that tyre 
pressures could vary with external temperatures. They  therefore  didnt agree with the 
investigators view and they asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN57780472I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint FCA so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a personal contract  purchase agreement.  This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about 
it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then FCA, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr M. The car here 
was brand new and I dont think  a reasonable person would expect  any faults with it.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask FCA to put this right. 
Legislation would encourage  us to assume that if a car developed  a fault in the first six 
months it was likely to have been  there  from the point of supply. The relevant legislation 
says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
Im persuaded that the first fault on this car was identified  in January 2018. This was when 
the agreement  started, although delivery  was delayed by the fault. Im persuaded this was 
the start of the agreement as I can see a first instalment was paid.
FCA are right to suggest that legislation allows a business one chance  to repair the fault. I 
believe FCA therefore had that opportunity in January 2018.
Relevant legislation does not give a business  one chance to repair each  separate fault that 
may occur. Whether a vehicle is of satisfactory quality when supplied refers to the vehicle as 
a whole not each separate component. Indeed the more separate faults - the more  likely it is 
the vehicle isnt of satisfactory quality.
So the fact the issue with the battery  and the BCM may not be related is irrelevant. The BCM 
was a further fault with the car that occurred just about in the first six months.  In those 
Ref: DRN57780473circumstances I think Mr M should have been  allowed to reject the car when he asked to in 
July 2018.
But even if Im wrong about that I think there were other problems with the car that would 
have allowed him to reject it earlier. The keyless entry system wasnt  working  properly and 
regardless of the businesses inability to diagnose  the problem in May, I think its clear  the 
problem still existed in July as I can see the car was returned then and the BCM replaced. I 
think, given that the BCM appears  to monitor and control electronic accessories, its likely 
this replacement fixed the problem.
There were also problems  with the clock synchronisation; a collision sensor;  the indicator 
stalk and the speaker connection which I think a reasonable person would not have 
expected on a brand new car in such a short space of time.  So I think the evidence  is clear 
that this car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and that Mr M should 
therefore be allowed  to reject it.
Its also clear  that Mr M has been inconvenienced  by matters. There have been delays in the 
process as the final response was late and Mr M has been  without  his car for periods when 
its been at the dealership being  repaired.  I those circumstances I think  FCA should pay him 
£250 compensation and Im pleased to note they dont disagree.
Its usual in these  circumstances for this service to ask for the deposit to be returned and as 
Mr M has been deprived of that money FCA should  pay interest on that sum.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell FCA Automotive  Services  
UK Ltd to:
allow Mr M to reject  the car and terminate his finance agreement with nothing more  
to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr M;
refund  Mr Ms deposit and add 8% simple  interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
pay Mr M £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ms credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5778047