K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1997 with a 
flexi-loan. Mrs T says HSBC UK Bank PLC, trading  at the time as Midland Bank, mis-sold 
her the PPI. To keep things simple,  Ill refer mainly to HSBC.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint (which includes Mrs Ts 
circumstances at the time well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations  and exclusions of cover) 
arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the mis-sale element of the complaint and 
said they didnt  think we should  uphold  it. However,  they thought HSBCs subsequent offer 
to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission  
and profit share Mrs T paid, was fair in the circumstances. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ts. I havent set out that detailed information  
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ts complaint. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Neither Mrs T nor HSBC  were able to tells us much about the sale or provide any original 
sale materials. However, this isnt unreasonable given how long ago it was. Nevertheless, 
weve seen quite a few similar complaints to this one, and as a consequence we know  about  
how the sales usually  worked. We know, for example, that a flexi-loan was a revolving credit 
facility where the consumer was permitted to borrow money up to a pre-set total amount as 
and when they needed the funds. The consumer normally had a set monthly  repayment 
amount regardless  of the total balance outstanding on the loan. We also know that 
consumers like Mrs T were given  a specific option about either having or not having PPI with 
the loan and they had to make a yes/no choice on the credit  agreement.
 
So, I think HSBC probably made  it clear  enough  that Mrs T didnt have  to take out the PPI 
and that she chose to take it out. I say this because Ive seen an example of the form she 
most likely signed, with the PPI option  prominently placed on it.
Ref: DRN54878302Its no longer clear if HSBC recommended the PPI to Mrs T as part of an advised sale,  but 
the evidence about Mrs Ts circumstances  at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her anyway. For example, she was eligible for the 
cover and although she already had some sick pay with her job, the PPI policy  would have 
paid her loan repayments  if she lost her job or was unable to work.  This would have been in 
addition to any other means  she had in place. 
There was nothing about Mrs Ts employment  or occupation which would have made  it 
difficult for her to claim.  I therefore dont  think it being recommended  to her was 
unreasonable and the policy  was suitable  for her, in my view.   
Its certainly possible the information HSBC  gave Mrs T about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive found  that she chose  to take it out and it wasnt  fundamentally 
wrong for Mrs T, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably  would have thought she was 
buying, from the information  she was most  likely given at the point of sale.  It also looks  like it 
was affordable  so it seems to me like it would have  been useful for her if something went  
wrong. Because of this I dont  think Mrs T would have declined  the cover,  even if had HSBC 
might have done more  to explain  things.
Overall, I consider that Mrs T would have still taken  out PPI. I think  the policy  could provide a 
useful benefit  in the event  of something  unexpected  happening, given her circumstances. I 
also think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought  she was getting. And 
in those circumstances, I think  that she would have  taken  out the policy in any event.
Mrs Ts representative  has raised  a number  of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant HSBC should have disclosed  the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mrs Ts representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts  and 
circumstances of Mrs Ts individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ts particular case.  But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold  the mis-sale  part of 
the complaint.  
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided HSBC  should have disclosed the commission  it received and 
that HSBCs offer to refund some  of the cost of PPI to compensate  for the unfairness caused  
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
Ref: DRN54878303was there  an unfair relationship?
HSBC didnt tell Mrs T about  the high levels of commission  and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion  in that case  that the non-
disclosure of commission could  lead to an unfair relationship;
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
-the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
HSBC and Mrs T was unfair  under section  140A  of the Consumer Credit Act because  
HSBC didnt tell her about the high levels of commission  and profit share  in this case 
I dont think HSBC acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with Mrs T because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair  relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.
Mrs Ts representative  has made  a number  of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin  judgment and sections  140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mrs T should  get back all the money  she paid for the policy  
because: HSBC failed to tell Mrs T about  the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims  ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover.  Because  they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mrs T wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and she should  receive  a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy  had the 
commission been disclosed; 
-A court would have a range of powers available under section  140 B to remedy  the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure  of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order  a return of all the premiums  paid or conclude that a 
consumer would  not have purchased the policy had the commission  been  disclosed; 
and
-The FCA considered  the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge  
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014]  UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN54878304the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules  and guidance  
about mis-selling (hence the two-step  approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed  commission and any remedy  caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mrs T in order to remedy the unfairness caused  by HSBC not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
-The FCAs guidance usually  requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit  share  above 50% of the policys  cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused  by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
-refunding some  of the money  paid for the PPI policy  in this way is an order  which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make  under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit  Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
-I am not, as Mrs Ts representative suggests,  driven to conclude that she wouldnt  have  
purchased the policy but for HSBCs failure  to disclose the level of commission  for the 
reasons Ive given  above.
I think it was fair for HSBC to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some  of the money Mrs T paid for her PPI policy.  I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves  Mrs T with the policy Ive concluded 
above she would still have taken out if HSBC had done everything it should have done  but 
with lower commission and profit share  levels.
So I consider that HSBCs offer of payment of an amount  equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated  interest where  
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance  to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
Ref: DRN54878305my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mrs Ts complaint or make  any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
However, because  of the non-disclosure of commission and profit  share, Ive decided  that 
HSBC UK Bank PLC should pay Mrs T an amount equivalent to the commission and profit  
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable)  if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5487830