K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that TSB Bank plc wont remove a default from her credit file. 
background
Miss B held a credit card with TSB. She says she believed this card was paid off and closed 
in 2016. She recently discovered  there was an outstanding balance and a default had been 
recorded on her credit  file in 2017.  She says when she spoke to TSB in 2016 she was told 
the card was closed.  She says it was also removed  from her online  banking and she didnt 
receive any contact from TSB about  it. 
TSB said it wouldnt  remove  the default from Miss Bs credit  file because she still owed it 
money. It said the credit card wasnt paid off in 2016 and there was currently an outstanding 
balance of around £440. Because  Miss B didnt respond to its letters and calls asking for 
repayment a default was registered with credit  reference  agencies. 
Miss B said shed completed  a balance transfer to a new card and was sure this is why the 
account was closed. She said she called TSB several times to find out what  had happened  
to the account  but every  time she was told it was closed or that TSB couldnt  find any 
information about it. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He said Miss B had called TSB 
in August 2016 and was told there was a balance outstanding.  He said TSB had made 
frequent attempts  to call and write to Miss B about  the debt after that point. Because Miss B 
didnt pay the outstanding  balance  or get in contact with TSB he didnt think it had acted 
unfairly in registering  a default. 
Miss B didnt agree. She said she had called several times and nobody  at TSB could find the 
account or help her. She said the default was preventing her from getting  a mortgage.
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that Miss B contacted TSB in August 2016. The notes from the call say Miss B 
wanted to know  why she couldnt  access her credit card account through  her online banking. 
She was told that this was because the account  had been  closed as shed previously 
reported the card as lost. So I agree with Miss B that she was told her account  was closed. 
But this isnt all that she was told. 
During the same call Miss B said she wanted to apply of a new credit card. The advisor told 
Miss B there was still a balance owing on the closed credit card and shed need  to pay all of 
this off in order to request a new card. Miss B then made a small payment whilst  on the 
phone. So I think  TSB did tell her there  was an outstanding balance. 
Miss B did make a few further  payments but these werent frequent or for set amounts. 
Sometimes she went a month  without  making  any payment. The last payment she made 
Ref: DRN55872522was for £40 in December  2016. This still left her with an outstanding balance of around 
£375. 
Miss B says she tried to call TSB several  times  to find out what was going  on with her 
account and whether or not it was closed. But from everything Ive seen,  the last call she 
made was in August 2016 where  she was clearly  told there was still a balance outstanding. 
Given that Miss B continued to make  payments  to the debt after this, I think she was aware 
she still owed TSB money.  
Ive seen that TSB made  repeated attempts to contact  Miss B by phone when she failed to 
make payments towards  the credit  card. It also sent letters to her address warning her of the 
consequences of not paying  the balance (a default  on her credit file). As Miss B didnt 
respond to those contact  attempts, or make any further repayments, I dont think TSB has 
acted unfairly in registering a default  on her credit file. 
Miss B has said she thought the balance had been  repaid when  she completed a balance 
transfer to another card in 2016.  But she hasnt been able to show that this is what  she did. 
I realise the presence of this default  on her credit file is causing her significant problems, but 
I dont think it would  be reasonable to direct TSB to remove it. This is because I dont think 
TSB has made  any mistake  in what its reporting  to the credit  reference agencies. I also 
dont think what is being reported is unfair in the specific circumstances of this case. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2019.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5587252