K822xcomplaint
Ms C complains that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) turned down her travel  insurance 
claim. 
My references to IPA include its agent. 
Ms Cs partner has brought  the complaint to us on her behalf, but for ease Ill refer to his 
comments as being Ms Cs.
background 
Ms C has travel insurance with IPA, which is linked to a specific card that Ill call the credit 
card. In late 2017 she was on a trip abroad  when the airline unfortunately lost her suitcase. 
Ms C made a property  irregularity report to the airline. She also made a successful claim to 
IPA for a baggage delay payment. The airline  then accepted it had lost her suitcase and paid 
her US$640 compensation, under the relevant regulations that govern lost luggage.
Ms C then made a claim to IPA for the contents  of her suitcase, which she valued at more 
than £2,000. She sent IPA the property irregularity  report and confirmed shed received a 
compensation payment from the airline.  She said she couldnt  provide  any proof of 
ownership for her items. She said some items had been gifts and shed not retained receipts 
for others.  
IPA turned  down the claim for the contents of the suitcase. It said that Ms C hadnt paid for 
the transport and/or  accommodation in full using the credit card, or relevant reward  points.  
This meant she didnt  have any cover under the relevant section of the policy  - Personal 
Belongings, Money and Travel Documents. Also, it said shed not been able to prove 
ownership of the lost belongings. 
Ms C came to us. She said that shed  not been  able to pay for all the transport  (the flights) 
with the credit card, because the company she used to book some of the flights didnt accept 
the card. She also pointed out that the policy terms and conditions indicated the claim would 
be covered if the merchant  here the flight booking company, which Ill call E  didnt 
accept the credit card. Ms C pointed  out that IPA had paid her earlier  claim for baggage 
delay, so it had been inconsistent in saying her claim wasnt covered. 
Our adjudicator contacted E and was told it didnt accept the credit card. He ultimately 
recommended that IPA reconsider  the claim. Ms C said she could  send photographs  of 
herself wearing at least some of the items. IPA initially agreed to reconsider the claim,  but 
only as a gesture  of goodwill as it said its initial decision to decline the claim had been 
correct. But it then withdrew its offer so the complaints come to me for review and a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint,  and Ill explain  my reasons. 
Ref: DRN56056612The policys  Personal  Belongings, Money and Documents section says that Ms C must use 
the credit  card or the relevant reward points to pay for the transport  and/or  accommodation  
in order for her to have  cover under the policy. This is reflected  in the key information. 
But Ms C says that its long been  accepted under  the credit card providers insurance that if 
the merchant  didnt accept the credit card then she could send IPA the name and address of 
the merchant, and would then have  cover under the policy.
I can see Ms Cs point,  because what she says is reflected in the policys  terms and 
conditions under information required. The provision for non-card accepting  merchants 
applies for many of the main policy provisions, including cancellation/abandonment, cutting 
the trip short and travel  inconvenience, if not the Personal Belongings,  Money and Travel 
Documents section.
I think as theres some  confusion about  the cover  that applies under the policys wording, 
this should fairly be decided  in Ms Cs favour.  Ms C clearly thought  shed be covered under 
the policy. She says,  and I accept, that shed  have taken travel  insurance elsewhere 
otherwise. And her claim for baggage  delay was accepted. IPA says that this claim was low 
value and wasnt scrutinised. But I think this added  to the overall confusion. 
IPA has also accepted that the merchant E has given conflicting and inconsistent  
information about whether or not it accepted the credit card at the time of Ms Cs booking. 
I also see that IPA initially  argued that Ms C hadnt  used  the credit  card for the flights  even 
though the airline accepted the credit. But that airline was used only for the first leg of the trip 
(where Ms C paid for it largely with reward points).  The remaining flights  were booked  
through merchant  E, which included the flights with the airline that lost the suitcase.
Ms C gave IPA the required property  irregularity  report from the airline  and confirmed the 
airlines compensation payment. This is important because shes  shown she suffered a loss, 
and also that shes partly received a payment for the loss of the suitcase and its contents. 
But in turn IPA is also entitled to ask Ms C for proof of ownership,  and to deduct a 
reasonable amount for wear and tear and the applicable policy excess. In this case, Ms C 
hasnt given IPA any proof of ownership. Shes explained that some  items  were gifts and for 
some items (including toiletries)  she doesnt retain  receipts.  She also says that IPA said it 
wouldnt consider  the claim unless  she provided  receipts for all the items.
But as our adjudicator  has explained, we wouldnt expect a consumer to provide receipts for 
every item they claimed for. The insurer should  reasonably ask for and accept  other proof of 
ownership, such as photographs of them wearing  some  of the items in question. Our 
adjudicator put this to Ms C and shes agreed  she can provide photographs of her wearing 
some of the items. And subject to this I think a fair and reasonable outcome in the specific  
circumstances of this complaint is for IPA to reconsider  Ms Cs claim for the loss of the 
contents of her suitcase,  without reference to the requirement to prove  she paid for the 
flights using the credit card.
If IPA and Ms C disagree about the resulting  claim payment  then Ms C is entitled to make a 
fresh complaint to this service. This is because Ive not reached  a finding on the eventual 
claim payment because the claim hasnt been  reconsidered as yet. But I hope  the parties 
can reach an agreement.
Ref: DRN56056613my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. I require Inter Partner Assistance SA 
to reconsider Ms Cs claim for the contents  of her lost suitcase, subject to the policy limit, 
wear and tear provisions  and any applicable excess.  IPA can ask Ms C to provide 
photographs of her wearing some  (if not all) of the items that shes claimed for, but it must 
assess the claim fairly. IPA is no longer entitled  to rely on the policy requirement that Ms C 
must show she paid for the transport and/or accommodation with the credit card.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5605661