K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Fords of Winsford Ltd mis-sold  his mechanical breakdown 
insurance policy. 
background
Mr R bought his policy in a face to face sale.  After having a claim for problems with his cars 
CD player turned down,  Mr R complained to Fords  as he thought  his policy  had been mis-
sold. He said he wouldnt have bought the policy  if hed known how limited the cover was. 
Fords didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said the order form and policy  documents 
clearly showed the exclusion  for in car entertainment systems. And copies of these had been 
provided to Mr R. Mr R remained unhappy  and brought his complaint to us. He wanted Fords 
to return his premium to put things right. 
Our investigator didnt  think Fords  had mis-sold Mr Rs policy. He found the documents  Mr R 
had signed made the exclusions clear. Mr R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans  
decision. He said the sales advisor hadnt  gone  through the documents as he should have 
done and had told him that everything  was covered apart from wear and tear. He said his 
father was with him at the time and neither of them  would have agreed to Mr R buying the 
policy if theyd known  how limited  it was.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fords has confirmed it sold Mr Rs policy in an advised sale. That means  it needed to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its advice. As well as providing Mr R with 
sufficient information  in a way thats clear, fair and not misleading. 
As theres  no recording, its difficult to know exactly what was said between the sales advisor  
and Mr R. So Ive considered the documents  available  to me, as well as both Mr R and 
Fords testimony about what happened. 
Mr R has signed the pre-contract  information  form. Within this form the customer  declaration 
section asks him to sign to say he understood the significant features, benefits and 
exclusions to the policy. This section  also confirms  Mr R has provided all the relevant 
information in relation  to his purchasing needs.  In addition, the key facts  document sets out 
that the policy is suitable for someone  who wants to insure their car against  mechanical 
failure. And it seems  this is what Mr R wanted  to do. 
Mr R also signed a one-page document  that set out what parts  are covered  under the policy 
and which  are excluded.  I think  this document is clearly set out and explains that in car 
entertainment systems are excluded,  along with some other  parts. Fords also provided Mr R 
with a copy of these documents to keep.  
The policy says all mechanical and electrical  components of the car are covered, as long as 
they are the manufacturers original specification, unless specifically excluded.  Mr Rs said 
that the sales advisor told him everything  was covered apart from wear and tear. I can see 
Ref: DRN50867042the policy does  exclude some parts, but these are mostly parts that can become worn  over 
time. 
I appreciate with hindsight that Mr R might not have  bought this policy  and its unfortunate 
that the only claim he made was for a part that was excluded. I have considered that he 
might have signed the documents  without fully reading them. But I havent  seen  anything  to 
show that this meant the policy wasnt suitable  for him. 
On balance, Im satisfied that Fords took reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its 
advice and provided information  that was clear,  fair and not misleading. It follows  that I dont 
think Mr Rs policy was mis-sold and Im not going to ask Fords to return the premium. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5086704