K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that since  investing £2,000 in an ISA in 2001  she had heard nothing from 
Santander UK Plc.
background
Santander said Miss M cancelled the investment within the cooling-off  period and the money 
was returned to her.
An adjudicator at this service  explained that a business was not required to maintain any 
documents regarding accounts or investments ended more than six years ago; hence  why 
Santander only retained basic computer records about the ISA. These,  he said, showed  that 
it processed the ISA on 9 March 2001, received a cancellation notice on 16 March and on 19 
March 2001 issued a cheque for £1,875.06 payable to Miss M. Given  it had her correct 
address on file, he could not see why it should  not have been received.
So on the limited  evidence available he was satisfied it had returned the funds. Due to the 
passage of time it had no details of the receiving  bank. However, he felt that if the cheque  
had not been paid in within  six months  Santander would have cancelled it and sent a new 
cheque. He said Santander  had no records of the cheque being cancelled or a new one 
issued. So it was likely that it was paid in to Miss Ms bank or building society account.
He said the amount was less than £2,000 because Santander had bought units in the 
designated fund, and when Miss M instructed it to cancel the investment  the unit price had 
fallen. There had been some costs  to the transaction. He also said if Miss M had not 
cancelled the investment,  she would have received an annual  valuation for the last 17 years 
showing how the investment was performing. As no statements have  been  issued, he 
thought Miss M must have cancelled  the investment and received  the proceeds.
He also explained  that the reference  number Miss M quoted was the number on the 
application form, and that once the application had been processed the investment would 
have been given a new number.
Miss M did not agree and said:
She has still not been presented with evidence to demonstrate that she cancelled the 
investment; the computer  printout is not informative
Santander must have  a copy of the required, signed cancellation form  it has not 
suppled this
Nor has it provided evidence as to whether the alleged repayment  was via direct  
payment into her bank  account or a cheque being  posted
It initially said, or implied the money  was automatically transferred into her account, 
then claimed it sent a cheque  with no evidence for either action
The bank  statement for the relevant period (February to April 2001) shows  that no 
refund was ever paid into her account
If banks are not required to retain records after six years why do they apparently 
have a computer  record of her cancellation request and repayment of the lower  sum?
Ref: DRN59780472my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator. In order to uphold a complaint I need to be 
convinced that the business in question definitely did something wrong. I simply dont feel 
there is such persuasive or convincing evidence to conclude that Santander somehow failed 
to send a cheque and then lost all trace of the money. It also seems extremely  unlikely that 
Miss M did not cancel  the investment but all trace of it disappeared.
I acknowledge the strength  of Miss Ms feelings about this issue,  and I do not question  her 
recollection of what did and didnt happen. But this event did occur nearly 20 years ago so I 
cannot entirely rely on her recollections, particularly in the absence  of other supporting  
evidence.
I fully understand  her concerns  about the question of what evidence Santander does and 
doesnt have but I have  to say that I do not find its limited records surprising or suspicious. 
Banks are not required to retain full files of accounts or investments  more  than six years 
after these  have lapsed. It is therefore not surprising it does not have a copy  of the alleged 
cancellation form. The fact that its computer does  have some information  is also not 
surprising as core data may well be retained  while the full business file is cleared from its 
system.
I am satisfied from the limited computer record that Santander is likely to have  received  a 
cancellation form on 16 March 2001  and that it calculated a surrender price for the units. I 
can think of no other  logical explanation for this computer data.
This does  not prove that it sent out a cheque or that Miss M cashed it but I think  it does 
demonstrate that it cancelled  the investment, and almost certainly on Miss Ms instructions.
As Ive said earlier  I dont think there is sufficient evidence to conclude  that Santander did 
something wrong, the key criterion by which I must judge any complaint. If Miss M had 
pursued this issue far earlier, for example within six years of the investment, it would be 
possible to insist on further checks to discover  whether the cheque  was cashed, by whom 
and via what account. 20 years on I dont think  this is realistic.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5978047