K821x#15complaint
Mr R says Gain Credit  LLC irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 5 instalment loans, which Gain Credit provided to Mr R between  
3/5/2017 and 2/11/2017:
Loan Date
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments Amount (£) Highest payment (including overlapping loans)
1 03/05/2017 25/10/2017 6 600 259.20
2 06/07/2017 Outstanding 6 550 455.38
3 06/09/2017 Outstanding 6 230 439.20
4 28/10/2017 31/10/2017 6 520 431.92
5 02/11/2017 Outstanding 6 440 398.00
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mr Rs complaint be upheld. He said that the 
information Gain Credit  had, or should  have had, at the time,  did not show  that the lending 
was irresponsible.  Mr R didnt agree and so the complaint  was passed to me. 
When I looked at the case, I reached a different view.  So I wrote a provisional decision and 
invited comments and further evidence. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general 
approach to complaints about  short-term  lending  including all of the relevant rules,  
guidance and good industry  practice   on our website. 
Gain Credit needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried  out proportionate  
checks to make sure Mr R could repay  the loans in a sustainable manner. These 
checks could take into account a number  of different things,  such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough 
checks might be reasonable  and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Gain Credit should fairly  and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. These factors  include:
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher  the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN59004872 the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of 
time during which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Gain Credit  was required to 
establish whether  Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically 
follow this is the case. This is because the relevant  regulations  define  sustainable  as 
being without  undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  
realise, or it ought  fairly  and reasonably  to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to 
make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without  borrowing  further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
On the information Mr R gave to Gain  Credit  about  his income  and expenditure, 
when making applications  for each of the five loans, it would have seemed that he 
had enough spare  income  to reasonably cover the repayments. And there wasnt  
evidence available  to Gain  Credit that Mr R was struggling to meet the repayments. 
He only started missing payments after hed taken loan 5. 
The length  of time over which  he was taking loans, and the pattern in which  he was 
taking the loans, wouldnt have reasonably raised alarm bells at least  for the first few 
loans. 
The total amount  he was borrowing was though  going up, in that each new loan 
overlapped with at least one previous loan. And there  was a possibility he was 
borrowing to meet repayments on previous  loans.  So, from the point Mr R applied for 
loan 3, I think it would have been reasonable for Gain Credit  to look much more 
carefully into Mr Rs actual  financial  circumstances   for instance  by carrying out 
more in-depth credit  checks or asking to see bank statements. 
I asked Mr R whether he had evidence of his spending before loan 3 was taken out. 
He sent me copies  of bank statements. These showed regular and substantial  
payments to gambling  websites and payments to other short  term lenders. I think this 
showed that Mr R was having  difficulties  managing  his spending and that being given 
high-cost short-term loans  was very likely to make his situation worse.  If Gain  Credit  
had properly investigated Mr Rs spending, it would have found this out. My view at 
this stage is that loans 3, 4 and 5 should not have been given. 
Mr R complained that Gain Credit gave  us inaccurate information  about using a debt 
collection agency. It told us it had not employed such  agents, whilst Mr R sent us 
Ref: DRN59004873proof that it had. After  our service passed  this proof on to Gain Credit, it instructed 
the agents to stop pursuing  the debt whilst the matter was with the ombudsman 
service. 
I dont think Gain Credit  deliberately misled  us about whether it had used a collection 
agency. I think it later gave us inaccurate  information probably due to an 
administrative mistake by Gain  Credit.  This caused Mr R inconvenience and probably 
annoyance. But I agree with the adjudicator that it isnt something for which I should  
require Gain Credit to pay compensation. 
I also agree  that there isnt good  evidence that it was wrong, in the circumstances of 
the information it had, for Gain Credit to pass the matter to a collection agency. Mr R 
is unhappy with the behaviour of the collection agents and says they used aggressive 
language in their communications.  I can understand why Mr R felt pressured when 
the third party  contacted  him, but as I said above  I dont think  Gain  Credit  did 
anything wrong  in looking to collect his debts  so I dont currently plan to award  
compensation for this.
In response, I didnt  receive any substantive comments or evidence  about my proposed  
decision. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  given  above, I am partly upholding this complaint. 
putting things right 
In order to put things  right for Mr R, Gain Credit should:
a)refund  all interest and charges he paid on loan 4; and
b)pay interest on all these  refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to 
the dates of settlement; and
c)remove any adverse information  about  this loan from Mr Rs credit file.
I understand loans  3 and 5 were not fully repaid. In order to put Mr R back  into the 
position he would have been, had these not been  agreed for him, Gain  Credit needs to 
ensure that Mr R only repays  the principal borrowed.  In other words he should  not pay 
any interest or charges for the loans. So Gain Credit  needs to:
d)treat all payments,  including interest and fees,  that Mr R has made towards loans 3 
and 5  as payments  towards the principal amounts borrowed; and 
e)return any amounts Mr R paid above the principal amount  to him, along with 8% 
simple per year from the dates  the overpayments occurred to the date the complaint 
is settled; and
Ref: DRN59004874f)remove any adverse information  about  these loans from Mr Rs credit file, once the 
remaining principal debts have  been repaid.
I understand that Mr Rs debts for these two loans may have been sold on. It seems from the 
statement of accounts  provided that Mr R has already paid more than the principal borrowed 
for loan 3.
If Gain Credit  can buy these debts back it can use the total refund (set out in (a) to (f) above) 
to offset any outstanding principal balance on loan 5. 
If Gain Credit  doesnt or is unable  to buy the debts  back then it must work with the current  
debt owner to ensure that Mr R doesnt  end up paying back more than the principal amounts 
borrowed for these two loans. This may mean  it needs to make a payment to the current 
debt owner.
And if Mr R has made payments to the current debt owner above the principal amounts 
borrowed, then these amounts should  be refunded to him by Gain Credit, along  with 8% 
simple* per year, from the dates of the overpayment to the date this complaint is settled.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Gain Credit  to take off tax from this interest. Gain Credit 
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I am partly upholding this complaint. I require Gain Credit LLC to carry out the redress which 
I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5900487