K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Redhawk Legal  Ltd (Redhawk) have charged him a fee on a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) claim hed cancelled.
background
Mr G instructed Redhawk in 2017  to make claims for mis-sold PPI on his behalf. He was 
unhappy with the service  he was receiving  he felt that Redhawks staff were  rude  and he 
says he asked them in June 2018 to cancel his contract in October  2018. A claim against 
PPI provider B was successful in December 2018 and Redhawk invoiced Mr G for their fees.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator.
Our investigator found that Redhawk had acted  reasonably. She found  that, although Mr G 
had told Redhawk in June  2018 that he would be phoning to cancel his contract in October 
2018, he didnt  do this. So Redhawk didnt cancel the contract  and didnt charge Mr G any 
cancellation fees. Because of this, she thought  Redhawk were entitled to charge their 
success fees on the claim against  PPI provider B.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator. He said he was told he couldnt cancel the 
agreement until October  2018, and he wasnt told he needed to call back to do this. But he 
says he did call to cancel  in October 2018, and he wasnt told about any cancellation fees.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive seen Redhawks  PPI Customer Information  Handbook (the handbook), which  contains  
the terms and conditions Mr G agreed to when he instructed Redhawk. These confirmed that 
Redhawk would charge a success fee of 30% plus VAT. The handbook also confirmed Mr 
Gs cancellation rights:
He could cancel  at any point within the first 14 days at no charge.
If he cancelled after 14 days charges would apply. These charges could be anything 
between £150  and the full success fee, dependent upon how much  work Redhawk 
had done at the time of cancellation.  
The handbook also gave  a clear breakdown of the cancellation charges, and how much 
would be charged  at each stage of the claims process.
A copy of the call between Mr G and Redhawk on 25 June 2018 isnt available.  When Mr G 
spoke to Redhawk there wasnt a requirement for them to record calls or to keep any 
recorded calls.  Because  of this, the lack of call recordings doesnt  mean  Redhawk  are trying 
to hide something. I cant uphold a complaint on the lack of call recordings alone and I have 
to rely on what both parties have told me and make my decision on what  I believe is more 
likely to have happened.
Ref: DRN50020292Ive seen Redhawks  case notes  for the call on 25 June 2018. This says that Mr G said he 
wanted to cancel the contract and Redhawk explained there  was going to be a charge for 
this. The case notes  also say that Mr G wasnt happy with this or that his claims had been 
going on for nearly a year. Mr G said he will be calling us on 19/10/2018  to cancel  this 
date would be exactly a year after Mr G sent the claims pack back to Redhawk.
Ive no doubt that Mr G told Redhawk that he wanted to cancel, and that he intended to do 
so in October 2018. But Ive not seen  that Mr G did cancel in October 2018 (or on any other 
date). There are no case notes showing Mr G called to cancel, and Ive not seen any other  
evidence, for example  Mr Gs itemised call records, to show that he did.
Based on the information in the handbook,  Redhawk wouldve charged at least £150 
cancellation fees. The case notes for the 25 June 2018 call show Mr G was told there would 
be cancellation fees, but Ive also not seen anything  to show that Redhawk invoiced Mr G for 
any cancellation fees; or that he paid any cancellation fees.  
So I cant agree  with Mr G that he cancelled his agreement  with Redhawk. Redhawk are 
therefore entitled to charge their success fee in line with the terms and conditions  Mr G 
agreed to. And they are entitled to take reasonable steps to recover their fee if it remains  
unpaid. This includes  taking court action against Mr G.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Gs complaint about Redhawk Legal Ltd 
to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5002029