K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that, although she has a payment plan in place, Lowell Financial  Ltd 
(Lowell) have harassed her with fortnightly letters since late 2016.
background
Mrs Cs debt was bought by Lowell in late 2016. She complains that since that time they 
have sent frequent letters to her threatening legal  action and bullying her in to increasing 
payments. She says this is harassment.
Lowell disagree.  They say that they wrote and asked  Mrs C to contact  them as, when they 
bought the debt, they needed to set up payments to themselves. They said this hadnt been 
done and whilst Mrs C had continued  to make payments,  they were being  made  to the 
company the debt was originally established with and not themselves. So they explained 
that, in those circumstances, collection activity had commenced. But they didnt think the 
letters they sent amounted to harassment.
So Mrs C referred her complaint to this service and our investigator provided an opinion. She 
couldnt see that Mrs C had responded to Lowell and set up payments to them and in those 
circumstances she could  understand  why Lowell would wish to contact her. She didnt think  
Mrs C had been harassed.
But Mrs C still disagreed  and she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Lowell wrote to Mrs C in December 2016 to explain that theyd taken over the debt. They  
explained that Mrs C would need  to start paying them and she should call them to set that 
up. They also explained that theyd  accept the same  payment arrangement.
I cant see that Mrs C contacted them to make  that arrangement so I think  they were right to 
send her subsequent letters to chase  payment and I dont think its unreasonable  to send 
letters fortnightly  in those circumstances.
I dont agree that those letters amounted to bullying. Lowell made it clear from the outset that 
theyd accept the same payment arrangement. They appear to have been simply trying to 
set that up so the payments were  made  directly  to them and not the original creditor and 
when that didnt happen they were understandably trying to recover  the debt.
Ref: DRN50008892So I dont  think it would  be reasonable to ask them to take any action.
I understand that Mrs C had to wait some time to receive a copy of her credit agreement  and 
statement of account  from Lowell. I can understand that this may take a little time to do as 
Lowell would  be requesting information from the original creditor. But they did provide the 
information and its clear that the debt was Mrs Cs. I dont think  shes  been financially 
disadvantaged by the delay or that Lowell need to take any specific action with regard to it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5000889