K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card. Mr S says Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr S says that he was told that he wasnt told that the policy was optional  and was lead 
to believe that the card would not be approved without the policy.  Due to the time thats 
passed, theres not much information  available  about the sale, and Mr S hasnt said 
much about why he felt that this was the case. But this isnt usual for a sale that took 
place so long ago. Businesses  arent required to keep records indefinitely, and I wouldnt 
expect Mr S to remember in detail what happened during  the sale.
Lloyds has been  able to confirm that the sale took place between the credit card account 
being opened in 1995  and the first available statement for the account (January 2000) 
which shows PPI. Because of the lack of information, I dont have enough  to say that 
Mr S wasnt  given a choice in taking the PPI. And I cant uphold his complaint for this 
reason
Its likely  Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr S  so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him  and based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it seems like it could have been useful  for him if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Lloyds  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:  
When the policy was sold, Lloyds  expected to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr S about  that. 
Because Lloyds  didnt  tell Mr S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said  including what  hes said about not having 
much money at the time,  meaning he wouldnt have wanted to add an unnecessary cost to 
his borrowing. But this point doesnt  change my decision  as Ive explained above I cant  
Ref: DRN56138132say that Mr S didnt  know he was taking the policy, and taking in to account his 
circumstances, I think  the policy couldve been useful for him.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5613813