K822xcomplaint
Ms Z complains that BMW Financial  Services (GB) Limited (BMW) (trading as Alphera  
Financial Services) took too long to allow her to reject a car. She would like £500 
compensation for the inconvenience of not having  a car for nearly four months.
background 
Ms Z says she took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement with BMW in September  2018. She 
says she contacted BMW  in October 2018  as she had a number  of problems with the car. 
She says that BMW carried out an independent inspection which identified the problems as 
being due to wear  and tear. However on further  investigation BMW agreed the car could be 
rejected in February 2019. She says although  BMW refunded  various payments it didnt 
compensate her for the inconvenience
BMW agreed  to allow rejection of car and refunded a significant portion  of Ms Zs costs. In 
discussion with our adjudicator it offered £200  compensation for trouble and upset.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. She felt the repayments BMW refunded  covered other 
travel costs incurred whilst  Ms Z was without a car. However she said that she would have 
recommended a sum for trouble and upset.  As BMW had offered an additional £200  she 
thought this was reasonable  for the inconvenience  incurred.
BMW accepted this but Ms Z didnt. She made  a number  of points  the car wasnt  fixed  as 
our adjudicator noted in her view,  her  husband  lost work due to not having use of a car, she 
lost leave as she didnt have a car for travel , the courtesy vehicle provided  for a week   was 
not provided by BMW, she had to take leave to collect the loan vehicle, she incurred 
significant travel costs, she was delayed finding  a new car the situation  affected her health 
and personal relationships, she has lost an annual parking charge which is not refundable, 
only received a part refund on the Driver Vehicle Licensing Agency ( DVLA)  tax. Finally this 
matter had taken  up a lot of her time.
Our adjudicator considered these points  but didnt change her view. She still felt the refunds 
BMW had made, and the additional £200 BMW offered was reasonable.
In an attempt to resolve  this matter BMW then offered a further  £50 compensation.  Ms Z 
didnt accept this further offer and asked  for an Ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think there is any dispute that Ms Z had problems with her car. Nor that BMW  did 
agree to rejection of the car after Ms Z challenged its first view that issues  were down to 
wear and tear.
BMW has already refunded five monthly payments, insurance costs  for four months, a 
parking fee, vehicle insurance cancellation and a £100 advance  payments Ms Z made on 
the agreement. 
Ref: DRN56527882It has since offered an additional  £200,  further  increased to £250 following our adjudicators  
view. 
I am not going  to go into the problems  with the car. That matter has been dealt with by BMW  
in allowing rejection of the car which is what Ms Z wanted. 
The issue  for me to decide on is the level of compensation BMW should pay, if any. Ms Z 
has asked for £500 on top of the sums  BMW has already refunded.  BMW offered a further 
£200 which it increased to £250.  Our adjudicator felt both of BMWs offers  were  fair.
I have considered very carefully the points Ms Z has made noting that BMW  has refunded a 
significant portion  of the costs Ms Z has incurred. 
Ms Z has pointed out she incurred costs of alternative transport But BMW has refunded five 
of the six monthly  payments Ms Z made. I appreciate Ms Z was paying for alternative travel  
costs before BMW agreed to refund these costs. But the refund of the monthly payments 
means Ms Z hasnt  paid for both the car and alternative travel  costs. I cant reasonably ask 
BMW to both cover  Ms Zs travel  costs having already refunded  the majority of her monthly 
payments.
Ive noted Ms Z says she had use of a courtesy car for a week but this wasnt  provided by 
BMW but by another company.  I think the main point  here is that she did have use of a 
courtesy car, not who provided it. 
Ms Z has told us she was delayed in sorting  out getting another  car but that in part seems  to 
be because she was away.  She has also told us she has lost an annual parking fee which is 
not refundable. But she hasnt given us any evidence that this isnt transferable  so she might 
be able to still make use of this.
Similarly Ms Z hasnt given us any evidence  to show that the delay in the agreement coming 
off her credit file prevented her finding  a new car. Nor that she has incurred  any specific  
health costs for example any treatment directly  resulting from her complaint. So I dont feel I 
can reasonably  ask BMW to pay any additional  compensation on this basis.
Ms Z hasnt given us any evidence to show her husband lost work due to not having  use of a 
car. It seems to me the only actual  cost Ms Z has incurred  that BMW hasnt refunded  is the 
balance of her DVLA tax. She says she only got a refund of £75 of the £150 cost.
I do accept there has been some  inconvenience  and time taken  in resolving this matter. 
Unfortunately it does take some time for complaints to be looked into and resolved. In took 
BMW four months  to consider Ms Zs first complaint,  to further investigate when she didnt 
accept its first view and then to agree to allow rejection of the car. I dont feel that is an 
unacceptable timescale.
But I do agree  with our adjudicators view that some  compensation for trouble and upset is 
appropriate. 
I think £250 BMW has offered is reasonable to compensate for the trouble and upset and to 
cover the balance of the DVLA tax that Ms Z says she hasnt had refunded.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN56527883In full and final settlement  BMW Financial  Services (GB) Limited (trading as Alphera 
Financial Services) should pay Ms Z £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5652788