K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Miss B say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about the sale of a PPI policy. The policy  was taken out in September 1997  
to protect  Mr Bs and Miss Bs mortgage and provided cover for Mr B only.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B and Miss B disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr B and Miss Bs case.
Mr B and Miss B have told us they thought  they had to have the PPI in order  to get the 
mortgage. NatWest on the other hand has said that Mr B and Miss B would have been given 
a choice about the PPI.
Theres limited  information available from the time the PPI was sold to Mr B and Miss B in 
1997, which isnt unusual given the sale took place over 20 years  ago. As a result, NatWest 
hasnt been able to provide us with copies of all Mr Bs and Miss Bs paperwork from the 
time of sale.  NatWest also hasnt been able to confirm how the PPI was sold.
So, Ive based  my findings  on the information I do have and what I think is most likely to 
have happened  at the time of sale.
NatWest has provided our service with a copy of Mr B and Miss Bs mortgage offer. This 
shows that PPI was mentioned on the mortgage offer and specifically  states, You have 
selected a monthly  benefit of £200 under  Mortgage  Repayment Protector  Insurance.  This 
suggests that some sort of discussion took place about the PPI at the time Mr B and Miss B 
applied for their mortgage. 
I appreciate what Mr B and Miss B have  said about  being told they had to have the PPI in 
order to have the mortgage. And I accept that (over 20 years on) this is how                        
Mr B and Miss B might remember the sale. But its also possible NatWest pointed  out the 
difficulties Mr B and Miss B might have had repaying the mortgage if Mr B wasnt  able to 
work and explained why it thought  they needed  the PPI. I dont have enough to say that 
NatWest told Mr B and Miss B they had to have the PPI when  this wasnt the case. Overall, I 
think its more likely  that NatWest gave Mr B and Miss B a choice about the PPI. And that 
they chose to take it.
Ref: DRN53953772NatWest says it didnt recommend that Mr B and Miss B take out the PPI. Mr B and Miss B 
on the other hand say it did. So Ive thought about what both parties have said, taking into 
account the available information  from the time of sale.  Having considered this, I havent  
seen anything to suggest that NatWest assessed  Mr B and Miss Bs circumstances at the 
time such as Mr Bs employee benefits  and from this made  a formal recommendation to        
Mr B and Miss B to take out the PPI. This means  NatWest didnt have to check if it was right 
for them. But it did have  to make sure Mr B and Miss B got the information they needed to 
decide if it was right for them.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr B and Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it should have  been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Im satisfied its likely 
that Mr B and Miss B chose to take out the PPI, so it looks like they wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of Mr Bs circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover,  such as pre-existing 
medical conditions  - so it would have been  useful for Mr B and Miss B if something went 
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mr B has told us he would  have been entitled to statutory sick pay if he was too unwell to 
work. Mr B and Miss B have  also told us they had some savings and could have relied  on 
family to help with their mortgage repayments.
Having thought about what  Mr B has said about  his sick pay and the savings which  he held 
with Miss B, I dont  think this means they wouldnt have found  the policy useful. I say this 
because the PPI would have paid out in addition  to the statutory sick pay Mr B would have 
been entitled to and would have paid a benefit if Mr B was ever made  redundant. The PPI 
also would  have enabled Mr B and Miss B to use any savings they had for any other 
financial commitments  they may have  had at what could be a difficult time.
Ive also thought about what  Mr B and Miss B have said about  the fact that they could have 
relied on their family to help with their mortgage repayments. Again, I dont think this meant 
that the PPI wasnt  useful  for them. While Mr B and Miss Bs family may have wanted to 
help, their financial situation could change and so this help couldnt  always be relied  on.
A mortgage is a large long term financial commitment. If repayments arent met, borrowers 
stand to lose their home. So overall, I think Mr B and Miss B could have found the policy 
useful if they ever fell on hard times and I dont think that any better information would have 
put them off from taking out the policy.
Ive thought about everything Mr B and Miss B have said - including what they said about the 
fact that only Miss B signed the direct debit mandate and that the copy  of mortgage  offer 
wasnt signed and dated. But these points  dont change  my decision.  For the reasons Ive 
already stated, Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr B and Miss B agreed to take out 
the PPI because they wanted the benefit  of the cover.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr B and Miss B paid on their PPI  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
Ref: DRN53953773NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr B and Miss Bs PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how NatWest has been working this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr B and Miss Bs commission  was 
less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them  about 
the commission  so I dont think NatWest treated them  unfairly. This means it doesnt need 
to pay Mr B and Miss B back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 October  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5395377