K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains about the charges  Volkswagen  Financial Services  (UK) Limited  (VWFS)  
have asked him to pay to refurbish a car at the end of a hire period. He also says they didnt 
collect the vehicle  when they said they would.
background 
Mr S took receipt of a new car in February 2016. He financed the deal through  a two year 
hire agreement with VWFS.
At the end of the hire period he made arrangements with VWFS  to collect  and inspect the 
car. But they didnt  show  up so Mr S had to drop the car off at the dealership  where an 
inspection was arranged.
Mr S was disappointed to receive a bill from VWFS for refurbishment of the car as they said 
it hadnt been returned in a satisfactory condition. They noted there was a crack to the front 
bumper and a scratch on a couple of the doors that had penetrated through  to the primer.
Mr S complained to them as he said there  was no damage when  the car was dropped  off 
and any damage  must have occurred whilst it was waiting to be inspected. He provided 
some photographs that hed taken  before  leaving  the car with them.
VWFS agreed that damage to one of the doors hadnt been  noted in the original inspection 
so they agreed  to waive it and they also agreed  to reduce part of the charge for the 
damaged bumper. The final bill was £386.92. 
But Mr S still disagreed so he referred  his complaint to this service and our adjudicator 
provided his opinion. He agreed  that VWFS  missed the appointment theyd made to collect 
and inspect the car. So he thought they should  compensate Mr S for the inconvenience this 
had caused and he suggested  they should  therefore  remove  £86.92 from the bill.
He explained  that the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association  (BVRLA) provided the 
industry guidelines on what should be considered fair wear and tear when returning a car at 
the end of a lease. So he considered the pictures  in the inspection  report against  those 
guidelines and he also took into account the photographs provided  by Mr S. He thought 
there was evidence in both sets of photographs of damage to the front bumper that was 
outside of the fair wear and tear guidance and was therefore chargeable. 
But Mr S disagreed and he asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr S so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN59124902Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire agreement. The hire agreement is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.
refurbishment charges
The terms of Mr Ss finance agreement said that the car should be returned  in good repair 
and condition except  for fair wear and tear
As the adjudicator has explained, its the BVRLA  who provide the guidance  on what  should  
be considered  fair wear  and tear when cars are returned at the end of a hire period. 
So Ive reviewed the photographs provided by the company who inspected Mr Ss car and 
those provided by Mr S and Ive compared them to the BVRLA guidance. 
I can see a crack to the bumper on the inspection  report  and although  Mr Ss pictures are 
taken from a distance I think, when theyre zoomed in to, there  does appear to be signs of 
damage.
Ive reviewed what the BVRLA guidance says and it doesnt seem  to comment  on whether a 
cracked bumper is beyond normal wear and tear. But I dont think a reasonable person 
would think this kind of damage was normal and I therefore think  VWFS have been fair when  
making a charge.
Theres also a scratch to the door that I can see has penetrated to the white  primer and I 
therefore think thats chargeable as the BVRLA  guidance says:
scratches smaller  than 25mm are acceptable if the primer or bare metal is not showing
the collection
Its clear that the car wasnt collected when  it shouldve been and I agree in the 
circumstances that VWFS  should  provide  some  compensation for the inconvenience this 
caused Mr S. In the circumstances I agree with the adjudicator that a reduction in the bill of 
£86.92 is fair. That leaves  an outstanding bill of £300.
Ref: DRN59124903my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to reduce the outstanding refurbishment bill to £300 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused  by their failure to collect  and inspect 
the vehicle when arranged.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5912490