K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) treated her when 
she was looking to repay her mortgage  account. 
In particular, Miss M says Halifax misadvised  about voluntarily surrendering  the property and 
that shes now left with a significant shortfall debt because the property was sold for less 
than it was worth.
background
In November 2017, Miss M and her then partner purchased a property with the help of a 
mortgage from Halifax. Miss M has told us that shortly afterward, the relationship broke 
down and she was the victim  of violent and threatening  behaviour which  continued over the 
months that followed.
Miss M discussed the situation with Halifax in January 2018,  leading to her and her ex-
partner completing  a Surrender of Keys Application the following month.  So the property 
was voluntarily surrendered to Halifax, who would then handle the sale of the property to 
repay the mortgage balance.
The property was sold in July 2018.  But the sale proceeds werent enough to clear  the 
outstanding mortgage balance. Halifax has subsequently sought repayment  of the remaining 
amount (the shortfall) from Miss M, ultimately referring the matter to a debt collection 
agency.
Miss M says that she only went ahead  with the voluntary surrender on the basis that Halifax 
would get the best price for the property  but it failed to do that. The sale price was lower 
than the amount it was bought for just a few months  earlier. She says that Halifax also 
declined her request  to sell the property to a company whod offered a higher cash amount 
previously. So she doesnt think Halifax should  pursue her for the full shortfall amount. 
Miss M is also unhappy with how Halifax dealt  with her complaint.
Halifax says it handled the surrender and sale of the property correctly. It had explained to 
Miss M that the process would give her less control  and could  cost more than arranging a 
private sale, and that she would  be liable  for any shortfall that remained after the sale.  Shed 
understood all that and still wanted to proceed. It does, however, accept that it had failed to 
recognise when  Miss M had first raised her concerns as it misspelt her surname  in its 
correspondence  so it offered her £50 to make up for this. 
Miss Ms complaint was initially reviewed by one of our adjudicators, who didnt  think Halifax  
had done anything wrong. He didnt think it had misadvised or misinformed Miss M, and 
thought it had taken reasonable steps in trying to obtain the best sale price.  This included 
obtaining two valuations of the property, marketing the property in line with those figures and 
ultimately accepting  the highest of the four offers that were received. And he thought  the £50 
Halifax had already paid was fair compensation for any upset caused by its administrative 
errors.
Ref: DRN59227832Miss M didnt accept our adjudicators view.  She maintained that the property was sold for 
lower than it was worth,  and that Halifax hadnt  warned her that the fact it had been taken 
into possession would  affect its value. She said shed  felt she had no other option than to 
surrender the property,  particularly in view of threats shed continued to receive from her ex-
partner  but that shed not fully understood the implications of doing so, given her 
vulnerability at the time. So she asked for an ombudsman  to review her complaint, and it 
was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our decisions are published,  so I have to ensure that there  isnt anything in this decision 
which could lead to Miss M being  identified. As a result, Ive omitted certain details  such as 
the figures involved  and have concentrated my findings on the issues which I consider 
most relevant to how Ive reached  my decision. No discourtesy is intended by that and Id 
like to reassure Miss M that I have considered everything that shes  told us, which  I 
appreciate wont  have been  easy for her given  all thats happened.
The Surrender of Keys application
Miss M says that her decision to proceed  with the voluntary surrender of the property was 
based on misinformation. So Ive looked at what Halifax told her about  the process before 
she went ahead.
Halifaxs internal  notes of contact about the account show  that Miss M called to discuss 
surrendering the property  in late January 2018,  because she and her ex-partner had decided 
against a private  sale (on the basis that Miss M would be unable  to maintain the mortgage 
payments on her own in the meantime).  The adviser  noted that they advised  Miss M that 
costs associated with voluntary  surrender  could  impact  the level of equity in the property  
and that if there was any shortfall after a sale, she (and her ex-partner) would still have to 
pay it.
It was necessary for both Miss M and her ex-partner to complete a Voluntary Surrender  
Agreement for the process to go ahead. That was duly sent out to them  by post.  Along with 
other key pieces of information, the agreement  reiterated that Miss M would be liable to 
repay any shortfall if the property was sold at a loss. It also advised that Halifax  would  
instruct a debt collector or solicitor to recover such an amount. Miss M signed and returned 
the agreement  to the bank in mid-February. So while  Im conscious that Miss M had a lot to 
contend with at this time, this at least means that she had some time to review and reflect on 
what the agreement  entailed  with the option of seeking independent advice  before 
deciding to go ahead.  
Looking at the information given  to Miss M over the phone and in writing,  I think Halifax  
explained the surrender  process  clearly  enough.  It wasnt known at that time that the 
property would be sold at a loss  but Halifax gave an appropriate warning that if it was, 
Miss M would still be liable for the shortfall.  I dont think Halifax  needed to warn Miss M that 
the fact the property had been taken into possession  could affect  its value  particularly  as 
theres no way of knowing that would be the case,  or to what extent. The bank still had a 
responsibility to achieve  the best possible price,  and theres  nothing  to say that a private  sale 
wouldve yielded a better deal.
Ref: DRN59227833Miss M says she was also discouraged from pursuing a sale of the property  to a third party  
company by Halifax branch staff. It seems  she was told that for the sale to go ahead, the 
property would need to be transferred into her sole name  something  she wouldnt be able 
to arrange with her ex-partner. Its difficult to know exactly what  Miss M asked and how 
Halifax answered now  but on the face of it, it wouldve been correct for the bank to say that 
Miss M wouldnt  have been able to arrange  a sale without the consent of her ex-partner. So I 
dont think theres enough  here to suggest that Miss M was misinformed.
I understand that with everything  else that she was going through at the time, Miss M felt she 
had little choice  but to surrender the property to Halifax and no reason to suspect that it 
wouldnt reach enough to settle  the mortgage  debt. But I cant see that was down to any 
pressure or misinformation from the bank, or that it ought to have done anything  differently in 
the circumstances.
The sale and shortfall 
As noted above,  Halifax had to get the best price for the property once it had taken  
possession. But it had to balance that with the need  to arrange a sale reasonably quickly, 
not least to prevent further costs and interest  being  incurred  (and added  to the mortgage 
balance).
We would  expect lenders  to instruct  at least two valuations on the property, one of which  
should be done by an independent  party. I can see that Halifax  did that here.  Those 
valuations were consistent  in fact they produced the same  projected market value. I know 
Miss M questions the valuation here,  as shed paid more for the property just a few months 
previously and received  a higher valuation  from a different estate agent when initially trying 
to arrange a private sale. But I think  it was reasonable for the bank  to rely on the reports it 
obtained, being produced  by independent  experts.
Halifax duly marketed the property for sale at the valuation proposed  by both the surveyor  
and estate agent it had instructed. But it didnt receive any offers  for that amount. This goes 
some way to endorsing  the reliability of the valuations  provided to the bank. Over the four 
months in which  the property was on the market,  the bank only received four offers  all 
below the listed  price. It ultimately accepted  the highest of these, while relisting  the property 
with a revised price  to try and encourage a higher  offer before contracts were exchanged. 
Given the apparent  level of interest  over the time it allowed for a sale,  I think  it was 
reasonable for Halifax to accept the highest offer it received, even  though this wasnt  enough 
to cover the outstanding mortgage balance.
So taking all of this into account, I dont think Halifax did anything wrong in how it valued or 
marketed the property  or that it failed  to take appropriate steps  to achieve the best price  
possible in the circumstances.
Administrative errors
When Miss M told the debt collection agency  instructed by Halifax that shed raised a 
complaint, it was unable  to verify  this  as Halifax said there  was no record  of it. The bank  
accepts that was a mistake, which seems to have come about  due to the incorrect  spelling of 
Miss Ms surname. 
Ref: DRN59227834I appreciate this will have  caused Miss M further  concern.  But it was rectified fairly swiftly. So 
I think the £50 already  offered by Halifax represents  a fair way to put things right.
While the complaint has been with us, Miss M has also highlighted a couple  of other 
administrative issues, including an error in her address  in correspondence received from the 
debt collection agency. But I cant look at any new issues within  this complaint  Miss M 
would need to raise  these  additional  concerns with the bank in the first instance, so that it 
has a chance  to respond before we investigate.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 January 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5922783