K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2005. Miss D says Capital One (Europe)  plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ds case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Capital One has sent us a copy of Miss Ds credit  card agreement. This included a section  
on PPI, with a box to be ticked and a space  for Miss D to sign if she wanted to take the PPI 
out. And the box has been ticked and Miss D has signed in the space.
Based on this, I think Capital One made  it clear  to Miss D that she had a choice about the 
PPI. And that she chose  to take it, knowing  she didnt have to.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss D, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure she got the information she needed to decide  if the PPI 
was right for her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss D about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the main  things the policy  didnt cover, such  as pre-
existing medical conditions. And shes told us she didnt  have  any sick pay or other  means 
she couldve  used to make her repayments  if she wasnt earning. So the policy would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong.
Miss D has said she had two jobs at the time of the sale, so she wouldnt have been able to 
make a claim for unemployment on the policy. But, from what shes told us about her two 
jobs, she would still have  been able to claim on the policy if shed lost her main job. So I still 
think the policy would have been useful  for her. It also looks  like it was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put Miss D off taking  it out.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Miss D.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss D because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss D about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell 
Miss D, that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN56549512my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss D.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Miss D any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5654951