K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained about Calpe Insurance Company Limiteds  handling of his car 
insurance policy. 
Reference to Calpe includes their agents.
background
Mr As car was insured with Calpe  in 2016  when he was involved in an accident with another 
car. Calpe decided that Mr A was at fault because he intentionally caused the accident. In 
2016, Mr A brought his complaint to our service about Calpes decision. But our service  
decided that Calpes decision was reasonable.
Because Calpe  had decided Mr A had caused  the accident, they refused him indemnity 
under the policy.  That meant Calpe wouldnt pay for the damage to the other drivers car or 
any claim for injury. Mr A had whats known as an all sections excess of £3,000,  which 
meant that for any claim under the policy he was required to pay the first £3,000.  And as the 
damage to his car was below that amount he couldnt claim for his own damage under the 
policy.
The other driver claimed against  Mr As policy. Even  though Calpe said they would refuse 
indemnity, they paid for the other  drivers damage  because at the time of the accident  they 
were Mr As insurer  and they wanted  to mitigate  costs from escalating. Calpe incurred total 
costs of just over £5,300 in both dealing  with the repairs  to the other drivers car and 
because Calpe were  a party to legal proceedings when the other driver took Mr A to court 
claiming for his injury. Mr A and the other driver  settled out of court  after Mr A paid the other 
driver part of his injury  claim. This current complaint  has arisen because Calpe have asked 
Mr A to pay the costs  they incurred.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr As complaint. He felt that Calpe hadnt dealt with    
Mr A fairly. Calpe had said that because they had refused Mr A indemnity under his policy 
they dealt with the other drivers claim for the damage to his car under the Road Traffic Act 
1988 (RTA). Our investigator  explained that for Calpe to deal with the claim under the RTA 
they had to first void (treat  as though it never  came  into existence) the policy.  But as Calpe 
didnt void the policy they couldnt  have dealt with the claim under the RTA, so our 
investigator said they did so as Mr As insurer under his policy.  Our investigator therefore  
suggested that Calpe should  stop pursuing  Mr A for their costs and that they should also 
reimburse him for the settlement he paid the other driver for the injury claim. He said Mr A 
was only responsible to pay the £3,000  all sections excess. Our investigator also 
recommended Calpe pay interest  and £100 compensation. As Calpe didnt agree with our 
investigator, the complaint  was passed to me to decide.
In issued a provisional decision on 9 June  2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Mr A, but Im not intending  to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr A has made  a number of detailed points and Ive considered all 
those very carefully.  But, in this decision,  I will focus on what  I consider to be the key 
issues.
Ref: DRN50618042Its the case that Calpe  didnt  void Mr As policy. And they paid the other  drivers  
claim for the damage to his car. Under  the RTA an insurer can recover their costs 
from a policyholder, as Calpe  want  to do, if the insurer settled a claim under the RTA. 
But under the RTA an insurer  only has to settle  an unsatisfied court judgement. That 
means if the claim doesnt go to court, the RTA doesnt strictly apply.
In Mr As case, Calpe  settled the other drivers  claim for his damage because Calpe 
decided the accident was Mr As fault.  So, the other  drivers  claim didnt go to court 
and there  was no court judgement. But I think Calpes  actions  were  reasonable. 
Thats because on the evidence available and the advice  of their solicitor  they felt if 
the matter went to court the other driver would have succeeded in his claim and 
would have obtained a court judgement in his favour. And if that had happened Calpe 
would be liable to pay the claim. So, if Calpe had waited for that process to take its 
course it would  have prolonged the process and also increased  the costs  that Calpe 
would almost certainly have had to have paid. And Calpe in turn would have sought 
to recover those increased costs from Mr A which they are now trying  to do. So, I 
think Calpes actions  reduced the potential  financial liability for Mr A. It follows  that, 
while Calpe didnt  strictly  settle the claim under the RTA,  I think its reasonable for 
them to ask Mr A to pay their costs.
Thats because the policy says Calpe will provide cover  under this policy subject to 
persons seeking  cover  observing the terms & conditions of this policy. That means 
Mr A must comply  with the terms and conditions  of the policy.  The policy  goes onto to 
say that Calpe will pay for injury or damage claimed by a third party that was caused 
by Mr A while he was driving.  But the policy goes on to say:
Except insofar as is necessary to meet  the requirements of the Road Traffic 
Act, the Underwriters  shall not be liable for8 Any loss, damage, death or 
injury arising as a result  of racing against  another motorist, or a deliberate  act 
caused by You or any other driver  insured to drive  Your Car. [The underlined 
text is my emphasis]
So, under the policy,  because Calpe  concluded that the accident  was deliberately 
caused by Mr A, I think they were entitled  withdraw indemnity. That is they were  no 
longer providing  cover  for the accident. But as they had paid the claim to the third 
party  to prevent  costs  from rising before they became liable for those under the 
RTA  I think its reasonable that they asked  Mr A to reimburse them the costs  they 
incurred. It follows that I also dont think that Calpe  are required to reimburse the 
amount Mr A paid to settle the other  drivers injury claim. Im therefore not intending 
to uphold this complaint  as I feel Calpe have acted reasonably  in the circumstances 
and in line with the policy terms.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Calpe didnt provide any comments.   
Mr A said:
He didnt deliberately cause the accident.
The other driver was at fault for the accident because he didnt keep a safe distance 
as is required under the Highway Code.
Calpe  settled the other drivers  claim while Mr A was still insured.
Calpe  didnt settle the claim under  the RTA, so he shouldnt be liable for the costs.
Ref: DRN50618043my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. But I will respond to Mr As comments as follows:
Mr A made a separate complaint about  Calpes decision to hold him responsible for the 
accident. Our service  dealt with that complaint in 2016. I will therefore  not comment  on the 
issue that was dealt with in that complaint, namely that we felt Calpes decision Mr A had 
deliberately caused the accident and their decision to settle  the claim were reasonable.
As for why I feel its reasonable for Calpe to pursue Mr A for their costs, I have dealt with that 
in detail in my provisional decision, which Ive reproduced above. So, I wont  repeat it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2020.
  
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5061804