K820x#14complaint
Mrs D says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mrs D bought the policy in 1997 at the same  time as taking out a credit card in store. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ds complaint because:
 The credit  agreement included  a box which was ticked to indicate  Mrs D wanted  PPI. 
Mrs D says PPI wasnt discussed and she just signed the form which  the salesperson 
had completed.  However, below the PPI section there was a box for another  type of 
insurance, where NO was written. This suggests to me that its likely that both types 
of insurance were discussed and the form reflects the decisions Mrs D made.  Im also 
mindful that Mrs D couldve checked  the form before signing it to confirm the 
information on it was correct. So I think FICL made Mrs D aware that she had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. The sale was over 20 years ago, 
so Id understand if Mrs D didnt  have a clear or accurate memory of what  happened. 
Especially given  she had a number of store cards  that were  sold at different times. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs D so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs D doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. While she had some sick pay this 
wouldnt have lasted  long. And the support of her partner wouldve depended on their 
circumstances at the time so couldnt be guaranteed. So I dont think  better  information  
wouldve stopped  her buying  it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ds comments.  But these points dont change my conclusion.
Ref: DRN53098732my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5309873