K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1995 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr S says Santander  UK Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Santander had to make Mr S aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before 
adding the policy to his mortgage.  There is limited paperwork available from the time the PPI 
was sold, but this isnt unusual  considering the time thats passed since  the sale took place, 
and businesses arent required to keep this type of information indefinitely. Because  of the 
lack of information, I dont have enough  to say that Mr S wasnt  given a choice  in taking the 
PPI. And I cant uphold his complaint for this reason.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr S so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
Mr S has told us he was entitled  to generous  sick pay from his employer at the time he 
applied for the PPI and had 12 months  or more  of other means that he could have relied on, 
so didnt need the policy. But the PPI would have  paid out in addition  to Mr Ss sick pay and 
for longer than he would  have received full pay. It would  also have allowed Mr S to use his 
other means  towards  any other  expenses  he may have had while not working.
 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ss circumstances at the time he wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to, or limits  on the policy, and he seems to have had a need for the cover. So
I think it was right for him.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for him if something went wrong.  It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - including that he was pressured into taking the 
policy.  But pressure can be subjective  and for me to uphold a complaint based on this I 
would need to see persuasive  evidence  that this is likely to be what happened,  which  I 
havent seen.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr S paid on his PPI  and whether Santander 
treated him unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr Ss PPI was less than half of what  he paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how Santander  has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Ss commission  was less than half the cost of the 
PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about the commission  so I dont 
think Santander treated  him unfairly.  This means it doesnt need  to pay Mr S back  any of the 
commission he paid for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN59799672my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5979967