K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Secure Trust Bank  Plc wouldnt accept the rejection of a car which  they 
supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr B under  a hire purchase agreement  with Secure Trust in May 
2018. The car was supplied  by car dealership (T) at a cost of £9,500.  He paid a £600 
deposit and financed the rest through a hire purchase agreement with Secure Trust. The car 
was around six years  old and had done  95,921 miles when Mr B collected it. Mr B also 
bought a separate maintenance and breakdown plan, provided by a different company (R), 
and which  was financed  through  a separate credit agreement.
Mr B complained to T about the service hed received on the day he collected the car. And 
that, because  of the length of time he was there, he couldnt drive  all the way home and had 
to stay in a hotel  overnight. A couple  of days later Mr B contacted T again. He said that the 
cars gearbox was stiff, it was difficult to change gears and the gearbox would rattle  when in 
third gear. Around the same time he complained to Secure Trust that:
the rear door handles  had been  engraved/scratched
the gearbox was stiff, and it was hard to select third gear
the car was shuddering  and swayed when driven  on the motorway
there was rust on the wheel brake callipers
T offered  to inspect the car, but Mr B asked for the car be inspected at a local garage as he 
lived a three  hour drive  away from T. So T agreed  to pay a local to Mr B, manufacturer 
approved garage, for a diagnostic report. The car was inspected on 22 June 2018, at which  
point it had done 97,232  miles. The report said:
Carry out initial consultation  gearbox would need  to be removed to inspect clutch  
& flywheel  also parking  light bulb needs  replacing.  Recommend  alignement  [sic] is 
checked for steering fault also non approved  tyres fitted, Surface corrosion to brakes 
including calipers,  hub & discs.
T offered  to either arrange for the car to be collected  so they could  remove and inspect the 
clutch gearbox; or to arrange for another (non-manufacturer approved garage) to further  
inspect the car. But Mr B wanted this to be done by the local garage whod already inspected 
it. And he said that, if T wasnt willing  to arrange this, he wanted to reject  the car. T said 
theyd inspect the car and let Mr B know if itd allow him to reject it. They also said if they 
didnt accept rejection,  theyd  complete  any repairs and pay for the car to be further 
inspected by the original garage  to confirm the repairs were satisfactory.
Mr B arranged for R to collect  the car on 26 June 2018. They recorded there were several 
diagnostic codes present and delivered  the car to T. T carried  out an extended road test and 
visual checks. But they couldnt replicate the mechanical faults Mr B had reported.  But they 
agreed that a bulb needed changing, and that there was some  surface corrosion on the 
brakes (which they considered normal for a six-year-old vehicle that had driven  over 97,000  
miles). They  added there was no swaying at all when the car was driven at 70 miles per 
hour.
Ref: DRN57093362T offered  a free four-wheel alignment and replacement of the bulb. But they said Mr B 
couldnt reject the car and asked him to collect it. Mr B didnt accept this, and wasnt  willing  
to pick the car up, so it was left with T. And he told Secure Trust he wanted to reject  the car.
Secure Trust didnt  think there was enough evidence  to allow  Mr B to reject the car. But they 
offered to arrange  an independent inspection. Mr B declined,  because he didnt think  Secure 
Trust would  complete sufficient diagnostic checks. He asked for the car to be inspected  by a 
specific electronic specialist and said this would  cost £650. Secure Trust told Mr B they 
thought the quote was excessive and would  need a detailed breakdown  of what  this 
inspection would cover  before  agreeing  to it.
Mr B provided the requested breakdown. He also said the auto electrician had told him Rs 
diagnostic report had a "Crash Error Flagged"  which could mean the car had been in an 
accident. Mr B also said the gear-selector fault was logged  on the manufacturers system as 
a recall item and should have been visible  to T prior to the sale of the car. 
T investigated Mr Bs complaint and didnt uphold  it. But, as a gesture of goodwill, they 
offered to take back the car and unwind the agreement. Mr B wanted to know  why no 
admission of liability had been made regarding the faults. He also said that, if he were to 
accept the offer, then no adverse information about the agreement should  be recorded on 
his credit file. And T should refund him:
the DVLA number  plate retention fee of £80.00
the £493.84 cost of his insurance and any administration  charges
the road tax hed paid
the £200 hed spent  to tint car windows
£30 for the cost of the hotel he used after collecting the car
the £600 deposit hed paid
all the money hed paid towards the finance agreement  for the car
all the money paid hed towards the breakdown cover
any administration fees that may apply
T explained  the offer included a refund  of deposit,  refund  of instalments paid towards  the 
agreement and instalments paid towards the breakdown cover. They  also offered an 
additional £100 in respect of other costs incurred.
Secure Trust issued  their final response in July 2018 and said there wasnt  enough evidence  
to say there  was a fault with the car. They  pointed out theyd offered to arrange an 
independent inspection of the car, which Mr B had declined. And they said the offer made by 
T was fair and agreed to unwind the agreement if Mr B accepted  it.
Mr B was unhappy with the offers made  and brought his complaint to us. And, because Mr B 
hadnt accepted the offers,  Secure Trust continued to ask him to make payments  towards  
the agreement. Mr B tried to accept  the offer after the deadline set by T, and this wasnt 
accepted. Secure Trust told Mr B if he no longer wanted the car, he could voluntarily 
terminate the agreement,  voluntarily surrender the car or part exchange it.
Mr B contacted DVLA to transfer registration  of the car to Secure Trust. But didnt tell Secure 
Trust he wanted to take up any of the options it had provided him. No further payments were 
made towards the agreement and Secure Trust defaulted Mr Bs account in November  2018.  
The car, which had been left at Ts premises, was sold it at auction for less than the 
outstanding credit, so there  was an amount outstanding for Mr B to pay.
Ref: DRN57093363Our investigator explained we could only look at Ts actions  as a credit  broker and couldnt 
consider whether they should allow him to reject  the vehicle. So, Mr B asked  her to consider 
whether Secure Trust should have allowed him to reject the car and compensate  him in line 
with his request  to T.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Bs complaint. She concluded  that, although one inspection 
had suggested  the gear change was stiff, there was no evidence  this was due to a fault 
rather than wear and tear. She also explained that the diagnostic report  provided by R didnt 
confirm what the diagnostic codes meant or that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Secure Trust accepted her assessment, but Mr B didnt. Mr B made a number of points in 
response, in summary he said:
he was able to obtain three separate reports from reputable companies and the 
manufacturer which all describe similar faults
hed supplied a manufacturer recall notice which corresponded with the dashboard 
warning light, and this was recorded  at the point of sale
My colleague issued a provisional decision on 1 July 2020,  where  they explained their 
intention to uphold  the complaint. In that decision my colleague said:
This complaint is about a regulated hire purchase agreement. We can consider complaints 
against the supplier   Secure Trust - about the quality of goods under  this type of 
arrangement.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law. The 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  is relevant  to this complaint. This says that when Mr B got 
the car, the supplier had a responsibility to make  sure it was of satisfactory  quality. 
Satisfactory quality is what  a reasonable person would  expect  taking into account  things  
like the cars  age, price, mileage, description  and other relevant factors.  In this instance the 
car cost £9,500,  was around 6 years old and had completed 95,921 miles when  Mr B 
collected it. The price  of the car was much  lower than it would have been if it were  bought  
new and the recorded mileage was high. With this in mind,  I think it is fair to say that a 
reasonable person would expect that components of the car would already have suffered 
some wear  and tear. And the car could require maintenance shortly  after it was acquired 
and/or serviceable  parts may need  to be replaced.
The independent inspection by the manufacturer  garage suggests  that the gearbox was stiff 
but inspection  of the external components of the gearbox seemed ok. It suggested  the only 
way forward would be to remove the gearbox to inspect both the clutch & flywheel. This was 
never done. But I have spoken  with the garage,  it explained that it couldnt say for certain  but 
it was most likely that the clutch  or flywheel needed  to be replaced,  this would probably have 
been due to wear  and tear. But it went on to explain  that it thought the issue was probably 
present when Mr B collected the vehicle  and had got worse  in the time hed been in 
possession of it.
It said there had been no recall for clutch issues on this model of car and what Mr B had 
provided was most likely a repair instruction for cars of that model, but it had only been 
recorded as affecting four cars and the manufacturer  wouldnt have covered the cost of such  
repairs.
Ref: DRN57093364Based on what Ive seen  so far, I think there was an issue with the gearbox,  and this was 
most likely caused by the clutch or flywheel. I think a reasonable person would expect that a 
clutch or flywheel may need to be replaced at the mileage completed by Mr Bs car.
But Ive also thought about  how soon  after he collected the car that Mr B experienced 
problems. He collected the car on 18 May 2018, and he emailed T on 24 May 2018 to raise 
concerns about  the stiffness when  changing  gears. Given  Mr T had only been in possession  
of the car for a few days this would suggest that the issue with the gear change was most 
likely present and developing when Mr B collected the car as suggested by the manufacturer  
approved garage.
The diagnostics completed by the manufacturer approved garage  shows the gear selector  
lever indicator warning  was logged when the car had completed 96,775 miles. The fault 
message reads Gear  selector-lever indicator. Malfunction. Engaged gear cannot be 
displayed correctly. Use caution. Consult nearest service center.  
So, Mr B had completed almost 1,000 miles before the warning light came  on. So, I dont 
agree this particular  fault was clearly evident when he collected  the car. But I do think there 
was a problem  with the gears developing and its most  likely  whatever repair  the car required 
was required when  Mr B collected  the car. 
I think a reasonable  person would expect  that a car that had completed the mileage  Mr Bs 
had would likely need some serviceable parts (like the clutch  or flywheel)  repaired/replaced  
shortly after purchase.  But I dont  think  a reasonable person would expect  a car that costs 
£9,500 to need parts repairing/replacing  straight away, as happened in this case. So, I dont 
think the car was of satisfactory quality when  it was supplied to Mr B.
I dont think theres enough evidence to show that the other  issues raised by Mr B were 
faults rather than the sort of normal day to day maintenance  that would be required for a car 
of a similar age and mileage to Mr Bs. But I do think it was concerning that Rs diagnostic 
highlighted so many  potential issues and I havent  seen  an explanation of what  these meant 
or that they didnt show there  were  other  faults  with the car.
I appreciate Secure Trust did offer to arrange an independent inspection  of the car and this 
was declined by Mr B as he wanted it to be inspected by a different company. The cost 
difference was significant, and I dont think the reasons Mr B had provided for wanting  the 
inspection completed  by an auto electrician were  enough to justify the difference in price.
So I dont  think it was unreasonable for Secure Trust to decline Mr Bs request. But I do think 
that an independent inspection had identified faults  with the car which  needed to be 
addressed. And Secure  Trust could have arranged an additional inspection before selling the 
car but didnt.
Having very carefully  considered all the evidence  which has been presented in this 
complaint, although  it is finely  balanced, I think its more likely than not that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B. 
what should Secure  Trust do to put things  right?
Because Im satisfied  the issue Mr B experienced meant the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality 
Secure Trust needs  to do something to put that right. The CRA provides the consumer with 
Ref: DRN57093365the right to have goods repaired if faulty.  But as the car has now been sold this remedy isnt 
possible anymore. So, I think Secure Trust should treat the agreement  as though Mr B 
rejected the car at that point instead, it should  refund his deposit plus interest  at 8% simple 
per annum.  And update  his credit file accordingly.
Although there was clearly a problem with the car, I think Mr B was able to use it between 
collection and the car being inspected by the independent garage. So, I think  its fair he pays  
for that months use.
T did previously offer to let Mr B reject  the car, But Mr B wanted a number of other  costs  
refunded too so didnt accept Ts offer. As he was using the car, I think its fair he pays for 
the roadside assistance policy for that month  too and the corresponding insurance and road 
tax payments.
An email  from Mr Bs insurer show  he paid £2,088.78 for annual  cover and an additional  
£35.99 for additional insurances. As I said above, I think Mr B should be required to pay for 
the first months cover, the insurances were  in place and Mr B was able to benefit from them  
if required. But after that he wasnt in possession of the car and wasnt able to benefit from 
the insurance. I dont  think  it would  have been  reasonable for him to cancel the policy  
straight away as he was still responsible for the car. So, Ive thought about whether it was 
reasonable for Mr B to leave the car with T when  he did and whether its fair for him to pay 
the associated  insurance costs.
The independent garage had determined there was a problem with the car which Mr B was 
entitled to have repaired. I dont  think it was unreasonable for Mr B to not collect  the car until 
it had been repaired. 
So, I dont think its fair for Mr B to have to cover the costs of insuring the car after hed left it 
with T as he didnt have  the benefit of the cover he paid for. Secure Trust should provide Mr 
B a pro-rata refund for the insurance  cover he paid for between  19 June 2018 and when the 
policy was cancelled on 26 September 2018. This should  include the additional insurance 
products Mr B purchased replacement car cover at £21.00  and the Motor Legal  Protection 
for £14.99, as well as any cancellation fee Mr B was charged.  Mr Bs insurer has confirmed 
in total he received a refund of £1,259.02 when he cancelled the policy but Ive not seen  
evidence to show whether or not a cancellation  fee was applied.
For the same reasons  as I explained  above,  I also think any payments Mr B made for road 
tax or breakdown cover after the first month  should  be refunded on a pro-rata  basis.  Subject 
to Mr B providing Secure  Trust  with evidence to show how much  he paid and what  refunds 
he received.
I havent seen  any confirmation to show exactly when Mr B changed number plates on the 
car, but I can see that his insurer charged him for changing the registration on 15 June 2018. 
So, I suspect this was the day it was changed.  I think it would be unreasonable  for me to ask 
Secure Trust to cover this cost because  it wasnt necessary to be completed when it was. Mr 
B knew there was an issue with the car that required further investigation  and I think he had 
a responsibility to mitigate any potential loss. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask 
Secure Trust to refund Mr B any costs he incurred for changing  his number plate.
I havent seen  any evidence which confirms how much Mr B paid for tinting the windows or 
when this occurred  so at this stage,  Im not asking Secure Trust to refund this. Mr B has also 
asked for the cost of the hotel he paid for when collected the car to be refunded.  As this 
Ref: DRN57093366wasnt incurred as a result of the quality of the car its not something, Im going to ask 
Secure Trust to pay.
Ive also considered the impact that this matter has had on Mr B. I understand he would 
have found the whole  matter stressful to deal with and would have been particularly 
concerned after the car was repossessed. But I think the actions Secure Trust initially  took 
were reasonable. It clearly set out what Mr Bs options were  and offered to arrange an 
independent inspection of the car when T didnt agree there was a fault with the gearbox. It 
also made clear the consequences if Mr B didnt make payments towards  the agreement  
and/or didnt accepted Ts offer to allow him to return the car. So, Im not going to ask 
Secure Trust to pay any additional compensation in this respect.
Subject to any further evidence I receive, Im minded to uphold this complaint. To put things 
right Secure Trust Bank Plc should:  
refund  Mr Bs deposit of £600;
provide pro-rata  refunds for the costs  Mr B incurred for insurance, roadside 
assistance and road tax, plus any administrative  costs for cancelling  early,  less any 
refunds received for early  cancellation  (subject to evidence). 
pay 8% simple interest on the above  payments from the date of payment  until the 
date of settlement*;
re-work the agreement as though the car had been rejected and the agreement 
ended in June  2018. Meaning Mr Bs not liable for any payments under the 
agreement other  than the first month and that his credit  file is updated accordingly.
* If Secure Trust Bank Plc considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr B how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Mr B a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Responses
Secure Trust agreed with my colleagues  recommendations, and to update Mr Bs credit file 
to reflect  this. But they didnt agree with the payment of interest. They  thought this should  
only be paid from the point of sale until 27 July 2018  the date of their final response  letter.
Mr B didnt agree with my colleagues recommendation. He thought he should  be reimbursed 
in full for the maintenance  and breakdown plan he had with R, because T had benefitted 
from this when it was used to recover his car back to their showroom.
Mr B explained why hed changed the number plate  on the car when he took possession of 
it, and how this was linked  to his medical  issues. Hes said that the changing of number 
plate is a necessary  adaptation requirement  for easing and preventing otherwise stressful 
day to day inconvenient situations which would otherwise be overwhelmingly frustrating. 
Hes also explained how, because of the disagreement with Secure Trust, he couldnt afford 
to purchase a car that he could transfer his number plate onto until November  2019,  when 
he obtained a car through the Motability Scheme. And this has affected my disability on a 
day to day basis and worsened my health conditions notably.
In respect of the car itself,  Mr B has explained why he had the windows tinted, and that he 
paid for this in cash to benefit from a heavily discounted sale price.  And he thinks Secure 
Trust should cover the cost of this work.
Ref: DRN57093367Mr B also believes that Secure Trust should pay him compensation for the emotional 
disturbance hes suffered  as a result of this experience and the way he was communicated  
with. He feels it was Secure Trusts decision not to have  the additional inspection completed,  
and he felt the offer made by T was unfair  if he accepted this it meant he wouldnt have the 
right to then take his complaint to us for investigation. And he wasnt happy that the offer 
was made  without any admission of fault.
Mr B feels  that Secure Trust couldve done more to mediate the outcome with T, so it 
wouldnt cause him excessive stress and financial difficulties. Especially given his medical 
issues (which  he has provided proof  of).
Because my colleague no longer works  for the Financial Ombudsman Service,  this 
complaint has been passed to me to review the responses received, and to issue a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased to see that Secure Trust mostly  agreed with my colleagues recommendations. 
But I dont agree with them that the interest  should be limited  to the period from the point of 
sale to their final response letter. Mr B has the right not to agree with the Final  Response  
Letter, and to have his complaint considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service. And he 
shouldnt be disadvantaged because of this, even if the outcome from our investigation was 
that any offer made in the Final Response Letter was fair and reasonable.
So I dont  think its reasonable for the interest  to stop at the point the Final  Response Letter 
was issued. And this should be calculated at 8% simple  interest  a year to the point any 
refund is paid to Mr B.
With regards to the plan with R, Mr B said he tried to cancel it soon after collecting the car; 
he said he intended replacing it with a cheaper  cover through  a different provider. And he 
thought, if this hadnt been in place, then either  T or Secure Trust wouldve had to pay the 
costs of collecting his car.
Because Mr B explained he wouldve taken some type of roadside assistance cover, hed 
always have had to pay something for this. So I think its fair he should pay for this cover 
through R for the time he had the car. And, even if I were to say Secure Trust shouldve  
arranged for the car to be collected,  Id only ask them  to do something  to put this right if Mr B 
had lost out as a result. And, as he was able to use the cover with R, he didnt incur any 
additional costs.  So I wont be recommending  a full refund of the cost of the cover with R.
Mr B explained why he needed  his personalised number  plate  on his car. But he also said 
that, after he chose  to transfer the ownership  of the car to Secure Trust, he didnt have a car 
until November 2019. At which point he was able to transfer the number plate to this car. 
If things hadnt  gone wrong, Mr B would always have needed to transfer the number plate at 
the point he decided to get rid of the car supplied by Secure Trust. And he would always  
have had to pay for the cost of this transfer.  So I dont think its fair to say that Secure Trust 
Ref: DRN57093368should reimburse him for the cost of the number plate transfer because it happened  in 
November 2019,  rather than at a different date of Mr Bs choosing.
Mr B has provided photos of the car, both before and after the windows were tinted. Hes 
also provided details  from a tracking  app that shows he went  to a company that applied  
window tints the day after hed been supplied with the car, and before he travelled  home. 
Hes also shown that he withdrew £200 from an ATM that day  the same  amount he says 
the window tints cost him.
Ive no doubt that Mr B had window tints put on the car. But the tracking app also shows that 
Mr B went  from the tinting company to a restaurant. And then he wouldve needed to travel  
home  a journey hes said was three hours.  Without any additional  evidence,  such  as 
invoice, receipt, or letter from tinting  company,  saying exactly how much  the tinting cost,  I 
cant say how much of the £200 was used for the tinting, and how much was used for other 
expenses, for example food, fuel or other things. And without this evidence, I cant fairly ask 
Secure Trust to contribute towards  the cost of the tinting.
Finally, Ive considered  the impact this has had on Mr B. Ive no doubt  that Mr B found the 
whole situation  stressful. But Im only considering the actions of Secure Trust when looking 
at this, and whether those actions caused  any additional and avoidable stress to Mr B. Im 
not considering  the actions of T or any other circumstances.
Secure Trust set out the options to Mr B, and offered to arrange  for the car to be 
independently inspected.  But Mr B didnt want this. T also made  Mr B a time limited offer to 
allow him to reject the car, receive a refund of his deposit and payments made, and an 
additional £100 for the costs hed incurred. And Secure Trust agreed to abide  by this offer. 
But Mr B didnt accept  this within the time limits set by T, and the offer expired.  
Following this, Secure  Trust made  it clear  to Mr B that he needed  to maintain payments on 
the car and set out the possible  consequences if he didnt do this. But Mr B chose to transfer 
the ownership of the car to Secure Trust and stop making payments. While I appreciate that 
Mr B wont  agree with me on this, Im satisfied that Secure Trusts actions were reasonable. 
So I wont  be asking them to pay any additional compensation
Based on what Ive seen,  and for the reasons referred to above,  I dont  see any compelling  
reason to change  the recommendations made  by my colleague. So Ill be adopting these 
recommendations as my final decision.
Putting things  right
To put things right Secure Trust Bank Plc should: 
refund  Mr Bs deposit of £600
provide pro-rata  refunds for the costs  Mr B incurred for insurance, roadside 
assistance and road tax, plus any administrative  costs for cancelling  early,  less any 
refunds received for early  cancellation  (once Mr B has provided  them  with the 
evidence of this) 
pay 8% simple interest a year on the above payments from the date of the payments 
until the date of the refund*
re-work the agreement as though the car had been rejected and the agreement 
ended in June  2018. Meaning Mr Bs not liable for any payments under the 
agreement other  than the first month, and update  his credit file accordingly
Ref: DRN57093369* If Secure Trust Bank Plc considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr B how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Mr B a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Bs complaint. Secure Trust Bank Plc must 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2021.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5709336