K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that her savings account card was used without her consent to make  cash 
machine and Assisted Service Device (or ASD)  withdrawals on several occasions between  
March and November  2018. The total withdrawn from her account was £4,750;  Barclays 
Bank UK plc has however  refused to reimburse her.   
background
Miss B has a savings  account with Barclays. She says that she only uses it occasionally,  but 
between March and November 2018 there were 19 withdrawals that she says she doesnt  
recognise. All were  made at cash machines or branches near her home and each was for an 
amount between £100 and £300. 
When Miss B told Barclays that she hadnt made  or authorised anyone else to make the 
disputed withdrawals, it said that it wouldnt refund them. It said that they had all been made 
at cash machines or ASDs using the genuine card and correct  PIN. Withdrawals  made at 
ASDs may have required Miss Bs date of birth as well. 
There had been  genuine, undisputed, withdrawals made in the same  period, and Miss B said 
she hadnt lost her card; she still had it with her and believed shed had it with her all the 
time. Her PIN was kept secret  and wasnt a number that could be easily guessed.  The bank 
noted too that, although Miss B had been  receiving monthly statements for the account, it 
had been several  months before Miss B had said anything about  the disputed  withdrawals. 
Miss B was adamant  that she hadnt  carried out the withdrawals herself or allowed anyone  
else to do so. She was at work when many  of them had taken place, and abroad when two 
of them  were made. She referred the matter to this service,  and one of our investigators 
looked into things  for her. She concluded however that the most  likely explanation was that 
Miss B had made the withdrawals herself, that shed allowed someone else to use her card,  
or a combination of the two.      
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Barclays refund the disputed  withdrawals; Miss B 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator  did, and for similar reasons. 
The banks records show that the disputed cash machine withdrawals were made using the 
genuine card and correct PIN. The bank also says that the ASD withdrawals could  only have 
been made in the same  way, although  it no longer has full records of those. It says too that 
ASD withdrawals may have needed additional security in the form of Miss Bs date of birth.  I 
accept that the withdrawals would not have been possible without the genuine  card  rather  
than a copy or clone   and the correct  PIN. Higher value ASD withdrawals would probably 
have needed Miss Bs date of birth as well; some  were for £500. 
Miss B has said that she didnt lose her card or allow anyone else to use it. Shes 
demonstrated too that she was abroad  when two of the withdrawals were made, and says 
that she had her card with her at that time.  That cant have been the case,  however;  her card 
Ref: DRN57054012was being used to make cash  machine  withdrawals  near her home  at the time she was 
away. 
As Ive indicated, Miss B was being  sent monthly statements for the account. There  were 
also regular balance enquiries and requests for mini statements in the relevant period.  Whilst 
theres no obligation on a customer to check statements, it is perhaps  unusual in the 
circumstances that Miss B didnt notice for several  months the activity on her account, and 
didnt tell Barclays that anything was wrong. 
I accept that Miss B cant have made all the withdrawals herself. But I think it unlikely that 
someone was able to take her card and use it on several occasions over many  months  
without arousing  suspicion.  Since there  were  undisputed withdrawals in the same  period, 
any such individual would have  had to return the card as well  again, without Miss B 
noticing. 
Anyone using  the card would also have  needed  to know  its PIN. Miss B says she didnt keep 
a record of it, and that it was a random number. Its unlikely anyone  could have  guessed  it, 
and its not possible  to identify the PIN from the card itself. 
For these reasons, I think the most  likely explanation is, as the investigator concluded, that 
Miss B made the withdrawals herself or allowed  someone else to use her card  or a 
combination of the two. In the circumstances, it wouldnt be fair to require Barclays  to refund 
them. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to do anything more to resolve  
Miss Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to 
ask Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5705401