K820x#14complaint
Mr W says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Allianz Insurance  
Plc, as the insurer, have  taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple,  Ill only refer 
to Allianz in this decision, rather than any other business
background
Mr W bought the policy  in 1994 at the same  time as taking out a charge card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr Ws application had a section for PPI. It briefly explained what  it was for, what  it cost,  and 
what the eligibility criteria was. There was a box Mr W could tick and a place to fill in his 
details if he wanted  PPI, which could be left blank  if he didnt want  it. The box was ticked  and 
Mr W wrote  his name and date of birth below to confirm he wanted  it to cover him. And he 
signed the application. So I think that Allianz  made Mr W aware he had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time.
Allianz didnt give Mr W personalised advice to take PPI, so they didnt have to check  if it 
was right for him. They did have to give Mr W enough information to decide if the PPI was 
right for him.
Its possible that the information Allianz  gave Mr W about PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  his 
mind. Here, Mr W chose  to take out the policy - so it looks  like he wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected 
by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. He had some sick pay, but the PPI 
covered him for longer and paid out on top, and he didnt  have  any other protection in case 
he lost his job. And the PPI meant  Mr W wouldnt have to sell off his assets  just to pay his 
card. So the policy would have been  useful for Mr W in case  something went  wrong. And so 
I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN55508132my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5550813