K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC refused to make a chargeback  and 
rejected his claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1975  in respect of a charge for 
changing the date of airline tickets.
background
Mr P bought airline  tickets from a company I will call L and says he was told that he wouldnt 
incur any additional  charges  for changing  the date of his flights. He says he was told this 
despite Ls website stating it charged  £100 to change the date on a ticket.  
Mr P changed the flight and says he was charged £50 per ticket.  He says L told him the 
reduced charge  was goodwill gesture.  He asked Tesco to make a chargeback,  but it decided 
not to as it didnt  consider it had any evidence to support Mr Ps claim.  It noted he had been  
charged £194, £97 for each flight, but there was nothing to show that he had been  told he 
wouldnt have to pay this charge. 
It rejected his complaint and so he brought  the matter to this service where it was considered 
by one of our investigators. She didnt recommend it be upheld.
She explained a chargeback isnt a consumer right and a business can decide  whether to 
pursue one or not. She didnt believe Mr P had provided any evidence to confirm that he was 
told he wouldnt be charged if he changed the flights he had booked.  She said Tesco  
checked the terms and conditions on Ls website and this made it clear that charges would 
be applied  for a change of flight.
She didnt  think Tesco  had treated Mr P unfairly by not pursing a chargeback,  or accepting  
his section 75 claim. Mr P didnt  agree  and said he had sent an invoice to Tesco and he had 
been told he would be paid once the invoice had been received.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would say at the outset  that I find myself in agreement with our investigator.
Chargeback is a process that is provided  by the Card Scheme, either MasterCard  or Visa.  It 
allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed  if there's  a problem with the goods 
or services they've paid for. There's  no automatic right to a chargeback. Nor is chargeback  a 
guaranteed method of getting a refund. The card scheme operator checks  the nature of the 
problem against  the possible chargeback reasons to see whether the claim will be 
successful. If the bank feels that a claim won't be successful, they don't have to raise  a 
chargeback.
Quite simply Mr Ps claim was based on what he said he had been told verbally by L. He had 
no evidence to support  his claim that he had been told he wouldnt be charged.  I think it odd 
that any representative of L would  make such an offer which  runs contrary  to its published 
terms and conditions. 
Ref: DRN55397012I also doubt that Mr P was told by Tesco that it would refund the money  on the production of 
an invoice. That wouldnt be enough  evidence  to allow it to make a chargeback  or support  a 
section 75 claim. I have every sympathy  with Mr P, but in the absence of evidence  I cannot 
uphold his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
19 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5539701