K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy The Co-operative Bank Plc (the Co-op) made a transfer to the wrong 
recipient.
background
Mr H visited the Co-op  to make some  payments. When he checked his balance  he noticed  
one of the transactions had gone  to the wrong  person.  When Mr H complained  the Co-op 
said it was what hed asked for. 
Mr H is also unhappy how the Co-op responded to his complaint. He was told hed have to 
get the money back himself. And it called him twice  on the same  day during working hours. 
Mr H would like the Co-op to admit theyd  made  a mistake. 
The Co-op said itd pointed out the name  of the account was different  to the details Mr H had 
provided. And Mr H had told the bank to use the details already on its system. So it didnt 
think itd made any errors with the payment. But the Co-op  said it shouldve discussed  
different ways to recover the money with Mr H. And it credited  him with £50 as an apology 
for its poor service. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied with the Co-ops response. So he contacted our service  and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. He felt it was clear thered been a miscommunication 
between Mr H and the member of staff over the third payment. But he hadnt seen enough 
evidence to suggest the Co-op was to blame for the mistake. He did feel the service Mr H 
had received after he complained couldve been better. But he felt the Co-ops offer of £50 
compensation was fair.
Mr H didnt agree. He felt the Co-op should acknowledge itd made a mistake. If it couldnt 
find the other persons details on the screen it shouldve asked for them. He could see the 
person when he looked on his own list of payments. So hes asked for an ombudsmans  final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise how upsetting  this mustve been for Mr H. He feels the bank is blaming him for the 
mistake. And hed like an apology for the poor service he received. So Ive looked carefully 
at everything Mr H and the Co-op  have said. 
Mr H gave instructions for three transfers. He had written the names  and amounts on a piece 
of paper. But it didnt  show  the account  details. So the member of staff tried to find the 
details from previous payments. The first two were  found and went through without difficulty. 
But the Co-op couldnt find a transfer that matched the third name  on Mr Hs list. When  a 
previous payment was highlighted to Mr H there was clearly some confusion. Mr H felt he 
had dismissed the details  but the bank thought he had accepted  it was the account  he 
wanted to payment to go to. 
Ref: DRN58442282I understand it is normal practise for the bank to ask the customer  to confirm  the account  
details before making transactions. The Co-op  said it made Mr H aware the name  on the 
screen differed  to the name on his piece of paper.  And Mr H told it to use the details on the 
screen. Mr H said that wasnt the case.  He wouldnt agree to send the money to one person 
when he intended  it to go to another. 
I dont think either party  is suggesting  the other  is lying about  their version of events. I think 
its likely  the error arose from a misunderstanding.  But without actually being there it is 
difficult for me, or anyone else, to really  be sure exactly what  happened.  
When Mr H spotted the mistake the Co-op suggested he contact the payment system 
directly. That might  resolve the problem more quickly.  But that wouldve involved Mr H 
speaking to the recipient of the funds. And I appreciate it mightve been difficult for Mr H to 
ask for the return of the payment. So I think the Co-op shouldve  considered  the possible 
family dynamics and discussed the options with Mr H more thoroughly. 
I am pleased  to see Mr H has now recovered  the funds and transferred them to the correct 
party. The matter was resolved within a week but Mr H had to go to considerable efforts  to 
recover the money. So I can understand how troublesome this mustve  been for him. And I 
know he feels the bank  should accept responsibility  for the mistake.  
I do sympathise with the distress Mr H has gone  through. But, as Ive said, without being 
there its not possible to be sure exactly what happened. The Co-op  has apologised for its 
poor service after Mr H explained what had gone  wrong. So its only right he is compensated 
for his trouble  and upset in recovering the funds. 
Based on everything  Ive seen, I think the £50 offered by the Co-op is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5844228