K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains about the amount  that hes been charged by Volkswagen  Financial Services  
(UK) Limited, trading as Volkswagen Finance, for damage to a car that he returned when his 
hire purchase agreement ended.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr E under a hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen  Finance 
that he signed in June  2014. He returned  the car when the agreement  ended and it was 
inspected by a third party on behalf of Volkswagen  Finance in August 2018.  The inspection  
report identified damage to the cars  rear bumper,  all four doors and both rear quarter panels 
and recommended charges totalling £864. The car was inspected  again the following month  
and further damage  was identified but Volkswagen Finance only charged Mr E for the 
damage identified  on the first report.  Mr E complained to Volkswagen Finance about those 
charges and it agreed to remove the £36 charge  for the damage to the right rear quarter 
panel. Mr E wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that 
Volkswagen Finance should remove the charges  for the right front and rear doors as he 
thought that the damage was fair wear  and tear. But he thought  that the other  areas of 
damage were fair and remained  chargeable.
Mr E has offered to pay half of the charges in full and final settlement and Volkswagen 
Finance has offered to reduce the charges for the right front and rear doors to £55.20 plus 
VAT for each door. But neither has accepted the others offer so this complaint  has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The car was inspected in August 2018 when it was returned by Mr E at the end of his hire 
purchase agreement.  The inspection report recorded the cars  mileage  as being 26,375 
miles and said that the cars condition was below  average. It identified  damage to the cars 
rear bumper, all four doors and both rear quarter  panels and recommended charges  totalling 
£864. 
The car was inspected again the following month  when its mileage was recorded  as being 
26,514 miles and further damage was identified.  It recommended charges totalling £930.56 
but Volkswagen  Finance only charged Mr E for the damage identified  on the first report.  And 
it has since agreed to remove the £36 charge for damage to the right rear quarter panel and 
offered to reduce the charge for damage  to each of the right doors to £55.20 plus VAT.
The report  includes photos  of the damage. Having reviewed those photos and the other 
available evidence I consider there to be clear damage to the cars rear bumper, left doors 
and left rear quarter panel. And I consider that damage to be more  than fair wear and tear in 
accordance with the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association  guidelines  on fair wear 
and tear. So I find it to be fair and reasonable for Volkswagen Finance to charge Mr E for 
that damage and Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show  that the charges 
recommended in the report for that damage  arent fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN56699232The photos  also show damage to the cars  right front and rear doors. But Im not persuaded 
that theres enough  evidence to show that the damage to those  doors is more  than fair wear 
and tear on a car thats over four years thats been  driven for more  than 26,000  miles. And I 
dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Mr E to pay £55.20  plus 
VAT for the damage  to each of those doors.
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Volkswagen Finance to 
charge Mr E a total of £552 for the damage to the car. I consider that to be a fair and 
reasonable amount to compensate Volkswagen Finance for the reduction in the cars future 
value because of the damage. And Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for 
me to require Volkswagen Finance to accept Mr Es offer to pay it half of the amount that its 
charged for the damage.
   
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Es complaint in part. And I order 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited,  trading as Volkswagen Finance, to reduce the 
total charge for the damage to the car to £552.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5669923