K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKIs) handling of her claim against  her 
motor insurance policy.
background
In September  2018, Miss M took out a motor insurance policy with UKI. Her partner, Mr C, 
was a named  driver on the policy  and the registered  keeper of the car. The car was subject 
to a hire purchase  agreement between Mr C and a finance company. 
In February 2019,  the car was stolen. In March  2019, UKI paid the settlement money to the 
finance company.  
Miss M says that UKI should pay the settlement money to her, not the finance company as 
she paid for the policy. She says that UKI breached the Data Protection Act by giving 
information to the finance  company.     
Our investigator didnt  think that UKI had treated Miss M unfairly. Miss M didnt agree. She 
said that the insurance was in her name, she paid for it and made the claim, so it was 
nothing to do with Mr C. Miss M said that UKI initially told her that it would pay the settlement 
money to her. She says that she doesnt have outstanding finance with any finance  
company. Miss M says that UKI told the finance  company Mr Cs agreement  number.  
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Miss M has very strong feelings  about  this matter. Thats understandable as 
theres a considerable amount of money involved  here. Shes provided detailed submissions 
to support her complaint,  which I have  read and considered.  However, I trust that she will not 
take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the central issues.   
The starting point  is the terms of the policy, as they tell us what  UKI is obliged to do. The 
policy says:
If your car is currently on a hire purchase  or financing agreement  [] we will settle the 
claim by paying the legal owner  
In the definitions section of the policy your car is defined as the car described in the 
current schedule.
Here, the legal owner of the car Miss M insured was the finance company under the terms of 
the finance agreement between it and Mr C. So, UKI didnt act unfairly in paying  the 
settlement money  to the finance company. The fact that Miss M took out the policy, paid the 
premium and made the claim  doesnt alter that. Im sorry to disappoint Miss M but there are 
no grounds on which to direct UKI to pay the settlement money to her. 
Ref: DRN51970602UKI initially indicated  to Miss M that it would pay the settlement money to her. That was an 
error, as it hadnt taken  into account  that the car was owned  by the finance company. When 
mistakes like that happen, we dont proceed  on the basis that the incorrect  information  is 
true. I dont think that UKIs error alters the outcome here. 
Our role isnt to decide if a business has breached  data protection laws. Miss M can contact 
the Information Commissioners  Office (ICO) if shes concerned about the way UKI has 
handled her personal  information. The link to its website  is: https://ico.org.uk/make-a-
complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5197060