K820x#14complaint
Mrs A has complained on behalf  of herself and the estate of the late Mr A. She says Lloyds 
Bank PLC mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  for a mortgage.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 9 December 2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I had not 
found that this policy  was mis-sold.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
23 December 2019. But neither side added  anything further.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has sent in any new evidence or arguments. So having  reconsidered  the case, 
Ive come to the same  conclusion as before  that Ive not found that the PPI was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN57811922COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs A has complained on behalf of herself and the estate of the late Mr A. She says Lloyds Bank PLC 
mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs A took out a PPI policy  with a mortgage  in late 2001. Mr and Mrs A paid for the PPI with a 
regular monthly premium,  which didnt  attract  interest.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  this case.  
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
I can see that Mr and Mrs A signed and submitted an application specifically for PPI. They did this 
separately to applying for the mortgage itself. And they set up a direct debit to pay for the PPI, 
separately to paying for the mortgage  the insurances cost was not part and parcel of the 
mortgages cost. So I think its most likely that Lloyds made  Mr and Mrs A aware  they had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if Mrs A no 
longer recalls doing so after so long.
Its not clear whether Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs A, or not. The requirements  were 
stricter on Lloyds if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr and Mrs A, Ive assumed it did. That means 
Lloyds had to check the policy was right for them  and based on what  Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mr and Mrs A were  eligible for the 
cover and werent affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
Mrs A didnt have any company sick pay. And while  Mr A did, it reduced to just a fraction of his normal 
pay after six months.  So the PPI wouldve  helped fill the gaps in their cover, and it paid out on top of 
any work benefits. And neither Mr nor Mrs A seem to have had any other protection in place  in case 
one or both of them lost their job. Its worth  bearing  in mind that if Mr and Mrs A had fallen behind on 
their mortgage, they couldve lost their home. So the PPI couldve been useful for them in protecting  
their home  and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs A about  PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed their minds. 
Here, it looks  like Mr and Mrs A chose to take out PPI, which implies they wanted this type of cover at 
the time. As I explained above, Mr and Mrs A werent  affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them in case something went wrong. The policy  was 
competitively priced given  how much it would  pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling 
monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs A could cancel  it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think  that 
better information was likely  to have put them  off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN57811923my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont plan to uphold this complaint.
Please could  Mrs A and Lloyds send me any more information or comments  to look at by 
23 December 2019. After  that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5781192