K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold  her a credit  card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs H took out the PPI in 2010 at the same time as she applied  for the credit card online.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint  and Ill explain  why.
Mrs H applied for the card and PPI online and she was then sent the credit agreement to 
confirm the details. Mrs H agrees that she did tick to request the PPI. But she says she only 
did this because lots of creditors at the time were  saying that you had to take out insurance if 
you wanted the credit to be agreed. Although  Mrs H has this impression, I havent seen any 
evidence in this case that Capital Ones application  process led applicants to believe that 
they had to take out PPI in order for the credit card to be agreed.
When Capital One wrote to Mrs H about  her complaint, it said that it had tried to call her to 
discuss the PPI and her circumstances  at the point  of sale. Mrs H has taken this to mean 
that they tried to call her at the time of the sale in 2010. She says if it had left a message, 
she would  have spoken to them and would have  cancelled  the policy immediately if they had 
given her information about it. However,  what Capital One was saying was that it had tried to 
contact her earlier this year, in response  to her complaint.
Ive no doubt that Mrs H has provided her honest recollection of events. But the sale 
happened nine years ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if her memory  of events has faded  
 especially  as taking  a credit card out online isnt usually a particularly memorable event. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Ms H wasnt given a choice about having  the policy. It seems 
to me that she decided  to buy it, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer 
remembers doing so.
Capital One didnt advise Mrs H to buy the policy, so it didnt  need  to ensure that it met her 
needs. But it did need to provide her with sufficient information for her to be able to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the PPI was right for her.
I consider that Mrs H would have  known something  about the policy (that it would cover  her 
credit card repayments if she was unable  to work  due to sickness  or unemployment) 
because I dont think shed have decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it.
Mrs H would only have received two weeks sick pay from her job and then statutory sick pay 
thereafter. And she hasnt  told us of any other  means,  such as savings, that she could fall 
Ref: DRN51663842back on. Shes said that her parents would have helped. But other people cant  always be 
relied upon as their circumstances  can change. Therefore Mrs H had a need for the policy  
and could have  benefitted from it.
Its possible that Capital  One didnt provide as much  information as it could have about  the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover.  But Mrs H wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
consider that further information would  have caused her to change her mind.
This means  that Capital One doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because:  
When the policy was sold,  Capital One expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about 
that. Because Capital One didnt  tell Mrs H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Mrs H says she doesnt believe that the amount Capital One has paid back to her is the level 
of commission it received. But as per the second bullet point above, Capital One doesnt 
have to give Mrs H back all of the commission it received. It only has to give her back any 
commission that was over 50%.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mrs H any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5166384