K820x#14Complaint
Miss R complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) incorrectly changed  her 
address which  meant she didnt receive  important information about her current  account. 
As a result, Miss R wasnt aware that RBS defaulted the account. 
Miss R says RBS emailed its final response despite  being asked not to. The email  was sent 
to an ex partner.  
Miss R also complains that RBS removed  an interest free overdraft and started  to charge her. 
Background
Miss R had a student account with RBS with an £1,800 overdraft facility. RBS says Miss R 
hadnt made regular payments into the account  for several years. RBS says its records 
showed Miss R graduated in 2012.  The interest free overdraft facility  reduced over the 
following years  and RBS started to charge  interest.  
As no payments were made  into the account  RBS engaged a third party  to try and trace 
Miss R. The third party recorded an incorrect address for Miss R which  RBS then updated to 
its systems. As a result, Miss R didnt receive  any further letters  from RBS about her 
account. Between July 2017  and February 2018 Miss R made payments totalling £931.35 to 
reduce the outstanding balance.
No further payments were made towards the outstanding balance and in August  2018 RBS 
wrote to Miss R. But because it had the wrong address on file for Miss R she didnt get RBS 
letters. RBS later took the step of applying  a default and passing the debt to a third party.  
Miss R later complained and RBS responded on 14 May 2019. RBS agreed it had the wrong  
address on file for Miss R so she didnt  receive  the default letters it had sent. RBS paid 
Miss R £150 and said the third party would stop contacting her about the debt. RBS 
arranged for the account to be reopened with the £1,800 overdraft facility reinstated.  RBS 
also took steps to remove  all adverse information  reported to the credit reference agencies.  
Miss R complained again because RBS sent its response by email. RBS apologised  and paid 
Miss R £100. RBS advised  Miss Rs previous email address had been removed from its systems. 
Miss R referred her complaint to our service and an investigator looked at it. The investigator 
agreed RBS had made mistakes but thought  it had dealt with Miss Rs complaint fairly and 
offered reasonable compensation. Miss R didnt  agree so her complaint has been passed  to 
me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R has raised several issues in this case so Ill look at each in turn. RBS took the step of 
defaulting Miss Rs account after it became dormant. RBS says it wrote to Miss R in August 2018 
because nothing had been paid into the account  for around six months.  When  no response  was 
received, RBS wrote to Miss R and defaulted  the account. But RBS had the wrong address on file 
for Miss R which meant she didnt receive  the letters.  I agree RBS and its agent made mistakes 
which led to the wrong  address being recorded.  So I think  its fair that RBS puts things  right.
Ref: DRN52721942Ive looked at the steps RBS took to try and resolve  Miss Rs complaint. Its reinstated the 
current account and £1,800 overdraft  facility and amended the address it holds. In addition,  
RBS took steps  to remove any adverse  information  it reported about its decision to default  the 
account. Our normal approach is to try and put consumers back  into the position they would 
have been in had no error been  made. Im satisfied that the above  steps  reopened Miss Rs 
account and meant it was back  in the same  position  it was in before RBS defaulted  it. 
RBS also paid Miss R £150 for the errors made. I can understand why Miss R was upset 
and Ive considered  what  shes told us about the impact of RBS  errors. Having done so, 
I think the £150 RBS paid is fair in all the circumstances. 
RBS emailed Miss Rs final response. Shes told us that she specifically advised she didnt  want  
to receive emails and RBS agreed it made a mistake. RBS paid Miss R £100 for emailing its 
final response. Again, Ive thought about  what Miss Rs told us and note that she says the email 
address registered  to her account  is used  by an ex partner. I understand why Miss R didnt want 
any emails to be sent but I think RBS offer reflects how upsetting  the situation was. 
RBS says it refunded  £168 of overdraft charges to Miss Rs account on 27 March  2019. RBS 
also says that as a result  of its mistake, no interest or charges were applied  to Miss Rs 
account between  October  2018,  when it was defaulted, and May 2019 when it was 
reinstated as a result of its incorrect decision to default. 
The overdraft facility  Miss R had with RBS was only interest free for a limited period while she 
was a student. RBS  records show Miss R was due to graduate  in 2012 so its reduced  the 
level of the interest  free element of her overdraft facility in stages over time.  Miss Rs interest 
costs increased in 2016 because she no longer  had any interest free borrowing. The student 
account Miss R originally opened  wasnt  interest and fee free indefinitely.  I havent found any 
evidence of an error by RBS when applying interest and charges to Miss Rs account.  
Miss R was charged £48 when her overdraft was reinstated.  RBS has recently agreed to 
refund these charges.
Whilst I agree RBS has made several  mistakes  in this case, I think  its dealt with Miss Rs 
complaint fairly. RBS has taken steps to remove the default from Miss Rs credit  file, 
reopened the current account and reinstated the overdraft facility.  RBS has also refunded 
£168 in overdraft fees and agreed  to refund  a further £48. From what Ive seen, that puts 
Miss Rs account back into the position it would have been in had no errors been made. 
RBS paid Miss R a total of £250 to apologise for defaulting her account  and sending  her a 
final response by email. Im satisfied  the compensation fairly reflects  the impact  of RBS 
errors on Miss R and that its fair in all the circumstances. As RBS has dealt  with Miss Rs 
complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 November 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5272194