K820x#14complaint
Mr B says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a 
credit card in 2008 with Barclays Bank  UK PLC.
background
Mr B has already been paid some money  for the commission Barclays received from selling 
him the PPI. However, our adjudicator who looked  at this case  said the complaint about  the 
PPI being mis-sold shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr B disagreed and still thinks he was mis-sold  the policy in the first place and so the 
complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im not upholding the complaint about the mis-sale. 
Mr B says he bought  the PPI over the phone and that he now realises  he didnt need cover 
like this. However, these events were a long time ago and its obviously possible that Mr B 
doesnt remember exactly what happened.
I say this because  Barclays  records show this was actually an internet sale.  Weve  seen 
quite a few similar sales to this and as a consequence, we have a good  understanding  of the 
procedures that were normally used. We know, for example, that consumers like Mr B would 
have had to either agree  to, or decline,  the PPI when they were  making their way through  
the on-line form before  being allowed to finish their application. 
We no longer have access to Mr Bs actual form, but thats not unusual  given the type of 
application and when it took place,  but Barclays sent us an example of the type of web-
based application form Mr B would have  used when he was applying  for his card. And 
because we now know PPI was added to his account, I think its highly likely  he selected the 
yes option.
Being an internet sale, I think  its reasonable to say that Mr B would have worked  through 
the application in his own time, without any advice from Barclays. So it wasnt an advised 
sale and it was for Mr B to decide  for himself whether or not he wanted  PPI. Barclays  duty 
was to provide  clear  enough information for him to make an informed choice.
I think Mr B was eligible  for the cover which, at 79p per £100 of the outstanding  credit card 
balance, appears  to have been an affordable  charge. Mr B says he already had sick pay with 
his job and I think thats probably  right.  But Im afraid  this doesnt necessarily mean the 
policy wasnt of use. The PPI could have reduced his credit  card balance  by 10% a month 
for up to a year in the event of a successful claim. I therefore think the policy was of value to 
him.
Ref: DRN52489532I accept Barclays could  have probably  done  more to spell out some of the rules and 
exclusions, but I also think a lot of information  was provided. Mr B would have been able to 
access a menu of the policy  rules via a link on the screen. 
So even if I accept Barclays could  have been clearer in certain  aspects, I dont think  Mr B 
would have done anything differently. This means  I dont think Barclays  has to pay back all 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B. Its already  paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to him because 
when the policy was sold it expected to get a high level of commission  and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium).  It should  have told Mr B about that. Because it didnt, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium.  I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold. So Barclays  Bank  UK PLC does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC has paid to Mr B the commission  and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5248953