K822xcomplaint
Mr N complains that Santander UK plc declined his application to open a basic  bank account 
and recorded  a CIFAS  marker against his name. CIFAS is the UKs fraud alert service.  
background 
Mr N wanted to open a basic bank account  and made an application  to Santander. 
Santander reviewed  the application but declined it. It said that Mr N hadnt disclosed a 
previous address (the application asked Mr N about  any addresses hed lived at over the 
previous three years).  It also placed a CIFAS marker against Mr Ns name   suggesting  it 
felt hed been dishonest in the way hed completed  the application. 
Mr N complained about what had happened. He said hed wanted to apply for a basic bank 
account, but Santander had treated his application as one for a standard current  account. He 
also said that, whilst he was linked  to a different address, that was a property he rented  out; 
he didnt actually live there. He said hed been living at the address he provided  for several 
years. 
Mr N referred  his complaint to this service, and one of our adjudicators considered it. She 
found that Mr N hadnt  given  inaccurate information  in the application. But, she said,  
Santander was entitled to decline Mr Ns application  because there  were  fairly recent County  
Court judgments against him. She thought  that Santander should, therefore, remove  the 
CIFAS marker  and pay Mr N £250  in recognition of the inconvenience to which Mr N had 
been put and the distress it had caused. 
Santander accepted the adjudicators recommendations, but Mr N did not. He said hed 
applied for a basic account but his application  hadnt been processed correctly   Santander 
had treated it as an application for a standard current account. He was finding it difficult  to 
open an account elsewhere.  He asked that an ombudsman review  the case. 
In the meantime, however, Mr N has said that he does now have an account; the CIFAS 
marker has been removed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Part of Mr Ns concern is that Santander didnt process his application as an application  for a 
basic bank account.  A basic  bank  account  is one with basic features, and no overdraft 
facility. Those features  are set out in regulation 19 of the Payment Accounts Regulations 
2015. The regulations also set out the eligibility  criteria for people to open a basic bank 
account and the circumstances in which an application can be declined. Ill discuss those in 
a little more detail. 
Under regulation  23, in order to be eligible for a basic bank account, a consumer must  
(amongst other things) not hold a payment account  with the features in regulation 19 with 
another institution and must  be ineligible  for any other account offered by the institution to 
which they are applying. That means  that Santander couldnt simply offer Mr N a basic 
account; it had first to make sure that he wasnt eligible for its standard  current account. 
Santander was therefore not only within its rights to process Mr Ns application as an 
Ref: DRN57337692application for a standard current  account,  it was obliged to do so or to check by some other 
means whether  he was eligible  for one.
Im satisfied that Santander was within its rights to decide that Mr N was ineligible for a 
standard current account, because of his credit  history. It was largely  for Santander to 
decide whether  or not it wanted to offer him a standard account.  But the circumstances in 
which an account provider  can refuse  to offer a basic account are more limited.  Theyre  set 
out in regulation 25 and largely cover  concerns  around fraud, money laundering and threats  
and violence  towards bank staff. 
Our adjudicator took the view that Mr N hadnt acted dishonestly, since she accepted what 
he had told Santander  about his current and previous addresses.  She recommended an 
award of £250  and that Santander  arrange for the removal of the CIFAS marker, which  
Santander accepted. 
Because the Payment Account Regulations 2015 oblige some  account providers (including 
Santander) to offer basic accounts  save in certain circumstances, the adjudicator in my view 
should have discussed in more detail the effect  of the regulations  here. But, since Mr N has 
now confirmed that he has been  able to open an account elsewhere, he doesnt  meet  all the 
requirements of regulation  23  even if he did at some point in the past.  I dont therefore  
need to consider that issue any further.
And, since Santander has arranged for the removal of the CIFAS  marker, the only issue left 
for me to consider  is whether the recommendation of £250 compensation is a fair way to 
resolve Mr Ns complaint. I believe it is, for the same  reasons as those explained by the 
adjudicator. For completeness, however,  I will make a formal award of that sum  on the 
assumption it hasnt already been  paid. 
my final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Ns complaint, Santander UK plc should pay him 
£250. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 December 2019. 
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5733769