K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that delays in Admiral Insurance Company  Limiteds (Admiral) handling of 
his claim caused mould to grow on the interior of his car.
background
On 8 January  2018 Mr Rs car was hit by a third party while parked on the street outside his 
home.
Due to the age of Mr Rs car Admirals recommended repairers  were  not able to complete 
the work  needed.  Admiral asked Mr R if he could find a garage to complete  the work and it 
would pay cash in lieu directly to him.
Mr R did this and the garage supplied an estimate for the repairs. The estimate didnt include 
a breakdown for the cost of the parts needed,  and it also included  some  non- accident 
related repairs. So Admiral arranged for an independent assessor to inspect the vehicle. 
There was some confusion as there were three possible cash in lieu settlements put forward  
following the inspection.  
While Admiral was working out the settlement Mr Rs car was being  stored  by Mr Rs chosen  
repairer waiting  for repairs to begin. It took Admiral around three weeks  to agree the cash in 
lieu settlement with Mr R. 
Mr R says that during  this time, as his car was not used or stored properly, it grew mouldy on 
the inside  and the interior was ruined.  He complained to Admiral about this asking  for it to 
pay for the replacement of the ruined parts at a cost of around £1,600. He also complained  
about its communication and general service  during the claim. Admiral upheld  part of his 
complaint; it offered £120 for Mr Rs experience  through the claim. It said that it didnt feel 
the mould was caused by the car having  sat for three weeks  and it was more likely caused 
by the condition of the car pre accident,  but it offered Mr R £30 towards  the cleaning  of the 
interior as a gesture  of goodwill.
Mr R was unhappy with this and so brought  his complaint to this service.  The investigator  
initially upheld the complaint. They felt it was due to Admiral not being  able to find a repairer 
for the car that had caused Mr R to use the garage  he did, and so it should be responsible 
for the actions of the garage and so should  pay for the repairs  to the interior  of the car.
Admiral disagreed and provided photos  showing the car had areas of rust, that werent 
accident related.  It also provided us with the following comments  from the engineer  that 
inspected the car:
 mould usually grows  inside a car due to either water  ingress or spilled food and 
drink. I cannot see how the mould growing inside this vehicle could be related  to the 
accident damage or the vehicle being  stood for a short period of time.
Based on this the Investigator changed their view and let Mr R know  that the case would 
now not be upheld  and they wouldnt be asking Admiral to do anything  more. Mr R disagreed  
with this and so the case has been referred  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN54868922my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks most likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
In order for me to decide  Admiral should  pay for the repairs to the interior  of Mr Rs car I 
need to be satisfied that the three week delay, it caused, to the start of repairs are the 
reason for the mould growing.
Admiral has told us it has spoken to the garage and it confirmed the car was stored with the 
doors and windows closed. Admiral  feels  the cars pre-accident  condition, including the rust 
on the body of the car, is the cause of the mould. It also has an independent engineers 
opinion supporting this.
Mr R has told us that his car isnt water tight and that prior to the accident he used the car 
daily and used the heater to dry out any dampness. 
Taking into account what both parties  have said, I think  its likely  Mr Rs car had a dampness 
problem prior to the accident and this led to the mould growing. With any repairs following an 
accident its reasonable to expect that a car will be unused or idle for a number of days  so 
its possible the mould wouldve started to grow even if there hadnt been delays to the start 
of repairs. So although there were delays Im not satisfied  that Admiral  is responsible  for the 
mould and so I wont be asking it to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5486892