K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains he was mis-advised by Mortgage Intelligence Ltd (MI) to take out a let-to-
buy mortgage on his home, as he didnt intend  to let the property.
background
Mr C co-owned  an inherited property with a relative. The relative, who lived elsewhere, 
required their share  of the value of the property, so Mr C took advice from a company called 
Fresh Mortgage  Solutions  (UK) Ltd  an appointed representative of MI  about how to raise 
the funds to pay the relative. As MI were  responsible  for the advice given by Fresh 
Mortgages, Ill refer to MI as if it advised  Mr C directly. 
MIs file notes suggest both the sale and remortgage  of the property were considered.  MI 
arranged a let-to-buy  mortgage for Mr C with a third party  lender. The loan was arranged  on 
an interest only basis.
Mr C tried to arrange additional  borrowing after his fixed rate ended, but a further advance 
with the original lender was declined because of some missed or late payments. Mr C was 
then advised to apply for a bridging loan, which he did. His advisors  were  the same  people 
who had advised  him in relation to his let-to-buy mortgage, but they no longer represented 
MI. 
Mr C applied for and was given a second bridging  loan. The lender started  legal proceedings 
when Mr C failed to repay the bridging  loans.
Mr C complained about the advice given, saying he continued to live in the property, the 
payments were unaffordable after the fixed rate ended, and he had no way of repaying  the 
loan. Mr C also says fake documents  were submitted with his mortgage application, 
including tenancy  agreements and payslips; and he was advised to change  his address on 
the electoral roll and with his bank. He explained  he couldnt work because  of his state  of 
health, so didnt have an earned income as was claimed on his mortgage application.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint. He acknowledged the evidence suggesting 
that Mr C may not have  been working at the time,  but didnt think it indicated the payslips 
were forged,  or if they were, that MI were responsible. He also thought the evidence  showed 
that Mr C ought to have  been aware that he was expected to move  out and the property be 
let.  
Mr C disagreed with our investigators findings,  so the complaint has been referred to me for 
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator. 
The circumstances in which MI came to give Mr C mortgage advice arent entirely clear. I 
can see the argument that Mr C wasnt specifically seeking advice for an investment 
mortgage and that only came  about because of the advice from MI. On the other hand, Ive 
found that Mr C knew  the basis  of the advice he was being  given  and was prepared to go 
Ref: DRN58775212ahead on that basis. Ive still taken into account the relevant rules on advising on a regulated  
mortgage contract into account   even though there  is an argument that MI was, in fact, 
credit broking. But even  after applying the higher standards applicable to advising on a 
regulated mortgage  contract,  I dont  consider that MI has acted unfairly  or unreasonably in 
this case and Ill explain why below.
In deciding this complaint,  Ive thought about  whether the advice given by MI was suitable, 
given Mr Cs needs  what  he wanted  to achieve  and his circumstances at the time. My 
findings are limited to the advice given by MI in relation  to the let-to-buy  mortgage  and do not 
cover the later advice  - given by a different  business - about the bridging loans.
Ive noted Mr Cs concerns that some of the evidence provided by MI from the time is 
unsigned by him and so doesnt show that he was aware of it. But Im also mindful that 
evidence from the time of advice is not always available and, where it is, we dont always  
see the signed version of a document. Thats not necessarily  an indication that it wasnt  seen 
by the consumer.  
Mr Cs income
Mr C has raised  concerns about the authenticity of the pay slips supplied  to the lender. He 
says he wasnt employed and has shown that he was receiving  the higher rate care 
allowance and the higher  rate mobility allowance from the Department of Work and Pensions 
(DWP). The bank statements hes provided  dont show payments similar to those indicated  
on the payslips  submitted  to the lender.
Evidence of income  was requested by the lender, so I think its likely to have been required 
by it before it agreed the application. But the mortgage application shows an earned income  
and I think its likely  that Mr C saw the application as the lender wouldve required a signed  
version of it. So I cant conclude Mr C didnt know his application declared he received  
earned income.
I agree  that there is reason to doubt the authenticity of the payslips  in addition  to the above 
concerns, I searched for details of the employer marked on the payslips and failed to find 
any. But I havent seen evidence to indicate  that MI falsified the payslips or submitted them  
to the lender in the knowledge they werent  genuine.
Ive also thought about what  wouldve happened  if the payslips were  not submitted to the 
lender. Ive seen  that the amount of income Mr C actually received  from the DWP and the 
net income shown  on the payslips were very similar. And Im mindful  that the payments on 
this type of loan usually  come from the rental income of the property. So, I dont think the 
payslips were necessarily essential  for the application from Mr C to succeed.
was a let-to-buy  mortgage suitable?
Its usual that, throughout the advice  and application process, various  forms are completed 
and notes made. These often include a needs  and circumstances analysis (sometimes  
referred to as a fact find); a letter outlining the advice given and the reasons for it; the 
mortgage application; and the advisors  contact notes. In addition, an illustration and an offer 
letter are produced, showing the detail  of the mortgage  applied for.
From the documentation  MI has provided,  I think a process has been followed that Id expect 
and Ive seen  copies of the documents and notes listed above. MIs contact notes indicate 
Ref: DRN58775213that, to fulfil the objective of releasing the funds  required  by Mr Cs relative,  the options were  
to sell or remortgage the property. Its clear that the remortgage was the chosen option. 
From that point, the documentation is consistent in showing a plan to let Mr Cs property. 
MIs contact notes also say Mr C planned to vacate the property and live with the relative for 
whom he was releasing funds. This is supported by the mortgage application document, 
which shows Mr Cs intended Future Residential Status as Family  / Friend.  I think  this 
means he intended to live with a family member or friend.
As Ive already  acknowledged, Mr C has expressed  concerns  that the available copies of the 
documents referred to dont bear his signature. But, as part of the application process, Mr C 
was asked to provide  a letter confirming his understanding he was required to vacate the 
property and that it would be let. MI has supplied a copy of this letter  and it does bear what 
appears to be Mr Cs signature. The mortgage offer also confirms that it is a requirement of 
the mortgage that Mr C vacates and lets the property. So I think its likely that Mr C was 
made aware  of what was required  of him in this regard.
Mr C says he was told to change his address on the electoral roll and with his bank.  And he 
says fake tenancy  agreements  were  presented to the lender. But the evidence  available  
doesnt support  that. Ive not seen evidence of anything other than a plan for Mr C to vacate 
and let the property. 
Ive also thought about whether a let-to-buy mortgage was required as opposed to a 
standard residential mortgage. I think the main factors that would influence this are the 
amount Mr C needed to raise and his income. Looking  at these factors,  I think his income 
was insufficient  to support the repayments of a standard residential mortgage  for the loan 
amount Mr C required. As a let-to-buy mortgage  takes into account the amount earned from 
rental income, I can see why this would have appeared to be the more realistic course of 
action. So I dont think the let-to-buy advice was unsuitable  in the circumstances, bearing in 
mind Mr C said that he intended to live elsewhere.
repaying the loan
Mr Cs mortgage was set-up on an interest  only basis. This means only the interest is 
repaid during the loan term and the amount borrowed remains payable at the end. The 
interest payable was set at a fixed rate initially. Mr C says the mortgage became 
unaffordable when  the fixed rated ended and he had no way of repaying the loan at the end 
of the term.
I understand Mr Cs concern on both these points. I know  that the situation in respect of this 
mortgage and the later bridging loans has become increasingly difficult and that legal action 
is ongoing. But I can only consider the advice given on the let-to-buy mortgage. 
Let-to-buy and other  investment mortgages are often set-up on an interest only basis.  The 
reason for this is the property  can be sold at the end of the term, without the need  for the 
owner to find somewhere  else to live. The fact find document completed at the beginning of 
Mr Cs advice process asks what the intended  repayment strategy is. The answer given at 
the time was sale. I think this indicates that the intention was for the loan to be repaid at the 
end of the term by the sale proceeds of the property  and the loan to value was less than 
40%. So I think there was an adequate plan in place  for the repayment of the loan at the end 
of the mortgage  term.
Ref: DRN58775214As Ive said above,  the intention of a let-to-buy mortgage is that the rental income  funds a 
significant portion,  if not all, of the monthly  loan repayments. As Mr C didnt let the property, I 
can understand why he found the contractual repayments difficult  to meet,  particularly when 
the fixed rate expired and those payments increased. But I think the documentation clearly 
outlines what the expectation  was with regard to letting the property. So I cant  conclude that 
MI was at fault for the mortgage becoming  unaffordable when Mr C didnt  follow the plan to 
let the property. 
in summary
I understand that Mr C now finds himself  in a very difficult position and that this is likely  to be 
extremely stressful for him. But the evidence Ive seen doesnt  indicate that the advice given 
by MI, in respect of the let-to-buy mortgage,  was unsuitable.
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Mortgage 
Intelligence Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Gavin Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5877521