K820x#14complaint
In 1997, Mr P took out a mortgage with Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax  (Bank  of 
Scotland). Alongside  the mortgage, Bank of Scotland also sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. Mr P thinks that Bank of Scotland mis-sold the PPI policy  to him and 
he wants it to give him back the premiums  he paid for it, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint. The adjudicator didnt think  
that Bank  of Scotland had mis-sold  the policy to Mr P and didnt  recommend  that it should  
give him any money back. Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review  his case, 
so it has come to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
what to do in Mr Ps case. Ive looked into everything that Mr P and Bank of Scotland  have  
sent us or told us about the complaint  and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mr P has told us that he applied for the mortgage and bought the PPI policy  during a 
meeting at one of Bank of Scotlands branches. Bank of Scotland  has few records  from the 
time, but it has accepted this may well have  been how it sold PPI to Mr P and I have looked 
into the case on this basis. 
Despite the lack of records about Mr Ps case,  from what we know about the way Bank of 
Scotland sold PPI in meetings like these, it normally gave customers  a choice to apply for a 
mortgage with or without  buying PPI. But Mr P has told us that in his case Bank of Scotland 
said that he had to take  the PPI policy in order get the mortgage.  
After so many years  have  passed and with little original paperwork, I cant  be sure exactly  
what happened during the meeting. But apart from Mr Ps recollections, I dont have anything 
else to suggest  that Bank of Scotland didnt follow its normal practice and give him a choice. 
I fully accept that Mr P is trying his best to remember what happened, but I think  its likely  
that Bank  of Scotland let him know that PPI was optional and he chose  to take it. 
Mr P has also told us that Bank of Scotland recommended  PPI to him and advised  him to 
buy it. Once again, Bank of Scotland has accepted that this may well have  happened  and I 
have no reason to doubt that it did give Mr P advice. This meant  that Bank of Scotland had 
to check that the policy was right for Mr P and tell him about it fairly and clearly  so he could  
decide if he wanted it. So Ive looked into Mr Ps circumstances  when he applied for the 
mortgage to see if it was reasonable for Bank  of Scotland to recommend the policy to him. 
From what  Mr P has told us, he met the policys eligibility rules  and he seems to have  been  
able to afford to pay for it. And I havent seen anything to make me think  he would have 
been caught out by any of the policys  main  limitations or exclusions if he had made a claim. 
Ref: DRN53474462Mr P also seems to have had a potential need for the policy.  Although he has told us that his 
employer would have  paid him some  sick pay if he was off work ill and he may also have 
received redundancy pay if he lost his job, the policy would have  paid out over and above  
these other  resources. Hes also told us that he had some savings he could have used if 
necessary, but he may have wanted  or needed  these  for other  things and the policy  would 
have allowed him to keep them set aside  for other uses.
When Mr P took the mortgage, he was taking on a significant financial commitment and not 
being able to keep up with his repayments could have had serious  consequences  for him. 
So I think the policy may have been  useful for Mr P and it was reasonable for Bank of 
Scotland to recommend it to him. 
I accept that Bank of Scotland may not have explained everything about PPI to Mr P as 
clearly as it should have  done. But, Im satisfied that he was eligible for the policy,  that Bank 
of Scotland gave  him a choice, that it was reasonable for Bank of Scotland  to recommend it 
to him and that he could afford  it. So I dont  think that clearer information  about the policy  
would have stopped Mr P from buying  it. 
I dont think Bank of Scotland mis-sold PPI to Mr P. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint about Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. Im not going  to tell Bank of Scotland  plc to give Mr P any 
money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5347446