K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about the amount  he was charged by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Plc (RSA) for his home insurance  policy and the way it dealt with his renewal.
background
On 19 September  2018 RSA wrote to Mr C inviting  him to renew  his home insurance policy. 
It said that the previous year hed paid a premium of £365  and the premium on renewal 
would be £457.
The policy was due to renew on 1 November  2018.
Mr C says he didnt notice  that the lower  figure  was the premium for the previous year and 
he only found this out when he telephoned RSA to pay the premium. He thought  the layout 
of the renewal letter was misleading. He said he had to renew the policy because there 
wasnt enough time left by that point for him to search for alternative  cover.
He says before he originally took out the policy, hed checked with RSA that it didnt  
automatically put up its premiums. But he calculates that his premium  has been increased  by 
57% since 2015 even though he hasnt made any claims and his home security has actually 
improved.
He complained to RSA.  It said it had increased  premiums because of the increased cost of 
claims in recent years  and his policy had been  affected by a general  rate increase. It sent 
him a £25 gift card as a reward  for his loyalty.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator  didnt uphold  it. He was satisfied 
that RSA hadnt  treated Mr C differently from other  customers  in similar  circumstances.
As Mr C didnt  agree, the matter has been  referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr C, I dont think his complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I appreciate Mr Cs dismay at being presented  with a substantial increase in his premiums. 
But I cant tell RSA what price it should charge Mr C for his home insurance. Thats for it to 
decide. Each year on renewal when calculating the price, RSA will have taken account of a 
number of things.  Those  include the risk its taken on for Mr C and all of its other customers.  
And the total number and value of claims it thinks theyre likely  to make in that year. Itll also 
factor in its profit requirements  and administration costs. What  I can do though,  when a 
consumer complains about the price  theyve been charged, is look at whether the insurer 
has treated the consumer  fairly and whether it can explain why its charged  the price  it has.
In this case Mr C hasnt  done anything which would cause his premiums to increase such as 
make a claim or alter his home  so that the risk it presented  was different. But RSA has 
explained that its had to charge higher premiums because of the increased cost of claims in 
recent years. Although  Mr C has an excellent claims  history, all policies have been  affected  
by its new rates. In short, it has applied a general rate increase  to Mr Cs policy.
Ref: DRN56943762As explained above, when setting premiums insurers also take into account data and 
trends generally (particularly  in respect  of claims made)  for customers  in similar  
circumstances to Mr C. I dont  think  its unfair of an insurer to increase premiums in the 
light of that information in order to remain profitable.
Ive also looked  at whether RSAs renewal letter was misleading. On the right hand  side of 
the page was a summary of his renewal details with the date,  policy number, cover level and 
renewal date. Relevant to this complaint  is the fact that it also included:
Renewal Payment
Total Annual Premium: £457.34
Last Year You Paid
Total Annual Premium: £365.05
Mr C says that in previous  years the actual premium was quoted  on the bottom  line, so he 
focussed on that. I can understand that mistake but I dont think  it means RSAs renewal 
letter was misleading.  In addition the total annual premium (without any reference  to the 
previous years premium) was clearly set out on the first page  of the renewal schedule 
attached to the renewal letter.
Lastly I can see that the renewal invitation was sent to Mr C about six weeks before the 
policy was due to renew.  I think this was adequate  notice on RSAs part.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr C but I dont  think RSA has treated him unfairly or unreasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5694376