K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Rs representative, a clams management company (CMC),  complains on their 
behalf that they were mis-sold an investment  by Skipton Financial Services  Ltd. 
In summary,  the CMC says: 
The investment  carried more risk than they were made aware of or wanted  to take. 
The investment  wasnt  suitable  for first time investors. 
They werent given  enough reflection time before  investing.
The overall fee structure wasnt  explained clearly. 
background
In 2007, Mr and Mrs R were advised  to invest £55,000, across the following three investment 
bonds:
The AXA High Yield Distribution Bond   £20,000.
Legal & General Investment Bond  £20,000.
Standard Life Distribution Bond  £15,000.
 At the time it was recorded:
Mr R was semi-retired but still in employment and Mrs R was in fulltime  employment. 
They were both basic rate tax payers and had dependents. 
They both held With-Profits bonds with the Skipton, and in addition  Mr R also held a 
Stocks and Shares  ISA with it. 
They had joint savings  of around  £75,000.
Their attitude  to risk was established as Medium (Low) Risk. 
Their objective  was recorded  as a need to invest a lump  sum for capital growth. At 
present you do not have  a need  for income.
All three bonds  were surrendered by Mr and Mrs R in 2012. They only got back  their capital. 
Skipton didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said:
Mr and Mrs Rs objectives had been  clearly identified, prioritised and suitable 
recommendations were  then made  based on their objectives, attitude  to investment 
risk, and the term over which they wished to invest.
They were provided with all the relevant information to make an informed decision.
All the charges were  explained in the documentation which  Mr and Mrs R have 
confirmed receipt  of. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld.  She 
didnt think Skipton had provided suitable advice, and in summary said:
It was identified that Mr and Mrs R held the following  existing arrangements and all 
were classified  as Very Low Risk. 
oDeposit account.  
oGuaranteed income bond 
oGuaranteed growth bond.  
Ref: DRN56753022 Its reasonable to assume that the funds came  from their savings. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs R werent risk averse  and were prepared to take some risk with 
their investments, there was no justification  for classifying them as Medium  (Low) 
Risk.  They should have  been considered low or cautious. 
They shouldnt have  been given any significant exposure to equity investments.
The Key Features Document for the Legal  and General bond said the equity exposed 
in this fund was restricted  to 60% of the fund  this presented a much higher risk 
than Mr and Mrs R wouldve been  prepared to take.  
Skipton disagreed with the investigators conclusions. In response it said:
One of the main  reasons for upholding the complaint was the potential  equity 
exposure, rather than the actual equity exposure. 
A distribution fund was designed  to create a substantial income whilst having the 
ability to raise the equity exposure within the fund up to a level of 60%, in practice the 
fund management  team  prefers to have lower than this. 
In July 2018 the fund in question showed  a total equity content at 42.9%. Therefore 
the 60% is misleading.  
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt  persuaded to change her 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. On 
the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Skipton says Im not persuaded that 
the overall advice  was suitable for Mr and Mrs R.  
On the face of the evidence Ive found Mr and Mrs R were given unsuitable advice.  
The recommendation report recorded  Mr and Mrs R as being Medium  (Low) Risk investors. 
This was defined as follows: Investments  that provide no capital guarantees and therefore 
capital loss could  occur. However, these investments  attempt to reduce the risk to capital, for 
example by investing in different asset classes or by employing a safety  net mechanism. The 
probability of a moderate loss of capital is medium and the probability of a significant loss of 
capital is very low to low. 
Whilst its fair to say certain  questions were asked of Mr and Mrs R to arrive at the 
conclusion that they were  Medium (Low) Risk investors - Im uncertain as to the reasoning 
behind this being identified as their attitude  to risk. 
Mr and Mrs R werent  experienced investors.  Mr R was semi-retired  and he and Mrs R were 
basic rate tax payers who had a tendency to take a low risk with their money/investments.  
Overall, Im not persuaded this was an accurate or correct assessment of Mr and Mrs Rs 
attitude to risk. 
Ref: DRN56753023Im not suggesting they werent willing to accept any risk, but in my view the investments 
exposed Mr and Mrs G to a level of risk they werent  prepared  to accept. And there  appears  
to be no reason for them to go beyond the scope of products which  offered anything  other  
than a low / cautious  risk. 
In this instance Im persuaded that the funds exposed  Mr and Mrs Rs money  to too much  
risk. Despite what Skipton  says,  Im not persuaded that they was prepared to take more than 
a small risk with this portion of their money.
And notwithstanding Mr and Mrs Rs objective,  this didnt necessarily mean  they had to 
invest in a Medium (Low) Risk product. This particular portion of their money was invested in 
a fund relatively heavily weighted  in equities, or the potential to be, which I think on balance, 
taking into account  their overall  assets,  was likely to be more risk than they were willing to 
take at the time.
So, taking all the above points into account, Im not of the view the recommendation was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs R. 
Because they were prepared to take some risk, as opposed to no risk at all, I dont think  the 
investigators recommendation to use the 50/50 bench mark is unsuitable.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
and Mrs R as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been  given 
unsuitable advice.  
I take the view that Mr and Mrs R would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs R's circumstances and objectives when they 
invested. 
what should  Skipton do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs R fairly, Skipton must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs R's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investment.  If the actual value is greater  than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Skipton should also pay interest  as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
Investment  
2007 
comprised  
of:
1. AXA  
surrenderedfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors date of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Ref: DRN56753024High Yield 
Distribution 
Bond.
2. Legal 
&amp; 
General  
Investment  
Bond - 
Distribution 
Fund
3. Standard 
Life 
Distribution 
BondIncome Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bonds
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Skipton should 
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs R wanted capital growth with a small  risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to their capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
I consider that Mr and Mrs R's risk profile  was in between, in the sense that they were 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination  would  reasonably put Mr and Mrs R into that position.  It does not 
mean that Mr and Mrs R would have invested  50% of their money in a fixed rate bond 
and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr and Mrs R could have obtained 
from investments suited to their objective and risk attitude.
Ref: DRN56753025The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Skipton Financial Services  Ltd should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Skipton Financial Services Ltd should  provide details of its calculation to Mr and Mrs R in a 
clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R 
either to accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2019.
.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5675302