K820x#14complaint
Mr D and Mrs D complain about  problems  experienced when Mr D tried to use his Bank of 
Scotland plc T/A Halifax card while abroad. Theyre unhappy with what Halifax has offered to 
put things right.
background
Although this complaint has been brought by Mr and Mrs D and relates  to their joint account, 
the affected card was issued to Mr D. So, for ease  of reading, Ill refer to Mr D throughout 
this decision.
Mr D contacted Halifax in March 2019. He was working abroad. He said hed tried to use his 
card in a supermarket,  but it declined. He was surprised, as the card had worked at cash  
machines.
The call taker advised Mr D that he should  have used a cash  machine in the UK to unlock 
the shopping PIN before travelling abroad, and that a leaflet is sent out with new cards  
explaining this. The call taker asked Mr D to use a cash machine abroad to see if he could 
withdraw cash or unlock  the shopping PIN, and to call back  if the issue continued.
Mr D called Halifax back that same  day. He said he could withdraw  cash, but wasnt able to 
use the card in stores. Mr D was advised that hed need to withdraw cash from cash 
machines until he returned  to the UK and could unblock the shopping PIN.
Mr D thought this would be an inconvenience as he wasnt returning  to the UK for another 
two months. He said cash machines were not as easy  to access as in the UK. Mr D was not 
happy with the length of the call and the way he was spoken to. In response to Mr Ds 
concerns, Halifax offered  him £75 compensation and £12 to cover call costs,  which  he 
accepted. This £87 was paid into Mr Ds account  that same day.
Mr D called Halifax again around two weeks later. He said that his card was now working in 
shops. He said it worked the previous  day in a store. He wanted  Halifax  to explain why this 
had happened, and why over the previous  fortnight hed had to travel to use cash machines. 
Mr D also wanted to be compensated  for his time in making this call.
Halifax couldnt see why Mr D was now able to use his card in shops. Halifax  wasnt  willing 
to offer Mr D any further compensation. They  considered the £87 they had already paid him 
enough to reflect any inconvenience to Mr D.
Mr D wasnt happy. He said that in his business he needs to be available  to customers  on 
the phone. And he had to give a client a £195 discount as he wasnt available when he was 
on the phone to Halifax.
Our investigator said Halifax should  compensate  Mr D for the £195 discount hed given to his 
client. The investigator  also thought the banks original proposals didnt go far enough. He 
recommended that Halifax increase its compensation from £87 to £150, bringing  the total to 
£345.
As Halifax didnt accept the investigators  findings  the matter  was passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN59622012my provisional decision  
In my provisional decision dated  30/10/2019, I took a different view from the investigator.  I 
said:
Ive listened to the calls between Mr D and Halifax and reviewed the evidence submitted by 
both parties. Im minded not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr D called Halifax on 18 March 2019.  This call lasted over an hour.  Halifax  could not see 
why Mr Ds card was declined in the supermarket.
He was advised to go to a cash machine to try to withdraw cash and to unblock  the shopping 
PIN. Mr D called back and said that he could withdraw  cash  but couldnt use the card for 
shopping. He was told that he would  have to unblock the shopping PIN when he returned to 
the UK. In the meantime, he would have  to withdraw  cash  from cash machines. Mr D 
complained that the call taker was rude.  I agree that the call taker  could have been 
perceived as rude during this call.
I accept that Mr Ds inability to use his card in shops abroad will have caused him some  
degree of inconvenience for a couple  of weeks, at least  until he discovered  that he could use 
his card in shops again. The island  is approximately 17 miles by 15 miles.  I have looked at 
just three  of the 25 banks that operate  on the island and found that between these three 
banks alone they have  87 cash machines. Further, noting the proximity  of his office to the 
cash machines Mr D did use, I think that the inconvenience was limited.
Halifax paid Mr D £75 for inconvenience  and £12 to cover his call costs  from abroad.  Mr D 
agreed to this. Further, it doesnt necessarily follow that Halifax needs  to compensate Mr D 
for that inconvenience.  If the banks suggestion  to Mr D had been  in some way remiss, then 
the position may be different. But from what I can see, what  Halifax  suggested to Mr D was 
an appropriate way to deal with the situation  until he was back in the UK and could unblock  
the shopping PIN.
Ive seen nothing  so far that enables me to reach a definitive conclusion  as to whether 
Halifax was at fault for the fact Mr D was unable   for a time  to use his card in shops. Mr D 
is adamant that he entered the correct  PIN and Halifax records  show  an incorrect  PIN was 
entered. It wouldnt be reasonable of me to say the situation Mr D found himself in was down 
to a Halifax error, or that the bank was wrong in what it suggested to him as a workaround.
Mr D wants compensation for the time he was on the phone  to Halifax to ask why his 
shopping PIN had started working  again.  He was on the phone for about an hour. The call 
taker and his colleagues tried really hard to work out why it had started  working again but 
were unable to give Mr D the information  he wanted
Mr D said his shopping PIN had started working the previous day. He decided to call Halifax  
the following  day. This was not an emergency.  I accept that Mr D wanted to know why the 
PIN had started  working again.  Forty minutes  into the call Mr D was asked if he was ok to 
stay on the call. He said it was fine. There was no mention  of this call causing  him any 
inconvenience or loss. Mr D said he wanted to get to the bottom of the matter. Its clear he 
wanted to know  what happened to the shopping PIN. That Halifax werent able to provide an 
explanation isnt a reason to award compensation.
Ref: DRN59622013The rule of mitigation  requires a claimant  to take steps to minimise their loss and to avoid 
taking unreasonable steps that increase their loss. The claimant cannot recover  damages for 
any loss which could  have  been  avoided by taking reasonable steps. If a claimant fails to do 
so, their damages will be affected by that failure.
There are several ways to contact  Halifax. Their phone lines are open  24 hours a day seven 
days a week. You can also submit your query via their secure online form or using their 
@AskHalifaxBank service on Twitter. As Ive said, Mr D could (and should) have taken steps 
to avoid this. Mr D could  have avoided his loss by contacting Halifax at a time when he was 
not required by his customers.  This would have  been  a reasonable step to take to avoid his 
loss.
Im not persuaded theres a proper basis for me to award compensation for the time Mr D 
decided to spend querying  Halifax why his card was now working in the shops.  Like most of 
us, Mr D might expect  to experience some difficulty or inconvenience  in our dealings  with 
commercial organisations.  But it doesnt mean  we can expect to be compensated each time.  
Taking all of this into account,  I currently consider the £87 Halifax has already paid to Mr D is 
a fair way to resolve this complaint.
the response to my provisional  decision 
In response to my provisional decision Mr D said that he was unhappy with it. He said that 
he doesnt agree that he made the decision  to call the bank. And that he needed to find out 
the reason why the shopping  PIN had started  working again. Mr D says, it did have a 
financial impact on him having  to call Halifax again.  Mr D said that if I disagreed  with his loss 
of earnings but accepted the call cost,  then this would be fair enough. But Mr D could not 
see why I felt that the call costs should  not be covered when the bank issue caused him to 
call up to find out what was happening with the card.
Halifax said that after reviewing my provisional  decision,  they had no further  comment  or 
information to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in light of Mr Ds response to it. 
Mr D had discovered that his shopping  PIN was working again the day before  he phoned 
Halifax. I accept that he wanted to know  why this had unexpectedly  happened. However, I 
dont think that this was an emergency  that needed an immediate answer.  I totally accept 
that Mr D would like to know  why his shopping PIN stopped working  and then started 
working again several weeks later,  and its regrettable that despite their best efforts Halifax  
werent able to provide Mr D with a definitive  explanation. And I can also understand that 
Mr D would have liked some reassurance  that the shopping PIN issue would not happen 
again. 
I think that if Mr D was worried about the cost of the call to Halifax, he could have contacted  
Halifax via their secure online form or via their @AskHalifaxBank service on Twitter. And as I 
explained in my provisional decision,  I dont think that we can expect  to be compensated 
each time we experience inconvenience  in our dealings  with commercial organisations.
Ref: DRN59622014For these reasons, and those outlined in my provisional findings, Im not persuaded to 
change my mind.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, my final decision is that I do not require Bank of Scotland plc 
t/a Halifax to take any further action to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 December 2019. 
Anthony Coyne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5962201