K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1998. Mr G says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mr G applied for his card and policy through the post. He says that it wasnt  clear  that the 
PPI was optional.  But I think BoS made it clear that Mr G didnt have to take out the PPI and 
he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant  remember this as it was 
over 20 years ago. I say this because  BoS has provided a copy  of Mr Gs credit card 
application  and on this I can see that the PPI is presented  as an optional  product, and has 
been selected with a tick. Mr G has then signed  the application, agreeing to the information 
on it. 
BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr G so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr G got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr G about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr G about  that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr G, that was unfair.  
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said - including  what hes said about being self-
employed at the time. He says that this wouldve meant he couldnt use the policy if hed 
needed to. But looking at policies that were sold around this time, I dont think its likely that 
Mr Gs employment status  wouldve made  it any more difficult for him to make  a claim than 
for someone  who was employed. So this point doesnt change my decision.
my final decision
Ref: DRN55279272The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr G any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5527927