K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP lent him money  he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr H took out four loans with Uncle Buck between November 2014  and April 2015.
Mr H says that it was irresponsible of Uncle Buck to agree  to lend to him. Mr H says he was 
stuck in a cycle of repeated borrowing from a number of different payday lenders.  
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Hs complaint be upheld in part. The adjudicator  
thought that Uncle Bucks  checks  went far enough before agreeing the first loan. For the 
second loan he thought  that the information Uncle Buck did have would  have revealed  that 
this loan was unaffordable. He thought that Uncle Buck should have done better checks for 
loans 3 and 4 but even  if it had done  these  checks the loans would not have been 
unaffordable for Mr H. The adjudicator  asked  Uncle Buck to refund the interest and charges 
that Mr H had paid on loan two. He also asked  Uncle Buck to pay interest  on the refund and 
remove any negative entries about  the affected  loans from Mr Hs credit file.
Uncle Buck  doesnt  agree  with the adjudicators recommendation. Uncle Buck  says that the 
information it had before giving Mr H loan 2 suggested that he had over £68 left after the 
loan was repaid  and it the loan was paid in full and on time suggesting that Mr H did have 
the money to repay it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Mr H hasnt responded to the adjudicators assessment and I did request any further 
comments from his new representatives before  I completed this decision but there  has been 
no response. So it doesnt appear that Mr H disagrees with the adjudicators  conclusions.  
Uncle Buck  was required to make  sure Mr H could repay any money that it lent to him in a 
sustainable way  that is without borrowing further. Any checks  had to be proportionate to 
things such as the amount of the loans, the repayments and any borrowing history.  But there 
wasnt a set list of checks  Uncle Buck had to carry out.
loan one 
Mr H hadnt borrowed from Uncle Buck before so it didnt have any lending history to 
consider. Uncle  Buck  says that it asked Mr H for details of his income  and expenses. 
It looked as though Mr H had about £565  of disposable income from his monthly  salary  that 
he declared of around £2000. Based on this information, I consider it was reasonable of 
Uncle Buck  to agree loans one and two without asking to see further evidence.
loan two
Ref: DRN52828792For loan 2 Mr H said his monthly income was the same, but his outgoings had increased to 
£1470. In spite of what  Uncle Buck says, these  are the figures  recorded  for this loan. This 
would have left Mr H with £510 in disposable  income to meet  a repayment of £472. This 
would have left Mr H with just £38 to meet any other expenses in the month. If Uncle  Buck 
had correctly taken  account of these  figures  I dont  think  it would have agreed to lend as this 
is unsustainable.
I have taken into account what Uncle Buck says about the average  household costs in 
Mr Hs area and the fact that Mr H had some flexibility  in his budget as he made  the payment 
on time. However, I dont  think that this is enough  to say the lending  was sustainable. On the 
basis of the figures  given  by Mr H I think that if it had been  properly  considered this loan 
would not have been given to Mr H. 
loans three  and four
By the time Mr H borrowed these  loans from Uncle Buck, the business  shouldve done more  
to check whether he could  afford the loans.  Uncle Buck should have been alerted by Mr Hs 
borrowing history that he was possibly reliant  on this sort of credit for his monthly living  costs  
and was not using the loans as a short term solution. 
The pattern  of lending shouldve reasonably prompted Uncle  Buck to ask about other  short 
term lending to make sure that Mr H wasnt in difficulty.
If Uncle Buck had looked at Mr Hs financial  circumstances in as much detail as I think  was 
proportionate, I dont think it wouldve made  any difference to the decision to lend given that 
even with Mr Hs outstanding short term loan repayments he could still afford the 
repayments due on loans three  and four. 
Overall, Mr H has lost out so Uncle Buck should  compensate him for the interest and 
charges he paid on loan two.
putting things right
To put things right Uncle Buck  should:
Refund any interest and charges paid on loan two;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
Remove any negative  information recorded about loan two from Mr Hs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part and direct Uncle  Buck Finance LLP to 
put things right as detailed above.
Ref: DRN52828793Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5282879