K822xcomplaint
Mr N complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited  handled a claim made  against  his 
motor insurance policy.
background 
A third party  has made a claim  against Mr Ns insurance following an incident  in November 
2017. It is alleged  that Mr Ns car made  contact with the third party vehicle when Mrs N, a 
named driver on Mr Ns policy, was reversing  into a parking space. 
Mr N tells us that his car did not make  contact with the third party  vehicle. And he was 
shocked to find that his premium had increased  at renewal because the incident had been  
settled as a fault claim. Mr N also says his no claims discount had been affected  despite it 
being protected.
Ageas contacted Mr N following the incident  asking him to get in touch with them which  he 
did. And Mrs N also spoke with Ageas describing the incident and answering questions from 
the call handler. The call handler advised  that it was likely to be recorded  as a fault claim 
and that the next step was to await full details of the third party  claim.  And that once received 
an engineer would be in touch to inspect their vehicle.   
Mr N says he completed and returned a motor accident report form at the request  of Ageas. 
And says heard nothing further  about  the incident  and wasnt contacted by an engineer. And 
did not know the claim had been  settled. He tells us he received his renewal  notice in July 
2018 and was shocked to see the increase in premiums and complained to Ageas.
Ageas tell us they settled the third party claim as the damage was consistent with the 
descriptions given  by the third party and Mrs N. And the information was placed on the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE), a data base of incidents managed by the Motor 
Insurers Bureau
After Mr N complained an engineer inspected his car in August 2018. Ageas say there was a 
small scratch on Mr Ns car and this was consistent  with the damage to the third party 
vehicle and Mrs Ns description  of the incident. So they rejected Mr Ns complaint.
Mr N brought his complaint to this service.  Our investigator felt Ageas had acted reasonably 
in settling the claim and that increases in premium due to a fault claim being recorded are 
not unusual. And they found Mr Ns protected no claims  discount  hadnt been impacted.
The investigator also said Ageas should have kept Mr N informed of what  was happening 
with the claim and that not doing  so has caused Mr N some  distress.  And that Mr N has lost 
the opportunity  to defend  the amount of the claim,  or settle  it himself.  So the investigator said 
Ageas should  pay Mr N £150 compensation.
Mr N disagreed with our investigators view and asked that an ombudsman  decide his case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigators view and for largely the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN50978272My role is to decide if Ageas have  handled  the claim  in a fair and reasonable manner, not to 
decide who was at fault in the incident.
Mr Ns policy,  in common with most motor insurance policies, contains a term that allows 
Ageas to handle a claim as they see as best. The policy says it allows them  to carry out the 
defence or settlement of any claim and wed expect Ageas to do this based  on facts  and 
evidence.
Ive listened to a recording  of telephone conversation Mrs N had with Ageas  on 22 
November 2017.  In it Mrs N says she might have  hit the third party  vehicle whilst reversing 
into a narrow parking space on a dark evening. She also says she didnt feel a bump but 
might have scraped  him. She added that there  was a 2 inch scratch on Mr Ns car and 
some scuff marks  on the third party vehicle.  And that there were several scratches on the 
third party vehicle but some of them  looked rusty. She adds that they were  using  torch light 
to view the damage.
Ive also viewed the Motor Accident Report  Form that Mr and Mrs N signed  on 28 November 
2017. On this form Mrs N says she was reversing into a parking space and stopped  because  
she saw she was close to the third party  vehicle.  She says she felt no bump  and heard no 
noise of any impact. On the form the damage  is described as a small scratch  and scuff 
marks only.  So there  is some discrepancy between the telephone conversation and the 
form completed a few days later. On balance Im more persuaded by the information in the 
telephone call than the accident report form. 
Ageas settled the claim based on what Mrs N said in the phone  call and it being consistent 
with the damage  to the third party vehicle.  They  didnt inspect the third party  vehicle and 
didnt inspect Mr Ns car until August 2018,  after he complained to them. Given the time that 
had elapsed Im not satisfied that Ageas can rely on the engineers report. However, I cant  
say that Ageas have acted unfairly  in settling the claim  based on the evidence  they did 
consider at the time.   
Ageas shouldve kept Mr N informed on what was happening with his claim, and advised  him 
that they would not be inspecting his vehicle. But it didnt so I can understand Mr N being 
shocked to find out the claim had been  settled. And being upset  that he didnt have  the 
opportunity to defend the quantum of the claim, which he feels was more than it should  have  
been.Im mindful that the engineers professional view is that the costs of the repairs  were 
reasonable. Taking into account their expert opinion, Im satisfied this is the case and Mr N 
didnt lose out as a result. But taking everything into account in the circumstances of this 
case I cant ignore the additional distress Ageas caused by not keeping  Mr N informed as it 
shouldve. And I think Mr N should  be compensated for the distress caused to him. Taking 
into account whats happened, overall  I think £150  is appropriate compensation to put things 
right. 
Mr N didnt accept the renewal premium Ageas offered  and didnt renew his policy.  However, 
its not unusual  for premiums to increase following a fault claim and it wouldnt be reasonable 
to ask Ageas to do anything different. And Im satisfied  that Mr Ns no claims discount  wasnt 
impacted as the renewal showed  8 years NCD which is what the call handler had confirmed 
to Mrs N when they spoke in November 2017.
 
Ref: DRN50978273my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr N £150.    
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.  
Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5097827