K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Nationwide  Building  Society hasnt paid the referral bonus which she 
expected to receive after switching her current account to them.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 29 March 2019, a copy of which is attached as it forms 
part of this final decision. Nationwide have confirmed they have nothing further to add. But 
Mrs W has responded to the provisional decision and provided some  more information. So 
Ive looked at everything again and taken all her comments into account when making this 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W had previously said she couldnt  find the switch reference number and asked for 
evidence that Nationwide  sent it to her. Nationwide confirmed  that it had been sent by text 
message, and I set this out in my provisional decision. Having read that, Mrs W checked her 
phone and found various text messages from Nationwide containing the number. She says 
she had previously been looking for it in emails and, given the amount of time which  has 
passed since this all happened, she hadnt  remembered that it had been  sent by text. 
Mrs W says she cant  remember exactly when she completed the process. She says she 
remembers her husband  asking her if she had done  it and being  relieved that it all went  
through. In my provisional decision I said that, because  Mrs W had queried what 
confirmation she should have received when she completed the form, it suggested she 
hadnt completed the form in full. Mrs W disagrees.  She says she cant remember after all 
this time what the screens looked like. But she says she didnt experience any errors and 
must have  got to the end of the process,  otherwise she would have raised a query with 
Nationwide. She questions why she would have  started the process  but not completed it.
Its understandable  that Mrs W cant remember the exact details of the process or what  the 
pages looked like, given  the amount of time which has passed. And I agree its unlikely she 
would have started to complete the online form and knowingly left it incomplete. But, as 
before, the evidence  here is conflicting. Mrs W says she completed  the online form and 
Nationwide say she didnt.  So to make my final decision, I need to look at what I think  is 
most likely to have happened, taking account  of the available evidence and surrounding 
circumstances.
When I made my provisional  decision,  I found it unlikely that Mrs W had been able to fully 
complete the recommendation form. She has now confirmed that she did receive the text 
messages containing the switch reference  number. So Im now satisfied that she had the 
information which was necessary for her to be able to complete the form. 
Mrs W says she did complete  the form. She cant recall the confirmation page but says she 
must have  got to the end of the process.  But Nationwides computer-based evidence says 
that the form wasnt completed, and I havent  seen anything which  makes  me doubt that 
evidence. In saying  this, Im not discounting  Mrs Ws own recollection of completing the 
form. But there could  be various reasons why it wasnt successfully submitted, through no 
Ref: DRN54528912fault of either party. On the evidence Ive seen, theres nothing which points to Nationwide 
having made a mistake  here. So I cant fairly ask them to pay the bonus. 
Mrs W has again referred to previous, unrelated  issues  which she says indicate that 
Nationwides systems are poor and prone to errors. In making  this decision, I can only 
consider the complaint that was referred  to this service and to which Nationwide has had the 
chance to respond. As Ive said before, I dont think it follows that previous problems with 
different processes mean  this issue can be assumed to be an error caused  by Nationwides 
system. And Mrs W says she knows she didnt experience any errors when completing the 
form. So I cant safely conclude that a problem with Nationwides systems caused this issue 
as I havent seen any evidence of that. 
Once again, I have asked  Nationwide if they would be willing to make  the referral  payment 
as a goodwill  gesture.  Theyre  not willing to do so and thats for them  as a business to 
decide. But, as I havent seen anything  which points to Nationwide  having made a mistake  
here, I havent changed my mind about the outcome of this complaint. So Im not going to 
direct Nationwide to make  the payment  to Mrs W.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, and as set out in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN54528913copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs W complains  that Nationwide Building Society hasnt paid the referral  bonus which  she expected 
to receive after switching her current  account to them.
background
Mrs Ws husband  was a customer of Nationwide. Nationwide were  running a Recommend a Friend 
scheme under which  an existing customer could  recommend  a friend  and, once the friend had 
opened an account, the recommender and the friend would each receive a £100  bonus.
Mrs Ws husband  recommended her under the scheme.  He received  an email containing  a link, which 
he passed on to Mrs W. She then switched her current account to Nationwide  and the switch  was 
successful. But Nationwide havent paid the referral  payment because they say Mrs W didnt complete 
Step 2 of the process. Step 2 says that, once the switch  has been started,  the friend  will need to 
complete the online recommendation form which  is accessed through  the link given  to them by the 
recommender.
Mrs W complained to Nationwide and said she had completed  the form.  Nationwide didnt uphold the 
complaint because they said they had no record of that step having been completed.  So they said that 
they couldnt make the payment. But they paid £100 into Mrs Ws account by mistake,  which they 
then took back. They then offered her compensation of £25 for that mistake but Mrs W didnt accept  it.
Mrs W wasnt happy with their response so she brought her complaint to this service.  She says she 
knows she completed the form. She feels Nationwide are accusing her of lying by saying she didnt  
complete the form and are trying to wriggle out of paying the referral  bonus. But when our adjudicator 
looked into it, she thought  that Nationwide had acted fairly. She also thought  that the £25 which  they 
had offered to Mrs W was fair, so she didnt ask them to do any more. Mrs W wasnt happy with those 
findings so she asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.  
But this is for slightly different reasons, based on information that was sent to us after our adjudicator  
gave her thoughts on the complaint. So, to be fair to both sides, Im outlining my provisional  thoughts  
below  to give both parties an opportunity to respond.
Nationwide accept that Mrs W would  have  been  eligible  for the Recommend a Friend payment. But 
they cant  pay it because Mrs W didnt complete Step 2 of the process, as required by the terms and 
conditions. Theyve sent a screenshot from their Recommend a Friend spreadsheet.  This says 
expired, which they say means the 90 days have passed without Step 2 being completed.  
Nationwide have also searched the spreadsheet  for Mrs Ws switch reference number but the search  
returned no results. Nationwide say this proves the switch  reference was never entered  into any 
Recommend a Friend form.
The switch reference  is important here. The friend needs this number to be able to complete the 
recommendation form at Step 2. The terms and conditions of the recommendation  scheme say that, 
once the switch is started, Nationwide will give the friend a switch reference number. Mrs W says she 
clicked on the link and did what was required of her. But she also says she cant find anything  with a 
switch reference number on it. She asked our adjudicator for evidence that Nationwide sent it to her.
Nationwide have now provided evidence  that a text message was sent to Mrs W in March 2018. The 
message confirmed  that Mrs Ws new current account was now open and gave the date on which  the 
Ref: DRN54528914switch would  be completed. The message contained the long switch reference number beginning with 
FSW .
Mrs W has provided a copy of an email  she received from Nationwide saying that her application  to 
switch her account  had been accepted.  The email  was sent the day before  the text message and says 
that Nationwide will keep in touch  to let her know how the switch  is progressing. It says that, if theyve 
got her mobile number,  they will send her a text when they start the switch. So sending the text 
message the following day was in line with what Nationwide said they would do.
The phone number which the message was sent to is the same as stated on Mrs Ws complaint form, 
so I find it to be the correct  number. And the switch  reference number  in the message  is the same 
number which Nationwide have referred to on more than one occasion during the course  of the 
investigation by this service. So Im satisfied that a switch  reference was generated and that it was 
sent to Mrs W by text message in time for her to complete Step 2 within the 90 day timescale.
But Mrs W says she has no record of receiving the switch  reference number. Based on what  Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that Nationwide did send it. So if Mrs W didnt receive it, I cant safely conclude it 
was Nationwides  fault.
Mrs W says that she has experienced several problems with Nationwide which she says are indicative 
of their systems being poor. She suggests that, because of this, we shouldnt  prefer  Nationwides 
evidence over hers.  While  I can understand her point of view, Im not looking at those previous 
problems here as they arent the subject of this complaint. And I have to be impartial and fair to both 
sides. So I dont think it follows that, because there have been problems before (with different  
processes), this issue can be assumed to be an error with Nationwides system.
Its clear from the terms and conditions that the switch reference number is needed in order for the 
friend to complete Step 2 of the recommendation process.  And its also clear that this number must be 
entered on the form. So Mrs W wouldnt  have been able to successfully complete Step 2 without the 
switch reference number.  But she says she didnt have it, although she says she did complete  the 
form.
Its difficult to say exactly what has happened here because the parties are saying the exact opposite 
of each other. Mrs W says she completed Step 2. Nationwide say she didnt. So I need to make a 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened, taking into account  the available 
evidence and surrounding circumstances.
I realise this will be very disappointing to Mrs W but, on the balance of probabilities, I find it unlikely 
that she was able to fully complete the form. If she had started filling it out, she would  have been 
asked to input the switch reference number. And, because  she says she didnt have one, I think  it 
likely that seeing this on the form would have prompted her to contact  Nationwide and query  why she 
hadnt received this number. The issue would  then have come to light and could have been resolved 
within 90 days.
In addition, the information Nationwide  have provided shows  that, once a customer has completed the 
form, they are taken to a confirmation page. Mrs W queried with our adjudicator  what  confirmation  she 
should have received when she completed the form. This indicates that she was never directed  to the 
confirmation page, which also suggests she hadnt completed all the stages of the online form.
I understand that Mrs W feels very strongly about this situation.  She has been  a savings customer  of 
Nationwide for a long time and she is a now a current account customer. By switching accounts, she 
thought she would be able to take advantage of the Recommend  a Friend scheme. And its accepted 
by Nationwide that she did switch accounts and did qualify for the bonus payment in all respects other 
than completion of Step 2 of the process.
Ive asked Nationwide if they would be willing to make  the referral payment  to Mrs W as a gesture of 
goodwill, from a customer service point of view.  But they werent willing  to do that. Its up to 
Ref: DRN54528915Nationwide as a business to decide when they might  want to make such a gesture. But, for the 
reasons above, and on the balance of probabilities, I cant conclude that they made a mistake here. 
So I cant fairly direct them to make the payment to Mrs W.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  above, and subject to any further information I receive from the parties, I dont intend 
to uphold this complaint.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5452891