K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited applied unfair end of 
contract charges  for damage and excess mileage at the end of his hire purchase  agreement.  
He wants the charges  to be cancelled.
background
Mr C tells us that he acquired the vehicle in March  2016  on a two year deal. He says that the 
vehicle was handed back at the end of the agreement in early  March 2018. And that it had 
been valeted and serviced the day before return. Several weeks  later Mr C states  that he 
received an invoice for additional charges including excess  mileage  and damage. Mr C feels  
the damage occurred  after hed returned  the vehicle.  And that the vehicle was driven  
between the time he returned it and the inspection.
MBFS told us that the vehicle had been  inspected by an independent  business  Ill call BC. 
And that the charges it applied were in accordance with the Vehicle Return Standards and 
the finance agreement.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 March  2021. I said that I was minded to 
uphold the complaint in part. But only in respect  of the charge which related to the damage 
to the alloys. I said I felt there was insufficient information to show  that the damage  had been 
present when the vehicle was returned. As opposed to on the date of inspection several 
weeks later.
Both parties  have replied  to my provisional  view. Mr C didnt  agree  and expressed  doubt 
about the authenticity  of the documents which MBFS  had supplied in support of the charges.
MBFS said it didnt accept  the removal of the charge for the damaged  alloys and was 
seeking further information  from the retailer to which the vehicle had been returned. At the 
time of writing its not supplied this information.  
I thank the parties  for their replies.  But given Ive not been provided  with any further 
additional material information Im not minded to alter my provisional view. Its largely 
repeated in the final decision  which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr C would  be disappointed to receive notice about the additional 
charges, particularly if he hadnt been expecting this. And to compound  matters  it was 
several weeks after he handed back the vehicle  that he received  the invoice.
Mr Cs complaint relates to end of contract  charges  which  he feels  are unfair  and have been 
wrongly applied.  Hes challenged the dates on which certain information provided by MBFS 
was obtained.  In particular he disputes the dates on which photographs of the alleged  
damage to his vehicle  were taken. And the authenticity of the service  history.
Ref: DRN53794342Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every  single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues  here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome.
Where information is unclear or contradictory - as is the case here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance  of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely  to have happened in light of 
the available  evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
I want to clarify that as this service provides an informal and impartial  dispute  resolution service, 
we do not routinely investigate the authenticity of documents which have been provided by the 
parties. Information that is supplied is afforded the weight that is deemed appropriate.
Ive reached the view that whilst there are clearly  discrepancies in some of the information 
provided by MBFS, I feel they are far more  likely  to be the result  of administrative errors as 
opposed to anything more sinister. Im aware Mr C doesnt agree with this. But Ive not been 
provided with anything which persuades me that theres been any attempt  to fabricate information.
Mr C was originally invoiced for several elements in terms of end of contract charges. Briefly, 
these related to excess use (which  was later removed); excess mileage; damage and 
refurbishment charges  relating to two alloy wheels and a missing spare key. 
The finance  agreement allowed for 20,000 miles to be covered from the time of supply. Any 
mileage above  this would be subject of an excess mileage charge. It also required the 
vehicle to be returned in accordance with the relevant Vehicle Return Standards.
The information shows that on or around 7 March  2018 Mr C returned the vehicle to his local 
Mercedes dealer. And he arranged for a valet and service which  was probably carried out 
the next day. That service does not appear to have  been properly recorded  against the 
vehicle history at the time.
Ive now seen a service history - which has seemingly  been updated to include the above 
service. That service  history states  the odometer  reading at the service on 8 March 2018 
was 27,233 miles. But the service is recorded as having been carried  out at a dealership 
which is approximately 90 miles or so from the dealership where Mr C left the vehicle. This 
raises the issue of whether the service  history relates to this vehicle. I think  its more  likely 
than an administrative error has led to the wrong  location and type of service being attributed  
to this vehicle.  The mileage accords with BCs  inspection and it seems unlikely that a 
different vehicle with identical  mileage would  have been serviced on the same  date.
Usually when a vehicle  is handed back at the end of a contract  term any inspection would 
take place immediately. Or within a day or so. Regrettably in this case - due to a 
misunderstanding with the dealership - MBFS was unaware the vehicle had been returned.  
This led to the excess use charge being applied but later cancelled. It also meant  the 
inspection of the vehicle was delayed  by several  weeks.
Ref: DRN53794343Ive seen a copy  of BCs inspection report - which states that the vehicle was examined  on 
23 April 2018. Ive also viewed photographs and a video which accompanied the report  and 
are said to depict the damage and mileage.
I cant see any plausible reason why BC would provide an incorrect  date for the inspection.  
As far as Im aware its only role was to collect, inspect and then arrange for the vehicle to be 
stored /auctioned. Im satisfied on a balance of probabilities  that BC inspected  the vehicle on 
23 April 2018 and that its findings reflect this.
Ill deal separately  with the issues  of excess mileage and damage. BCs inspection video 
shows the mileage  to be 27,236 miles.  This would be consistent  with the service details 
recorded on 8 March 2018. This is assuming the service - as seems  most probable   had 
taken place at Mr Cs local dealership from which I infer BC collected the vehicle prior to its 
inspection. Im unsure  of the precise location  where BC carried out its inspection or if the 
vehicle was transported there as opposed to being  driven.
Mr C accepts that he did not - when  returning the vehicle  - take a separate note of the 
mileage at that time. So he is unable to assist on this aspect. Ive no reason to believe that 
the mileage recorded by BC was other than the 27,236 miles as evidenced by the inspection 
video. As that is in excess of the 20,000 miles allowance, I find the excess miles charge is 
fairly applied. I dont find theres  any plausible information to suggest  the vehicle was driven  
to any significant  extent between the service and inspection.
In respect of the vehicle inspection I would make  these  observations.  Theres  no dispute that 
the spare key wasnt returned. Mr C says hes accumulated several such  items and wasnt  
able to identify  the key which pertained to this particular vehicle when he returned  it. The 
Vehicle Return  Standards which form part of the finance agreement required the return of 
the spare key. I cant say that MBFS is acting unfairly in applying this charge.
The issue  of the damage charge relating to the wheels  has also caused Mr C some  concern. 
I can understand why. It seems he was provided  with photographs which he believes were 
taken on 11 June 2018. As opposed to the date of BCs inspection. Having viewed the 
information which he supplied (including the relevant  file / photographs) I think he is probably  
correct about  when these particular photographs  were taken.
The video of the inspection carried out by BC is also accompanied by photographs which I 
infer are stills of the video  images. Comparing the two sets of photographs  I cant  see any 
discernible difference in what they depict.
I find that the most pertinent  issue is not what the photographs showed  on 23 April and / or 
11 June 2018.  But what the condition of the vehicle was on 8 March  2018.  And theres very 
little direct information about this.
Mr C stated that he asked  the dealer to not only do the service  but to bring  any work that 
was required to his attention. So that he could have it repaired.  Ive seen an email  dated 13 
March from the dealership  which  indicates  it replaced a missing centre wheel cap. But it 
doesnt refer to other work being required.
I believe its fair to draw an inference  that the email supports Mr Cs assertion that no other 
chargeable work (such as polishing alloys)  had been specifically identified as being  required 
at that time.
Ref: DRN53794344Alloy damage apart - no other  charge was invoiced  for damage beyond  fair wear and tear. 
Other than mileage, the charges referred to missing  key (£260) and alloy damage  (£170). So 
its fair to say that Mr C is correct in his belief that overall the vehicle had been  returned in 
good condition.
Im aware theres a dispute about where the vehicle was stored in the period between 
service and inspection.  The business  to whom  the vehicle was returned says it was kept 
securely. Mr C claims to have seen it parked outside the dealership.  I cant resolve  that issue  
but I dont think  I need  to in order to reach my decision.
Its certainly possible that in a busy dealership  - even if vehicle movement was limited  to minor 
repositioning - that alloy damage  could  have occurred within  the six week  delay. Theres 
nothing to indicate the damage was identified as requiring attention when the service  and 
other work was being carried out. Whereas  another item requiring attention was repaired.
I dont think that theres sufficient information to show that the vehicle was damaged  outside 
the required standards when returned  by Mr C. I find that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable 
to apply the charge in respect of the alloy wheels.
In summary,  Im satisfied  for the reasons stated that the complaint should be partially 
upheld. And the charge in relation to damage to alloys should be removed.
I accept this is unlikely  to satisfy Mr C. And it remains  open to him to take such alternative 
steps as are available  to him if he doesnt accept my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint but 
only in part.
I require Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited to take the following action:
It should remove the charges in the sum of £170  in relation to the alleged damage  to alloy 
wheels from the invoice sent to Mr C.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2021.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5379434