K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma) was 
irresponsible to lend to him.
background
Mr C had four loans from Satsuma between  January  2017  and January  2018 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1 24 Jan 2017 £1,000 3m £492.00 24 Apr 2017 On time
2 3 Apr 2017 £600 3m £295.20 24 Jul 2017 5 Jun 2017 - early
3 6 Aug 2017 £2,000 3m £984.00 27 Nov 2017 26 Dec 2017  late
Missed Oct payment
4 5 Jan 2018 £450 3m £221.40 24 Apr 2018 23 Mar 2018 - early
Mr C says he doesnt think  appropriate affordability  and credits  checks were carried  out 
before Satsuma approved the loans.  He says he couldnt afford  the repayments so had to 
borrow again, from multiple other short-term loan companies. He says this trapped him in a 
debt spiral and contributed to a decline in his mental health.
Satsuma says it asked  Mr C about his income and expenditure at the time of each  loan and 
compared that with information  it received from the credit agencies. For loans 1, 2 and 4 it 
found it likely  that Mr Cs expenditure was higher than hed declared, but it was still satisfied 
the repayments were  affordable. It explained  that Mr C told it about repayment problems in 
October 2017, but that he confirmed the remaining repayments on loan 3 were affordable. 
Satsuma asked Mr C to contact it if hed like to discuss  a reduced repayment option  on the 
outstanding balance.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She found that proportionate 
checks for loans 3 and 4 would have indicated it was likely Mr C couldnt sustainably meet 
the repayments for these loans. She recommended  it should  refund interest  and charges on 
these loans (plus 8% statutory interest) and remove any associated adverse information  
from Mr Cs credit file.
Satsuma responded  to say, in summary, that it was satisfied its affordability assessments 
showed Mr C had enough disposable  income to afford the repayments on loans 3 and 4. It 
adds that repayments were  made  on time and there was no indication  of financial difficulty.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN57153812But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
As the repayment  due on loan 3 was relatively large  compared with Mr Cs income, I 
consider a full financial  review  would have been  a proportionate check  at this stage. Had 
Satsuma carried this out, it would most likely have shown  that Mr C:
had understated  his expenditure and that the £984 monthly repayment on loan 3 
was not affordable to him;
was using multiple short-term lenders. Hed borrowed £1,400 in the week before 
loan 3 was approved  and, by the time he applied for loan 4, he owed money to 
ten other short-term  loan companies;
Was spending a highly significant  amount of money  on gambling transactions.
So Im satisfied it was irresponsible for Satsuma to have approved loans 3 and 4 and it 
should put things right.
Ref: DRN57153813my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as 
Satsuma) should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr C paid on loans 3 and 4;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Remove any negative  information about loans 3 and 4 from Mr Cs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Mr C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5715381