K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in alongside a 
mortgage in 1996. Mr T says Yorkshire  Building  Society (YBS)  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ts case.
Having done that, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr T says that he was told that he needed to take the policy  in order to have  the mortgage. I 
cant know exactly what was discussed  with the salesperson  when Mr T applied for his 
mortgage, but the mortgage application form shows that a separate section for PPI was 
completed. So I think its likely that Mr T discussed the option of PPI at the time and knew  he 
had a real choice about whether to take it out or not. So, I think YBS made it clear that Mr T 
didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
he cant remember this.
YBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T so it didnt  have  to check  if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr T got the information  he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because: 
When the policy was sold,  YBS expected  to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr T about  that. 
Because YBS didnt tell Mr T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr T has said, including  what he said about being a nave first 
time buyer, but for the reasons explained  above  these  points  dont change  my decision. 
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr T any commission  and profit share  it got that was more  than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  YBS should also pay back to Mr T any extra interest Mr T paid because 
of that.
Ref: DRN59789532YBS should  pay back to Mr T the extra he paid each  month because the commission  and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should also pay   Mr T 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr T can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr T any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019. .
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5978953