K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a store  card PPI policy.
AXA France  IARD, the PPI insurer, has taken  responsibility for the sale of such policies. To 
keep things simple, Ill therefore  just be referring to AXA in this decision.
background
I have attached my provisional decision from May 2020, which forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out why I was not minded to uphold Mrs Cs 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. No responses were submitted.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As none of the parties has provided any 
further evidence  or arguments for consideration, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
It follows that I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision  below,  I do not uphold Mrs Cs 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 August 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN56620822COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs C has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a store card PPI policy.
AXA France IARD, the PPI insurer, has taken  responsibility for the sale of such  policies. To keep 
things simple, Ill therefore  just be referring  to AXA in this decision.
background
Mrs C took out the policy by filling  out an application  form in a shop in 1998.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the 
complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about  the sale of 
PPI on our website  and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive currently decided  not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs C says the PPI was added to the store card account without  her knowledge or consent. However, 
Ive seen a copy of the application form that Mrs C completed  at the time. There  is a separate  section 
for PPI and Mrs C has ticked  in that section  to request the policy.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs Cs recollection of events 
has faded. Based on the available  evidence, I consider  that Mrs C would  have known from the 
wording and layout of the application  form that she had a choice about  buying  PPI. It seems to me 
that she decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt have to, even  if she no longer  remembers doing so.
AXA didnt advise Mrs C to take out the policy, so it didnt  need  to ensure that it met her needs.  But it 
did need to provide enough  information for Mrs C to make  an informed choice about whether or not 
the policy  was right for her.
In the PPI questionnaire that Mrs C gave to this service, she said that she was retired in 1998. Our 
adjudicator has therefore  upheld the complaint on the basis that Mrs C wouldnt  have been able to 
benefit from the primary benefits of the policy, such as the unemployment cover.  However, looking at 
application form that Mrs C completed  in 1998, she ticked a box to confirm that she was in 
permanent, full-time employment at the time. We therefore asked  Mrs C to clarify her situation at the 
point of sale.  Mrs C initially came back and said that she had been self-employed since 1992 but had 
reduced her hours in 1998.
The information Mrs C provided still didnt fully explain her situation.  She was not at retirement age in 
1998 and so presumably wasnt  in receipt of a pension. And from what shed said,  she had reduced 
her hours  from full-time  to part-time, which is not the same as being  retired.
We approached Mrs C again  and this time she said that she was working part-time (so was semi-
retired) in 1998. She says she finished  work in 2002 when the store closed down. This is the first 
time there  has been any mention of a shop that Im assuming Mrs C was working in. She had only 
ever told us that she was self-employed.
We further asked Mrs C why shed  said on her application form that she was in full time permanent  
employment, but we did not receive a response to this question.
Ref: DRN56620823Because of its contradictory nature, I am not persuaded I can rely on the information that Mrs C has 
provided about her situation in 1998. As Ive said, it was a long time ago and so it is reasonable if she 
doesnt fully remember her specific employment details  from then. Overall, I consider that the 
application form is the most  reliable  piece  of evidence we have  to indicate what  Mrs Cs 
circumstances were  at the time that she took out the PPI. So I think it is more likely than not that Mrs 
C was working full time in 1998.
Because Mrs C hadnt  previously mentioned having an employer, I dont know if shed have received 
any sick pay from that employer. Nevertheless, the policy would have  paid out in addition to any sick 
pay and potentially for longer than Mrs C would have received full pay for. And Mrs C has told us that 
she didnt have any other means,  such as savings, to fall back on. So I think  she had a need for the 
policy and could have  benefitted from it at what would  have been a difficult time.
I consider that Mrs C would have known  something about the policy  that it would cover her card 
repayments if she was unable to work  because I dont think  shed have  decided to take it out without 
knowing anything  at all about it. Its possible  that AXA didnt provide  as much information  as it should 
have about the policy, particularly  about  the things that it didnt cover.  But Mrs C wasnt affected by 
any of those things. Because  I think  she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that more information would have caused her to change her mind. So she isnt any worse off as 
a result of anything  AXA may have done wrong, so theres  nothing  that AXA needs to do to put things 
right.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Cs complaint.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5662082