K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc have unfairly reported adverse information 
to credit reference agencies in relation  to a loan he took out with it. 
background
In September  2017 Mr M took out a personal  loan with Tesco. He provided an account for 
payments to be taken  by direct debit. These were to commence in January 2018. However 
the direct  debit didnt  operate  so Mr M made  a manual payment. This also happened for the 
next two months,  so Mr M complained to Tesco.
On 6 April 2018  Tesco wrote to Mr M saying  that the issue  with the direct debit seemed to be 
caused by Tesco.  The Tesco representative said he was investigating, and would contact 
Mr M when  he had an update. He said any missed/late  payment markers  would be removed. 
Mr M was offered £250  compensation for the error and inconvenience, including not 
receiving a call back as promised. 
Tesco didnt  get in touch with Mr M with an update.  The direct  debit still didnt  operate.  Tesco  
then sent a notice to Mr M concerning  the late payments, and reported  the loan as being in 
arrears to the credit reference agencies. In May Mr M spoke to Tesco, who wrote again on 
7 June. It said that the account he provided didnt support direct  debit  payments. Tesco 
acknowledged that Mr M had said that hed been refused credit because  of its reporting to 
credit reference agencies, but said the missed payments  had been  reported correctly, and it 
wouldnt remove them. It confirmed Mr M had received  the earlier compensation of £250 and 
said that as no errors  had been made with the DD, it wouldnt be paying any further  
compensation. 
The response also said his next monthly  repayment was due on 10 June. Mr M didnt make  
that payment,  and an arrears notice was sent.  Later in June  Mr M called Tesco, made the 
outstanding payments, and gave account  details for where Tesco could  take the payments 
from in future. He also raised the issue of the reporting  to his credit  files again but Tesco 
wouldnt remove the adverse reporting.
In early July 2018  Mr M brought his complaint to us. He explained he was in serious ill 
health, and he and his wife had experienced considerable distress from Tescos  actions, and 
hed been turned down  for business  loans and forced to close  his business.  
Our investigator didnt  think Tesco had done  anything wrong in relation to the direct  debit.  
But he did think Tesco  had acted unfairly in reporting late payment markers  to credit 
reference agencies  for April, May and June  2018.  This was because Tesco had told him the 
fault lay with it, and it would  be in touch with an update. He thought Tesco  should remove 
the late payment  markers. 
Mr M still wanted compensation  for his severe distress and problems caused by the entries 
on his credit file. But our investigator  said he couldnt be certain that the sole reason Mr M 
was declined for business loans and had to close his business was these entries.  And he 
thought the £250  compensation that Tesco had paid was enough.
Tesco didnt  respond to our investigators  views, and Mr M didnt respond to his comments 
about compensation, so the complaint has come to me for decision.
Ref: DRN56044402my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, Im going to ask Tesco to ensure  the late payment markers are removed 
from Mr Ms credit files. But Im not going  to ask it to pay Mr M any more compensation. I 
understand that this will disappoint Mr M, and Im sorry for that. Im also sorry to hear that he 
is quite ill, and he has been for some time including  during most of his dealings  with Tesco.  I 
can appreciate the situation with Tesco has been an added  strain.  
In summary,  Tesco thinks it shouldnt have to ask the credit  reference agencies to remove  
the late payment  markers because Mr M was obliged to make the payments under his loan 
agreement and he didnt.  It also says the problem  with the direct  debit wasnt  actually 
caused by Tesco  Mr M had provided account  details for an account that didnt support 
direct debits. 
Ive looked carefully  at the information  on the file relating  to the direct debit. As our 
investigator said, it does appear that the account  given by Mr M didnt permit  direct debits to 
be taken, although  theres nothing to suggest Mr M was aware  of this. 
Tesco says it made  it clear that the direct  debit needed to come from a current  account. It 
has provided us with a document  headed Before you apply for a loan. The document  says 
that an applicant  will need their current account bank sort code and account number. Then  
on the form it says the money will be deposited into that account  and asks what day of the 
month would  the applicant  like the payment taken. That part of the form doesnt say that it 
must be a current account. So I think Tesco did intend for it to be a current account, although 
it could have been clearer. 
The money from the loan was able to be deposited into the account nominated by Mr M, 
even though it wasnt a current account, but a flexible offset account. So Tesco  wouldnt 
necessarily have known  at that point the account  didnt  support direct debits. But I dont think 
Mr M knew that either. Accounts other than current accounts can sometimes allow  direct  
debits. And not everyone appreciates when an account is a current  account, as opposed to 
some other kind of account. 
In January, February  and March 2018  Tesco attempted  to operate the direct  debit  without 
success, and Mr M made manual payments. He lost patience with this, and made  a 
complaint. And in the response to the complaint,  Tesco said this:
The issue  with your DD seems to be on behalf of Tesco Bank.  Each time you have been told 
it has been set up, including  at application  stage, it has never collected. I have launched  an 
internal investigation into this matter  with our incident management team,  and will be in 
contact with yourself when I receive  updates in relation to this. As the problem has not been  
caused by yourself,  I have  put forward a request to ensure  that any missed/late payment 
marker reported to your file is removed. 
The letter didnt ask Mr M to continue to make manual  payments until the issue  was 
resolved. It didnt ask him to do anything. So in my view it was reasonable for Mr M to think 
he need do nothing  until Tesco got back in touch after its investigation. For whatever reason 
Tesco didnt  do this. But I think  Mr M was entitled  to rely on Tescos  commitment to him 
contained in that letter. I agree that it now appears that the issue with the direct debit wasnt  
Ref: DRN56044403caused by Tesco,  but I dont think that makes a difference to whether Mr M was entitled  to 
rely on their April letter. Theres  nothing to suggest  Mr M knew  the issue  with the direct debit 
was caused by him either. 
By the time Mr M got the 7 June letter he would  have known that Tesco  said the issue  with 
the direct  debit was caused by him, and he needed  to make the payments by another 
means. I cant  be sure Mr M saw that letter before the 10 June payment was due. And 
shortly afterwards he paid the arrears  and provided alternative bank account details, so I 
think he did what he needed  to once he was aware of the issue and that Tesco no longer  
agreed the problem  was caused by it. In these circumstances I think it is fair and reasonable 
to tell Tesco to take steps to have the late payment markers removed from Mr Ms credit  file. 
Mr M wants a good deal more compensation than the £250  he has already received from 
Tesco. But Tesco says this is more than it would normally give, and it was that high because  
it mistakenly thought  it had caused  the issue with the direct debit. 
Im afraid I cant be sure that Mr M was unable to obtain a business loan because of the late 
payment markers  on his file. There couldve been  other reasons, although I dont doubt Mr M 
sincerely believes this is the reason. And I also cant be satisfied that Tescos actions 
caused Mr M to have to close his business.  So I wont  be asking Tesco  to pay compensation 
for this. 
But Ive no doubt  Mr M has experienced distress trying to resolve  the situation with Tesco,  
and that this has been increased by it all taking place during a time he was very unwell and 
having significant medical treatment.  And I understand that Mr Ms wife has also 
experienced stress because of the issues. Im not able to compensate her, as shes not a 
party to the complaint, but I can take into account  the impact  of her distress  on Mr M. 
I think in these circumstances,  where  Tesco didnt actually cause the problem with the direct  
debit, but led Mr M to think that it did, the £250  compensation  it has already paid for his 
distress and inconvenience is fair. I will tell Tesco to remove the late payment markers, but 
Im not going  to tell it do anything further. I know this will disappoint Mr M, and Im sorry for 
that. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance Plc must ask the credit  reference agencies 
to remove any adverse reporting in relation to late payments for the loan for April,  May and 
June 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5604440