K822xcomplaint
Miss A complains  that a finance agreement she has with Secure Trust Bank Plc (Secure 
Trust), trading as Moneyway, was misrepresented and was unaffordable.  She also says that 
the car was not of satisfactory quality.
background 
Miss A took receipt of a used car in December 2016. She financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with Secure Trust. At the point  of supply the car had already completed 
about 40,000 miles.  It was first registered  in 2012.
Miss A says:
the finance was unaffordable  and should not have  been provided as she was 
unemployed at the time;
the finance agreement was misrepresented to her as:
oshe wasnt allowed to view the first page;
oher deposit and trade in were not shown on it;
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality as a manufacturing defect which  caused  the car 
to overheat was not remedied.
She complained to Secure Trust about these  issues. They said they had adequately 
considered affordability  as theyd reviewed Miss As bank statements and her benefit 
income. They didnt  think there was any evidence that the car was faulty  at the inception of 
the agreement  when they said they were responsible for its condition.  They  noted that 
Miss A had the car for 18 months when she made  this complaint to them and they thought, 
given the passage of time, it was fair to expect her to demonstrate the problems.
So Miss A referred her complaint to this service  and our adjudicator provided an opinion.  
She didnt  think Secure Trust had completed adequate affordability checks as she didnt 
think theyd considered income  and expenditure. So, she looked at Miss As bank 
statements and considered what Miss A told her about her expenditure when she set up the 
finance agreement. On the basis of this evidence she noted that Miss A would have had 
enough income to afford the agreement  so she didnt think it was unaffordable.  
She went on to consider  whether the deal had been misrepresented to Miss A. She thought  
it fair to suggest Miss A should have considered the detail of the agreement  before agreeing  
to it so she wasnt persuaded  by her argument  that shed not viewed the first page.  She 
noted that there was a receipt for a deposit and trade in that equated  to £1,250  and she 
agreed that this wasnt accounted for in the finance and should have been. She accepted 
Secure Trusts explanation of this matter  as the most likely  account of what happened. They 
said the first application for credit was for £7,370 but was rejected by them as unaffordable. 
The second  application was for £5,800  and had no trade in or deposit.  So, whilst they 
couldnt confirm  this with the dealership  as theyd shut down, they thought it was likely  the 
dealership had removed the deposit  and part exchange from the finance  request. The 
adjudicator noted  that Secure Trust had offered £200 in compensation for this and she 
thought this was acceptable in the circumstances.
The adjudicator went on to consider whether the car was of acceptable quality but she 
wasnt provided with any evidence from Miss A of any work done on the overheating 
problems and she thought this would  have been  likely to be available as Miss A had 
Ref: DRN51023002suggested the repairs had cost her more than £800. So in the absence of this information 
she wasnt persuaded there was evidence anything was wrong with the car when Miss A 
took receipt of it and she didnt think Secure Trust needed to take any further action  on this 
matter or the others that Miss A had referred  to us.
Miss A didnt agree with the adjudicators view. She therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Miss A so please  let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss A acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is 
a regulated consumer  credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
was the finance affordable?
I agree  with the adjudicator that Secure Trust should  have checked income and expenditure. 
So Ive reviewed Miss As statement of what she was spending  at the time and considered  
the breakdown  of her income from her bank statements. It appears that if Secure Trust had 
performed adequate affordability checks they would have  found  that this deal was affordable 
as Miss A appears,  on the evidence provided,  to have had sufficient disposable income.  So I 
dont support Miss As claims here.
was the finance deal misrepresented?
The relevant  legislation  says that the car should  not have been misrepresented to Miss A. If 
it was, and if that misrepresentation led Miss A to enter into an agreement that she would not 
have otherwise entered into, then Id ask Secure  Trust  to take some action.
I think its reasonable to suggest that the onus is on the consumer to check  the financial 
agreement they are entering  into. Whilst I understand  that its difficult to read all the 
document as these  are often complex,  I do think that a consumer would expect  to be shown 
the detail thats on the first page  which would include how much they had to pay each  
month. Im therefore not persuaded that its most  likely this information wasnt provided as I 
think Miss A would have  raised concerns earlier if it was. 
I think Secure Trusts explanation of what went wrong with the deposit and the trade  in is 
most probably correct.  The difference in the two requests for finance  seems to explain  the 
Ref: DRN51023003missing trade in and deposit once a reasonable discount is taken into account  and I dont  
think theres been ay other reasonable explanation provided. I can see that Secure Trust 
have offered £200 in compensation for this error  and I think thats  reasonable in the 
circumstances. I dont  think  Miss A has suffered financially as a result of this error and Im 
not persuaded she would not have entered  into the deal if shed realised the details of the 
deposit were not on the agreement.
was the car of an acceptable quality?
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Secure Trust, who are also the supplier  of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
But Secure Trusts responsibility  for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for 
its condition at the point of supply  they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Ive not been provided with any job cards or evidence of the repairs Miss A says were 
necessary to remedy the overheating  issue. The first evidence of any repairs  is in the job 
card provided just before the car was repossessed by Secure Trust. This explains that the 
water pump was replaced and a repair carried out to the timing belt. But that was 28 months 
after the inception  of the deal and 15,000 miles later. Im not persuaded, on the evidence  
supplied; that its most  likely these faults were present when  the car was supplied to Miss A.
Overall, I dont  think theres evidence here that Secure Trust need to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5102300