K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited ("FICL") mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance ("PPI") policy. The complaint  is brought on his behalf by a claims 
management company.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card that Mr C took out in 1996. It 
was sold to him in store.  Its been  agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer,  should take 
responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things  simple,  Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr C didnt agree. 
He says in summary,  that he wasnt given a chance  to say he didnt want  the PPI when he 
was applying for the card, and hes sure it was mis-sold at the time.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr C says he didnt get a chance to say no to the PPI. FICL  says it wouldve got his consent 
before adding cover to his account. Where  theres a dispute about  what happened,  I have to 
base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened - taking into account  all the 
evidence thats  available.
Its not possible for me to know exactly what was said at the time this policy  was taken out. 
The copy  of Mr Cs application isnt very clear. But I can see a section headed
"Protection for your payments and purchase cover. From other similar forms we know the 
form would  give a brief description  of the cover and that, next to the tick box also say, Yes, I 
want my Account covered by Payment  Protection Insurance  (subject to eligibility). Please 
debit my Account  with the relevant monthly  premium until further  notice. Theres a tick next 
to this. I think Mr C wouldve had the opportunity to review and query  anything  on the 
application he wasnt sure about  before he signed  it. So, overall, I think its most likely FICL  
made Mr C aware he had a choice  about buying the policy and he chose to take it. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But overall I dont think Mr C has lost out by anything FICL might have done  wrong  
because:
He was eligible  for the policy.
Ref: DRN50115472It looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better  information  about the cost of 
the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Mr C told us (in a form he completed when  he first complained about the PPI sale) that 
he wouldve received  statutory sick pay if he couldnt work due to sickness or an 
accident. But under  the terms of the policy it wouldve paid out until he returned to work if 
hed made a successful claim. The policy would also cover him if he became 
unemployed. I think that, on balance, the PPI couldve been  a useful benefit for Mr C.
It doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover,  so 
I dont think having any more information about these wouldve changed his decision to 
take the policy.
Mr C told us quite recently  that he might  not have been working  for a couple of months 
around the time he took out the card and PPI. But he hasnt told us more  than that  and as 
this was so long ago and Mr C isnt sure what the relevant  dates were  I cant fairly say that 
affected how the policy was sold.
Mr C also says other people have had refunds for mis-sold PPI so he should too. I dont 
know the circumstances of those other complaints, but we look at each complaint on its own 
merits and assess the evidence provided by each party. Thats  what  Ive done here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5011547