K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains TSB Bank plc will not refund some  disputed transactions.
background
Mr H says transactions on his account  between March 2012  and April 2013, made to 
PayPal, were not made by him and neither did he authorise them.
He went into a branch  of TSB in October  2014  having been told that his account was 
overdrawn and this is when he says he first found  out about  the transactions. When he 
spoke to a representative on the phone,  he was advised that due to the time which had 
passed since the disputed transactions, TSB could not do anything to help him.
Mr H did no more until he says he received communication from a debt collection agency in 
2018 who were  chasing  a debt on behalf  of PayPal.   At that point,  he contacted TSB again 
and complained about the transactions.
TSB did not uphold his complaint  so Mr H brought his complaint  to this service.
Our investigator thought TSB had not treated Mr H fairly.  She  thought it should refund the 
disputed transactions,  interest and a further  £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
TSB did not agree with her and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  It re-iterated the issue 
over the timescales  which prevented Mr H from now bringing this complaint.
I did not agree with the investigators  view and so I wrote a provisional decision explaining 
why.  Both parties had the opportunity to make  any further comments   but I received 
nothing more from either.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
consider relevant: law and regulations;  regulators' rules, guidance  and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
The Payment Services Regulations 2009, the regulations relevant to this complaint, say as 
follows:
59.(1) A payment service user is entitled to redress under regulation  61, 75, 76 or 77 only 
if it notifies the payment  service provider without undue delay, and in any event no later than 
13 months after the debit date, on becoming aware  of any unauthorised or incorrectly 
executed payment transaction.
And the terms and conditions relevant  to Mr Hs account at the time say the following  at 8.4:
Ref: DRN54151612Refunds for payments
a)We will refund the amount of a payment and any charges or interest you paid as a 
result of it, and pay you any interest we would have paid on that amount, if:.
(ii) you tell us about a payment made  from your account which  was not authorised  and 
for which you are not otherwise liable (condition  16 has more information on liability).
However, we will not refund the payment if you tell us the payment  was not made  properly or 
was unauthorised more than 13 months after it was made. If the payment was collected by 
direct debit, the refund provisions in condition  8.2(l) will also apply.
So, both the regulations and terms and conditions (which incorporate  the regulations)  of Mr 
Hs account at the time state  that there is a time limit in which he can complain to TSB about  
transactions which he says he did not authorise.
But thats not the end of the matter.  I have to make  a decision which I consider to be fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and that means  I must  consider why 
it had taken Mr H so long to complain about the transactions.   Ive  not been  provided with 
any reason other than he had simply not looked  at his bank statements. 
Ive thought about whether it would  be fair in the circumstances to say TSB was 
unreasonable in its response to Mr H  and Im afraid I dont think it was.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 September  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5415161