K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr W applied  for the credit card and was sold the PPI by post. BoS has shown us a copy of 
the application form and I can see a box has been ticked to add PPI to the account.  Overall I 
think BoS made it clear  that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out 
 although I can understand  why he cant remember this.
Mr W used a postal application form to apply for the credit card.  And hes told us he cant 
recall any verbal contact with BoS.  So I dont think BoS recommended  the PPI. So it didnt 
have to check if it was right for Mr W. But it did have to make sure Mr W got the information 
he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said - including what told us about  other  complaints 
hes made about credit card PPI sold to him by other businesses. But Ive looked at the 
circumstances around this particular sale. PPI terms and conditions  can vary greatly from 
one business  to another. For example some PPI policies  make it difficult  for the                
self-employed to make an unemployment  claim. But that isnt the case  with the PPI policy 
sold to him by BoS.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything    
Mr W paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr W back  some of the cost of the PPI. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mr W now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February  2019.
Ref: DRN53477142Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5347714