K821x#15The complaint
Ms M says Gain Credit  LLC  trading  as Lending Stream  irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about five instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Ms M between  
June and August  2017. Ms Ms borrowing  history  is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Repayment
1 09/06/2017 25/07/2017 6 £150.00 £54.32
2 18/07/2017 outstanding 6 £400.00 £223.15
3 22/07/2017 01/08/2017 6 £80.00 £258.99
4 05/08/2017 outstanding 6 £150.00 £246.40
5 09/08/2017 outstanding 6 £80.00 £282.24
At the time of writing  this decision, loans 2, 4 and 5 were outstanding. 
Two of our adjudicators reviewed Ms Ms complaint. The first adjudicator partially upheld the 
complaint and thought loan 5 shouldve have  been  given as it looked like Ms M was having 
problems managing her money. 
Lending Stream accepted the adjudicators  assessment,  but Ms M disagreed  because  she 
thought more loans should have been  upheld.  She also wasnt  happy  that Lending Stream 
sold on the outstanding loans whilst her complaint was being investigated by us. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally it was passed for an ombudsmans decision. 
Whilst it was waiting  to reach an ombudsman, the second adjudicator reviewed the 
complaint. They thought  Ms Ms complaint about loans 3 and 4 should also be upheld for the 
same reason  loan 5 was upheld by the first adjudicator  that it looked like Ms M was having  
problems managing her money. 
Ms M accepted this, but Lending Stream didnt respond. But as the complaint was waiting for 
an ombudsman, it has been  passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure    
Ms M could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could consider a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. In the early  stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  
less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN59884082But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Ms M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint. Having done  this, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
In our most recent assessment, our adjudicator didnt uphold  Ms Ms complaint  about loans 
1 and 2. Ms M didnt  disagree with this opinion. As there is no dispute about the adjudicators 
findings about these loans, I wont be making any further findings  on them. 
Lending Stream says it carried out checks before it lent loan 3 to Ms M and the results of 
these checks didnt  raise  any concerns. But this was Ms Ms third loan in under two months, 
so I think Lending  Stream ought to have  been looking to build a clearer picture than it did 
about Ms Ms finances before  lending to her again.  
I say this because  I think  Ms M was having problems managing  her money.  She had over-
lapping loans  at the time she had two loans outstanding when she returned to apply for her 
third loan. Her combined monthly repayment  had increased from £54 for loan 1 to £259  at 
loan 3. This ought to have caused some concern to Lending Stream  as this might be the sort 
of behaviour that could indicate someone was facing problems managing their money and 
needing to borrow  more to fill a gap they had in their income. 
Ref: DRN59884083Had Lending  Stream carried  out proportionate  checks, its likely to have  found   that as well 
as having overlapping  loans with itself - Ms M was borrowing from other short-term lenders 
and the repayments to these loans would have been increasing her monthly  outgoings. Its 
likely all this behaviour of indebtedness was becoming increasingly more difficult  to sustain 
and Ms M was in a cycle of debt.  This has been shown by the fact Ms M has been unable to 
repay loans  2, 4 and 5. 
So, Im upholding  Ms Ms complaint about  loans  3 to 5 and Lending Stream should  put 
things right. 
Putting things  right
As Lending Stream has sold the outstanding debts on, it should buy these back  if it is able to 
do so and then take the following steps. If Lending  Stream cant buy the debts back, then 
Lending Stream should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Lending Stream should add together the total of the repayments made  by Ms M towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything Lending  Stream has already refunded.
B) Lending Stream should calculate 8% simple interest  on the individual  payments made by 
Ms M which  were considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Ms M originally made  
the payments,  to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Lending  Stream  should remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance  on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Ms M as though  they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding  loans. If this results in Ms M having 
made overpayments  then Lending Stream should  refund these overpayments  with 8% 
simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Lending Stream should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus, 
then the surplus  should be paid to Ms M. However,  if there  is still an outstanding balance 
then Lending Stream should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms M. Lending 
Stream shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Lending Stream has 
already written-off.
E) Lending Stream should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ms credit  file in 
relation to loans  3, 4 and 5
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending Stream 
must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Ms complaint. Gain  Credit LLC 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2020.
Ref: DRN59884084Claire Marchant-Williams 
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5988408