K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Coventry  Building  Society says she has an interest only mortgage  and 
must repay the capital. Miss S believes her mortgage is paid off.
background
Miss S took out her mortgage in 2002  with a predecessor of Coventry. The term expired  in 
2017. Coventry wrote to Miss S several  times, and send out a field agent to discuss  the 
mortgage with her. But Miss S said she didnt  owe anything. She said she believed her 
mortgage had been paid off over the term and she wouldnt discuss it further  with Coventry 
or its agents.  She complained to us.
Our investigator said that Miss S did have an interest only mortgage. She said Miss S had 
understood that when she took it out. Now the term expired, Miss S would  need  to discuss 
with Coventry how the outstanding balance could be repaid. So Miss S asked for an 
ombudsman to look at her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the paperwork in this case,  and I think its clear that Miss S does have an 
interest only mortgage. 
When it was taken out in 2002, Miss S sent a letter   which still survives  signed  by her and 
which said, in block capitals I REQUIRE AN INTEREST ONLY MORTGAGE. Miss S 
calculated what she believed the monthly  payments would be. Her actual monthly payments 
were very similar to what she calculated.
The mortgage offer she received also makes clear  that this is an interest  only mortgage. So 
does the acceptance Miss S signed.  Miss S would have received  statements throughout the 
term showing that the balance wasnt reducing.  From 2012  onwards, Coventry wrote to 
Miss S several times asking her to discuss how the balance  was to be repaid, though she 
didnt reply.
In April 2017, it sent her another  letter. This time, Miss S did reply. She returned Coventrys 
letter to it, with a handwritten  note at the bottom dated 7 May 2017, which said I am unable 
to repay  the balance,  are you prepared to extend the term. Coventry  sent her a letter  asking 
her to ring the team that might be able to help, but it seems Miss S didnt do that. This note 
shows, it seems  to me, that Miss S was aware at this point that she had an interest only 
mortgage and would  need to repay  the capital.
Several further  letters were sent,  and it was only in August  2017  that Miss S first said she 
didnt know she had an interest only mortgage. She returned another  letter with a 
handwritten note, this time saying she didnt know she had an interest  only mortgage and 
therefore believed  she was not responsible for repaying it. Again, Coventry tried 
unsuccessfully to get in touch with Miss S.
Miss S has also said that she is dyslexic and would have been unable  to read the paperwork  
she was sent. But she says a friend assists her, and in any case  her specific request for one 
Ref: DRN53997802in 2002, and her acknowledgement  that she did in May 2017, persuade me that she did 
know she had an interest only mortgage and that the capital would need to be paid off at the 
end.
The term ended almost  two years ago. Miss S is going to need  to repay the capital.  
Ultimately if no agreement  can be reached  theres a risk that Coventry will repossess the 
property. I very much  hope  that wont be necessary. But the only way it can be avoided is if 
Miss S is prepared to recognise that she does need  to pay back  the capital  balance,  at some  
point and in some way. 
I suggest she takes independent financial advice, as there may well be other options open to 
her such  as a lifetime mortgage or a re-mortgage to another lender that caters  to older  
borrowers. If she is prepared to explore her options,  and make some positive proposals to 
Coventry, it should consider them seriously  and do what it can to assist, recognising that 
repossession is a last resort. But all that can only happen if Miss S is now willing to talk to 
Coventry about what can be done. I urge her to do so.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5399780