K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W took out a packaged  bank account  with Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) in 
2006 and they say it was mis-sold.
background
Mr and Mrs W took out an Additions Plus Account (APA) in October 2006. This was the first 
of a number of packaged bank accounts they held which included  travel  insurance.
Mr and Mrs W say they were misled in December 2006 into believing that Mr Ws medical 
condition was covered by the travel insurance;  when they have recently learnt  that it wasnt.
So Mr and Mrs W say that the APA was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Barclays mis-sold the APA. Mr and Mrs W disagree so the 
case has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Mr and Mrs W are clear that they knew they had a choice whether to take out the APA in 
2006, and chose to do so. They have  used the benefits of the APA and subsequent 
packaged bank  accounts extensively and there  is no indication  theyve been unhappy with 
them other than in one respect.
They say that their issue is that they mainly took out the APA and other accounts for the 
travel insurance benefit. At the time of the sale in October 2006, Mr W had a significant  pre-
existing medical condition. Mr and Mrs W say they were told his condition  was covered by 
the travel  insurance.  But recently when they had to report another medical condition  to the 
insurer, the insurer told them that they had never  been covered for Mr Ws previous medical  
condition. Mr and Mrs W say they have  raised a separate  complaint with the insurer.
This complaint is set up against Barclays.  So Ive considered  what  Barclays was required to 
do at the time of the sale in relation to the travel insurance. 
Barclays says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt  recommend  the 
APA to Mr and Mrs W personally or advise them to take it out. Mr and Mrs W say they dont 
recall whether Barclays advised them  to take it out or not. 
I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Mr and Mrs Ws needs  and circumstances or suitability checks  to show me 
clearly that Barclays did make a personal recommendation to them. I accept its possible that 
in providing information to Mr and Mrs W and explaining the benefits  of the APA,  Barclays  
may have  said or implied that it was good idea to take out the APA. But this isnt the same as 
giving a personal recommendation. And based  on this services  knowledge  of Barclays  sales  
practices at the time, I think its more likely than not that Barclays  sold the APA to Mr and 
Mrs W on an information only basis. 
Ref: DRN56719762This means  Barclays did not have to ensure that the APA was suitable  for Mr and Mrs W, but it 
did have to provide  Mr and Mrs W with good  enough information about  the APA so they could 
make an informed decision about whether to have it or not.
So, to be specific, Barclays role included  giving Mr and Mrs W sufficient information about 
the travel  insurance  policy.
Both parties  agree that Mr W went for a medical examination in December 2006 in relation to 
the travel  insurance  shortly after taking out the APA. Barclays  has provided evidence  that 
the examination  was by the insurer as I would expect it to be. And whatever the outcome of 
that examination  was, it wouldve been for the insurer to communicate this to Mr and Mrs W 
because Barclays would  not have had access to Mr and Mrs Ws personal medical 
assessment information,  and could have played  no part in that.
In my view, the fact that Mr W went to have the medical examination  with the insurer  tells me 
that Barclays had told Mr and Mrs W about  the travel insurance policy. It also tells that on 
the basis of Barclays  information Mr and Mrs W seemed to know  about the possible 
exclusion of pre-existing medical conditions, and had taken the correct steps in that Mr W 
went for the medical  examination with the insurer before  using the travel policy. So it seems  
to me that Barclays fulfilled its obligations  in relation to the sale of the APA in this respect.
I understand that Mrs and Mrs W feel that they were told the wrong thing after the medical 
examination. But if that was the case,  that would have been  through a discussion with the 
insurer and, as Ive said, Mr and Mrs W are taking that up the insurer  separately.
So although  I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs W, in my view Barclays didnt do 
anything wrong  when it sold the APA to them. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 April 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5671976