K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains about issues shes experienced with a car supplied with finance from FCE 
Bank Plc.
background
In February 2018  Mrs B was supplied with a car and entered  into a finance agreement  with 
FCE.
Mrs B says she experienced  intermittent issues with the engine  management  light 
illuminating. In December 2018 the car went into limp mode  and was taken to a garage.  The 
garage diagnosed an oil leak and also carried out a diesel  particulate filter (DPF) 
regeneration. During the DPF regeneration  the garage allowed the car to overheat  which  
caused damage to the wiring. The car was in the garage for around 3 months whilst a new 
wiring loom was on order.
Mrs B stopped making payments  and said she didnt want the car back. Eventually,  when 
the wiring loom had been replaced, Mrs B took the car back. However, she says the oil in the 
gearbox needs changing and that the air conditioning and handbrake arent  working 
properly. She doesnt think  the car is of satisfactory  quality because  the engine  management 
light was illuminated  when it was supplied.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt think there was enough evidence  to 
show that the faults with the car were present or developing  at the point of supply. He 
thought the issues with the DPF had been caused  by the way in which the car had been 
driven.
Mrs B didnt agree. She said the engine management light came  on the day she collected 
the car and then came on and went off intermittently  for months.  She said that when the car 
was taken to the garage in December 2018 the fuel vaporiser was replaced which  she thinks  
was the cause of the issues with the DPF. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because FCE has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that the car is of satisfactory  quality. Cars  are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid. Id expect  a used car  such as that supplied to Mrs B  to have a degree of wear and 
tear. So in order to uphold  this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply due to an inherent defect rather  than general wear  
and tear.
Mrs B and FCE disagree about whether  the car had an inherent fault. In order  to reach  a 
decision, I need to look at all of the available evidence and determine, on the balance  of 
probability, whether  the car was of satisfactory  quality  at the point of supply.
Ref: DRN51327632Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault arises in the first 6 months  theres a 
presumption that it was present or developing  at the point of supply unless the business can 
show otherwise. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer 
to show that there was a fault present at the point of supply. 
Mrs B has said that she experienced issues with the engine management light illuminating  
as soon as she got the car. I can see that the car went into limp mode and was recovered  to 
a garage in December 2018 but theres  no evidence to suggest that there were any issues 
with the car prior to this, other than what  Mrs B has said. I can see that Mrs B covered 
22,000 miles during  the period February 2018   December 2018. This is significant mileage 
and if there  had been a fault with the car at the point of supply, I wouldve expected the car 
to have required attention much sooner  than it did. Further, if the fault had been present or 
developing at the point of supply, I dont think the car wouldve  been able to cover this 
amount of mileage.
I can see that the garage diagnosed an issue with the fuel vaporiser  which was causing  the 
engine management  light to illuminate. The information suggests that the fuel vaporiser was 
blocked with soot, as was the DPF. Ive considered  whether there was a fault with the fuel 
vaporiser at the point of supply, but as Ive said above, I wouldve expected a fault of this 
type to have presented itself sooner given the mileage  covered. 
On balance, I think its more likely  that the fuel vaporiser became blocked over a period of 
time after the point  of supply and was more likely  to have been due to general wear  and tear.
Ive also considered whether the DPF itself was faulty at the point of supply. But Im 
persuaded that the DPF became blocked after the point of supply as a result of the way in 
which the car was being used. It isnt possible for regeneration to take place if a car is driven 
for a sufficient time.  In this case, Mrs B has acknowledged that she mainly uses  the car for 
short journeys. It isnt uncommon  too see issues with the DPF in these  circumstances but it 
doesnt mean there is an inherent fault.
I appreciate how frustrating it mustve been  for Mrs B that the repairs  associated with the 
regeneration of the DPF took so long. This was due to delays in the necessary part arriving 
with the garage. 
I can see that Mrs B was offered a courtesy car during this time but she said it wasnt  
suitable for use as a taxi. Under Mrs Bs agreement she isnt allowed to use the car as a taxi 
so Im unable to take into account the financial loss she says shes  suffered.
Based on what Ive seen,  there isnt enough evidence  to persuade me that the car is of 
unsatisfactory quality  or wasnt fit for purpose  at the point of supply.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5132763