K822xComplaint
Mr L complains, in summary,  that HSBC UK Bank Plc is asking him to pay back more  than 
he considers he should  pay towards  the debt showing on his current  account  which was 
part of a debt management plan.
Background 
Mr L has been in a debt management plan since 2011, with monthly payments being made 
to (amongst others) his HSBC current account.   But these payments stopped  in mid-2015, at 
which time Mr L owed HSBC £1,130.  Nothing then happened with the account until late 
2018, when HSBC contacted Mr L seeking  repayment of the debt.  Because payments 
hadnt been made for over three  years, the debt had by then risen to more  than £2,100.
Mr L explains that he thought the account had been passed to a debt recovery firm, and he 
couldnt understand why it had increased  so much.  Further enquiry revealed  that the 
account had not been passed to a debt recovery firm, and that in October 2015 Mr L had 
been made aware that payments to his HSBC account had stopped.   There is then some 
confusion as to what happened  but the end result was that the money which  should have 
been paid each month to Mr Ls HSBC account  was shared out between other creditors  
under the debt management plan.
Prior to late 2018,  HSBC  wrote to Mr L each year about the accruing debt, but to his old 
address.  He says he didnt receive any of the information the bank  sent to him during this 
period.
Our adjudicator took the matter up with HSBC, who said that  because of the various  levels 
of confusion  it was prepared to refund half the interest and charges which had been 
applied to Mr Ls account since 2015.  But Mr L wasnt happy with that  he wanted a full 
refund, saying that if he had known what was happening (and especially if he had received 
annual information  from the bank) he would have kept his payments up-to-date.   Mr L was 
also concerned  about  the credit information  recorded against him with the credit reference 
agencies, both up to  and since  the position  with the account  came to light in 2018.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, in order to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not clear why the payments  to Mr Ls current account, which had been made for some 
time under his debt management  plan,  stopped  in 2015.  But it is apparent that, in 
October 2015 in particular, Mr L discussed  his account both with HSBC  and his debt plan 
manager.  However, they did not then receive  instructions to re-start payments to HSBC, so 
the money which would have  gone to the HSBC account went to other  of Mr Ls creditors 
instead.
Initially, HSBC took the view that it had not acted incorrectly in any way  so it was, as a 
result, entitled to apply the charges and interest  it did.  But it was also unclear why HSBC 
didnt have Mr Ls new address.  The debt plan managers  notes say that they told Mr L it 
was his responsibility to let HSBC know, but the bank has no record  of being given that new 
address.  
Ref: DRN58108782At this distance it is difficult  to know exactly what happened, and where  responsibility  should 
therefore lie for the confusion which  arose that led to Mr Ls HSBC current account  not 
receiving payments between 2015  and 2018.  However, I share the adjudicators view that 
Mr L should accept  some responsibility  for this.  There  is doubt about whether he instructed 
the payments  to re-start,  or that he gave  HSBC his new address  and, even though he 
knew payments had been interrupted,  it does not seem that he checked to see if they had 
been re-started.  I note what  he says about  thinking  the account  had been passed to a debt 
recovery firm, but that did not happen   so there was no correspondence about  that either.  
In addition, the money which  would have gone to HSBC  was used to repay other of Mr Ls 
debts more quickly than would otherwise have been the case.
In all the circumstances, therefore, I consider that the banks offer  which  is, in effect,  to 
share equal responsibility with Mr L by refunding half the interest and charges which accrued 
on his account  when payments were not being  made  is both fair and reasonable.  Its 
relevant to add here that, during the course  of this complaint, HSBC has put Mr Ls account 
on hold   so no further interest or charges have accrued.   The total amount of interest and 
charges is £1,037.24  meaning that HSBC will refund £518.62, as a credit  back to Mr Ls 
account.
It follows from this that I also agree with the adjudicator when he concluded that, because 
the records held with the credit reference agencies correctly reflect  what  happened,  it would 
not be right for me to require the bank to amend  them.  This applies to the current and 
ongoing position, because  again  that is the true position with the account.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part  
that is, to the extent  of HSBC UK Bank  Plcs offer to refund  interest and charges totalling 
£518.62 to Mr Ls current account.  I make  no other  order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L either to 
accept or to reject my decision before 4 November 2019.
David Millington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5810878