K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains that a new car she acquired via a hire purchase agreement  with FCE Bank 
Plc (trading  as Ford Credit) wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
background
In May 2017  Mrs R acquired  a new car via a three year hire purchase agreement with Ford 
Credit.
In August  2018  Mrs R says she began to experience problems  with the clutch  finding the 
gears difficult to engage, and about  two weeks later the car broke  down. The car had to be 
collected and taken to the dealership  for repairs.
The dealership found that the clutch had burnt out. It took photographs  of the clutch and sent 
them to the manufacturers technical team for advice as to whether  the repairs  could be 
covered by the warranty. The Technical  Team  said that in their opinion the clutch looked  
worn to the rivets and the flywheel looked  blue and burnt which  wouldve been  caused by 
riding the clutch when  driving or always using  excessive revs when pulling away . They  said 
this was wear caused by driver error and the repairs wouldnt be covered by the warranty.
Mrs R requested that the garage return the clutch and cylinder  to her once they had been  
replaced so that she could seek  an independent  view as to their condition and what  had 
caused the problem. She strongly  disputed  that it was her style of driving that had been 
responsible for the problem.
The garage only returned the clutch to her as the cylinder had been destroyed.
Mrs R says that when the car was returned to her home address by the garage she found  
that the bonnet had been left open. She could also hear a rattling noise from the engine.  She 
took the car to another dealership who said that a part had been left loose. Mrs R also asked 
for its opinion on the clutch  and it said it was burnt  out but that this could be due to the 
cylinder.
Mrs R complained to Ford Credit. She said she had only driven he car for 4,200 miles since  
shed acquired  it and that the service at 3,200  miles hadnt found any issues with the clutch. 
She disagreed the damage  had been  due to driver  error and requested  it reimburse her for 
the costs of the repairs.
Ford Credit didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint. It said that the evidence showed the clutch had 
burnt out due to driver  error and so wasnt covered by the warranty. And although nothing 
had been found at the last service  it had been  carried out by a garage  that wasnt  approved  
by the manufacturer, so Ford Credit  said it couldnt  take this into account. Ford Credit said 
that Mrs R had had the car since May 2017 and been able to drive  it for 4,200 miles and so it 
did not believe the car had been  faulty since the point of sale.  It noted her concerns about 
the car being  returned with the bonnet open  and that something was left loose within  the 
engine. As there was no evidence about these  matters it recommended  she made a 
complaint directly to the dealership.
Mrs R disagreed with Ford Credits view and complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that Mrs Rs complaint should  be upheld. She said that the finance provider, 
Ford Credit, was liable for faults that were either developing or present at the point of sale. If 
Ref: DRN50631302the fault arises  within the first six months  then the onus fell to the business to show  that it 
hadnt been present but, if it was after six months, then the onus  was on the consumer to 
show that it had been present at the point of sale.
Our investigator said that Mrs R had had use of the car for over a year but had only covered 
around 4,000 miles. She said she wouldnt expect a clutch to fail in a car of that age and 
mileage. And Mrs R had been prevented from obtaining a full and independent  assessment 
of the fault as the cylinder wasnt returned  to her having been  destroyed.
Our investigator said shed seen  that Ford Credit  had sought an independent  engineers 
opinion about  the clutch by providing  them with photographs. However, the independent 
engineer said they couldnt assess the clutch accurately as they couldnt see all the parts  of 
the clutch. 
The independent engineer had queried whether the car was selecting  gears  as this was 
indicative of driver error. Ford Credit said the dealership had confirmed this was the case.  
But the other dealership that saw the clutch parts returned to Mrs R had been able to confirm  
the clutch had burnt  out, but wasnt able to assess the cause of the fault due to the cylinder 
being missing. 
So taking everything into account our investigator said she didnt think Ford Credit had 
provided sufficient evidence to show the fault was caused by driver error. She said it would 
be fair for Ford Credit to reimburse  Mrs R the money  shed paid to have the clutch repaired.
Ford Credit disagreed  with our investigators  view. It said that the onus  was on Mrs R to 
show that the clutch had been  faulty  at the point of sale. And that although  the car had only 
been driven for 4,200 miles improper use of a clutch would shorten its life span considerably. 
It said that two dealerships and the manufacturers technical team had all confirmed the 
clutch had burnt out due to driver error.  
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (The Act) a car must be of satisfactory quality  at 
the point of sale. And satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect taking  
into account all the relevant  circumstances such as age, condition  and mileage of the car. 
Durability is also part of satisfactory  quality as although no one would expect all the 
components of the car to last forever they also wouldnt reasonably expect issues to arise  
with the car for a period  of time.
In this case the car was just over a year old and had a mileage  of 4,200. So I think  a 
reasonable person wouldnt expect an issue with the clutch  to arise unless it was either  
faulty or caused  by excessive poor driving.
Under the Act, if a fault arises after six months  from the inception of the agreement then 
the onus rests with the consumer, in this case Mrs R, to show  that the car had a fault that 
was either  developing or present at the point of sale. Unfortunately, despite Mrs R 
requesting that the parts were kept and returned to her so she could have them 
Ref: DRN50631303independently assessed the cylinder  was destroyed.  Mrs R only had the clutch  parts  
returned to her by the garage. 
Ive seen that photographs of the clutch were taken  and provided to the manufacturers  
Technical team. The Technical team said it was a classic case of riding the clutch  when 
driving. But when the photographs were shown to an independent engineer  they said 
they wouldnt be able to assess the cause  of the damage accurately as they couldnt see 
the full parts  of the clutch. They said they could  see the damage  but they couldnt confirm  
how it got there. 
The independent engineer said that if the car was selecting gears  it was indicative of 
driver error.  Ford Credit says that the dealership that fixed  the car said it had a strong 
smell of burnt clutch when it arrived and that the car would select  a gear but when the 
clutch was disengaged it would lose the selected  gear. 
Ford Credit also says that Mrs R had reported to it that shed taken the car the day after 
the repairs to another dealership and shown them the clutch  that had been removed. That 
dealership had told her the clutch was burnt out though it had added this could have  been  
caused by the cylinder. Ford Credit says this means that two dealerships and the 
Technical Team all concluded  that the clutch had been damaged  by driver  error.
Ive seen theres no report from the recovery company that collected the vehicle and took 
it to the dealership for repairs. Mrs R says shed only experienced some difficulty  with the 
car for around two weeks before it broke down. And that there  hadnt  been any obvious  
signs such as a burning smell or the gears making  noises which wouldve indicated the 
clutch was being  burnt  out.
I appreciate that in usually the onus  rests  with Mrs R but without the cylinder,  and with the 
car now fully repaired, an independent inspection wouldnt be of any assistance.  So when 
reaching my decision I need  to assess all the evidence  that has been presented to me.
Ford Credit says the reason that the clutch developed the problem was due to Mrs Rs 
style of driving. Mrs R strongly refutes  this. She says shes  aware that over use of the 
clutch will lead to damage. She also says shes had cars in the past that she has part-
exchanged after two to three years and these  havent had problems with their clutches.
I dont have any evidence  about the cars that were part exchanged  and there  was no part 
exchange on this agreement so I cant take account of Mrs Rs past history as a driver.
But looking  at the evidence Ive seen that the independent engineer  wasnt  able to provide 
an assessment about the cause of fault from the photographs alone This was unlike the 
Technical Team who did provide an opinion. The dealership which  undertook the repairs  
to the car says the clutch had been burnt  out and it sought advice from the Technical 
Team as to whether this repairable under the warranty.  This dealership didnt keep the 
cylinder nor did it, as far as Im aware, send photographs of that part to the Technical 
Team. The second  dealership saw only parts of the clutch and said that it had burnt out 
but added  that this could  be due to the cylinder.  So I disagree that the evidence is as clear  
as Ford Credit says it is as to the cause of the problem.
I think its reasonable for me to give weight to the independent engineers view that the 
photographs alone werent  sufficient  to be able to give a view as to the cause of the fault. 
Ford Credit says that the independent engineers  view that an issue  with selecting gears 
Ref: DRN50631304showed the fault was due to driver error. But the engineer only said this was indicative 
which means there could  be other causes.
Ive seen that it was only the dealership that repaired the car that saw the both the cylinder 
and the clutch  in the car. Ive seen  no evidence about the condition of the cylinder or any 
explanation as to why it wasnt kept.  
The second  dealership saw only parts of the clutch and wasnt able to give an opinion  as 
to the cause of the damage.
I appreciate its not disputed that the clutch showed signs of being burnt out but Im aware 
that poor driving  style is not the only cause of that fault developing. I dont think  I have 
enough evidence  to say that the cause of the fault was Mrs Rs style of driving. Taking  into 
account the age and mileage of the car I dont think it was of satisfactory condition at the 
point of sale and Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint. Im asking Ford Credit  to reimburse Mrs 
R the costs incurred of having the car repaired.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Mrs Rs complaint.  Im asking FCE Bank Plc to 
reimburse Mrs R the costs incurred of having the clutch repaired together  with interest at the 
rate of 8% per year simple  from the date of payment  until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5063130