K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that AIB Group  (UK) plc, trading as First Trust,  didnt tell him that hed 
reached the maximum limit on his regular monthly  saver  account and that he was receiving a 
lower rate of interest on his savings.
He wants First Trust to pay him the interest he says he lost, and to change its systems  so 
that other  people dont  lose out.
The complaint is brought  on his behalf by his wife.
background
Mr H opened a regular  saver account  in 2017 and paid in the maximum amount - £500  
each month. After a year a new saver period started. This meant his new contributions,  from 
month 13 onwards,  earned the regular saver rate of interest. But his existing savings of 
£6,000 (plus interest) earned  interest  at the banks standard rate.
Mr H says he didnt receive a reminder that hed only receive the lower rate on his existing  
savings because, at the time,  he hadnt  set up access to online banking.
First Trust said there was no obligation  on it to remind him about the new saver period as 
this was set out in its terms and conditions.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that the 
interest rate had been applied in line with the account terms and conditions and that there 
wasnt any obligation on First Trust to notify Mr H at the end of the saver period.
Mr H didnt agree. His wife said, on his behalf  and in summary, that:
Regulations require  banks to tell their customers when interest  rates are changing. The 
purpose of the regulation is to protect  consumers  who may have  forgotten what was in 
the original paperwork. But First Trust has bypassed  the regulation.
First Trust says it wouldve told Mr H that his account had been re-set  if hed been an 
online banking customer or if hed visited a branch. So hes been discriminated against  
because of the way hes chosen to do his banking.
He didnt understand how the interest worked  on the account because it wasnt made 
clear enough.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H opened a regular  saver account  in one of the banks  branches.  I cant  be sure exactly 
what was discussed,  but Mr H wouldve been given  a copy of the terms and conditions of the 
account and a one page account summary. Having considered these documents,  I find the 
interest rate was applied correctly to his account.
Ref: DRN53965532Mr H says the paperwork wasnt  clear.  But the top of the summary page shows  the two rates  
of interest that will be applied to the account. In April 2017  the regular saver  rate was 2.50% 
and the standard saver  rate was 0.25%. I think its reasonably clear  that the maximum 
monthly amount  of £500 applies during the saver  period  of 12 months. It says that:
The Standard Saver Rate applies to balances above the Maximum Monthly Threshold.
And later in that document  it says that:
You can continue to save to your Regular Saver Account  after 12 months. A new Saver  
Period will begin on the anniversary  of your first lodgement. At this time, the Maximum 
Monthly Threshold will be reset to £500.
So after careful  consideration, I think it was made  reasonably clear that, if Mr H chose to 
continue to make the maximum monthly  payments after the first 12 months, then the amount  
hed deposited  during  the first 12 months  would attract interest at the lower rate.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) regulations require banks to give reasonable 
notice of a material  change to a rate of interest. This includes providing notice when an 
interest rate expires at the end of a fixed period.  But I dont find this applies here.  Mr Hs 
account was still attracting  interest  at the rate set out in the account  terms and conditions.
I further find that the rate of interest  was clearly set out in the monthly statements sent to 
Mr H. Each  statement included  the following wording:
If you have  a Regular Saver account please  remember that the account  operates  on a 12 
month cycle. In month 13 the threshold  for the Regular Saver rate of interest  resets from 
£6.000 to £500 and the cycle begins  again, regardless of account balance.  Contact us for 
more details.
So if Mr H was unsure  how this would impact his savings, he couldve contacted  the bank.
In particular, his May statement set out the interest  rate following the new saver  period. It 
said that the interest rate was 2.5%  on his new deposit of £500,  and 0.25%  on his balance  
above this amount.
I understand Mr Hs strength of feeling  on this matter,  and I have taken into account his 
personal circumstances at the time of the new saver period when his savings account would 
clearly not have been a priority. But Im afraid this doesnt change my conclusion. For the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont find First Trust was obliged to do any more  or that it treated 
him unfairly.
Ref: DRN53965533my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5396553