K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds service under his travel insurance.
My references to Aviva include the emergency medical assistance service.
background 
Mr W has travel insurance through his bank account, the insurer  is Aviva.
In September  2016 Mr W was on holiday  abroad  and had an accident involving a dog, which 
injured his leg. The doctor at the hospital  said Mr W had a ruptured  kneecap tendon and 
needed to return  to the UK for surgery. Aviva arranged for Mr W to be returned home and 
covered the medical expenses claim. 
The first part of Mr Ws complaint is about how Aviva dealt with arrangements  for his return. 
In particular he says:  Avivas communication with him was poor; Aviva didnt tell the airline 
the extent of his injury  so the airline  doctor was concerned if he was fit to fly as Mr W 
couldnt get to the toilet; the transport to collect him from the airport  wasnt suitable  for his 
injury. 
Mr W said Aviva's poor service caused much  him stress, frustration  and pain. Due to another 
medical condition  Mr W was worried he might  lose his leg if he didnt get home  as soon 
possible and he feared the journey from the airport would  worsen his injury.
Aviva responded to Mr Ws complaint in October 2016. It didnt accept it had given poor 
service in the first two issues but it said there had been a misunderstanding with the 
transport provider. It offered to waive the excess payment for the claim. Aviva thought Mr W 
accepted the offer in a call in January  2017.  Mr W says Aviva misunderstood and that offer 
was for another matter.
Mr W made a legal expenses claim through his travel insurance to pursue the dog owner, 
and then a public body, for his personal  injury claim. That claim is administered by a different 
business than Aviva.
At the end of 2017/beginning of 2018 Mr W asked for a claim form to detail his personal 
injury claim. He spoke  to Aviva,  the legal expenses claim administrator and the bank to get 
the form. Mr W was actually asking for a form to make a claim for permanent total 
disablement benefit  under  the personal accident section of the policy.  
The second  part of Mr Ws complaint is that Aviva  didnt send him the right form until around 
March 2018 and he was passed  around the different businesses which he found very 
frustrating.
When Mr W complained to Aviva about  the second  matter he made it clear that he didnt 
consider his complaint about the returning home arrangements closed. In February 2018 
Aviva sent a final response to Mr W on both parts of his complaint.  If offered £250 
compensation as a gesture of goodwill. Mr W said the offer was an insult and complained  to 
us.
Our investigator thought Aviva should  increase its compensation  offer to £600 due to the 
impact on Mr W of unsuitable transport to collect him from the airport  and the stress of 
dealing with the form problem at a time when  Mr W was recovering.
Ref: DRN56898802Aviva agreed. Mr W disagreed and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said Avivas service  
when the accident happened put his health  and life at risk and it had delayed giving him 
financial support.
Recently, Mr W told us Aviva has declined his claim for permanent total disablement benefit. 
He said Aviva gave lots of reasons that were wrong  and told him that as he didnt claim 
within one year his claim was void anyway, which was unfair  as the delay  was Avivas fault. 
Mr W also queried why the investigator  had only partly upheld his complaint when he hadnt  
done anything  wrong.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the documents Mr Ws sent us its clear  that he's previously been unhappy about the 
solicitors progress in his legal expenses claim. From the information Ive seen the claim isnt 
straight forward, which I think Mr W accepts. He hasnt  complained  to us about the matter 
and I havent taken the matter into account in my decision.
Mr W has recently told us Aviva declined his permanent total disablement  benefit claim.  Our 
investigator has correctly told Mr W he needs  to make a separate  complaint about that 
matter, which we are considering separately. So I also havent taken that matter into account  
in this decision.
This decision is about Aviva's  service in returning Mr W home and the delay in sending him 
the personal accident claim form. 
I understand Mr W was in a lot of pain from his injury. Hes detailed the physical and 
emotional difficulties  hes had since his accident  which Im sorry to hear. 
I dont doubt that having  the accident and making  claims  around the accident has been  
stressful and upsetting for Mr W. But I can only award compensation for distress, 
inconvenience, pain and suffering that Aviva  has caused by its unreasonable actions. 
I have to decide if Avivas  new offer of £600  compensation is a fair and reasonable amount, 
and I think it is. Ill explain why.
arrangements for returning home
Ive seen Avivas call notes and correspondence at the time. I think Aviva kept Mr W, his wife 
and the hospital administrator (on their behalf) reasonably informed about what was 
happening. The administrator became heavily involved in the communication and I know  she 
complained that Aviva  wasnt keeping her updated.  Im sure she was trying to be helpful. But 
I can see that her involvement  did cause  some confusion as Mr W was given conflicting  
information about flight bookings. 
Aviva told Mr W it was waiting for medical  clearance  for him to go on the planned flight  and it 
told him when it had medical clearance  confirming he would be able to fly as planned. Aviva 
gave Mr W the right information in a reasonable timescale. 
Ref: DRN56898803Mr W has mentioned  that his wife had to push for Aviva to make the arrangements. But Im 
satisfied from the evidence in Avivas contact notes that it was proactive in getting Mr W on a 
suitable flight. The evidence from the hospital was that he couldnt fly until the day before he 
flew due to the medication he was on.
Mr W was understandably worried when the airline doctor queried if he was fit to fly. But the 
airline had given Mr W medical clearance  to fly and Im satisfied that Aviva  passed on the 
relevant medical  evidence  it had about  Mr Ws condition to the airline. It sent the airline the 
fit to fly certificate which detailed Mr Ws condition, mobility and requirements. Aviva could 
reasonably rely on the fit to fly medical evidence being correct. Aviva isnt responsible  for the 
airlines doctors actions.
Aviva told the airline that Mr W needed wheelchair  assistance on and off the plane. The 
wrong transport arrived  to collect Mr W from the airport.  Aviva  said there was a 
misunderstanding between it and the transport  provider. From its notes Aviva told the 
provider Mr W needed a multiple purpose  vehicle with a stretcher but that didnt happen. 
Mr W says there wasnt room in the vehicle  to stretch his leg as required.  It looks as if the 
fault was with the transport provider, but I cant say for certain  who was at fault.
I do understand the journey home was very uncomfortable for Mr W. But even if I thought the 
transport provider was Avivas agent, so Aviva was at fault for the wrong transport,  there's 
no medical evidence  that Mr Ws injury was worse  due to that journey. However,  I have 
taken into account  what Mr W has told us about how uncomfortable  and upsetting that 
journey home was, particularly after a long flight and in the aftermath of the accident.  So 
I accept this caused him distress. 
personal accident claim form
Aviva accepts there was confusion over what type of form Mr W was asking it for. It thought 
the form he wanted was about his legal claim so referred  him to the legal expenses claim 
administrator. In mid-February 2018,  Aviva realised Mr W wanted a form to claim under the 
personal accident section of the policy. 
From the evidence I have  the realisation was around  six to eight weeks  after Mr W first 
asked it for the form. I think  Aviva  should have been able to understand sooner what  claim 
Mr W was trying to make. The delay and being  told to contact the wrong business was very 
frustrating for Mr W who was dealing with that during his recovery from surgery and while 
having depression following the accident. I think Avivas poor service  about the form caused 
him more  worry at an already difficult time.
Whether the delay made a difference to the decline of that claim will be considered in Mr Ws 
separate complaint about the decline of the claim.
Aviva didnt have to offer Mr W a personal accident claim form from the time he had the 
accident. It couldnt know what Mr W's prognosis was going to be and it was for Mr W to 
make the claim, not for Aviva to suggest he make it. 
overall
I partly  uphold  this complaint as although  I think Aviva gave reasonable service around  the 
arrangements to bring Mr W home there  is the issue about the transport  from the airport,  as 
Ive detailed above, and Aviva gave  poor service  around providing  the personal  accident 
Ref: DRN56898804claim form. A part uphold doesnt  mean I think Mr W has done  something wrong, but that 
I dont agree with all the complaint issues hes raised.
I think Avivas  new offer of £600  compensation is a fair amount for the distress and 
inconvenience Avivas  unreasonable service caused during Mr Ws very uncomfortable 
journey during the final stage of his return home  and by the customer service he received on 
his return to the UK. 
my final decision
I partly  uphold  this complaint.
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr W £600 compensation in total for his distress  
and inconvenience,  as its now agreed, within 28 days of the date we tell it Mr W accepts my 
final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.  
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5689880