K822xcomplaint
Mr Ts complaint is about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement 
with Clydesdale  Financial  Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF).
background 
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
Mr T has been  represented by a friend  throughout this complaint but for ease, and because 
Mr T is named on the finance agreement, I will refer to him in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr T acquired his car under a conditional  sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then BPF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr T. The car here 
was a used car that was a little under  seven years old and that had already completed a high 
mileage of 137,848. I think a reasonable person would expect it to have signs  of wear and 
tear at that mileage and expect to have to complete some repairs.
I dont think it was unusual for the flywheel to fail on a car of this age and mileage and in the 
absence of any further information  from Mr T, such as an independent report, I dont think  it 
would be reasonable to suggest this problem was present at the point of supply. Ive 
considered the health check report that he supplied and whilst I can see the car had other 
problems at that point i.e. the suspension issue, I dont think  it would be fair to suggest this 
sort of wear could not be expected on a vehicle of this age and mileage either. I dont think 
this suggests  the car was not of acceptable quality.
BPF have  offered  to have the car inspected  for additional faults  by the dealership  in an 
attempt to assist  Mr T. I think in the circumstances thats a reasonable action and Im not 
therefore asking  BPF to take any further  action.
Ref: DRN58662962I note that Mr T told us the fly wheel repair hed had completed had also failed. Ive not been  
provided with any further evidence  of this but regardless, I dont think that would change the 
situation as Im not persuaded there  is sufficient  information to suggest  BPF should have 
taken responsibility  for the initial repair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 August 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5866296