K820x#14complaint
Miss H says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  her a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Miss H took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2007. Miss H paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered her mortgage payments in case 
she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case. 
While I know this will disappoint Miss H, I dont think this PPI policy  was mis-sold   Ill go 
through my reasoning.
The notes from the branch  meeting  say Miss H was offered advice on buying  insurance. Its 
recorded that she declined advice on some  insurance, like buildings  and contents,  but chose 
to get advice on PPI. It says the adviser  recommended optional PPI because Miss H didnt 
have any equivalent  cover, and she accepted  the recommendation. It looks  like Miss H was 
then sent a record of the advice. I can see Miss H signed and submitted  an application form 
specifically for PPI, and this was done  separately  to applying for the mortgage  itself, rather  
than as part and parcel of the mortgage. She also signed a direct debit to pay for PPI, 
separately to paying for the mortgage. Then the mortgage offer reiterated  that the PPI was 
optional and that Miss H didnt  have to buy any insurance from Lloyds if she didnt want  to. It 
also set out the policys  cost as distinct to the mortgages  cost,  rather than as something that 
was necessarily included.  And I havent  seen anything that would show  Lloyds put Miss H 
under any undue pressure, or that they displayed the PPI as anything  other than an optional 
extra. So I think its most likely that Lloyds made  Miss H aware she had a choice  about  
buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss H, so it had to check it was right for her. And based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example,  it doesnt look 
like she was significantly affected  by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. While 
Miss H said she had benefits through work, the PPI paid out on top of those and covered her 
more comprehensively   especially when her sick pay reduced  to just half pay, for instance. 
And while I understand Miss H may have had other insurances, it looks like those  were  
different types  of policies to the PPI and didnt cover  the same  things. Its recorded that at 
the time of the sale she told the adviser she didnt have any equivalent cover.  Its worth 
bearing in mind that this mortgage  was Miss Hs sole responsibility, and if she fell behind on 
the payments  she couldve  lost her home.  So it looks like the PPI couldve really been  useful 
for Miss H in protecting her home  and giving some peace of mind.
Ref: DRN51487052Miss H said her mortgage payment holiday was declined, and that this made the PPI 
unsuitable. But Im afraid  shes  got mixed up here: payment holidays were a feature  of the 
mortgage itself and didnt have anything  to do with PPI. The PPI policy was there to cover  
Miss H if she involuntarily became too sick to work,  or was made unemployed. It wasnt  
there to cover  voluntary holidays in her payments,  and theres nothing in the documents  from 
the sale that indicates she was told it would.
I can also reassure Miss H that there was nothing in the PPIs terms about  needing  to have a 
mortgage over £500 a month before she could claim. Miss H was eligible to claim on the PPI 
for the amount of her normal monthly mortgage payments.
Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Miss H about  PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  Here, it looks like Miss H chose PPI, which implies she wanted this type 
of insurance. As I explained above, she doesnt  seem to have been significantly affected  by 
any of the main things  the PPI didnt cover, and it couldve really  been useful for her in case 
something went wrong. The policy wasnt bad value given how much  it would  pay out in a 
claim, and if Miss Hs circumstances changed  she couldve cancelled  it at any time without a 
penalty. So overall, I dont think that better  information was likely to have put Miss H off 
taking out the cover.
Lastly, Miss H said she tried to claim  on the PPI three times and was turned down, though 
the insurers records say she only tried to claim once and chose to withdraw the claim 
herself. In this case, Ive looked into the sale of the PPI rather than what  happened after. But 
Miss H may be able to make a back-dated claim on the policy for any periods  where  she was 
out of work because  of involuntary  sickness or unemployment (as a reminder, the policy  did 
not cover  voluntary payment  holidays).  If shed  like to do that, she should  get back  in touch 
with Lloyds. And if Miss H has any trouble making  the back-dated claim, she may then be 
able to ask for our services help as a separate case.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Miss Hs complaint about the sale of this 
particular PPI policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5148705