K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains that NewDay Ltd changed  her address without her knowledge or consent 
and then sent a replacement  card and personal  identification  number  (PIN) to that address. 
This allowed her account to be used for transactions, which she says she didnt make or 
authorise.
background
Mrs K has had an Opus credit card with NewDay since  around 2008. She says that in May 
2017 NewDay allowed  a third party to change her address without carrying  out proper 
security checks. A couple of days later it sent out a new card and PIN to the new address. 
The card was then used for a number of transactions, all on the same day, totalling almost 
£700, which Mrs K says she didnt make  or authorise.
NewDay has investigated and decided to hold Mrs K liable for the disputed transactions. It 
has closed the account and retained  the credit balance of almost  £400.
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld because she wasnt  satisfied  that 
Mrs K, or someone acting on her instructions, authorised the transactions.
NewDay didnt agree. In summary, it said that it didnt think Mrs K had been  truthful  in her 
dealings with it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the adjudicator  previously  set out and for much  the same reasons.
relevant considerations
The disputed transactions were made  in May 2017.  The regulations  relevant  to these are the 
Payment Service Regulations 2009  (PSR). In short, the regulations say that NewDay  can 
hold Mrs K liable  for the disputed transactions if the evidence  suggests that she most likely 
made or authorised them herself.  Mrs K says she didnt make  any of the transactions  on 12 
May totalling £697.18 and is seeking  a refund of that amount. So my primary concern is to 
come to a view about whether or I not I think Mrs K authorised them.
Where credit  is involved in cases like this the PSRs  make  provision  for the Consumer Credit  
Act (CCA) 1974 to apply in place of certain sections  of the PSRs. These provisions cant be 
excluded by the account terms.
Where a credit facility has been used the relevant legislation is Section 83 of the CCA 1974. 
The CCA says that a consumer isnt liable for any loss arising from the use of a credit facility  
unless they (or someone  acting  as their agent) used it.
Here, both of the transactions were  made  using  a credit facility  so the PSRs allow the bank  
to hold the consumer liable for up to £50 of the disputed transactions.  But this will only apply 
if its provided for in the account terms.
Ref: DRN51897182I need to come to a view about whether or I not I think  Mrs K authorised the payments and, if 
she didnt, whether the relevant sections  of the CCA 1974  have been considered and 
correctly applied.
were the transactions authorised?
Generally, unless a payment transaction is authorised  then a bank has no authority to debit 
the customers account. For me to be satisfied that these payments were authorised, I first 
need to determine whether they were authenticated.
Im satisfied from the evidence NewDay has provided that whoever made the transactions  
had both the genuine card and PIN. I say this because theres evidence to show  that the 
transactions were  made and authenticated at Point of Sale (POS) machines - where the 
genuine chip in the card was read and the correct PIN was entered.
did Mrs K consent to the withdrawals?
Ive gone on to consider the possible explanations for how the disputed transactions were 
made using  the genuine  card and PIN. These are:
Mrs K received the card and PIN and used them herself
Someone with Mrs Ks authority used the card and PIN 
Someone was able to intercept Mrs Ks card and PIN and used them to make the 
payments, without her authority  or consent.
As I cant  know  for sure what happened  in this case, I must make my decision based  on the 
balance of the evidence.
Mrs K says that someone,  unknown to her, phoned  NewDay at the end of April 2017  to 
change her address.  She says that NewDay didnt carry out proper security checks  before 
changing the address and didnt verify the change  with her either. A few days  later, she says 
the same  person called  NewDay to ask it to send out a new card and PIN to the new 
address. She explains that because NewDay did this, the unknown  third party  was able to 
use the card for a number of transactions. 
NewDay has provided a number of telephone recordings. Having listened  to these, I find that 
there are several different  voices featured. Mrs K has explained that her daughter often  acts 
on her behalf. This service appointed  a solicitor to make recordings of Mrs K and her 
daughter so that we could correctly identify  them  in NewDays  recordings.
NewDay hasnt been able to provide a copy of the call made on 27 April 2017, in which  the 
caller asked for the address  to be changed. But I dont consider the next four calls after that 
were made by Mrs K or her daughter.  I say this for a number  of reasons:
 
The voice of the caller isnt the same as those  identified  as Mrs K and her daughter in 
the recordings the solicitor made for us
When either Mrs K or her daughter called they are able to provide both the card number 
and the mobile  phone number
In the first call on 29 April the caller didnt  have the card available  and wasnt able to 
provide the mobile  number, without first looking it up
In one of the calls the unknown caller mixed the postcode between the two addresses
The unknown caller  gave wrong information when asked additional security questions. 
Ref: DRN51897183Given that Im satisfied that the person who ordered  the card wasnt  Mrs K, and wasnt 
acting on her behalf, and that the caller  confirmed the change  of address, I consider it more  
likely than not that the card and PIN were intercepted and used without Mrs Ks authority or 
consent. In addition, Mrs K actually  tried to use the card she had in her possession  a week  
or so later to withdraw £10 and it was rejected. If she had ordered the new card then I think 
she would  have known  that the original card had been cancelled.
I also agree  that when  the third party caller  failed to answer the additional security questions 
correctly, NewDay should have blocked  the card until it had fully identified  Mrs K. If it had 
done so at that point, then the disputed transactions couldnt have taken place.
I appreciate that during the call Mrs Ks daughter made to NewDay  about  the declined  £10 
cash withdrawal she gave  some  wrong information about transactions Mrs K made.  And that 
this led to some confusion, which made  NewDay decide to hold Mrs K liable for all the 
transactions. But Mrs K has been  clear to this service that she didnt make them.
On balance, and after considering all the evidence, Im not persuaded that Mrs K made or 
authorised the transactions or that she consented to anyone  else having  use of her card.  As 
the withdrawals were made using a credit  facility, I think NewDay should refund the 
transactions to Mrs K as she cant be held liable for them. I note that the terms of Mrs Ks 
account dont  allow it to hold her liable  for the first £50 under section 84(1)  of the CCA  1974.
closing the account
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Ks account  do allow  NewDay  to end the agreement and 
close the account by giving two months notice,  if it believed she had told it something 
misleading or false. As Mrs Ks daughter  did provide some  incorrect information, I dont think 
NewDays made a mistake here. But Mrs Ks account was in credit at the time and I think its 
fair that NewDay return that credit balance to her.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve matters, I require NewDay  Ltd to:
1.Refund the disputed transactions totalling £697.18
2.Refund the account closing balance of £393.49  to Mrs K.
3.Remove any adverse  information it might have reported to either the fraud prevention  
or credit reference agencies.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5189718