K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA) hasnt dealt with their 
claim in a timely manner,  and the compensation theyve been  offered for delays isnt high 
enough. They want RSA to pay them £5,000.
 
background
Mr and Mrs A suffered a major leak in their home  in March  2018, which  led to extensive  
damage. They contacted  RSA which accepted their claim. It took 18 months for the house to 
be dried and all the remedial work completed.
Mr and Mrs A complained twice to RSA about  how the claim was progressing, unnecessary 
delays and a lack of communication from the contractors doing the work. RSA paid a total of 
£1,200 compensation for the way the claim had been dealt with, the delays and the poor 
quality of some of the work, which had to be re-done.
Over the 18 months  Mr and Mrs A each stayed  with their respective families, and received a 
disturbance allowance  and the cost of their additional travel. They  say this affected their 
relationship, and they only agreed to live apart because  they were  mis-led as to the length  of 
time it would  take to get their home  back to normal.
RSA thought it had paid a fair amount of compensation, so Mr and Mrs A brought their 
complaint to us.
Our investigator also thought RSA had paid a fair amount of compensation.
Mr and Mrs A dont  agree, and say RSA never offered to pay the rental on any alternate  
accommodation, and only offered  the disturbance allowance. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to uphold this complaint. I know that isnt what  Mr and Mrs A want  to hear. So 
Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs As experience during what must  have been a very 
difficult time for them.  Making a claim for major  damage to your home  is in itself a stressful 
and upsetting process. Thats often  because of the circumstances, and isnt something  RSA 
is responsible for. Its often difficult to be sure how long a claim is going to take,  particularly 
when major damage is involved, and a property  needs to be dried out before the extent of 
the damage becomes clear. But RSA is responsible for any unnecessary  distress  and 
inconvenience it  or its contractors  causes during the claim process.
RSA has recognised it didnt do all it could, and paid £1,200  for this. Ive looked  at what  
happened, and, like our investigator, I think this is a fair amount of compensation for the 
trouble it caused  through its actions.
Ref: DRN54355942Mr and Mrs A say RSA never  offered to pay for the rent on alternate  accommodation for 
them, and if theyd known  how long the whole claim  was going to take theyd never have  
agreed to live apart, each  with their own families. 
Ive looked through RSAs records, and listened to a call it had with Mr A, to see what  I can 
find on this point.
I can see that alternate accommodation was discussed with Mr and Mrs A right at the 
beginning of the claim, as it was clear they couldnt  stay in the house. Its noted at that point 
that Mr and Mrs A were happy  to stay with their families  but that theyd have additional 
travel costs which RSA would need to cover and a disturbance allowance.  RSA says it did 
this, paying nearly  £18,000 in allowances and for extra costs whilst the property was being 
repaired.
RSA had a conversation with Mr A about  15 months later when it was looking  at their second 
complaint. RSA asked  Mr A if it had ever discussed  alternate accommodation with him or 
Mrs A. In response, Mr A said (in summary) that because of their work commitments it was 
more convenient  for them  to each stay with their respective families.  He did say his and Mrs 
As relationship had been affected by being away from their home  for 18 months.
I do understand that  with hindsight  Mr and Mrs A might have wished to rent somewhere 
they could be together  when their work commitments allowed. And Im very sorry Mr and Mrs 
As relationship has now ended. But I cant say that RSA should pay more compensation for 
this, as they did choose to stay with their respective  families. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as the compensation already paid by Royal 
& Sun Alliance Insurance Plc is appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 June  2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5435594