K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about charges that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  UK Limited  (MBFS) 
applied for damage  to his car at the end of his lease agreement. He would like MBFS to 
accept his offer of £450. And to pay compensation for the unethical way it handled  his 
complaint.
background
Mr H when he ended his lease agreement with  MBFS  it charged  him for six items of 
damage at a total cost of just over £800   four alloy wheels, damage to the right hand  rear 
door and scratched paintwork on the right hand  front door
Mr H says he disputed two of the charges totalling  £470 which he felt were  unfair.  
At that point MBFS offered a 15% discount on the overall bill which he didnt accept. He says 
in order to bring the matter to a conclusion  it then offered a 25% reduction on the bill. But Mr 
H says he made a counter offer asking MBFS to remove one charge of £210 for damage to 
the right front door. And  apply the 25% discount  to the balance. This meant  he  would pay 
£450. MBFS didnt  accept his offer
MBFS said charges for damage were correctly  applied. It had offered Mr H a 25% discount 
on the total bill to resolve the matter. But said it reserved the right if he didnt accept that to 
charge the full amount.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt consider the damage to the alloy 
wheels since Mr H had accepted these. In terms of damage for dents  and scratches he felt 
these had been correctly charged  with reference  to the British  Vehicle and Leasing Rental 
Association (BVRLA) guidelines.  And he felt the 25% discount  MBFS offered was fair.
MBFS accepted this view but Mr H didnt. Mr H said he wasnt disputing the dent damage 
only the £210 charge for the damage  to the right hand door. He felt the damage was just 
light surface scratches which could be removed by polishing/touching up. And this was 
allowable wear  and tear under the BVRLA  guidelines.   Our investigator didnt agree  he felt 
the photographic  evidence  showed  otherwise.
Mr H said he felt that MBFS  tried to apply BVRLA terms that applied to tyres and wheels to 
paintwork. He believes MBFS should make  a compensation  payment  for mis representing its 
own terms.  Our investigator felt that MBFS made a mistake in an email  to Mr H referring  to 
this term. He said the business  hadnt  referred to this in its file to us just saying the charge  is 
applicable as it falls outside normal wear  and tear guidelines
Mr H finally  said that MBFS terms state if a vehicle is not in a good condition  a consumer 
would be liable for actual costs incurred  and he wanted evidence  to show  what  costs MBFS 
actually incurred. Our investigator explained we dont require a business to provide this we 
look at whether it is entitled to charge or not.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN52828782As Mr H has accepted all of the charges  that MBFS has made except one for £210 for a 
scratch through the top coat on the right hand front door then that is the only charge I think I 
need to consider.
I agree  with Mr H that I dont find any of the photographic evidence MBFS has given us 
helpful in determining the actual damage. However I have seen the report  on the car which 
states the right hand front doo is scratched to a depth greater  than 25mm  through the top 
coat. I see no reason  not to accept that as an accurate  description   particularly as there 
seems to be no dispute about the other areas  of damage identified in the report.
I have checked  the BVRLA guidelines which say scratches up to 25mm are acceptable  but 
not if the primer or bare metal is showing. As the report stated the scratch  was both greater 
than 25mm and through  the top coat I think it is reasonable  for MBFS to charge for this. On 
that basis I dont  feel I have any grounds to ask MBFS to waive this charge.
Mr H has referred  to two other  issues firstly  that MBFS  incorrectly referred to a section of the 
BVRLA guidelines about tyres and wheels.  He feels he should be compensated for this mis 
representation. As I understand  it Mr H felt this was unethical.
I am inclined to agree  with our investigator  that this is a mistake. I dont  believe  this is 
evidence of Mr Hs complaint being dealt  with in an unethical way. On that basis I dont think  
it would  be reasonable for me to expect MBFS to pay compensation as Mr H has requested. 
Secondly Mr H has asked  for evidence of the actual costs incurred in repairing  the damage 
noted in the report. I dont think MBFS needs  to do this. I have seen its terms and conditions 
which Mr H has referred to. These  say the actual costs of repair will be payable. However it 
goes onto to say that if MBFS doesnt  carry out the work the customer is liable for the 
estimated costs of the work. I dont know whether MBFS carried  out the repairs  or not. I think 
the main point is that under the contract Mr H signed he was liable for any damage. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5282878