K822xcomplaint
Mrs G says Charterhouse Independent Financial Advisors LLP (Charterhouse)  is 
responsible for failing to stop a fraudulent  withdrawal of income from her Self-invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP)  and for the consequential financial loss shes suffered.
background
Mrs G had a SIPP with AJ Bell. She retained the service of an appointed representative (AR) 
of Charterhouse  to provide her with financial advice and to execute  pension fund decisions. 
For example, the movement of her investments and accessing income.
Unfortunately, a fraudster  (X) managed to insert them  self between Charterhouse and Mrs 
G. On 11 July 2018, X sent an email to Charterhouse impersonating Mrs G and requesting  a 
transfer of £35,000 from her pension pot. They said she was in need of funds while travelling 
in Australia because  thered been a problem with her bank account which couldnt be 
resolved unless she paid a visit to her branch.
On 19 July 2018, X sent an email to Mrs G impersonating her financial adviser. They said 
that due to system  issues at Charterhouse and her SIPP provider,  a transfer of £35,000 had 
been mistakenly paid into her bank account. The payment  was said to have been meant for 
a different client who happened to share  the same surname. They  said it wasnt possible for 
Charterhouse or AJ Bell to take the money back without her permission.
Both Charterhouse and Mrs G were victims  of a sophisticated scam. Both were spun 
different stories. Both their email addresses were almost perfectly replicated. X was aware of 
certain of Mrs Gs details and appears  to have played on the longstanding  relationship  she 
had with her financial  adviser.
Both Charterhouse and Mrs G continued communications after theyd been initiated by X 
without realising they were being tricked. X negotiated certain hurdles and unfortunately the 
few legitimate communications between Mrs G and Charterhouse during this period were 
mutually misconstrued and actually had the effect of reinforcing  the fraudulent activity.
Ultimately Charterhouse  gave instructions to execute trades  to deliver sufficient liquidity in 
Mrs Gs SIPP to enable the transfer  of £35,000  from her pension pot. Because  she had to 
pay income tax on this, the amount  transferred to her bank account was around £21,000.
In turn, on 25 July 2018 Mrs G returned £20,000 of this money  to an account  X had given 
her details for. They said she could keep £1,000 in recognition  of the trouble  caused by the 
whole mix-up.
The same day X tried to initiate a further  transfer of funds from Mrs Gs pension pot. 
Although Charterhouse started the ball rolling on taking action to disinvest to deliver further  
liquidity to Mrs Gs account, ultimately this attempt failed as both Mrs G and Charterhouse 
began to uncover  what had been  going on. Mrs G contacted Action  Fraud and the police  to 
report the incident. She also got in touch  with her bank and fortunately it was able to recover 
around £15,358.
So, at the time she brought her complaint to this Service, together with the money X left for 
Mrs G from the fraudulent transaction, £16,389 had been secured from the net payment of 
£21,000 taken  from her pension funds.
Ref: DRN51162472Mrs G has a number of concerns about what happened. She says Charterhouse transferred 
money from her pension fund without  her authority  it acted on a fraudulent  email.  She feels 
it failed in its duty of care and shouldve been  suspicious  about  the request for funds  
because it represented  unusual activity and the wording of the messages from X was not in 
keeping with how she communicated.
Mrs G says Charterhouses system checks proved inadequate. It was she who first became 
alert to the fraudster. She thought certain  emails  received from her adviser were strange, 
perhaps being sent by one of his colleagues, which prompted her to text him. She says a 
further and more significant  attempt  at fraud was only stopped when she uncovered what  
was happening.
Charterhouse says that its advisers  had no reason to be suspicious of the emails from X. 
The communications were from her normal address. The request to take income from her 
SIPP was consistent  with the pattern of previous  requests and in similar circumstances. The 
method used was the same as for prior transactions, all communication  being by email.
Charterhouse says its advisers also knew any funds would be going into the account Mrs G 
had authorised and had control of. It was Mrs G who transferred the funds  to the fraudster.  
On reviewing the emails  shed received  from X, it said she shouldve  noticed sooner that the 
senders address wasnt precisely correct, and that the language used shouldve  alerted her 
to the fact it wasnt making  the contact.
The adjudicator upheld Mrs Gs case. Charterhouse  disagreed and so her complaint was 
passed to me for review.  I issued  my provisional  decision  last month.  As neither party  has 
provided new substantive evidence or argument, I see no reason to depart from my initial  
conclusions.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Wheres theres conflicting  information about 
what happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and 
to decide, on the balance  of probabilities,  whats most likely to have happened.
Firstly, its clear both parties were tricked  by X in what  was a sophisticated fraud. They  are 
both victims. From what Ive seen, I think  both parties acted in good faith throughout the 
episode. And both have acknowledged that with hindsight there  were  things they wouldve 
done differently  now.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Gs complaint.  In doing so I recognise Im placing the onus on 
Charterhouse for whats happened in this case.  Ill explain why.
My starting point is to consider the fundamental underpinning of the regulations that all firms  
like Charterhouse must adhere  to. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). 
I think of particular relevance in this case  are:
-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
Ref: DRN51162473-Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise  and control  its 
affairs responsibly and effectively,  with adequate risk management systems.
-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
The Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory landscape  that existed at the 
relevant time. They provide the overarching framework for regulation  and must always be 
complied with by regulated firms  like Charterhouse. As such, I need to have regard to them 
in deciding this case.
I asked Charterhouse  for a copy of the client agreement or contract that it had with Mrs G. 
This wouldve detailed  what services it was providing for her and set expectations on both 
sides about how things  would be done. But because shes been  a client  for over 30 years  it 
told me there wasnt anything on file.
The adjudicator asked Charterhouse to provide  us with information about  its processes and 
procedures for how customers access income from their pension  funds.  I note no formal 
documentation was provided. However,  its response was helpful  in understanding something  
about what would normally happen:
When responding  to a client request for a drawdown from a pension or any other form of 
withdrawal from an investment, under usual circumstances [Charterhouse] would hold a 
meeting or a telephone  call at least to discuss the clients intentions. Each  [Charterhouse] 
adviser has strong personal relationships  with almost all of their clients and therefore would 
be likely  to know if the client was being  impersonated by a third party.
Prior to this event with Mrs G, when these requests to make further payments were 
repeated via email  (assuming that email was the standard form of communication), unless 
something appeared to be untoward, either in terms of transaction  size or frequency of 
withdrawals, [Charterhouse] saw no reason to be overly suspicious.
So, Charterhouse confirmed that its usual process  on withdrawals from pension funds would 
be for advisers to meet or at least discuss matters with clients  to understand  intentions  and 
thus gain assurance. It notes the importance of the strong personal relationship between its 
advisers and clients  in this regard providing some security about who it was dealing with.
This process  wasnt followed in Mrs Gs case, and Charterhouse indicates this was because 
email was her standard form of communication and there was nothing  untoward in the 
request it received in terms of the size or frequency of the withdrawal being sought.
Charterhouse hasnt  provided any further details about its controls and systems. What were  
the triggers on frequency and scale that wouldve alerted  its advisers?  Was it a flexible, 
informal matter determined largely by the adviser? Or perhaps something more  system and 
data driven? Or a combination of both?
Charterhouse says Mrs G made requests for payments from her SIPP in July 2014  and then 
again in January 2017, May 2017  and May 2018. The last 3 were made and actioned 
following email exchanges.
Ref: DRN51162474I think Charterhouses approach is at odds  with what its said about the importance of the 
strong personal relationship its advisers  had with their clients.  I say this because it seems  
that by the time of the fraudulent activity in 2018,  Charterhouse  hadnt  met with Mrs G since 
2014 or even  had a phone call with her to understand her current plans and circumstances.
I also find that the transactions highlighted by Charterhouse dont exhibit a consistent pattern  
as it suggested.  Its difficult to see what the adviser  could reasonably have deemed normal  
from them. Further, I think the average  person would  consider accessing £35,000 from a 
pension pot a substantial transaction and Ive no reason to conclude this was different for 
Mrs G in her situation.
I can see from Mrs Gs SIPP statements that in the two financial years  2016/17 and 2017/18, 
she took a single significant drawdown payment of broadly the same  size as the fraudulent 
transaction. But crucially  this was the second such drawdown on her account within  a couple 
of months,  which was unusual. As was the fact this was being made in the same tax-year 
which was clearly an important consideration.
Further, theres an interesting exchange between  Mrs G and Charterhouse  in May 2017. 
Unfortunately, we havent been given a copy of the email she sent, but in responding to 
various questions  she was posing  about  the management of her pension funds I think  what  
her adviser says is telling  (bolding is my emphasis):
In terms  of permissible levels of withdrawal, you do not have any tax-free cash entitlement  
remaining so everything will be potentially taxable  but you could withdraw up to £100,000  
without having  to sell any assets.
In terms of sustainable levels of withdrawal, that is a trickier question but I would 
have thought that £20,000 - £30,000 per annum should be sustainable.
I think the fraudulent  request by X in July 2018  to withdraw funds  from Mrs Gs pension fund 
shouldve triggered  a more proactive and inquisitive response from Charterhouse.
Given, the controls it told us were in place;  a common  sense  reading  of what a pattern of 
activity might be; the priority it placed  on a strong relationship between its advisers and 
clients; and its own prior assessment of what would be a sustainable level of withdrawals 
from Mrs Gs fund, Charterhouse  hasnt  done  enough to satisfy me that it applied the 
appropriate skill and diligence in this situation.
Charterhouse appears to have had more secure methods it could use to communicate with 
its customers. And although this doesnt appear to have been  a universally popular system, 
its difficult to argue  against a control  that keeps both parties  protected,  especially when 
dealing with substantial  transactions.
Had Charterhouse deployed systems  and an approach that was more  effective I dont think  
the fraudulent  transfer wouldve been  made to Mrs Gs bank account. So, its responsible  for 
giving effect to the fraudulent movement  of funds from her pension pot into her bank 
account. Its in breach  of the Principles  Ive identified earlier.
Ref: DRN51162475As Id expect  after an episode like this, Charterhouse reviewed its arrangements and told us:
 As a consequence  of the unfortunate  circumstances  surrounding  Mrs G being defrauded 
the Charterhouse Group have initiated  procedures whereby all requests for cash 
withdrawals will be verified by an independent  method  either a text or phone  call - even 
when the money  is apparently going directly to the clients bank account.
This will give its clients comfort that it takes these  matters very seriously and is keen to learn 
when things go wrong.
Charterhouse is responsible directing the transfer of funds from Mrs Gs SIPP  into her bank 
account. But it contends that ultimately its action  wasnt the cause of her loss. Mrs G 
received the funds. She had control of her account. She had authorised  the transfer of funds 
to an unknown account. And shed done  so based on communications that were suspicious 
and without paying sufficient attention to the senders email address.
Some of the arguments Charterhouse deploys here are similar to those which could  be 
levelled at it, such as not picking up on the dissonant tone, structure and content of the 
fraudsters communications. Nevertheless,  the points it raises have some  merit.
When I reviewed  the trail of emails between Mrs G and X leading  up to the fraudulent 
transaction, its clear  that she identified oddities  in what she was being  told.
For example, on 19 July 2018  after X had informed  her about erroneous system issues  at 
Charterhouse and her SIPP provider, resulting in a pension payment meant  for someone 
else with the same (very rare) surname being  sent to her account, she responded:
Surely this merited a phone call at the very least! Im travelling so cant do what  youve 
requested. Plus, I do not believe  there is anyone in the UK with the same name as me, so 
fail to believe your reason. Lastly, I have now no faith in either firm, this kind of mistake 
should not [happen], it shows complete incompetence  and you are inconveniencing me by 
expecting me to check! I think you should check with your bankers not expect me to do it. I 
am unable  to help for a few days in any event. Please set out my options for moving my 
funds to a safer haven!
While Mrs G raises a question about the plausibility of the story she was being told here 
about how the invented error had occurred, she hadnt twigged the fraud.  Indeed, a couple  
of hours  later she seems  to have reflected a little on the content of her message  and she 
sent another email:
There is no sign of that amount in my [bank] account! I have checked back three weeks
Mrs G includes  her phone number with this message, which Id interpret as a signal for her 
adviser to call her. But there appears to be a break in communications  until 23 July 2018,  
when X sends her an apologetic email, explains why they havent called, reiterates the 
exceptional circumstances  surrounding  the mistake and seeks  her help to resolve  the 
situation. Mrs G responds the same  day saying:
Just checked  my bank  no sign of the money! I will check  tomorrow  and assume  I will be 
compensated for all this inconvenience!
Ref: DRN51162476Theres no need to rehearse all of the email exchanges. I can see there are grammatical and 
structural issues with the messages  she received  and other  oddities,  which  together with the 
lack of phone contact by her adviser  arguably  shouldve prompted her further  enquiry  by 
different route. But as Charterhouse experienced as well, in the moment  when  making a 
transaction with who she thought was a trusted party,  fraudulent activity wasnt  at the front of 
her mind.
Suffice to say Mrs G was accepting that X was her adviser and of the situation as relayed to 
her. She was persuaded to transfer  £20,000  of the funds which were now in her account to 
the intended recipient, whose account details  she was provided with.
Again, at this point  Mrs G doesnt pause to think that perhaps  any funds should properly be 
returned to the SIPP  provider. Nor that, the recipient (who we know, but she didnt at the 
time, was bogus)  would  be short of around £1,000.  Money that was given to her in 
recognition of the trouble  and upset shed experienced. This wouldve been an odd 
arrangement.
Mrs G has acknowledged that some of Charterhouses points could be seen as valid.  But 
she notes that at the time of the fraudulent transaction  she was dealing  with a very sick dog 
which was hospitalised  for four days during which time she was frantic  with worry. Mrs G 
also told us shed known  her adviser for 30 years and was perhaps too keen to help him out. 
She thought  he might  get into trouble because of the claimed processing error. The result 
was that her natural guard mayve been down, she was just keen to get the matter resolved.
I find Mrs Gs testimony about why she ended up transferring the funds from her bank 
account to the fraudster  persuasive. Of course, Charterhouse isnt responsible for the 
situation she found herself  in at the time.  However, on balance, I think Mrs G acted in good  
faith throughout. And I dont  find her actions could be characterised  as grossly  negligent.  
Although Ive considered this matter carefully, I dont think  her actions reach  that threshold.
In responding  to the adjudicators view Charterhouse was concerned that an unfortunate 
precedent could be set whereby clients had no need  to exercise any reasonable care in 
respect to transferring  money on whatever spurious grounds because they will always  be 
able to seek recompense  from an entirely  innocent party.  Even more worrying,  it thought we 
were opening  up wider opportunity for fraud and collusion.
I recognise Charterhouses concerns. As it will understand, we always look at each case  on 
its merits. Should we find that a consumers negligence was a telling factor  that would be 
reflected in the outcome  we arrive  at. And with regard the point it makes about future 
opportunities for fraudulent activity, its already told this Service about the strengthening of 
its processes and approach which should  ensure future episodes  of the nature in this case  
can be thwarted.
As Ive mentioned,  this was a sophisticated fraud with different stories  being  spun to Mrs G 
and Charterhouse  by X. Both parties  were taken in and I think  both parties accept that with 
hindsight they mayve done things  differently.
Ive decided that, on balance, Charterhouse should  accept responsibility  for what  happened  
in this case. Initial contact from the fraudster was with it. And it acted on Xs instruction  to 
transfer £35,000 from Mrs Gs pension pot, with around £21,000 being paid into her bank 
account and the balance  being paid to HM Revenue & Customs  (HMRC) as tax due on this 
income.
Ref: DRN51162477Ive concluded  Charterhouse acted without  due skill and diligence, its systems and approach 
failed to protect Mrs G from this malign  activity. But for its failings the other linked arm of the 
fraud couldnt have  taken  place. So, its fair and reasonable for it to put things right.
putting things right
As well as the basic sums involved in the fraud, Mrs G has paid more tax than she wouldve 
and theres been  a knock-on effect to her pension investments.
£35,000 was taken from Mrs Gs SIPP. Around  £21,000 was paid into her account  and 
£14,000 to HMRC as income tax due. Of the £21,000, over £16,000 has been  recovered. 
Mrs Gs husband confirmed that shes had use of that money, and so I propose we assume  
the tax and investment position  on that portion is neutral.
However, based on what Ive been  told, I calculate  Mrs G has lost £4,642 of the net payment 
that was made into her account. If it had remained in her SIPP  as a gross sum this would 
equate to £7,737  because she paid 40% tax on the withdrawal. Theres also been a potential  
loss of investment  return, between when the funds were taken out of Mrs Gs SIPP until they 
are returned.
So, I require  Charterhouse Independent  Financial Advisors  LLP to:
-Pay Mrs G the difference between the net payment made into her bank account, on 
execution of a fraudulent instruction, and the sum of the amount that remained in her 
account and the funds  recovered by her bank. Mrs G will provide it with evidence  of 
these transactions  confirming the final position.
-As Mrs G wishes to pay this money  back into her SIPP,  it will also need  to assist her 
in liaising with her SIPP  provider to restore the net funds  to her pension  pot and for 
the tax position on those funds  to be regularised i.e. her pot should  ultimately  be 
increased by around £7,737. We understand HMRC have made such adjustments  
previously where  it can be shown that unauthorised  withdrawals have been made. 
But if it refuses to make the adjustment for her overpaid tax Charterhouse will need 
to make good the position.
-Pay Mrs G for any loss of returns on the £7,737 that shouldve remained in her SIPP,  
according to average performance across her portfolio between when the fraudulent  
transfer happened until the date of settlement.
In addition, Charterhouse should pay Mrs G £250 for the trouble and upset shes 
experienced as a result of the things it got wrong.
my decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Mrs Gs complaint. So, I require 
Charterhouse Independent Financial Advisors LLP to put things right as Ive indicated above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 December  2020.
Ref: DRN51162478Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5116247