K820x#14complaint 
Mrs M complains that she has been  unfairly invoiced for work performed  by an appointed  
representative of Quilter Financial Services Ltd. She says that the fees werent explained  to 
her when she first agreed to the work being  undertaken, and that they have not been  
charged in accordance with the published schedule.
background
Mrs Ms relationship was with an appointed representative of Quilter.  Quilter  itself was 
previously known as Caerus, and before  that Intrinsic. But it is Quilter that is responsible  for 
the services that were  provided to Mrs M although it had no direct  contact with her. For ease, 
in this decision, I will generally refer to Quilter  as the responsible business throughout.
In 2018 Mrs M approached Quilter for support  in completing the transfer of some  pension 
benefits she would be entitled to as a result of a pension sharing order.  Mrs M had divorced 
from her husband a number of years before. But at the time of the divorce some financial 
arrangements relating  to her ex-husbands pension benefits had been left unresolved.  
Mrs M first met with Quilter in July 2018. At that meeting she signed a fee agreement 
document that required her to pay a minimum fee of £1,295 to Quilter for the work it agreed  
to undertake. Further meetings were held between  Mrs M and Quilter in August and 
September and there was also telephone, email and text contact during that time.
Following the September meeting Mrs M decided that she wanted to end her relationship 
with Quilter. She says she was concerned about  some of the information she was being  
given that contradicted information shed received directly from the pension scheme 
administrators. And she didnt think Quilter was providing her with sufficient clarity on how 
the pension sharing proposals would affect her financial situation  either  at that time, or in the 
future.
In October  2018 Quilter  sent an invoice to Mrs M for the work  that had been  undertaken. 
Quilter says the amount it invoiced, £1,295, was the minimum  that she agreed to pay when 
she signed the fee agreement. It said that, as a gesture of goodwill, it had waived any 
additional costs  above the minimum fee that had been agreed.
Mrs Ms complaint has been  assessed  by one of our adjudicators.  Although he 
acknowledged that Mrs M disputed when she had received copies of the documents  she had 
signed, he thought the terms of the agreement were clear, and that Mrs M would have been 
aware of those terms prior to her decision to cancel her arrangement with Quilter. So he 
thought that it was reasonable  for Quilter  to ask for payment for the work it had done, and he 
didnt think that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld.
Mrs M didnt  agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved  
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
Ref: DRN59033352my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
It is clear that Mrs M feels very strongly about this complaint. She has provided us with 
extensive, and carefully  catalogued, information  detailing the entirety of her relationship  with 
Quilter. I have read everything that she has sent carefully. But my decision will focus  on what 
I consider to be the overarching principles here rather than the minutiae of every  interaction 
between Mrs M and Quilter.  And where  the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have 
made my decision based on the balance of probabilities.  In other words I have looked at 
what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide  what 
I think is more likely to have happened.
First I will consider the amount of the invoice that Quilter has presented  to Mrs M. Mrs M 
says that the invoice  doesnt fairly reflect  the fee agreement  that she signed. So Ive first of 
all looked at the clauses within that agreement that relate to the fees.  That information is 
contained in two documents that are titled Authority to Proceed and Terms  of Business.  
In summary,  the relevant  clauses  say;
Amount of payment  for advice/implementation is calculated  at 2.75% of the amount 
invested or a flat fee of £1,295 minimum.
If you ask us to stop work after agreeing to these fees you will be invoiced  EITHER 
for the time spent on your case  before we receive  your instructions using the hourly  
rates detailed in the table below OR a minimum fee of £1,295 for standard cases and 
for more complex advice,  such  as Final Salary work, the minimum is £2,995  plus an 
additional £495 per additional scheme.
After we have started researching your current arrangements and/or solutions,  but 
before designing a solution = 25% of agreed fees
Mrs M appears  to have interpreted the final part of those terms as meaning that she should 
only be charged 25% of the fee since work was stopped before Quilter had started  designing 
a solution. But I think that misinterprets what the terms  state. The 25% reduction  would  apply 
to fees that were higher  than the minimum. It wouldnt be a reflection of an agreed reduction 
to the minimum charge.  So on that basis I am persuaded  that the invoice Quilter has sent to 
Mrs M is a fair reflection of the fees she agreed.
I will now go on to consider whether the services Quilter provided to Mrs M were  reasonable. 
But I think it is important to say that it isnt appropriate  for me to comment on whether the 
fees that were  charged should  be considered value for money. Generally a provider is free 
to charge whatever it thinks is commercially  reasonable, obviously providing  those fees are 
explained to, and agreed by, the consumer at the outset.
Here I have considered  what  Mrs M has said about not being aware of the fee structure  until 
relatively late in her relationship with Quilter. She says that when she signed the documents 
at the initial  meeting they were folded in such a way that she didnt see the contents and that 
she thought they were  simply an authority  to proceed.  But on balance I think  that unlikely. 
That to me would suggest a degree of deliberate  deception by Quilter, hiding the fees that it 
Ref: DRN59033353intended to charge. I think it unlikely that the business, that after all was wanting to build a 
long standing relationship with Mrs M, would deliberately act in that way. 
Instead I think it more likely  that Mrs M, in her desire to move  ahead with completing  the 
pension sharing order, has overlooked the information she was given at the time about the 
fees she would need to pay. And since, at that time, her expectation was that the fees would 
most likely be taken  from the pension monies  that were transferred to her, I think  the actual 
charge would have been  of lesser importance to her than moving  forward  with the transfers.
So on balance I think it most likely  that Quilter gave Mrs M sufficient information about the 
charges that it would levy for the work it planned. I can see that Quilter started a reasonable 
amount of work  on Mrs Ms behalf. It had contacted  the pension administrators  of the 
schemes that held pension  benefits for her ex-husband. And it had started to provide Mrs M 
with some advice and options about how the transfer could be managed. I appreciate that 
Mrs M feels  that Quilter could have gone further with the advice it provided. But since the 
process was stopped  before any of the transfers took place, I cannot say that Quilter fell 
short in what  it had agreed to provide.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs M. But I think  the fee that Quilter is 
charging is reasonable for the work  that was performed, and in line with the agreement  she 
made at the outset.  It follows that I dont think the complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5903335