K821x#15complaint
Mrs C says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when she applied  
for a Marks & Spencers card in 1997.
Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz)  is now responsible for these sales  so Ill be referring mainly 
to it throughout  my decision.  
background
One of our adjudicators looked  into this complaint  and said the PPI was mis-sold because  
the probability was that Mrs C didnt meet the eligibility criteria for the PPI. She shouldnt 
have therefore  been sold this type of cover  with her card.
Allianz disagrees and the complaint has been  passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs mis-sale complaint.
Ive looked very carefully at what Allianz has said about the sale.  It denies it did anything  
wrong in selling the PPI with the card account and it basically  relies on two things. The first is 
the original 1997 application form and the second  is a telephone conversation it says it had 
with Mrs C many years  later,  when it was investigating her complaint. 
Ill start with the application form. Weve seen quite  a few of these types of PPI sale and so 
Im familiar with the documents that were  normally used and the processes that were  
followed. We know, for example, from both the application form design  and our general 
experience of these  sales, that these application forms were often filled out in a counter 
setting, inside a shop. The form had a small section  on it about adding  PPI and the 
consumer was asked  to complete this section if they wanted PPI cover  added.  
So I think the transaction was probably quite  quick. I dont think its likely that eligibility  was 
ever discussed at the point of sale or considered  by any party to the sale. There  were 
weaknesses in the design of the form in my view, not least  because in ticking  the PPI box 
the consumer  was also apparently agreeing to a multitude of other conditions. Looking at the 
form in Mrs Cs case, I think the eligibility  conditions are unclear  because  they are buried 
within other important information  in the same section.  
Allianz, on the other hand, had a duty to ensure that Mrs C was given clear information  and 
that important features  of the PPI were pointed out as necessary. It ought to have confirmed  
without doubt  that she really  was eligible and met the relevant criteria. 
However, Mrs C says she wasnt working  the 16 hours per week  required to become eligible 
for the cover and I think  the poor design  of the form doesnt clarify enough that she was. 
Shes told us what she earned at the time, which is commensurate with part-time  work. 
Ref: DRN53224822Some parts  of the form also werent  fully completed and although that information  probably 
doesnt really change anything I think it adds to the lack of time and attention  to detail that 
should have been available / present during the sale process. In short, I dont think  the 
original application  form shows that Mrs C was eligible for the PPI.
Mrs C made  her complaint in 2018.  We then have what  was clearly  from Mrs Cs 
perspective  an unexpected  phone  call from Allianz about her complaint. Allianz relies on 
this call to prove Mrs C was eligible for the PPI. It says she effectively said she was eligible.
But I disagree with this. This call was some 20 years after the sale and not only would the 
call have probably been unexpected, I see from the Allianz transcript that Mrs C was clearly 
exasperated at the time being taken to confirm  what ought to have been very straightforward 
identity matters. She was upset at the complaint taking many, many months to handle.  
I therefore place  very little reliance on what was alleged to have been said. I note we have 
no recording  of the call from Allianz  for example,  only a transcript.  And this document,  in my 
view, demonstrates the call-handler placed  no emphasis on why the question about her 
employment situation might be so important. I also think the question  about employment 
wasnt an open question - it was a rather leading question and I therefore  dont  think  its 
fair to place much emphasis on it. 
Not surprisingly Mrs C says she doesnt remember much about the sale or PPI. I dont think 
thats unreasonable given  how long ago it was. But shes said she was a part-time worker 
and the original form does show her as working  in retail, so I see this as corroborative 
evidence that shes right. 
I also find Allianzs investigation of her employment  situation to be poor since  we know the 
company Mrs C worked for at the time is the very one that issued the card in the first place. 
So Im upholding  the complaint on this basis; I think its more likely  Mrs C wasnt  eligible for 
the policy because  she didnt work  enough hours  to qualify for it.
Finally, Ive been specifically asked to consider whether Allianz should also pay Mrs C 
additional compensation for the time it took to record and process her complaint. I agree  it 
took Allianz a long time to clarify what were straightforward (and common)  identity  matters  
that we see all the time when women  change  their name upon marriage. I accept Allianz  has 
a right to check these types of things but I feel it could  have  been  more responsive to Mrs C 
in this case and it could have also easily verified  her identity in various other ways, 
particularly in the light of what Ive said about  who Mrs C worked  for at the time of the sale.  
Its obviously open to Allianz to periodically review how it does this.
Nevertheless, I feel Mrs C will be paid the ongoing 8% interest to cover  the time taken 
between raising  and ending the complaints  process.
Allianz should put Mrs C in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already and Allianz should:
Pay Mrs C the amount she paid each  month  for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back.  The 
rate of interest 8% a year from .
Ref: DRN53224823If Mrs C subsequently ever made a successful claim  under  the PPI policy, Allianz can 
take off what she got for the claim  from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Allianz  to take off tax from this interest. Allianz must give Mrs C a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am upholding Mrs Cs complaint and directing 
Allianz Insurance plc to pay compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5322482