K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building  Society  wont refund disputed transactions  made 
whilst he was on holiday. Mr M says he didnt carry out the transactions.
background
Mr M was on holiday  when  he went to a club in the early hours of the morning and 
authorised two transactions. The transactions were authenticated through  chip and PIN. 
The next day Nationwide called Mr M because subsequent transactions had triggered  
Nationwides systems. Mr M confirmed to Nationwide that two transactions  at the same  club 
hadnt been made by him and two further transactions at a different club had also not been 
made by him. The last two transactions had been declined.  All transactions were  chip and 
PIN authorised.
Mr M confirmed his card had been in his possession the whole time, he hadnt lent his card 
to anyone and no one else knows his PIN.
Nationwide investigated.  It said because the transactions had been carried out using the 
genuine card and PIN, it wouldnt raise a chargeback and it didnt think  the transactions were 
fraudulent so it wouldnt refund Mr M.
Mr M was unhappy with Nationwides response, so he referred  the matter  to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ms complaint and she didnt think Nationwide 
needed to do anything further. She said having  looked at the evidence it was more  likely 
than not Mr M had authorised the transactions  because there was no other  plausible  
explanation for what had happened.
Mr M was unhappy with this view.  He replied there was evidence it was possible to clone a 
card, it was technically possible the chip and PIN system was flawed, and a PIN could look 
as if it was correctly entered when it hadnt  been.
He also queried  the timing  of the transactions to suggest they were carried out by computer 
at a regular interval.  And the two later declined transactions  were  showing as being carried  
out at the same time which he said wasnt possible and indicated  they werent  genuine 
transactions. Mr M concluded that the transactions were done by computer  using cloned  
information. 
Our investigator reconsidered the evidence in the light of Mr Ms comments. She said our 
service was aware of the research he had forwarded to us. However, we have never  seen 
an instance of a chip being  cloned  outside of laboratory conditions  and in any case the data 
provided through the card scheme  showed  the chip was read for the genuine, disputed and 
declined transactions.  
She also said the information in relation to the timing  came from the card issuer and may 
have been delayed as the transactions were carried out abroad. She also had no evidence 
to question the legitimacy of the business.  Having considered Mr Ms further  points her view 
remained unchanged.
Ref: DRN54945772Mr M still thought the pattern of transactions was suspicious. He was unhappy the last two 
declined transactions had occurred at the same  time  and said this wasnt possible. He was 
also concerned  that he didnt  know why Nationwide had declined  the last two transactions.
Mr M disagreed with the view, so the matter has come to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons.
Generally, Nationwide can hold Mr M liable for the disputed  transactions  if the evidence 
suggests its more  likely  than not, he made or authorised  them himself.
I am satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ms genuine  card and PIN were 
used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is 
not, on its own enough to enable Nationwide to hold Mr M liable. So, I also need  to think  
about whether  the evidence suggests its more likely  than not Mr M consented to the 
disputed transactions  being made.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Nationwide  to conclude  Mr M 
authorised the transactions. I say this because:
The disputed card transactions  were made  using  the genuine card and PIN. Mr M 
has said the card was always in his sight,  he never lent his card to anyone  and no 
one else knew his PIN.
Mr M has provided us information which suggests that a card can be cloned and its 
technically possible for a PIN to look like it was correctly  entered when it wasnt. As 
mentioned we are aware of the research he has forwarded to us, however we have 
never seen an instance  of a chip being cloned outside of laboratory conditions. Even 
if I acknowledge that this could happen,  it seems unlikely that a fraudster who went to 
this trouble would  only use the card for four transactions of relatively small amounts 
and then stop after three  in the morning. 
For the transactions to be carried out a fraudster needed  access  to Mr Ms PIN. Mr 
Ms explained hes never shared it with anyone, but he did carry out two transactions  
prior to the DTs  so there is a possible PIN compromise. But a fraudster would  also 
need access to Mr Ms card.
Mr M has explained that his card was either  in his wallet or under his leg whilst he 
was in the club. The last genuine  transaction that took place was at 1.18 meaning a 
fraudster would  need to have obtained Mr Ms card  without him noticing  - after this 
but prior to the first DT. As Mr M had the card in his possession the next day, theyd  
then need to return his card again, without him noticing. I find it difficult to understand 
why a fraudster  would take the risk of returning  his card and I dont find this very 
likely
Mr M has said the regular timing of transactions suggests  an automated system and 
not genuine transactions. I am aware that with transactions  carried out abroad the 
Ref: DRN54945773time showing on the bank report may not necessarily be the time the transaction was 
carried out. Some transactions can be bunched together. So, I dont think  the regular 
timing of the transactions indicates fraudulent  activity. 
Mr M has said the declined transactions happened at the same  time and therefore 
must be fraudulent  as a genuine card could not be used  in two places at the same 
time. I can see that Mr M carried  out two transactions on the 30 October. Both are 
shown as going through at 17.20.22 one is for £55.19 and the other for £178.04. 
Mr M has confirmed  that these transactions are genuine. The bank  has said that its 
possible for terminals to transmit at the same time. I think this is a plausible  
explanation for why transactions would show as happening at the same  time and I 
dont think this indicates fraudulent activity.
Mr M was concerned about  why Nationwide declined the last two transactions.  Although  no 
detailed information  is kept beyond three months Nationwide has said a block was placed 
after the first 500 Euro transaction that was processed due to suspicions of fraud. This block  
prevented the last two transactions from going through.
Taking everything into account,  I find on balance that Mr M authorised the disputed 
transactions. It follows Nationwide is entitled  to hold him liable for them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020. 
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5494577