K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the valuation esure  Insurance  Limited (Esure) placed on his car after 
it was assessed  as being a total loss.
background
Mr B has a car insurance policy with Esure.  In December 2018 Mr B had a car accident. His 
car was positioned in between two walls at an angle. It was recovered by agents of Esure  
using a hoist with a single strap.
Mr B complained that the recovery method meant the car became even more damaged. 
Esure confirmed that there may have been additional damage but the car would have been 
uneconomical to repair  from the accident damage alone. Esure  told Mr B the car would be a 
write off. So it offered  him the market value of his car.
When Esure determined the market value it looked  at trade guides. It also found that Mr Bs 
car had been  written  off before with Category D damage. Therefore it deducted 20% from 
the value of the car. So it offered Mr B £6,200 for the value of his car  less his policy  excess 
of £900.
Mr B complained that the valuation was too low. He explained that he was unable to find a 
similar car for less than £10,000, and he paid £10,800 for his car that was written-off so feels 
the valuation is unfair.  Mr B also explained he wasnt aware the car had previously  been  
written off with Category  D damage  so felt the 20% reduction wasnt  justified.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Bs complaint. He explained that the valuation  Esure had 
carried out was fair and reasonable  as it had used trade guides to reach the market 
valuation figure. He also explained that there was additional investigation which showed that 
the car had been written off before Mr B had purchased it. So Esure  was being reasonable 
when deducting  20% from the market value. 
Mr B disagreed. He felt that the car should be valued higher  so he could purchase a car 
which has the same specification of his previous car. He feels, even with a deduction for the 
Category D damage, he should  be paid around £7,100 after excess. But he was paid £5,300 
after the deduction of his excess  and he feels this is unfair. So hes asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint for similar reasons to the investigator.
Ive looked at the video  Mr B sent in which shows the recovery of the vehicle. I can see that 
it looked like a difficult task. But Ive also seen a photo to show the position of the car before 
it was recovered.  The recovery  agents explained that due to the car being in a difficult 
position, and part of the car being  embedded  in a wall, it wouldnt have been possible to use 
a different method of removing  the car. So whilst  some damage occurred during recovery to 
the vehicle, its likely  without this damage  the vehicle wouldve been declared as a total loss 
so I dont think its made a difference in Mr Bs case.
Ref: DRN52648262Mr Bs main issue  is the valuation of the vehicle. In order to get a fair valuation,  we expect 
insurers to look at the retail value  of the vehicle  using  the trade guides such as CAP,  
Glasss, Parkers and Cazana. I can see that Esure checked the trade guides and the top 
values were £7,740  and £7,690. Esure then deducted around 20% from this value to 
account for the car having  been written  off beforehand. So it offered  a valuation of £6200.
Ive checked the trade guides  and can confirm that the valuations Esure  obtained  were  
correct. I understand  that Mr B feels the values in the trade guides is too low, and has sent in 
adverts for similar cars which are higher  than the valuations. But adverts usually show  higher  
prices, as theres often  a margin left for negotiation.  As Esure has used the trade  guide  
values as I would expect it to, I wont be asking it to pay anything  more for the vehicle.
Ive considered whether it was fair for Esure to deduct almost 20% from the value because 
the car had previously  been written off. I understand that Mr B purchased this car without 
knowing that the car had sustained Category D damage previously. So Ive thought about 
whether he should  have  known, or been aware of that damage.  Mr B provided a screenshot 
from the HPI check the seller had done  when he agreed to purchase the car. I can see that 
under write  off (damage)  the report shows it is clear. However at the bottom of the 
screenshot, under plate transfer there is a red stop  sign and an arrow  indicating a drop-
down box. This indicates there  is some  adverse data and I think it would be reasonable to 
expect Mr B, as a buyer,  to make himself  aware of any potential issues with the car he was 
buying.
Weve asked CAP HPI to explain where the adverse  data was recorded, and it confirmed 
that the data about the Category D damage  was under the Plate Transfer  information  as it 
happened when  the car had a different registration  number  than it had when the HPI check 
was done. So whilst  I understand  Mr B wasnt aware  of the previous  damage when he 
purchased the car, I think he couldve taken steps to have  been  aware   which  may have led 
to him paying less for the car.
As I believe Esure has used reasonable methods to determine the market value of Mr Bs 
car, and have been reasonable in making  a deduction in that value  because  the car had 
previously been  written off, I wont be asking  it to pay anything more to Mr B.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5264826