K821x#15complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with how her request to port her mortgage product to a mortgage on a new 
property was handled by TSB Bank  Plc. She is also unhappy that when she chose  to move 
to a new lender  she had to pay TSB an early  repayment charge (ERC) and other  additional 
costs.
background
Mrs K found  a new property she wanted  to purchase.  
She had initially  approached TSB in February  2018 and secured a mortgage promise, but 
this expired in early  May.
Mrs K went  to a TSB branch on 18 May 2018 and the following day an application was 
started to port her mortgage. TSB needed further information from Mrs K, and she returned  
on 25 May to complete  the application.
TSB and Mrs Ks accounts of exactly what happened at the meeting on 25 May differ. They  
do, however, both agree that TSB had technical problems. Due to these  problems TSB was 
unable to provide  Mrs K with the document  she wanted to show to the estate agent. 
TSBs account isnt entirely clear but seems to suggest Mrs K had already seen a broker on 
25 May and she decided not to submit her application to TSBs  underwriters  on that day.
TSB says that even  though there were technical problems on 25 May this would  not have 
held up Mrs Ks application as the TSB adviser was still able to contact the underwriters and 
get a decision. It said that a decision from the underwriters  would have  been  available  in 
48 hours.
Mrs K says she saw the broker  on 29 May. She was worried she would lose the property she 
wanted to buy. She says TSB was unable to provide  her with a timeframe for her application. 
Mrs K feels  that TSB should refund the ERC, compensate her for the difference between her 
initial and increased  offer on the new property, because she believes delays caused her to 
need to increase the price. As well as for TSB to refund the £500 application fee she paid to 
the broker who arranged  the new mortgage.
When Mrs K complained to TSB it paid her £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused  
and £50 for her out of pocket expenses.
The investigator recommended  the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied had TSB been 
able to provide  an illustration on 25 May,  this wouldve  provided  Mrs K with the assurances  
she was looking for. He suggested   when it couldnt provide the correct illustration - TSB 
couldve offered to provide clarification that term information on the illustration was incorrect,  
or written a letter to explain the error  to any interested parties.
Ref: DRN55221742The investigator recommended  TSB:
Refund the ERC to Mrs K. If Mrs K paid the ERC, TSB should add 8% simple interest 
to this amount.  If not, TSB should refund the ERC to her, plus interest at the rate 
taken out with her new lender.
Refund the broker fee incurred of £500. If Mrs K paid the fee herself, TSB should add 
8% simple interest  to this amount. If not, TSB should  refund the broker  fee, plus 
interest at the rate taken out with Mrs Ks new lender if it was added  to the new 
mortgage amount.
TSB should offset any refund  against the gain Mrs K made over the term of the fixed  
rate product (which was at a lower rate than the TSB mortgage). And in order  to do 
this they should compare  the difference in outstanding balances and payments made 
over the term of that fixed rate, to determine whether Mrs K will gain over the term of 
the new mortgage product shes taken. If overall  Mrs K has gained a financial benefit 
as a result of moving to her new lender even taking into account the refunds above, 
TSB should make no payment to her.
The investigator didnt  think TSB should  compensate Mrs K for the increased offer she made 
for the property. This was because  there can be a number of reasons why the seller  of the 
property may choose to increase the sale price of the property, and he was not convinced 
that they did this as a result of a mistake by TSB. 
He thought the offer made by TSB totalling £300 for trouble, upset and general associated  
costs was fair.
TSB disagreed with the investigators view. It said Mrs K has stated that she needed to visit 
the branch numerous times.  The information it requested was to support the income she had 
stated, but when the documentation was produced it was not correct and it could not accept  
what she provided and as this needed  to be sent to its underwriters  it needed to ensure that 
it was correct. It did accept it was not able to provide Mrs K with an illustration owing to 
system restraints; however it confirmed that this would not delay the application and it would 
pass the application on to its underwriters for their consideration and that it should have a 
response from them within 48hours. It does not feel it can be held responsible  for any 
pressure put on Mrs K by the estate agent.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Ks concern when TSB encountered technical problems with her 
application at the meeting on 25 May. This took place against a background of IT issues  that 
TSB was experiencing at the time that were widely reported. This must have shaken Mrs Ks 
confidence in the bank.
TSB has explained that it could manually override the problems it was encountering and so 
there wouldnt have  been a delay  if Mrs K had continued with her application. It thinks Mrs K 
was put under pressure by the estate agents  and it doesnt think it should be responsible  for 
this.
Ref: DRN55221743I can see TSBs point. But like the investigator  I am more persuaded by Mrs Ks account  of 
her meeting  with TSB on 25 May than the advisers  account. I think  she left the meeting 
confused and worried. I dont think she would have  done so if it had been  made  clear  to her 
that things could be turned around  in the way TSB has now said it could  have been.  I think 
against the background of the widely reported IT failures experienced by TSB that Mrs K felt 
she would  lose her house if she stayed with it. In this context, I think Mrs K made a 
reasonable decision to move  to another lender. I therefore dont think she should lose out 
financially as a result.
I note TSB has already  paid Mrs K £300  which I think  is fair compensation for the worry she 
experienced and her petrol and phone  costs. I agree with the investigator  for the reasons 
he gave  that it wouldnt be fair to expect TSB to pay for the increase  to the purchase price. 
I think the compensation recommended by the investigator is fair and so that is what  I shall 
award.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order TSB Bank Plc to:
Refund the ERC to Mrs K. If Mrs K paid the ERC using money other  than from the 
new mortgage, TSB should add 8% simple interest  to this amount. If the ERC was 
paid using money borrowed under Mrs Ks new mortgage, TSB should  refund the 
ERC to her, plus interest at the rate taken out with her new lender.
Refund the broker fee incurred of £500. If Mrs K paid the fee using money other  than 
from the new mortgage, TSB should add 8% simple interest  to this amount. If not, 
TSB should refund the broker  fee, plus interest  at the rate taken out with Mrs Ks new 
lender.
TSB should offset any refund  against the gain Mrs K made over the term of the fixed  
rate product (which was at a lower rate than the TSB mortgage). And in order  to do 
this it should compare the difference  in outstanding balances  and payments made  
over the term of that fixed rate, to determine whether Mrs K will gain over the term of 
the new mortgage product shes taken. If overall  Mrs K has gained a financial benefit 
as a result of moving to her new lender even taking into account the refunds above, 
TSB should make no payment to her.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5522174