K820x#14complaint
Mrs F says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mrs F took out a loan through  Lloyds in 2009. Lloyds sold her a PPI policy  at the same  time. It 
covered her monthly loan repayments  if she was unable  to work due to disability or unemployment. 
It also provided life and critical illness cover. 
The cost of the PPI was added to the loan and Mrs F paid interest on it. 
Mrs F says that she didnt get enough  information  about the policy, particularly in relation to the 
cost.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mrs F disagreed, so the 
case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mrs Fs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs F doesnt suggest that she didnt know the PPI had been added or that it was optional. 
And I can see from the copy of the credit agreement supplied by Lloyds  that Mrs F was given 
a choice about taking the policy.  She ticked and signed separately to show that she wanted  
to buy it, and it clearly states the PPI is optional. 
Lloyds gave Mrs F a personal recommendation to buy the policy,  so it had to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure it was right for her. I can see that Lloyds completed a 
demands and needs  assessment with Mrs F. And looking at Mrs Fs personal circumstances 
at the time I think the recommendation was suitable. I say this because:
Mrs F was eligible  for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the terms which  
mightve made it more  difficult for her to make a successful claim. Lloyds noted and 
made it clear to Mrs F that she may not be able to make a sickness claim for a 
certain condition  in the first year. Mrs F says she had had a minor investigation and 
hadnt taken any time off work.  So I think Lloyds was right to make  sure she 
understood this before  she bought it. 
Mrs F had good sick pay from her employer, but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition  
to this and potentially for much longer  up to two years  at a time;
Mrs F didnt have  any other means with which to make  her repayments if she couldnt 
work;
The cost of the policy was clearly disclosed to Mrs F. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest it was unaffordable for her;
Ref: DRN56277802The cost of the policy was added to Mrs Fs loan and she paid interest on it. If shed 
cancelled the PPI or paid off the loan early she wouldnt have received a 
proportionate refund of the premiums.  But I havent seen  anything  to suggest this 
was something Mrs F was planning to do at the time of sale.
Its possible that Lloyds  didnt give Mrs F all the information it ideally shouldve done. But I 
dont think more, or better, information wouldve affected Mrs Fs decision to buy the policy. I 
think it wouldve just confirmed to her that the policy was suitable for her in the way Ive 
described. So I dont  think Mrs F lost out as a result of anything  Lloyds  did wrong in this 
regard. 
This means  I dont  think Mrs F should get back everything that she paid for the PPI. 
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
 so it should have told Mrs F about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mrs F, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that offers fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs F.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs F any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand that Lloyds Bank  Plc has already done this, 
so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5627780