K822xcomplaint
Miss O complains  about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has 
handled a claim  she made on her home  insurance policy.
background 
In November 2017 Miss O discovered  a leak under her kitchen sink. She had this fixed, but a 
few months later when  she lifted the tiles, she noticed there had been damage caused  to the 
kitchen floor. 
Miss O made a claim to Lloyds. Lloyds declined it. It said the extent of the damage showed it 
had happened  over a considerable period of time, and before her insurance with Lloyds had 
started in early November  2017.  It advised she raise  a claim with her previous insurer.
Miss O did this, but her previous insurer declined the claim  on the basis  that she was insured 
by Lloyds when  the cause  of the damage was discovered. So Miss O brought  her complaint 
to our service.
Ive already issued  a provisional decision on this complaint. In it I said:
Miss Os policy covers  her for damage  that has occurred  when  the policy is in force 
due to an insured  event.  So I agree with our investigator that Lloyds is responsible for 
any damage that occurred  from when the policy started at the beginning of 
November 2017.
But I dont agree Lloyds should  be responsible,  under the terms of the policy,  for 
damage that occurred  before the policy started. And in this case  Im satisfied that 
damage most likely  did occur before the policy  started in November 2017.
Miss O has said the damage was first discovered at the end of November,  when the 
leak was noticed.  Lloyds assessor who looked  at the damage in January 2018  
thought it had been happening over a long period  of time. 
He said the floor boards were rotten and the floor joist was crumbling and also rotten. 
The assessor didnt  say how long he thinks the damage had been occurring for, but 
he thought it was likely the damage  had started before November 2017, and so 
before Lloyds was Miss Os insurer. That seems reasonable to me. Miss O knew  
there was some damage in November 2017 when the leak was discovered. She said 
part of the floor was flaking  near where  the leak had happened.  So it seems both her 
and the assessor  agree  there was already some rot in at the end of November, which  
suggests the leak had been  ongoing  for some time.
So it follows  that some  of the damage  must have happened when the previous  
insurer provided cover to Miss O. And Lloyds isnt responsible for repairing this 
damage. The key date here isnt when  the damage was discovered, as our 
investigator said, but when the damage  occurred.  
I dont accept Lloyds  argument that because the leak started before the policy  did, 
that it shouldnt  be liable  for any repair.  When the damage was first discovered  at the 
end of November  the leak was still ongoing,  so I consider some damage  must have 
occurred whilst the Lloyds  policy was in force. It also seems there were two further  
Ref: DRN57850342leaks that were discovered, one in January 2018  as a result of a water  meter being 
fitted. And another  leak found  by Miss Os builder  that was from an outside  drain.  So 
its difficult to know  how much  damage  has been caused  by each event. 
The difficulty  also comes in assessing  how much Lloyds should  pay in settlement  of 
the claim.  As Ive said above,  Lloyds is responsible  for the cost of repairing any 
damage that occurred  under its policy. If it can distinguish and separate  that damage  
from the damage that occurred before it started  insuring the property, and if that 
damage can be repaired without need  to repair the previous damage, then it can limit 
its liability to the cost of those repairs.  But if it cant distinguish and separate  the 
damage its liable for from the damage  the previous insurer is liable for. Or if it cant  
repair its damage without also repairing the previous damage,  then our 
longstanding position is that the fair and reasonable outcome is for it to pay the cost 
of repairing  all of the damage. It can then seek a contribution from Miss Os previous 
insurer if it wishes. 
At this stage Im going to work on the assumption  that Lloyds wont  be able to 
separate the insured  damage from the non-insured damage and/or wouldnt have 
been able to repair the insured damage without repairing the non-insured damage. 
So Im currently minded to direct  Lloyds to settle  Miss Os claim in full, subject to the 
terms of the policy.
The parties should however note that Im also currently considering a similar 
complaint that Miss O brought against  her previous  insurer. If I reach a similar 
conclusion in relation to that complaint, I wont ask both insurers  to settle  Miss Os 
claims in full. So I might end up asking each insurer to pay a proportion of the claim 
(so that ultimately  Miss O will receive full settlement of her claim).
I understand in response to our investigators  view, Miss O has said she suffered loss 
of rent from a lodger  due to the repairs. Lloyds hasnt had chance to look into this 
before, but at the moment Im not minded to award any compensation for this. I cant  
see that Miss O has shown she suffered a loss because of the Lloyds not dealing 
with the claim. 
Miss O accepted the provisional decision.  She said she no longer wanted to pursue the loss 
of rent element as it would  be difficult for her to show  her loss.
Lloyds said if Miss Os previous insurer doesnt agree to cover the cost of the leak it is 
prepared to make a contribution. But it didnt think it should be responsible  for settling  the 
claim in full. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Os previous insurer has not agreed to cover  the full cost of the claim. And given some 
of the damage  is most likely to have happened after its insurance ended and Lloyds started, 
I dont think thats  unreasonable.
Ref: DRN57850343I havent seen  anything in the report which estimates when the damage started occurring. 
But for the reasons given in my provisional decision Im satisfied damage occurred under 
each policy. But its difficult for me to know how much  damage occurred under each period 
of insurance. And if both insurers  were to assess this, it would likely take some time,  which  
would delay things  further for Miss O. So I think the fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances of this case is for Lloyds  to cover 50% of the damage.  And for Miss Os 
previous insurer to cover the other 50%.
Miss O has provided an invoice for the work that was carried  out. This invoice is for 
£2,589.06. So in order to settle  the claim Lloyds needs to pay £1,294.53.  It should also add 
8% simple  interest on to this figure  from the date of the invoice (11 Feb 2018) until the date 
of settlement.
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank General  Insurance  Limited needs to pay Miss O 
£1,294.53 to settle her claim.  It should also add interest at 8% simple per year from the date 
of the invoice, until the date of settlement.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October  2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
1 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds  Bank  General  Insurance Limited to take off tax 
from this interest. Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited must give Miss O a certificate  
showing how much  tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN5785034