K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2003 Mr R took out a loan with Nationwide. At the same time, Nationwide sold Mr R a PPI 
policy. Mr R borrowed  extra to pay for the policy upfront, and this amount was added to the 
loan and attracted  interest. The policy covered the loan repayments  if Mr R couldnt work.  
Our adjudicator didn't feel we should uphold Mr Rs complaint. Mr R doesnt accept our 
adjudicators view. Briefly,  his main concerns are that he was never made aware  that PPI 
was being added to his loan  he says this happened without his knowledge and he was 
never given  an option  to decline the insurance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwides records show that Mr R took out his loan with PPI over the phone. Nationwide  
cant now provide  a call recording  or the exact  sales script its staff wouldve followed when 
helping customers to arrange loans over the phone. And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect 
Mr R to remember exactly what was said at the time as this was so long ago. So I cant  know  
precisely what was discussed over the phone.
But Ive seen the loan agreement Mr R signed.  The loan agreement  shows that Mr R was 
insured for disability,  unemployment and life. And on this form it described PPI as Optional 
Credit Insurance  and details of the amount of cover  he bought  are filled in. I find the way 
that Nationwide set out information on the form made  it clear  that PPI was an option. And, as 
the loan agreement had the PPI details clearly shown, I cant fairly say that Nationwide didnt 
make Mr R aware of the insurance he was buying with his loan. Hes signed the completed 
agreement indicating that he was happy  at the time to be legally bound by its terms. Based 
on all the information  Ive seen, I think Nationwide made Mr R aware that the PPI was 
optional and that he chose to have  it.
Nationwide didnt recommend the policy to Mr R. But it still had to give Mr R clear enough 
information so he could decide  if PPI was right for him. 
Mr R was eligible for the policy and it couldve paid out if Mr R was unemployed for up to 
12 months per claim  repeat claims were also possible. And in the event of disability the 
policy couldve paid out on top of his sick pay and covered him until the loan was paid off if 
Mr R was prevented by accident or sickness from going back to work. Ive taken into account 
that Mr R had sick pay through work   but the policy  gave him better cover.  And he told us 
he didnt have any significant other  means  he couldve relied on to pay his loan if he wasnt 
working. So I find that Mr R couldve benefitted from having PPI if hed needed to claim.
Ref: DRN59346632There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if this affected Mr R. 
So, I dont think having more information about things the policy  didnt cover wouldve  put 
him off having PPI.
Full details  of the loan and PPI costs  were clearly set out on the agreement Mr R signed. 
And Mr R got a proportionate  refund of the PPI cost when he settled his loan early. So I think  
the loan was sufficiently flexible for his needs.
In coming to my decision Ive taken into account  everything Mr R has said in response to the 
adjudicators assessment.  But, looked  at overall,  I dont think that Nationwide did anything 
wrong that made Mr R worse off. So theres  nothing it needs to do to put things right. 
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5934663