K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that FirstRand  Bank  Limited T/as Motonovo Finance (FirstRand) mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  with a loan.
background
Briefly:
In 2015 Mr G applied  for and took out a finance agreement to buy a car. During  a 
subsequent phone call with Randbank Mr G took out PPI designed to protect his finance 
payments in the event he couldnt work because of accident, sickness, unemployment  and 
death.
The policy was a regular  premium policy and it cost just under £30 a month.  The policy  
benefit equalled Mr Gs monthly finance  payment and it would pay out for up to 12 months 
upon a successful claim.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said FirstRand made it clear that PPI was 
optional and that Mr G agreed to it without undue pressure. They also said the policy  was 
suitable for Mr G given his circumstances  at the time. As such they said FirstRand didnt 
need to give Mr G everything back he paid for the policy.
But the adjudicator later said that FirstRand will give back  some of the cost of PPI to Mr G 
because of undisclosed high commission.
Mr G disagrees  that PPI wasnt mis-sold. He says that FirstRand  pressured him to take out 
the policy  he only agreed to it to get them off the phone.
The complaint therefore comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think FirstRand made it clear that Mr G didnt have to take out the PPI and that he 
agreed to take it out without undue pressure   although I can understand why he 
cant remember this.
This was a sale by phone and FirstRand has provided a call recording of the 
discussion that took place. Firstly Im mindful  that the phone call took place after Mr 
Gs finance for his car purchase was agreed (businesses werent allowed to sell PPI 
at the same  time as the finance in 2015) so I dont  think Mr G would have been under 
the impression  at the time of the call that the finance was dependant  on him taking  
out PPI. And listening to the call, Im satisfied it was made clear to Mr G that PPI he 
had a choice about PPI. The representative said it was optional at least twice  and 
they also said that it was not a condition of the finance. 
Ref: DRN51823382The representative also said that other  companies offered similar products, which  in 
my view reinforced the point that Mr G didnt have to have PPI.
I can see Mr G has said he felt pressured to take the PPI  he says he only agreed to 
it to get them  off the phone. But the call recording doesnt support this  the 
conversation was friendly, and in my view it was jovial at times. Mr G was also asked 
on more than one occasion if he was happy to carry on with the call to which  he 
replied that he was. I wouldve expected Mr G to have terminated the call at these  
points if he wasnt comfortable continuing or it wasnt  convenient  for him to talk.
So overall I find Mr G chose and agreed  to take out PPI and he did so without undue 
pressure.
FirstRand recommended the PPI to Mr G so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the key exclusions to or limits  on the 
PPI cover and given his existing  means,  including sick pay and savings, he seems to 
have had a need  for the cover.   
I think some of the information FirstRand gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear  or 
as timely  as it shouldve  been   for example Mr G was only made  aware of the 
significant exclusions after he agreed  to take it out; albeit he was asked again later in 
the call if he wanted to go ahead. But he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. The cost was made  clear and it also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better or timelier information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
This means FirstRand doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But FirstRand will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
FirstRand got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because  FirstRand  didnt  tell Mr G, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, FirstRand  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
FirstRand has to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. FirstRand should also pay back to Mr G any extra interest  he 
paid because of that.
FirstRand should therefore pay back to Mr G the extra  he paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. FirstRand should  
also pay Mr G 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr G can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN51823383my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that Mr G has not lost out to the extent he 
should get back everything he paid for PPI.
But FirstRand Bank Limited does have to pay back to Mr G any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5182338