K820x#14complaint
B, a limited  company, complains that Barclays Bank  UK PLC closed its accounts. B is 
represented by its director Mr A. 
Mr A is also unhappy that Barclays  placed  a Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance  (CIFAS) 
marker against his name. He says because  of the marker hes having  difficulty  opening bank 
accounts. He wants  Barclays  to remove the marker.  And he wants  Barclays  to return  money,  
which was in Bs account, which he says belongs to him.
background
Mr A runs a catering company. He had a business  current account, a business savings 
account and two foreign currency business  accounts  with Barclays.
In December 2017, Mr A says he met with a medical marketing company in his restaurant. 
And that the medical company wanted to invest in his business. During the meeting Mr A 
says it was agreed that the medical company would pay Mr A $499,960  (USD)  which Mr A 
says he intended  to use to expand his business. Mr A says the agreement was verbal,  and 
no formal contract was drawn  up setting out the investment. But he has a copy of an invoice 
which he says shows the transaction was legitimate.
On 29 January 2018, $499,960 (USD)  was paid into Mr As Barclays US dollar currency 
account. Mr A spent just over $200,000  of this money. On 5 February 2018, Barclays 
received a claim from another bank to say that the credit into Mr As account was fraudulent. 
So it blocked  all of Mr As accounts. And Barclays returned the remaining money  to the 
sending bank.
Mr A complained to Barclays.  He said the money  was rightfully his and provided paperwork 
to prove  he was entitled to the money. Barclays didnt think  it had done anything wrong. And 
it told Mr A that it had acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations. Barclays decided  
to close Mr As accounts. Barclays also said Mr A had misused his account  and placed  a 
CIFAS marker  against  his name. Mr A wasnt happy  with this. So he brought his complaint to 
the ombudsman  service.
Our investigator looked at Mr As complaint. She didnt  think Barclays had much  choice but 
to refund the money to the other bank. She also confirmed Barclays  was allowed to block 
and close Mr As accounts. She found  that all the correct processes were  followed. And said 
Mr A hadnt  provided  enough evidence to show he was entitled  to the money  paid into his 
account. She also said Barclays hadnt done anything wrong when it reported Mr A to 
CIFAS. So she didnt  uphold Mr As complaint.
Mr A disagreed. He says hes out of pocket.  And he wants  his money.  So hes asked an 
ombudsman to review  his case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator. 
Ref: DRN58637552Mr A says he is entitled to the money paid into his account. He says it is a legitimate 
business transaction and he hasnt done  anything  wrong. And says because  of Barclays  
actions hes lost a significant amount of money.  That may well be the case.  And I appreciate 
that Mr A is upset. But for me to uphold his complaint I have  to think  the bank has done  
something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
Banks must  be able to talk to each other to protect their customers  when money  has been 
sent to the wrong account or they believe  fraud has taken place. And this is what  happened  
here. The other bank  told Barclays the credit to Mr As account was fraudulent.  So the 
money paid into Mr As account wasnt his. Ive looked at the evidence which Barclays relied 
on to return the money. Having done so, Im satisfied that in these circumstances Barclays 
had no choice but to send  this money  back to the other bank. Barclays were told Mr A wasnt  
entitled to the money paid into his account. So I cant say Barclays  has done anything wrong 
when it returned  the funds  to the sending bank.  
Mr A says Barclays  didnt give him a chance to explain  what had happened. And why he 
should be given  the money. Hes says Barclays werent interested in the evidence  he could 
provide, in particular  the invoice he says he was provided by the medical company. And he 
thinks Barclays should have to provide proof  that it sent the money  back  to the sending 
bank. 
From looking  at Barclays actions I dont agree with Mr A. Barclays were  entitled to ask Mr A 
for proof of his entitlement to the funds. I can see it first asked Mr A for evidence on 16 
February 2018. But Mr A didnt provide  anything  to Barclays until 16 May 2018. Barclays  
confirmed it had received  the invoice on 23 May 2018. And it told Mr A this was reviewed 
and deemed insufficient  to release  the blocked funds to him. So I dont agree Barclays 
dismissed the evidence Mr A provided.
Ive also noted  our investigator  has asked Mr A to provide  further evidence  about  his 
entitlement to the funds. And he has failed to provide  anything  other than the invoice hes 
already given to Barclays. I find this quite surprising given the large amount of money which 
was paid into Mr As account and that this was, according to Mr A, an investment for 
expansion of his company. At the very least I wouldve expected to see some form of legal 
agreement or contract setting out the specifics of the investment. And invoices showing how 
the money was invested. But Mr A has no such paperwork. So I can understand why 
Barclays had concerns. And I agree that the invoice supplied isnt enough to show Mr A is 
entitled to the nearly half a million dollars paid into his account. So I wont be asking 
Barclays to return the money to him. 
Mr As also unhappy that Barclays  closed his accounts. I can appreciate the closure  caused  
Mr A inconvenience. But banks are allowed to close their customers accounts. In the same 
way that customers can decide to move  or close their account. Banks do, however, have to 
meet minimum standards when doing this. The terms and conditions of Mr As account 
confirm Barclays can close the account immediately under certain circumstances by 
providing written notice. I can see that Barclays wrote to Mr A on 12 February 2018, to let 
him know it was closing his accounts  immediately and he needed to make alternative  
banking arrangements. I believe,  considering what happened in this case, its fair and 
reasonable Barclays took the action it did. And Im satisfied Barclays has complied with the 
terms and conditions of the account  when it closed Mr As accounts. 
CIFAS marker
Ref: DRN58637553Mr A has maintained the money paid into his account and spent was an investment to be 
used to expand  his business.  If that were the case, it would be unusual  to move money in 
and out of a savings account, as Mr A did. He also moved money  to a number of other 
accounts. He says to cover business costs. Mr A hasnt provided any more detail, but that 
seems inconsistent with a business that was being set up. 
Of course,  I cant  rule out the possibility that Mr A has been merely nave here. And hes 
been the victim of a scam himself. But hes provided  extremely  limited information  even 
about, for example, about how he spent  the money and expansion of his, the expenses  it 
had incurred and why it needed such a large  injection of cash. In short,  I think  it more likely  
that he knows rather more  about the transfer  to his account than he has been  prepared to 
tell us or Barclays. 
In the circumstances, I think Barclays was justified in acting in the way it did. On that basis,  I 
think its fair that Barclays reported Mr A to CIFAS for misuse of his accounts. And Im not 
going to ask Barclays to remove the marker.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5863755