K821x#15complaint
Mr Ts unhappy  that his account with TSB Bank  plc was blocked.  
background
Mr T says that on 8 February 2018  he tried to make a transfer online but it was blocked. He 
contacted TSB but failed its unreasonable security questions  and was told to go into the 
branch to sort things out. He did so and was told the block had been  lifted.  But a few days  
later another transfer was blocked. And he was again told to go into a branch. Hes unhappy 
about this and the way TSB has dealt  with him. He wants compensation including  for the 
loss of an investment.
TSB said in its final response that the issue had been caused by a genuine mistake and it 
apologised. Itd arranged to pay £56 into Mr Ts account - £50 for the upset  and frustration 
and £6 for his call costs. It also suggested  that as a result  of the number of unsubstantiated 
complaints Mr T has made it may be beneficial for him to seek  alternative banking.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
TSB has the right under the accounts terms and conditions to block  payments from 
the account including to payees previously used. Its also entitled  to ask a customer 
to provide proof of identity before proceeding.
TSBs  payment of £50 for its failure  to immediately  lift the block on Mr Ts account is 
fair and reasonable.
Mr T remains unhappy. In summary  he says all his points  of complaint havent been  
answered. TSB asked  him unreasonable security questions and as he failed them he had to 
unnecessarily go into the branch and deal with people on the phone. He says hes suffered 
loss of earnings, travel costs and the loss on an investment as a result. This was the second  
time his account was blocked in a few weeks. Hes a victim  of TSBs disorganised security IT 
system. He now wants a total of £500  compensation to include £200 for having to repeat 
himself to this service. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has provided  extensive and detailed  submissions  to support his complaint. And he says 
he wants each and every  point hes raised  addressed by me. Ive read and considered them 
all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I think 
are the main  issues.
TSB has said that its security system  will sometimes apply blocks so that it can verify a 
payment is genuine.  And its entitled to ask a customer to go into a branch to verify 
information before the block is lifted if it considers this is necessary. I think thats fair and 
reasonable. Its important  that businesses like TSB have processes and procedures  in place 
to try and identify payments that arent  genuine. Its in the nature of processes like these that 
genuine customers may be inconvenienced  by them, but thats not to say that TSB shouldnt  
have them in place  or that it shouldnt have followed them as it did here.
Ref: DRN53422222Mr T says TSB asked  him unreasonable security questions and as a result he had to 
unnecessarily go into a branch. I recognise  his frustration.  But its up to TSB to decide  how it 
operates its security  procedures and what security information it requires. The simple fact is 
Mr T didnt  answer the security questions in a way that satisfied TSB and as result it asked 
him to go into the branch with identification.  That doesnt seem  unreasonable  in the 
circumstances.
Furthermore this service isnt a regulator  and we cant require a business  to change  its 
practices and procedures. General issues about how the banking  industry  works are a 
matter for the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Mr T is also unhappy that TSB wouldnt go into any detail about its security  procedures and 
how they worked when  he asked how to avoid having his account blocked again in the 
future. These security processes are confidential to TSB and commercially sensitive. So, I 
dont think TSB acted inappropriately by declining  to give Mr T the information  he wanted to 
enable him to avoid  a security block on his account.
Having to deal with TSBs security procedures, including having his online account access 
blocked and having to go into the branch, no doubt  engaged Mr T for a time and mayve led 
to him incurring some loss of earnings and travel costs. But I dont think  in the circumstances 
it was unreasonable for TSB to act as it did and ask him to provide identification verification 
in branch. It was following  its processes and I think it was doing so fairly  here.  
TSB says when it was found that the block hadnt  been removed  as promised, Mr T was told 
on the phone that a mistake had been made  and he didnt have to go back  into the branch 
again. But despite this he chose to do so. 
As a result I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask TSB to compensate  him for having to 
go into the branch  on either occasion  or refund his associated expenses. Mr T also says he 
has lost earnings having  to deal with matters and get the block  removed. He wants  £300 
compensation for this and the fact the block  wasnt removed. Hes also referred to losing out 
on an investment as a result of the block on his account. But Ive seen nothing to support  
such an investment loss. And I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require TSB to pay any 
compensation for these items for the reasons Ive already given. 
TSB has already covered  the £6 cost of Mr Ts call to get the block removed when it was still 
on his account  and paid him £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused by its mistake.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think thats fair and I 
dont think I can reasonably ask TSB to pay Mr T any more.
Mr T also now wants £200 for having  to deal with this complaint. All consumers spend some 
time and experience some additional inconvenience in dealing with a complaint and putting 
things right. We wouldnt generally  recommend  theyre compensated  for this and Im not 
persuaded that I can reasonably depart from this approach in this case.
Mr T says this wasnt the first time his account was blocked. But I can only consider in this 
complaint the block TSB put in place around 8 January 2018. If Mr T is unhappy about 
whats happened on other occasions  he will need to contact TSB in the first instance.
Ref: DRN53422223I also dont think it was inappropriate in all the circumstances for TSB to have suggested to 
Mr T that it might be beneficial for him to look for other banking service if he thinks TSB isnt 
meeting his needs and expectations.   
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Ts strength of feeling and frustration, I dont think  I can 
fairly or reasonably require TSB to do anything more  than its already done. And I dont see 
any compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5342222