K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about Ms C and Mr Ws mortgage  with Barclays  Bank  UK Plc. They  think 
the mortgage was mis-sold, and that Barclays hasnt done enough to help them  since getting 
into severe financial difficulties.
background 
Ms C and Mr W have  held the mortgage  since 2005,  when they switched it to Barclays from 
another lender. They took a further advance in 2008, and also made use over time of the 
linked mortgage  current account (MCA). This is a flexible credit source accessed through  a 
secured overdraft.
They began to encounter financial difficulties in 2010  and fell into periodic arrears. These 
problems became more  serious when Ms C  the main earner  lost her job. Ms C has found 
new employment from time to time, but struggled  to retain new roles long-term. The 
cumulative effect  of only having Mr Ws income to support  the household for long periods is 
that Ms C and Mr W have serious  arrears  on their mortgage and other  commitments,  such  
as council tax and utilities.
In 2017, they asked  Barclays about the possibility  of consolidating the separate components 
of their mortgage debt into one. Barclays  initially  said an application might be successful but 
subsequently cancelled it. It took legal  action, resulting in the granting by a court of a 
suspended possession order in January 2018. 
Ms C and Mr Ws problems have  continued  since then, and theyve not been  able to keep to 
the terms of the possession order.  Barclays initiated  further action to obtain a warrant  to 
enforce the possession  order,  but agreed  to put matters on hold whilst we considered a 
complaint from Ms C and Mr W, the main thrust of which is that Barclays:
mis-sold the mortgage by encouraging them to self-certify their income and failing to 
include payment  protection insurance (PPI);
wrongly advised them to use the MCA facility to keep up the mortgage payments when 
they got into difficulties;
offered, and then refused, a new deal with consolidation (meaning they lost an 
opportunity to re-mortgage elsewhere)  and took possession proceedings instead.
For the most  part, our adjudicator wasnt persuaded Barclays  had done  a great deal wrong.  
But she did think it was wrong of the bank  to suggest the consolidation  deal when there was 
no real prospect of it being approved. She recommended Barclays pay Ms C and Mr W £250  
compensation for this. Barclays counter-offered, proposing a lower settlement of £100. The 
adjudicator put this to Ms C and Mr W but they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But Ill make  some general observations 
before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
Ref: DRN57605292with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. Were impartial, and we 
dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. 
We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone 
else. I wont be commenting on every  single point, instead, Ill confine myself to those 
matters that I consider  have a material effect  on the outcome. 
Lenders generally do put recovery action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, and Barclays  
has done so here. But they dont have to and we cant force them  to. For the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  to have that power  would seriously undermine our impartiality 
between the parties  to a complaint. It would also create the potential  risk of consumers 
abusing our service by making complaints  with the intention to obstruct businesses that were 
trying to take legitimate action to recover money owed to them. 
Ill start with how the mortgage started. Ive seen  the point of sale documentation, and Im 
afraid it doesnt support Ms C and Mr Ws mis-selling allegations.  Their  incomes  were  
verified, and they were  offered  (and declined)  the option of taking PPI. The difficulties 
Ms C and Mr W have  encountered arent  down to shortcomings in how Barclays sold and 
then subsequently administered the mortgage.  Theyre the result of changes  in 
Ms C and Mr Ws circumstances several  years later, that neither party could reasonably  
have predicted.
Ive considered Barclays treatment of Ms C and Mr W whilst theyve been in arrears.  Being 
in financial hardship  and behind on mortgage  payments is a stressful  situation, and lenders 
do have to treat borrowers who are in trouble  fairly. 
Wed expect a lender  to consider offering help to consumers going  through a temporary 
problem, especially in situations where  it can be seen their situation is likely to improve.  Im 
satisfied Barclays has done that over time,  but the real difficulty in this case is that 
Ms C and Mr Ws financial difficulties have been anything but temporary. 
Lenders arent required to have  infinite patience.  Balanced  against  their duty to treat 
consumers fairly, they ultimately have the right to take reasonable steps  to recover  money 
owed to them, including if need be, taking court action  to enforce their security. Thats  what 
Barclays did here and whilst Ive no doubt its unwelcome to Ms C and Mr W, I cant say its 
unfair or that the Financial  Ombudsman  Service should seek to interfere with or otherwise 
hinder any court action Barclays has taken and might yet take.
One of the fundamental  principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has 
the right to enforce its security to recover money  owed to it. It would be entirely inequitable 
and inappropriate  for me to remove that right from Barclays in a final decision on 
Ms C and Mr Ws complaint, regardless of their situation. The imminent  court action may be 
unwelcome to Ms C and Mr W but in all the circumstances  I cant say its unfair. 
When the case comes back to court, Barclays will have to persuade the court that enforcing 
the possession  order would be appropriate. Ms C and Mr W should have the opportunity  to 
make their own representations to the court before it makes a decision on what should 
happen. It wouldnt be right for me to pre-empt that here.
I think it was regrettable for Barclays to have  suggested a consolidation deal. Insofar as the 
arrears needed  to have been cleared before  any application could be considered,  this was 
never a realistic proposition. 
Ref: DRN57605293Im not convinced Ms C and Mr W lost the opportunity of a re-mortgage  elsewhere through 
this. Given their circumstances, its very unlikely  any other  lender would have agreed  to lend 
on terms that would have allowed Ms C and Mr W to repay Barclays  and start afresh.  To the 
extent that it briefly gave  Ms C and Mr W false hope  of a solution,  its right that Barclays  
should pay them compensation.  I note its offer of £100, but overall, I find the adjudicators 
initial assessment  of £250 to be fair.
Ms C and Mr W dont  have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Barclays will be bound by my final decision. Subject  to any time limits or other restrictions  a 
court might impose, Ms C and Mr Ws right to take legal action against Barclays over the 
subject matter of this complaint wont have been  prejudiced by our consideration of the 
complaint. They wouldnt necessarily have to initiate  court  proceedings of their own. If and 
when Barclays resumes possession proceedings, Ms C and Mr W can, if they wish, ask the 
court to consider all of the arguments  theyve presented here as part of their defence.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part by ordering Barclays  Bank Plc to pay 
Ms C and Mr W £250 in full and final settlement thereof.  My final decision concludes this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 November  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5760529