K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about the advice he was given in 2009 by Professional  Financial 
Services (PFS) to invest £75,000  into an Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme  
(UCIS). He thinks the investment wasnt suitable for him and he wants  to be compensated 
for any losses that he has incurred as a result.
background
A brief summary of the circumstances  leading to this complaint, and my initial  conclusions,  
were set out in my provisional decision, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. 
In short,  over the course of several years,  Mr M used  his Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) to invest  in a number of different commercial property schemes as follows:
£100,000 in the Merchant  Place Property Partnership 61 (MP61) in 2007
£100,000 in the Merchant  Place Property Partnership 64 (MP64) in 2007
£75,000 in the Merchant Place Property Partnership 67 (MP67) in 2009
£50,000 in the Eaton Active Special Opportunity Property Fund (Eaton Active  Fund) 
in 2009
£100,000 in the Merchant Place Property  Partnership Commercial Property Income 
Fund 2 (CPIF2) in 2010
£50,000 in the Merchant Place Property Partnership Green Power Plant  Limited 
Partnership (GPPLP) in 2012
Mr M was a client  of PFS when he made  the investments. In 2015,  he complained to PFS 
about all six investments. He said that he had been advised by PFS to put a high proportion 
of his SIPP into a number of unsuitable investments  and that these investments had 
performed poorly  and were difficult to sell. He said PFS had miscategorised his attitude to 
risk. And he said he had been given scant information to support  the advice hed been given. 
PFS rejected Mr Ms complaint. It said its recommendations  were  within  Mr Ms attitude to 
risk. It said it had sent Mr M confirmation  of its recommendations and that documentation on 
the proposed  investments had also been provided.  It said it had outlined the various risks of 
the proposed  investments. And PFS also told Mr M that the Financial Ombudsman Service  
couldnt look at his complaint because he had elected to be treated as a professional client.  
Nevertheless, Mr M did refer his complaint to this service. 
In my provisional decision I dealt with just Mr Ms investment in MP67  (his complaints about 
his other  investments have been  looked  at separately). I said, in short, that we could look at 
the merits of Mr Ms complaint. And I decided  to uphold the complaint because I didnt think 
the advice to invest in the MP67 had been  suitable  given Mr Ms circumstances and needs.
I asked both parties for their comments on my provisional decision. Neither party provided 
me with any further  substantive evidence or comments. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  satisfied with 
my provisional findings, especially as neither  party has provided me with any further 
Ref: DRN58965932substantive evidence and arguments in response to my provisional decision. It therefore  
follows that I uphold  Mr Ms complaint. 
fair compensation
To compensate Mr M fairly PFS should:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value,  no 
compensation is payable.
PFS should also pay interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable  on any 
interest awarded.
If redress is due, then this should be paid to Mr Ms pension  plan.  The payment 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  
or allowance.
If the payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance  
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a 
deduction of 15%. The payment would otherwise have been  used to provide pension 
benefits, 25% of which would  be tax free and the rest would have been taxed 
according to his likely tax paying status  in retirement   presumed to be 20%, so the 
15% deduction adequately reflects this.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
Merchant 
Place 
Property  
Partnership  
67 
(MP67)still existsFTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income  Total
Return  
Indexdate of
investmentdate of
final 
decision8% simple per year 
from date of final 
decision  to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is not 
paid within 28 days of 
the business being  
notified  of acceptance 
of final decision)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date,  the investment is illiquid  (meaning it cannot  be readily sold on the open
market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value
should be assumed  to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. PFS should take ownership of
the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider.
This amount should be deducted from the compensation  and the balance  paid as above.
If PFS is unable to purchase the investment the actual  value  should  be assumed to be nil
Ref: DRN58965933for the purpose  of calculation. PFS may wish to require that Mr M provides an undertaking to 
pay PFS any amount  he may receive  from the investment  in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. PFS will need to meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep
calculations simpler, Ill accept if PFS totals  all those payments and deducts  that figure at the
end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable? 
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr M wanted  capital growth  and was willing to accept investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called an income  index, the mix and diversification provided  within  the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Ms circumstances and risk attitude.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint. 
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  compensation to be paid by a financial business of 
up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or  costs  that I think  are appropriate. If I think  that fair 
compensation is more  than £150,000,  I may recommend the business  pays the balance.
Determination and award : I uphold this complaint. I require Professional Financial Services 
to pay Mr M compensation  as set out above, up to a maximum of £150,000 plus any interest  
as set out above. 
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation is more  
than £150,000, I recommend that Professional  Financial Services pays Mr M the balance.  
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Professional  Financial 
Services doesnt have  to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
Ref: DRN58965934decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want  to get independent  legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept  this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 October  2020.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN58965935COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M has complained about the advice he was given in 2009 by Professional Financial Services  
(PFS) to invest £75,000 into an Unregulated Collective  Investment Scheme (UCIS).  He thinks  the 
investment wasnt suitable  for him and he wants to be compensated for any losses that he has 
incurred as a result.
background
Over the course of several years, Mr M used  his Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to invest in a 
number of different commercial property  schemes as follows:
 £100,000 in the Merchant Place Property Partnership 61 (MP61)  in 2007
 £100,000 in the Merchant Place Property Partnership 64 (MP64)  in 2007
 £75,000 in the Merchant Place Property  Partnership  67 (MP67) in 2009
 £50,000 in the Eaton  Active  Special Opportunity Property Fund (Eaton Active Fund) 
in 2009
 £100,000 in the Merchant Place Property Partnership Commercial Property Income  Fund 2 
(CPIF2) in 2010
 £50,000 in the Merchant Place Property Partnership Green Power Plant Limited Partnership 
(GPPLP) in 2012
All six are classed as UCIS investments. Mr M was a client  of PFS when he made  the investments. 
He has complained about  the advice he received  from PFS for all six investments. This complaint 
deals with just Mr Ms investment in the MP67.
Ahead of investing in the MP67,  PFS sent Mr M a letter  saying  it proposed  classifying him as an 
elective professional client (rather than a retail client). It outlined its reasons for doing this, along  with 
some of the protections Mr M would  potentially lose as a result  for example, in relation to being  able 
to bring complaints to the Financial Ombudsman Service. It asked Mr M to confirm his agreement to 
this, which he did.
A meeting  between the parties was then held on 19 January 2009. A one-page fact-find (headed  
Short Fact Find  Essential Notes)  was completed. It recorded Mr Ms circumstances, needs and 
objectives in a series  of boxes containing hand written  notes. Mr M is noted  as being  extremely  
strong financially with his own home and other property, no debts and a large SIPP. He was said to 
have wanted to invest  part of his SIPP in a property partnership. The amount he had available to 
invest was said to be £75,000. Two boxes were ticked to record his attitude to risk: the adventurous 
box (the highest of the five options available)  and the moderately adventurous box (the second 
highest). 
In the recommendation  box, Merchant Place PP 67 has been written with the date of the 
recommendation put as 22 January 2009. A tick box recorded the risk of the product  as being 
moderately adventurous.
On 29 January 2009 PFS wrote to Mr M confirming its discussions and recommendations. Under  the 
heading of Objectives, the letter said:
At the present  time,  your prime objective is a mix of long term capital  growth and income.  You are an 
experienced property investor who is prepared to risk capital. You wish to avail of self investment.
Ref: DRN58965936Under Attitude  to Risk  the letter went on to say:
We established that your attitude to risk could  realistically be described  as adventurous and 
moderately adventurous.
An Adventurous Investor is willing  to accept a much higher level of risk (including a reasonable  
exposure to overseas markets) in return for the potential for higher returns  in the longer term. They 
recognise that this may result in the value  of their portfolio fluctuating,  possibly significantly,  in the 
short term.  They are aware that the risks are such that a significant percentage of the capital sum 
could be lost.
A Moderately Adventurous Investor is generally  market  aware and understands and is willing to 
accept a higher level of risk (including a small  exposure to overseas markets) in return  for the 
potential for higher returns in the longer  term. They recognise that this may result in the value of their 
portfolio fluctuating, possibly significantly, in the short term.
The Recommendation section of the letter outlined  details of the proposed investment in the MP67, 
including risk warnings in relation to the investment being  a UCIS,  a limited liability  partnership and a 
property investment. It also said Mr M had confirmed he wanted  to be treated as an elective 
professional client. The letter  also included a table outlining the potential impacts resulting from 
gearing.
The application form for the MP67 was completed and the investment made.
Mr M complained to PFS on 15 May 2015. He said that he had been advised  to put a high proportion 
of his SIPP  into a number of unsuitable investments and that these investments had performed  poorly 
and were now proving  difficult  to sell. He says he shouldnt have  been classified  as an adventurous 
investor. He also said he had been given  scant information to support  the advice hed been given. 
PFS rejected  Mr Ms complaint. It said its recommendation was within Mr Ms attitude to risk. It said it 
had sent Mr M confirmation  of its recommendation  in its 29 January  2009 letter,  and documentation 
on the proposed investment  had also been provided. It said it had outlined the various risks of the 
proposed investment. And PFS also told Mr M that the Financial Ombudsman Service couldnt look at 
his complaint because he had elected  to be treated as a professional client. Nevertheless, Mr M did 
refer his complaint  to this service. 
An ombudsman considered the points PFS made about Mr M being  a professional  client and 
concluded that the rules did allow us to look into the merits of Mr Ms complaint. An adjudicator then 
upheld Mr Ms complaint because she thought the advice given to him had been unsuitable. She said,  
in short, that too high a proportion of Mr Ms SIPP had been invested in UCIS investments.
PFS disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. It said the investment was within Mr Ms risk 
tolerances. It said the proportion invested in UCIS investments wasnt too high given Mr M also had 
substantial assets outside the SIPP. It also said Mr M was being disingenuous when he said he didnt 
receive written  confirmation of the advice hed been  given. PFS also restated its opposition to us 
looking at the merits of Mr Ms complaint. 
The complaint has therefore  been referred to me for a decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN58965937Jurisdiction
We have  previously said that this service  could look at the merits of Mr Ms complaint. As PFS has 
maintained its objection to this, Ive considered its points afresh. However,  I agree  that this is a 
complaint we can look at.
Professional Client Categorisation
PFS categorised Mr M as an elective  professional client. This is important here because  
professional clients can lose some protections, including the right to bring complaints to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. However,  in my view, PFS has fallen short of what  was required under the rules 
regarding the categorisation of professional  clients. 
COBS 3.5.3 states the following:
A firm may treat a client as an elective  professional client if it complies with (1) and (3) and,
where applicable,  (2):
(1) the firm undertakes an adequate assessment of the expertise, experience  and knowledge  of the 
client that gives reasonable  assurance, in light of the nature of the transactions or services 
envisaged, that the client is capable of making his own investment decisions  and understanding the 
risks involved  (the qualitative  test);
(2) in relation to MiFID  [not applicable here]
(3) the following procedure  is followed:
(a) the client  must state in writing to the firm that it wishes to be treated as a professional client 
either generally or in respect of a particular  service or transaction or type of transaction or 
product;
(b) the firm must give the client  a clear written  warning  of the protections  and investor 
compensation rights  the client  may lose; and
(c) the client  must state  in writing, in a separate document from the contract, that it is aware  of 
the consequences of losing such protections.
PFS wrote to Mr M on 14 January 2009 saying it intended to classify him as an elective professional 
client. It defined an elective professional client as being someone who had:
enough wealth, financial knowledge and experience  to be able to decide on the merits of an 
investment by himself/herself.
It thought  Mr M fitted this description because  he had invested in a similar scheme in the last two 
years. 
Mr M signed a statement agreeing to be an elective  professional  client on 16 January  2009.  
Having reviewed  all the available documents,  its clear  to me that PFS didnt undertake  an adequate 
assessment of Mr Ms capability to decide on the investment in question. It assumed Mr M had the 
requisite capability because he had invested in a similar scheme in the last two years.  But I dont  see 
why this meant he had built up the required knowledge and expertise in commercial  property and 
unregulated investments. He may have done. But there isnt anything to support  this. The fact find 
was short  just one page  and didnt cover anything about Mr Ms understanding of the investment 
in question. 
Ref: DRN58965938I recognise Mr M was sent a recommendation letter which  outlined some  of the key points of the 
MP67. And the application required him to have read and understood the information  provided in the 
investments memorandum.  A similar process was followed for his earlier UCIS investments. PFS has 
argued that this is evidence of Mr Ms capability to make investment decisions as a professorial client.  
PFSs arguments dont change my thinking. For a start, PFS says the prospectuses provided  on 
Mr Ms various UCIS  investments sometimes downplayed their risk so, by its own admission, they 
cant be relied upon  as being an impartial  source of information for Mr M. And PFSs logic is circular.  It 
is using documents from around the time of the investment to prove  that Mr M already  had the 
necessary experience to decide  on such an investment.  
If the point  PFS is making is that the previously  signed sales  documents (in relation to MP64  for 
instance) are evidence of Mr Ms capability and understanding  in relation to investing in the MP67, 
then I think my earlier point remains valid  Mr M hadnt had a long track  record in this type of 
investment at this point  so I dont think he would  have built up the requisite expertise even if the 
documentation had been  informative.
Theres nothing else in Mr Ms circumstances   his profession for instance  that makes me think he 
had the expertise, experience or knowledge that the rules required of a professional  client.  So, all 
things considered, I dont think it was correct for PFS to classify  Mr M as a professional client.  In 
short, the qualitative test of COBS 3.5.3 hasnt been met. Given this, I dont need to make a finding on 
whether the other  requirements of the rule have been met.
DISP 2.7  Professional Clients and Eligibility
As Im satisfied Mr M wasnt correctly  categorised as a professional client, Im not bound to consider 
him as one for the purposes of DISP  2.7. However,  for the sake  of completeness, Im also satisfied 
the rules PFS is relying on, under DISP 2.7, to say professional clients cant bring complaints to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service  dont apply  here. 
DISP 2.7.1 says:  A complaint may only be dealt  with under  the Financial  Ombudsman Service if it is 
brought by or on behalf  of an eligible  complainant . 
DISP 2.7.3 goes on to say an eligible complainant must be:
(1) a consumer;
(2) a micro-enterprise;
(a) in relation to a complaint  relating wholly  or partly to payment services, either  at the time of the 
conclusion of the payment  service contract or at the time the complainant  refers the complaint to 
the respondent; or
(b) otherwise, at the time the complainant refers the complaint to the respondent;
(3) a charity which has an annual income  of less than £1 million at the time the
complainant refers the complaint to the respondent;
(4) a trustee of a trust which has a net asset value of less than £1 million at the time the complainant  
refers the complaint to the respondent. 
Mr M meets the definition of a consumer as defined by the regulators glossary:
an individual  acting for purposes which are wholly  or mainly outside  that individuals  trade,  business, 
craft or profession.
However, PFS points  to DISP 2.7.9 which  gives a number  of exceptions to the list of eligible 
Ref: DRN58965939complainants. One of these exceptions is professional clients. PFS says this applies to Mr M.
The point of contention is that an amendment  to the rules came into effect  on 9 July 2015 which says 
DISP 2.7.9 doesnt  apply to a complainant who is a consumer in relation to the activity to which 
the complaint relates  (DISP 2.7.9A). In other words, from 9 July 2015 Mr M, as a consumer, would  no 
longer be subject to the professional client exception meaning he would be an eligible complainant. 
Mr M complained to PFS on 15 May 2015 which is before DISP 2.7.9A applied. However, he brought  
his complaint to us on 27 August 2015 which is after DISP  2.7.9A applied. PFS says Mr Ms complaint 
should be judged  according to the date he made his complaint to PFS, which  would mean  a 
professional client would not be an eligible complainant. 
To support  its argument, PFS refers to the rules in respect  of three other categories of eligible 
complainants outlined in DISP 2.7.3  micro-enterprises, charities and trusts. DISP 2.7.3  is explicit in 
anchoring eligibility  to the date that a complaint is made to the respondent (i.e. the business) for these 
categories of complainant. PFS argues that the same approach should apply in Mr Ms case, even 
though the same rules  are silent on the issue for consumers. 
Ive considered this matter  carefully. But I dont think it follows that the rules  in respect of micro-
enterprises, charity or trustees should also apply  to consumers when the rules for consumers are 
worded in a conspicuously different way. I think the fact that the wording is different here cant be 
ignored or assumed  to be an oversight that can simply be bypassed  by applying  the rules  for 
completely different categories of complainant as a proxy. 
The fact is, in relation to consumers, the rules dont specify eligibility is from the date the complainant 
refers the complaint to the respondent. This means I should apply  the rules  as they are written and in 
force at the point the complaint was brought to us. And as the exemption relating to professional 
clients was no longer  part of the rules at that point, Im satisfied Mr M was an eligible complainant.  
Finally, I recognise PFS doesnt think the ruling  in the case  of Bluefin Insurance  Services Limited v 
Financial Ombudsman Service  Limited assists in this case because the complaint in that case  was 
initially brought  to us rather than to the business. However, as has been pointed out before, the ruling 
does have relevance.  The judge said:
In my judgment it is clear that a complainant  is only eligible if, at the time the complaint is brought, he 
or she falls within the definition  of a consumer. Further,  there is nothing in the definition of "consumer"  
in the glossary which suggests otherwise. Accordingly, I agree with D that Mr Lochner would  be an 
eligible complainant if, at the time he brought the complaint, he was a consumer as defined  by the 
glossary.
Whilst accepting the parallels between the Bluefin case and this case  arent exact, the wording  above 
does nevertheless indicate  that a complainant would be eligible  if, at the time they brought  the 
complaint to us, they were a consumer as defined by the glossary.  This describes Mr M.
It follows that this is a case that we can consider further.
Mr Ms attitude to risk
Turning to the merits of the complaint, my starting point is Mr Ms attitude to risk. 
PFS classified  Mr M as being both an adventurous  investor and a moderately adventurous  
investor. These were the highest two categories, out of a possible five categories.  However, Mr M 
says he wasnt even  medium/high risk and certainly  not adventurous. I take from this that Mr M 
considered himself to have  been medium risk.
In response, PFS points to the fact-find,  which  recorded Mr Ms attitude to risk, and the 
recommendations letter  which  confirmed  his ratings. It notes  Mr M never  queried this with PFS after 
being sent the letter.
Ref: DRN589659310Having reviewed  the documentation  from the time of Mr Ms investment, Ive noted a number of flaws 
in how his attitude  to risk was assessed:
 There  wasnt a detailed questionnaire, or any other analytical tool, to objectively measure 
Mr Ms preferences  and thoughts on this subject  just a tick box on the fact-find.
 The fact-find didnt  contain any explanation of the different risk categories or any commentary 
on why Mr M was classified in the way he was. 
 Mr M didnt sign the fact-find to confirm his attitude to risk.
 Giving  Mr M two risk ratings  reduces  the value of the exercise. Based  on the fact-find, Mr M 
could conceivably have  been at the low end of moderately adventurous or at the high end of 
adventurous. The requirements for either are likely to be different.
Furthermore, when Mr M first became a client of PFS in 2007 he signed a Terms  of Business  
document. In this document, he scored his overall  attitude  to risk on a scale of 1 to 10. I think  its 
reasonable to say 1 and 2 equate to the lowest risk (defensive) category  of the five categories PFS 
used in its 2009 fact-find,  3 and 4 equate to the next highest  category (cautious), 5 and 6 equate to 
the middle category (balanced), with 7 and 8, and 9 and 10, being the highest risk categories 
(moderately adventurous  and adventurous  respectively). Mr M scored  himself  as being  a 5. So 
Im satisfied he wasnt an adventurous, or even a moderately  adventurous, investor  at this point;  he 
was a medium risk, balanced,  investor. 
This calls into question the later (2009)  risk assessment for Mr M. Of course, both risk assessments 
could be correct. Peoples  attitudes can change. But I think  its unlikely here. In its 2009 risk 
assessment, PFS essentially  gave Mr M a rating that covers  40% of its entire  risk spectrum. Its 
difficult to see how advice can genuinely have been tailored to the individual in such  a situation.  
However, if I give the adviser the benefit of the doubt and assume he meant Mr M was at the top end 
of moderately adventurous or at the bottom end of adventurous, this would at least narrow down 
Mr Ms risk tolerance and would have allowed  the advice  to have been a bit more focussed. But it 
would mean  Mr M being  an 8 or a 9 on the 1 to 10 scale. It seems very unlikely to me that Mr M would 
have moved  from being a 5 in 2007 to being an 8 or 9 just 18 months later.
Im also satisfied the 2007 process was a bit more robust than what  followed.  Theres at least  some 
explanation of the different categories with 1 being  described as guaranteed/little  risk and 10 as 
very speculative/no guarantees. The Terms of Business also refer to a separate risk guide. And Mr 
M signed just below the risk rating to confirm  his agreement with the Terms  of Business. So Im 
inclined to put more faith in the 2007 attitude to risk process rather than what came later. 
Therefore, in the absence of any contemporaneous notes for why Mr M changed his attitude  to risk so 
much, or any rigour to the later risk assessment, I dont  think I can reasonably say Mr M was 
somewhere on the border  between being moderately adventurous  and adventurous in 2009. In the 
circumstances, and taking into consideration  what Mr M has said as well, Im satisfied Mr M would  
have still been a medium risk investor at this point.
Ive considered PFSs point that Mr M didnt respond to the recommendations letter  and that this 
means he must have  been  comfortable with its contents, including its confirmation of his risk appetite.  
PFS has also argued that Mr M must have had a higher risk tolerance given his previous investments. 
So even though the process may not have been documented  properly (not that PFS ever says this),  
Mr M was, nevertheless, still at the higher  end of the risk spectrum. 
I accept Mr M did want  to take on some risk, and my decision does  reflect this. However, I dont feel 
Mr Ms lack of response to the recommendations letter can necessarily  be considered  as being  tacit 
agreement for everything that it contained.  And Mr M was also advised  by PFS for his previous 
Ref: DRN589659311investments, using the same  light-touch fact-find. So Im not persuaded  Mr Ms previous investments 
can be used as objective evidence of Mr Ms attitude  to risk.  
Was the advice suitable?
Ahead of investing in the MP67,  Mr Ms SIPP  was valued at approximately £420,000. This was split 
between a portfolio run by a discretionary fund manager (23%), cash (31%) and UCIS investments 
(46%). (It should be noted that the very nature of Mr Ms UCIS investments makes valuation difficult. 
These figures are taken from a statement  provided  by Mr Ms SIPP provider and have been given to 
PFS.)
Mr M used his SIPP to invest a further £75,000 in the MP67. It looks like the investment came from 
cash balances within his SIPP rather being funded from new money  into the SIPP. As a result, Mr Ms 
investment in the MP67 accounted for approximately 18% of his SIPP, increasing his SIPPs  total 
exposure to UCIS investments to 64%. In my view this is too high given, as outlined above,  Mr Ms 
likely risk tolerances at the time.
I take on board  PFSs  point that UCIS  investments  arent all necessarily high risk, and that a case-by-
case approach needs to be taken when  looking  at the suitability of such investments. For the 
avoidance of doubt, I have taken into consideration the underlying assets in the MP67  (UK 
commercial property with gearing). 
However, in my view, this was a higher risk investment. At the very least, it was unregulated  and 
would have had a greater  degree  of illiquidity than more mainstream investments. I dont need to 
labour the point  PFS has said that the investments  in question  carried a relatively  high degree of 
risk and the risk section of its recommendation  letters  confirm as much. The key issue here is the 
amount that was allocated to these investments. And in my view advising Mr M to invest  18% of his 
pension in a single, potentially  illiquid, unregulated, investment wasnt suitable advice, especially 
given Mr Ms pension already had 46% in UCIS  investments.  The problem with the advice was 
compounded by the fact that the UCIS  investments  were all commercial property-related,  making Mr 
M, and his retirement plans, particularly  exposed to this asset  class. 
PFS has argued that Mr Ms total portfolio is far larger than indicated  above because he had 
investments that were held outside  his pension. By PFSs  reckoning, Mr M had a total portfolio of 
approximately £1.5 million. This means the £75,000 invested in the MP67 was approximately  5% of 
Mr Ms total portfolio  and the cumulative total in UCIS investments following  the investment was, in 
PFSs view,  18.3%. 
This is a particular point of contention between the parties.  Mr M says he didnt  have such  a large 
portfolio outside of his SIPP. He says he had a one-fifth  share of a small family property worth 
£145,000 and joint savings with his wife of approximately  £200,000  outside his SIPP. These arent 
inconsiderable assets, but theyre  nowhere  near enough to change my thinking.  By way of illustration, 
adding Mr Ms share of these other  assets to his SIPP means his total exposure to UCIS investments 
falls from approximately 64% to 49%.
In contrast, PFS says the fact-find recorded Mr M as having the following:
Own home  and other property. Large  SIPP
And PFS says its January 2009 recommendation letter said the following  about the proposed 
investment:
 
It represents a modest proportion <5% of your available  cash and other investments
Given Mr M invested  £75,000 in the MP67, and this represented 5% of his portfolio, PFS has 
calculated Mr M must  have had £1.5 million in total. So PFS is relying on what  it says Mr M said about 
Ref: DRN589659312his portfolio (on numerous occasions according  to PFS),  and its recommendation letter which, 
implicitly, indicates  how large Mr Ms portfolio must have  been. 
I take on board  the fact that the above is contemporaneous evidence.  Even so, the evidence put 
forward by PFS for Mr Ms total portfolio size isnt particularly compelling.  The fact-find is brief to say 
the least  and doesnt really add much to what we know anyway  there isnt any doubt that Mr M 
owned his own home, had other  property and had a large SIPP.  The issue is the size of Mr Ms total 
portfolio. But the £1.5 million  figure  doesnt  appear to have  been written down anywhere  it has to be 
worked out. This is a significant omission given  PFSs reliance on the £1.5 million figure  as a reason 
for why it advised Mr M to invest  so much in UCIS investments. Of course, the omission may be due 
to PFS not having all its notes from the time. But it was just over six years between Mr Ms advice and 
his complaint so, if there were  more  documents from the sale, I think it reasonable to expect them  to 
have survived.
Part of the problem lies with PFSs assertion  that it should be able to rely on what its told by its 
clients. This is a reasonable  starting  point. But I think it would be remiss  of an adviser to take 
everything theyre told at face value and without question, not least  because  a client may not be fully 
aware of the details of their financial position at any given  point in time, or may not understand their 
finances well. COBS 9.2.5 is illustrative  in this respect. It says:
A firm is entitled to rely on the information provided  by its clients unless it is aware that the 
information is manifestly out of date, inaccurate or incomplete.
So I think PFS should have considered Mr Ms wider  portfolio with a bit more  rigour. It had a duty to 
advise Mr M suitably and it doesnt seem to me that it could have done this without looking into Mr Ms 
total assets more  thoroughly. If it had done  so, there may now be more  certainty about the relative 
size of his unregulated investments.  For the avoidance of doubt,  it wasnt enough to just tell Mr M that 
his investment was less than 5% of his total funds  and to have then expected him to work  out the 
rest and get back to PFS with any issues.
As PFS didnt investigate Mr Ms wider portfolio, or record any details in relation to it, we did ask Mr M 
about this. As I said above, he said he had a one-fifth  share of a small family property worth £145,000 
and joint savings with his wife of approximately  £200,000 sitting outside his SIPP. I see no reason  to 
disbelieve Mr M on this and, as Ive said, PFSs evidence to the contrary  isnt especially compelling.  
However, it doesnt  ultimately impact on the outcome  of the complaint anyway. I say this because:
 Even if I take PFSs numbers  at face value, I still dont  think its advice was suitable.  Mr Ms 
portfolio already had a high exposure to UCIS/commercial property investments, even using 
PFSs estimates. Advising him to invest approximately 5% more along the same lines to bring  
his total exposure  to UCIS/commercial  property to 18.3% (in PFSs view) wouldnt have  been 
suitable given Mr Ms attitude to risk. The magnitude  of the problem might be less than if only 
his SIPP is taken into consideration. But the principle  is the same.  Mr M should not have been 
advised to continue to invest  such a large  proportion  of his funds in this way. 
 I dont think Mr Ms pension should be subsumed, and overlooked, in the way PFS is 
suggesting. We know  very little about  Mr Ms specific investment goals. But we do know his 
pension was central  to his financial  plans  and was his reason  for engaging PFS. And, given 
his age at the time, we can also assume he would  have been looking to draw on his pension 
within approximately 10 years (although  it turned out to be less than this). Putting too high a 
proportion of his assets in higher risk, illiquid, assets put Mr Ms retirement  planning  at 
considerable risk.  
 Mr M wasnt even advised of his total exposure to UCIS  investments in the January 2009 
recommendations letter.  The letter  just mentions  the investment was a modest  proportion  
<5% of his total funds. It doesnt  give the total picture, which was that Mr M was taking his 
total exposure to UCIS  investments to 18.3% (in PFSs  view). Ignoring such important 
information in the recommendations letter suggests it wasnt  discussed with Mr M at all, so it 
Ref: DRN589659313would be difficult to say hed been fully informed of his position or was comfortable with the 
risks he was running. And the fact that Mr M received statements from his SIPP provider 
showing his investment position doesnt  negate  the need  for PFS to have given  more 
comprehensive information, and suitable advice, in the first place.
In short, even  with all the uncertainty in relation to Mr Ms total assets, its clear to me that there were  
a number of problems with the advice PFS gave to Mr M and (not coincidently) with the advice 
process itself. If PFS had acted as it should  have  done,  Im satisfied it wouldnt have advised Mr M to 
invest in the MP67. 
what information  did Mr M receive?
Mr M says he received little in the way of documentation in relation to the various investments  he 
made whilst  a client of PFS.  PFS says this isnt credible. It said it provided  Mr M with information  on 
all his proposed investments including their significant risks (either in its recommendations letter or 
through the schemes prospectuses).  It says Mr Ms recollections on this cast doubt  on his entire  
complaint. 
I think  it likely  Mr M would have received at least some of the documentation  referred to above,  and 
most likely a significant proportion of it. This isnt a comment on Mr Ms integrity. Its feasible  that he 
was sent information but didnt look at it, or looked at the information but cant  remember doing  so. 
This doesnt change the outcome of the complaint though. The critical  issue here is whether PFS 
provided Mr M with suitable  advice. For the reasons  given  above, I dont think it did. 
This leads on to another point PFS has raised. It says it provided Mr M with information about his 
proposed investments, including their potential risks. It argues that it is dishonest of Mr M to now 
pretend he wasnt aware of those risks and unfair that he is abrogating all responsibility now hes no 
longer satisfied with how his investments have performed. 
I said earlier  that PFS wasnt especially clear in letting Mr M know his total exposure to unregulated 
investments. So I dont  think  its necessarily true that Mr M had the full picture  of what was happening  
as PFS says.  But even putting this to one side, PFSs premise is flawed  here. Wrapping unsuitable 
advice in a number of risk warnings doesnt make up for the failings in that advice. 
What would  Mr M have done if he had been advised  properly?
There is an argument Mr M would still have  invested  in the MP67 even if PFS had advised him 
against doing  so. I say this because Mr M invested in similar schemes previously and because  PFS 
has said he had a particularly strong preference for this type of investment. 
Ive considered this very carefully because in situations  like this, my role is to put someone back  in the 
position they would have been in had a business  not given unsuitable advice. if Mr M would  still have 
gone ahead with the investment  even if advised against  doing so  then he would have ended up in 
the same position whatever  PFSs  actions.  It wouldnt  necessarily be fair to hold PFS liable  for any 
losses in such a scenario.  
My view is that Mr M wouldnt have proceeded with the investment if he was advised against doing 
so. For a start, its seems unlikely  to me that a consumer  would go against the advice of a 
professional adviser.  And there isnt anything to show Mr M came to PFS with this particular 
investment in mind or was particularly  determined to follow through on the investment. As ever, the 
supporting documentation isnt comprehensive enough to show what, or how strong, Mr Ms intentions 
were. Mr Ms previous UCIS  investments also followed advice from PFS which weakens  the argument 
that it was Mr M, and Mr M alone,  who was driving  the process.  
Ref: DRN589659314proposed compensation
It follows from the above that I intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint. To compensate Mr M fairly PFS 
should:
 Compare the performance  of Mr Ms investment with that of the benchmark  shown below.  If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation  is payable.  If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
PFS should also pay interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest 
awarded.
If redress is due, then this should be paid to Mr Ms pension plan.  The payment should  allow 
for the effect of charges  and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt  be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If the payment into the pension isnt possible  or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump  sum after making a deduction of 15%. The payment 
would otherwise have been used to provide pension benefits, 25% of which would be tax free 
and the rest would have been taxed according  to his likely tax paying  status in retirement  
presumed to be 20%, so the 15% deduction adequately reflects this.
 Provide the details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
Merchant 
Place  
Property  
Partnership 
67 
(MP67)still existsFTSE  UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Indexdate of
investmentdate of
settlement8% simple  per 
year from date of 
final decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation  is 
not paid within 
28 days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance of 
decision)
actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open market),  it 
may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be assumed to 
be nil to arrive at fair compensation. PFS should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension  provider. This amount should  be deducted from the 
compensation and the balance  paid as above.
If PFS is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculation. PFS may wish to require that Mr M provides an undertaking to pay PFS any 
amount he may receive from the investment in the future.  That undertaking  must  allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred  on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. PFS will need to meet  
any costs  in drawing  up the undertaking.
Ref: DRN589659315fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  from the 
point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there  is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler,  Ill accept  if PFS 
totals all those  payments  and deduct that figure at the end instead of deducting  periodically.
If the investment has been sold, the parties should inform me so it can be factored into the approach 
to compensation, if due, in my final decision. 
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
 Mr M wanted capital growth and was willing to accept investment risk.
 The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
 Although it is called  income index,  the mix and diversification provided within  the index is close 
enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable  measure  of comparison  given Mr Ms 
circumstances and risk attitude.
recommendation
Where I uphold  a complaint,  I can award  fair compensation to be paid by a financial business  of up to 
£150,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are appropriate.  If I think  that 
fair compensation is more  than this, I may recommend that the business  pays  the balance.
If I uphold this complaint, and the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation outlined 
above, is more than £150,000  I will recommend Professional Financial Services pays  Mr M the 
balance. This recommendation will not be part of my determination or award. Professional Financial 
Services doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr M can accept my final decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to get independent legal  advice before 
deciding whether  to accept a final decision.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, and subject  to any further comments and evidence I may receive, I 
intend to uphold this complaint. 
If I do uphold this complaint, I will be asking Professional  Financial Services to calculate and pay 
compensation as set out above.
Ref: DRN5896593