K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ms credit card application  form. The form had an option  to add 
PPI to the account. An X has been added next to this option. Due to the quality of the 
form I cant safely say if the adviser has typed  the X following a discussion about PPI or 
if the X has been handwritten in the box.
If the X was typed  by the adviser, I think its likely to have been following a discussion 
about the PPI, Mr Ms personal circumstances and reflected what Mr M wanted. This is 
possibly what happened as some of Mr Ms other  personal details have also been  typed 
on the form  suggesting  a discussion took place. 
Its also possible that the X was handwritten on the form after Mr M decided  that he 
wanted PPI.
In either  scenario, Mr M has then signed the overall  form to agree to what  he was taking 
out.
Ive also thought about what  Mr M has said about PPI being  added without his 
knowledge and he didnt consent  to taking it out. But the PPI premiums would have 
appeared on Mr Ms monthly  credit card statements when he had an outstanding 
monthly balance.
I think that Mr M would  have reasonably questioned  much sooner than he did, why he 
was paying for PPI when it appeared on his statements if it had been added  without  his 
knowledge. But I havent seen evidence that he did and the PPI remained on the account 
for some time. 
On balance, I think that its more likely than not that Halifax  made it clear that Mr M didnt  
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he 
might not remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover. 
Its possible and very likely  the information  Halifax gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  Ive noted Mr Ms comments on the information he received. 
Ref: DRN52929592But I think that he chose  to take the PPI out - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover  and I dont think that Mr M has lost out because  of anything 
that Halifax has done wrong.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - including what hes said about not needing 
PPI because of his existing means of making his repayments. Mr M has said that he was 
entitled to six months full sick pay. But this PPI policy would have paid out for up to 
12 months if Mr M was unwell and unable  to work.
Ive also noted  what Mr M has said about  help from his family to make  his repayments. But 
circumstances can change and although  his family may have wanted to help, they may not 
have been in a position to help when needed. 
Mr M has told us he was in secure employment. But nobody can accurately predict  the future 
and although Mr Ms job may have  been relatively  secure at the time of sale, having this PPI 
policy would have helped  protect his financial position if he was to experience an 
unexpected change in circumstances such as being made unemployed.
So these points dont  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) 
doesnt need to refund everything Mr M paid for it. But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) has already offered to give Mr M back some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it 
needs to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) will make  arrangements to pay Mr M now Ive 
issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5292959