K821x#15This complaint
Mr M complains that Baker Hudson Limited  (Baker Hudson) is responsible  for allowing a 
fraudster to take £19,000 away  from his pension plan. He believes that Baker Hudson 
should have done more  to prevent the fraud.
Its not disputed  that what  happened was fraud. So Ive used the term the fraudster 
throughout this decision  to refer to the unknown person who stole  Mr Ms money. The fraud 
was reported to the police. Theres no prospect of the money being recovered.
To put things right, Mr M wants  Baker Hudson to pay him compensation equivalent to the 
stolen £19,000  plus any lost investment growth.
How did the fraud happen? 
In early 2018, shortly  after he had turned  age 55, Mr M phoned his adviser  at Baker  Hudson 
(the adviser) to find out how much  tax-free cash was available  from his pension plan. The 
adviser told Mr M that he could take up to about  £31,000 tax-free cash. Shortly  after that call 
the fraudster emailed the adviser and arranged  to withdraw £19,000 tax-free cash  from                
Mr Ms pension  plan.  The fraud  from initial email  contact with the adviser to withdrawal of 
the money  happened over several days, as Ive described below. To make events easier 
to follow, Ive listed what happened on each day during the relevant period. 
24 April 2018
The adviser received  from Mr Ms known  private  address  an email from the fraudster with 
the subject title Withdrawal. In that email the fraudster, purporting  to be Mr M, stated:
I would have called you for this request but am not feeling  too well I was
diagnosed with Chronic Cough and Unstable  Angina that makes me feel 
uncomfortable any time I speak or eat since last week  I have doctors  appointment 
today. Therefore, I wont be available on phone at the moment. I will like to withdraw 
£19,000 to my [bank  name] account today,  Please advise? Please confirm the 
receipt of this request as soon  as possible.
The fraudster didnt  specify from what investment or account the £19,000  should  be 
withdrawn. The adviser  believed  the email was from Mr M and replied  that he had assumed 
the £19,000 should be withdrawn as a tax-free  cash sum from Mr Ms existing pension plan 
and that hed request the relevant withdrawal form from the pension provider. The fraudster 
replied and confirmed  that the advisers assumption  that the money should be withdrawn 
from Mr Ms pension plan  was correct. 
The fraudster stated:
Yes I will like to draw £19,000 of the Tax Free Cash from my pension to put into 
my [bank name] Account?  Kindly  send me necessary for form via attachment,  I will 
post the hard copy as soon as possible.  Please confirm with me the time frame
Ref: DRN5983756225 April 2018
Rather than send the form by email, the adviser  posted it to Mr Ms home address. The 
adviser stated in the cover letter:
Further  to your email yesterday I enclose  a [pension  provider]  income release 
form which will enable  [pension provider] to transfer your existing pension  into an 
Income Release pension  and draw the tax free cash. Please complete your bank 
details on page  5 and sign on page 7 and return to me in the stamped addressed  
envelope and we will forward  this on to [pension provider] to process. I hope that you 
soon start feeling better.
The fraudster, unaware that a letter had been  sent to Mr Ms home address, emailed the 
adviser to chase the money and stated:
Can you please  kindly  send me necessary  form as soon as possible and confirm  
with me the time frame.  Your  prompt response will be highly appreciated.
The adviser replied  and confirmed the relevant withdrawal  form had been  posted to Mr Ms 
home address earlier that day. The fraudster  replied to the adviser:
Kindly stop the post, am presently out of town,please send me necessary form via 
attachment, I will print it out and sign.
The adviser replied  and confirmed that the form had already  been  posted but attached  an 
electronic copy of the form.  He provided  instructions about  which  sections on the form 
needed to be completed and signed before being  returned. The fraudster completed,  signed 
and posted the form to the adviser  on the same day. This included  what  appeared to be                            
Mr Ms signature and details of the fraudsters bank account into which the £19,000 should 
be credited.
Separately, the fraudster,  purporting to be the adviser, sent an email  to Mr Ms private email 
address and stated:
We mistankely post withdrawal form to you,please kindly disregard.
Mr M acknowledged the fraudsters email  and subsequently ignored the advisers  letter 
received in the post, as instructed.
 
30 April 2018
The fraudster emailed  the adviser to chase the money and stated:
Please confirm if you received my post? Your prompt response will be highly 
appreciated.
The adviser replied  to confirm that the completed  withdrawal form had been  received in the 
post and forwarded to the pension provider.
Ref: DRN598375631 May 2018
The pension provider emailed the adviser to confirm receipt of the form and that it would 
take three to five working days to pay out the £19,000  tax-free  cash.
 
3 May 2018
The fraudster emailed  the adviser to chase the money and stated:
Could you please confirm exactly when the money  will be transferred to my bank 
account? Your  prompt response will be highly appreciated.
The adviser replied  and attached a copy of the email received from the pension provider on 
1 May 2018  that stated payment would be made within three to five working  days  of that 
date.
8 May 2008
Mr M received confirmation from the pension provider that the £19,000 tax-free cash 
withdrawal from his plan had been  completed.  Receipt  of this confirmation  led Mr M to 
become aware  of the fraudulent withdrawal from his pension plan.
What happened next?
Upon discovering  the fraud, Mr M complained to the pension provider and Baker Hudson.  He 
told us that he made two separate  complaints because he wasnt sure who was at fault for 
allowing the fraud to happen. Both the pension provider and Baker  Hudson rejected Mr Ms 
complaints. Mr M didnt accept their responses and referred his complaints to this service.
I previously issued my decision on the complaint about the pension provider. In that decision 
I concluded that the pension provider isnt responsible for allowing the fraudster  to take 
£19,000 away from Mr Ms pension plan. So I didnt uphold that compliant.
Im now considering Mr Ms complaint about  Baker Hudson.  It told us that it acted reasonably 
in dealing with what it believed was a genuine  withdrawal  request from Mr M and saw 
nothing to alert it otherwise. In its view, the pension provider is responsible for allowing the 
fraud to happen by failing  to check that genuine  bank account  details for Mr M were stated 
on the withdrawal  form. 
 
Our investigator didnt  agree with Baker Hudsons position and instead  recommended that 
this complaint be upheld. She said, in summary, the following:
 
in response to the initial  request  to withdraw  £19,000, the adviser should have 
clarified from which account and enquired about  the reason for the withdrawal to 
ensure that the money was taken in the most  efficient way since  it was Mr Ms first 
withdrawal from the plan;
the adviser should have been alert to the possibility that the request was fraudulent 
when informed Mr M was ill, out of town and that all contact was to be made by 
email;
Ref: DRN59837564all relevant communication  was between the fraudster purporting to be Mr M and the 
adviser, so if the fraud could have been  prevented it was by the actions of Baker  
Hudson; 
the FCA had issued several warnings about  pension scams in the years preceding 
the fraud, so Baker Hudson ought to have been  alert to the possibility that it could be 
targeted and used  to carry out financial crime; and
in conclusion, Baker Hudsons  inadequate  systems and controls  enabled the 
fraudster to steal £19,000 from Mr Ms pension plan
To put things right, our investigator recommended that Baker Hudson put Mr M into the 
position he would have been in had the fraud not happened and the money remained in                    
Mr Ms pension  plan.  In addition, she said that Baker Hudson should pay Mr M £150  
compensation for the distress  caused  by discovering that he had been a victim of fraud and 
had lost £19,000 of his pension savings. 
Baker Hudson didnt  accept our investigators opinion.  In its response it stated, in summary,  
that:
our investigator had failed to take into account a number of important factors  
including the reality of how an advisory  firm works and interacts with its clients;
it deals with its clients in various ways  based  on their differing circumstances    
therefore a client  stating that they are both ill and out of town  would not have given it 
cause for concern  since there might  have been a valid business reason for Mr M 
working away while he was ill, as was suggested in the emails  received;
our investigators suggestion  about  what the adviser should have done in response  to 
the withdrawal request  failed  to recognise the realities of the commercial environment 
in which  advisory firms operate and seeks to hold Baker  Hudson to an unreasonably 
high standard;
contrary to our investigators opinion, it did have adequate procedures  to deal with 
withdrawal instructions including requiring clients to sign a form  the fact that the 
fraudster was able to falsify Mr Ms signature  is not its fault and therefore shouldnt  
be something for which it is held responsible;
Mr M should  take some of the blame  for the fraud happening  because  he had failed 
to tell Baker Hudson about receipt  of the withdrawal  form in the post and an email, 
purportedly from Baker Hudson, telling him to ignore  the form  had he contacted 
Baker Hudson in response to this then the fraud  could have been prevented; and
although it didnt  accept any blame, it continued  to value Mr M as a client and so 
offered to make a without prejudice  goodwill  offer of £9,500 to resolve this complaint 
 this superseded previous offers it had made  to Mr M which  he had rejected
Mr M rejected Baker Hudsons latest offer of £9,500  because he agreed with our 
investigators opinion  that Baker Hudsons inadequate systems and controls led to the fraud  
happening. Mr M requested that this complaint be referred to an ombudsman because he 
wants to be fully compensated  for the money  stolen  from his pension plan.
Ref: DRN59837565My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
Its not disputed  that the fraudster stole £19,000 from Mr Ms pension  plan, as explained 
above. Baker Hudson thinks the pension  provider and, to a lesser  extent,  Mr M is 
responsible for allowing  the fraud  to happen.  I disagree. In my view, Baker Hudson is 
responsible. Ive explained why below.
 
What are Baker Hudsons regulatory  obligations?
Baker Hudson is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The 
FCA requires all authorised firms  to have systems and controls  in place to mitigate the risk 
that they might be used  to commit financial crime including fraud, though  it is left to individual 
firms to determine how best to comply  with the regulators  rules.
In response to our investigators opinion, Baker Hudson said that at the time of the fraud it 
had adequate procedures to deal with withdrawal instructions including requiring  clients  to 
sign a form. I think  its important  to note that the form it refers to is that required by the 
pension provider and so it wasnt explicitly a requirement of Baker  Hudson, as it suggested.
Baker Hudson says that no regulatory  rules or guidance relating to financial crime existed at 
the time the fraud happened and so isnt responsible for allowing the fraudster to steal  
£19,000 from Mr Ms pension plan. I disagree.  As far back  as 2007 it has been a 
requirement for regulated firms to establish,  implement and maintain adequate systems and 
controls to ensure compliance with their obligations under the regulatory system and for 
countering the risk that the firm might be used to further financial crime. In 2015  and 2016, 
the FCA published guidance  to firms  in respect  of preventing and detecting financial under 
the title Financial crime: a guide  for firms.
In my view, by 2018 there was sufficient regulatory  rules and guidance  for Baker Hudson to 
understand that as a regulated firm it was required to have robust governance, effective risk 
procedures and adequate internal control  mechanisms to manage its financial crime risk.  
This would have required it to assess the risks that it may be used for the purposes of 
financial crime and then mitigating those risks effectively through:
identifying its customers
understanding its relationship with them
monitoring the way they use its services  to identity anything suspicious
Baker Hudsons relationship with Mr M
Before the fraud happened in 2018,  the adviser  had advised Mr M for many  years.  Contact 
was usually in person  for yearly reviews with phone calls and emails  in the intervening  
period. Therefore a track record of communication existed between the adviser and Mr M. 
So I think its reasonable to say that the adviser should have been aware of Mr Ms writing 
style and the way in which he normally communicated by the time the fraud  happened.
Ref: DRN59837566I share  our investigators opinion that if the fraud  could have been prevented  it was by the 
actions of Baker Hudson. Over the course  of several  days,  the adviser received numerous 
emails from the fraudster about the withdrawal. While Mr M had enquired in early  2018 about 
how much  tax-free cash was available from his pension plan, he hadnt actually instructed 
the adviser to arrange a withdrawal. So I think its reasonable to say that the emails the 
adviser received  about withdrawing  £19,000 were unexpected.
Bearing in mind its regulatory  obligations, I dont the adviser acted responsibly in response 
to the emails received. Most of the fraudsters  emails contain bad spelling and grammar and 
directed the adviser to keep all communication through email due to Mr M apparently  being  
out of town and too ill to speak on the phone.  In addition, the fraudster repeatedly  chased  
the money over a short timeframe, indicating that the transaction was to be completed 
urgently. I think all of these factors combined  should have alerted the adviser  to the 
possibility that it was a fraudulent withdrawal request and that additional  steps should have 
been taken to verify whether the request was genuinely instigated by Mr M or not. 
In my view, a regulated firm with adequate systems  and controls  in place would have 
prevented the fraudulent withdrawal in these circumstances. For example, to ensure the 
withdrawal request was genuine, the adviser  could have posted  the withdrawal form to         
Mr Ms known  address or arranged to speak to a family member  on his behalf  if he was too 
ill. These additional steps would have been  in Mr Ms bests interests and likely  have  
prevented the fraud.
Baker Hudson has told this service that as a result of the fraudulent withdrawal from Mr Ms 
pension plan and his subsequent complaint,  its updated its controls  when dealing  with 
similar withdrawal  requests  received  by email.
Conclusion
Ive previously decided  that the pension provider isnt responsible  for enabling  the fraudster 
to steal the money  from Mr Ms pension plan. And I havent seen any evidence  that makes 
me conclude  Mr M is responsible. Taking  everything  into account, Ive concluded  that Baker  
Hudsons inadequate systems and controls enabled the fraudster to steal  £19,000 from                  
Mr Ms pension  plan.  Therefore, Ive decided that its fair and reasonable to uphold this 
complaint about  Baker Hudson.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr M should be put as closely as possible into the position  he would now be 
in if he had the fraud not happened. Im satisfied  that what  Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
What should Baker Hudson do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, I direct  Baker Hudson  to do the following:
Compare the performance of Mr Ms pension plan with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable. Baker Hudson should  also pay any interest set out below.
Ref: DRN59837567Baker Hudson must check with the pension provider if it can reinstate Mr Ms pension 
plan to its original  uncrystallised  state so that he can take the compensation tax-free  
at a later date. If the plan can be reinstated and there is a loss, Baker  Hudson should 
pay into Mr Ms pension plan to increase its value by the amount of the compensation 
and any interest. The amount  paid should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  Baker  Hudson shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If it isnt possible to reinstate the pension plan, then Baker Hudson  should pay the 
compensation and any interest directly to Mr M. This should  not be deducted to allow 
for any notional tax relief  because the stolen £19,000 represented  tax-free cash.
 Pay Mr M £150  compensation  for the distress caused by discovering that hed been  a 
victim of fraud  and had lost £19,000 of his pension savings.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Baker Hudson  deducts income tax from 
the interest it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. Baker Hudson should give               
Mr M a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Investment name
Status BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional interest
Mr Ms 
pension 
planStill existsNotional  Fund 
Value
of Mr Ms
pension plan
had the 
fraudulent
withdrawal not 
happenedDate of 
withdrawalDate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of Baker  
Hudson being 
notified  of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual value of the pension plan at the end date.
Fair value
This is what  the notional  value  of the pension plan would have been if the fraudulent 
withdrawal had not happened. Any additional  sums paid into the pension plan since  the 
fraudulent withdrawal should  be added to the fair value calculation from the point in time 
when it was actually  paid in.
Ref: DRN59837568Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr M had no intention  to access his tax-free cash at the time the fraud  happened.
The pension provider previously confirmed to this service  that Mr M has not 
accessed any money from his pension plan,  so its reasonable to assume that the 
stolen money would have remained in the plan as at the date of this final decision.
Reinstating the notional value of the pension plan will put Mr M as close as possible 
into the position he would now be in if the fraud  had not happened.
Further information
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available  on our website www.financial-
ombudsman.org.uk by searching for compensation for investment complaints.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I direct Baker Hudson Limited to calculate and pay redress  to Mr M 
as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my final decision before 30 July 2020.
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5983756