K821x#15Complaint
Mr J complains that, after he cancelled  a cash withdrawal from an ATM, 
R. Raphael & Sons Plc (Raphael) still debited his account.
Background
Mr J was overseas for a family  wedding.  He had a prepaid travel card which  hed loaded  with 
US dollars.  One afternoon, he decided to withdraw  $600 from an ATM in preparation for that 
evenings party and other expenses. But he says, after hed typed in the amount, the 
machine alerted him to a conversion  charge and asked if he wanted to continue. Mr J didnt  
want to pay a conversion charge, because his card was already loaded with US$s.  So he 
pressed No. He said the machine  returned his card and he walked away to try another 
ATM, but not without  first noticing that the welcome screen  was now showing for the next 
customer.
When he tried another ATM, it said hed exceeded his daily limit. At this point he realised 
there might be a problem,  but he delayed reporting  it to the bank as he fully expected the 
transaction to be reversed. He did take some  photos  of the ATM.  And he managed  to borrow 
the cash he needed from another member of the party.
When his account  hadnt been  credited  the next day, he contacted the bank and it faxed  him 
a dispute claim form to complete. The bank then attempted a chargeback.
The chargeback was defended by the bank  that owned the ATM. It provided evidence  that 
the machine had dispensed six $100 notes.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She was persuaded by 
Mr Js testimony.  And she thought that, whilst the evidence provided by the third party  bank 
might have been enough to defend  a chargeback, Mr J was disputing  the transaction  so 
there was an obligation  on Raphael to obtain further  evidence. In particular, she thought  it 
should have obtained the balance sheet for the ATM  and evidence that the money didnt end 
up in the ATMs purge box. Without that she concluded that there  could have been an error 
with the ATM.
Raphael did not agree. It said the ATM journal  shows that the money  was dispensed 
correctly. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J says he cancelled the transaction and didnt receive the $600.  But the evidence 
provided by the bank  shows the money was dispensed.  Its difficult to say exactly what  
happened here, but where evidence is incomplete or contradictory,  as it is here, then I have 
to decide what  I think is most likely to have  happened  here on balance. 
Ref: DRN52587352Here I think there are three likely scenarios:
1.Mr J received  the money.
2.The ATM dispensed the cash after Mr J had walked away  and it was taken by a 
passing, and unknown,  third party.
3.The cash  was retained  by the ATM  in its purge box.
Ive considered the likelihood of each of these  scenarios.
Mr J has provided  detailed  and persuasive testimony which  leads me to conclude that he 
didnt receive the money. In particular I can see that he twice tried to withdraw  cash at 
different ATMs  - shortly after the disputed  transaction. He knew his daily limit, so the only 
reasonable explanation  as to why he tried to twice withdraw a large sum of money, after 
already withdrawing  $600, is that he didnt  receive  that $600.
He told us he had to borrow money  from another family member and I can see he withdrew  
cash a couple  of days later to repay  her. So this part of his testimony is supported  by the 
evidence too.
Mr J has given us a relatively detailed account of the screens that he saw and the options he 
chose. Hes been plausible  and consistent with his descriptions of what  happened.  And hed 
had the same experience at a different ATM  a few days  earlier  the ATM gave a warning 
that there  would be a conversion fee and asked Mr J if he wanted to proceed and he chose 
No. On that occasion, his card was returned,  the transaction was cancelled,  and his 
account wasnt debited. Its possible that on this occasion he mistakenly pressed the yes 
button, the transaction continued and Mr J walked away before the cash was dispensed. 
But, as noted  earlier, his testimony is detailed  and is supported by the evidence provided. As 
part of that testimony,  he told us he remembers  seeing the welcome  screen for the next 
customer as he walked  away from the ATM. The detail hes gone  into here and his 
behaviour surrounding this situation makes me think this is most  likely.
So, Im satisfied on balance, that Mr J didnt receive the money. But it doesnt automatically  
follow that Raphael  should refund him. The ATM  journal roll shows that six $100 notes were 
dispensed. This means that either Mr J didnt cancel the transaction, or there was a fault with 
the ATM. 
Unfortunately Raphael has not been  able to obtain more detailed  information from the ATM 
owner to evidence whether there  was any cash in the purge box at the end of the day and 
whether the ATM  balanced.  And this can often be a problem  when an ATM is located 
overseas. Without  this crucial information though, I cant rule out that there  was an error with 
the machine or that the money was retained by it. Without this and based on Mr Js detailed 
testimony, I think  that whats most likely  to have happened here is that there  was an issue  
with the machine, which meant the money wasnt dispensed to Mr J.
Its possible the machine  dispensed the cash after Mr J walked away  from the machine and 
it was taken by a third party. And its possible that the machine dispensed the cash,  but then 
retrieved it and kept it in the purge box. Theres no evidence of this though  and in either  
scenario, I dont find Mr J was at fault where  its most  likely  that there was an issue  with the 
machine.
Ref: DRN52587353I think the cash was dispensed wrongly,  because Mr J had cancelled the transaction. And 
that the cash was either taken by a third party or retained in the ATMs purge box. In the 
particular circumstances  here, I think Raphael should refund the disputed  transaction.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. R. Raphael & Sons  Plc should  refund the 
disputed transaction,  together  with any related  conversion  fees.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5258735