K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  The Society of Lloyds has taken too long handling their property 
insurance claim and hasnt dealt with it fairly.
background
Mr and Mrs M had a property insurance  policy with a syndicate of The Society  of Lloyds.
In late 2014 there was an escape of water  at a property Mr and Mrs M own.  They  let the 
property in question. At first the damage appeared to be relatively  minor,  and it was repaired. 
But a few months later there was evidence of further damage.  The underwriters treated this 
further damage as a new claim, and over time it became clear that the property had 
significant damage.
In late 2017 the underwriter said that it wouldnt be renewing Mr and Mrs Ms policy  because  
of the number of claims that had been made  and given the damaged state of the property. 
Mrs M complained about this, but in the meantime that left the property uninsured and in a 
damaged state.
The Society of Lloyds investigated  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. That 
investigation wasnt straightforward as a number  of different underwriters  had been  involved 
during the time as well as a number  of different parties. Mrs M was very unhappy with this 
and so complained to us.
One of our investigators  looked into this complaint and upheld it. They said that the original 
escape of water hadnt been investigated  properly,  and that the underwriter  at the time 
should have realised that the damage  was much more extensive when evidence of further  
damage had emerged.  They said that The Society  of Lloyds should ensure that all of the 
damage caused by the escape of water be rectified according to the terms of the policy.  
They also said all damage stemming from the delay in repairing  the property should also be 
rectified. In addition, they recommended that Mr and Mrs M be paid £3,500 in compensation 
for their trouble and upset. Both parties  eventually agreed to what our investigator 
recommended  set out in more detail  in the correspondence  although  Mrs M only agreed 
to the trouble and upset award  on the basis that repair works would begin quickly.  That was 
in June last year. Two issues remained unresolved, namely whether or not Mrs M should be 
compensated for rental  income she says she lost as a result of the delays and whether or 
not the refusal to renew the policy was unfair. Im going to deal with the first of those issues 
in this Final Decision  the second  issue is the subject  of a separate  complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive already  mentioned,  the majority of the issues in this complaint  have  been  resolved by 
our investigator  although  I understand that since June last year opportunities to start the 
repair work have been  missed and that the repair work has still not started.  This has put 
additional strain  on the relationship between Mrs M and her tenant  and it now looks  like 
theyll have to be forcibly  evicted so that the repairs can go ahead. The lack of progress in 
relation to the repair work, given the history of this complaint, is very disappointing. The 
Society of Lloyds agreed that it would ensure that all of the damage caused by the escape  of 
Ref: DRN51278452water would be rectified according  to the terms of the policy.  They also agreed  that all 
damage stemming from the delay in repairing  the property would be rectified. The Society of 
Lloyds hasnt ensured this has happened  and Id expect it to now do so.
Given what Ive just said, Im not going to deal with the matters  that the parties have already 
agreed on in this Final  Decision with the exception of the trouble and upset award, on the 
basis that both parties  have agreed what needs  to be done and should know  what  they need 
to do. Instead  Im going to focus  on the loss of rental income that Mrs M is claiming and 
whether any additional trouble and upset  is required  taking everything into account.
The property that was damaged in 2014 is a property that Mrs M lets out to a tenant. That 
tenant has a family and theyve continued to live in the property  despite  its poor condition.  I 
can see that this has caused Mrs M to not only worry a lot, but has at times been  extremely  
frustrating. I accept that Mrs M hasnt raised  the rent she charges as much as she might 
have been able to had the property not been in the condition it currently is. I agree too that 
this is potentially a loss Mrs M could claim, not under the policy  but on the basis  that it flows  
from the delay  in repairing the property.  In order to do so, however, Id have to be satisfied 
that this loss is a consequential loss and Id have  to be able to quantify it. The problem here 
is that there  are a number of reasons why Mrs M didnt increase the rent as much as she 
might have been able to do. Ill explain what I mean.
Mrs M has told us that she originally bought the property in 2007. She rented it out until 2011 
when her sister moved  in. The plan at that stage was to renovate  the property and sell it in 
2012. Instead of selling the property, however, Mrs M rented it out on a three  year fixed 
lease. Shes  told us that this was because she was pregnant at the time and already had a 
young daughter   she didnt want to sell and didnt want to be worrying about  finding new 
tenants whilst starting  a family. Mrs M left her well-paid job in early 2014, moved and 
decided to train to become a teacher. Shes told us that she was planning on selling the 
property when she qualified  in the meantime the rental income  would help her get through 
her studies. In other words, Mrs Ms career and plans were  a big factor  when it came to her 
deciding what to do with the property. The property  was damaged  in late 2014  and the 
lease came to an end in 2015. At this stage, its clear that Mrs M still hadnt decided what to 
do with it. The tenant wanted a three year lease,  but Mrs M preferred a one year lease  
probably so that she could keep the option  of selling open. After  leaving her job and moving, 
Mrs M started  training  as a teacher. In short, Mrs M had a lot of competing  priorities to think 
about  and would have  had to weigh up maximising the rent she could achieve against  the 
certainty of having an existing tenant, the worry associated with finding a new tenant and 
wanting to keep her options in relation to the property  open. I dont think I can say, in the 
circumstances, that the leak was the reason why Mrs M didnt increase the rent more  than 
she did. So I dont think it would be fair to require The Society of Lloyds this as a 
consequential loss. I do, however, accept that its meant that Mrs M has felt her options are 
more restricted and that she hasnt been able to deal with the property as freely as she 
would have wanted to. For that, given the delays  Ive mentioned above, I think  a fair and 
reasonable approach would be to increase the trouble and upset award.
Mrs M, as Ive mentioned,  agreed to settle the majority of her complaint last June on the 
basis that the repair started quickly. That hasnt  happened through  no fault of Mrs M. So Im 
going to increase the award our investigator  recommended  taking into account what Ive 
also just said about the impact  the leak has had on Mrs Ms options   to £4,250. I let both 
parties know that I planned  to increase the level of compensation and what  I intended to say 
in this Final Decision. Mrs M thought the outcome I had in mind  increasing the trouble and 
upset to £4,250 but not compensating  her for loss of rent  was a fair one. The Society of 
Ref: DRN51278453Lloyds agreed  to the increase in trouble  and upset and said that if the tenant  is refusing to 
leave then theres not much they can do. Mrs M had a couple of other comments too which  
Ive taken into account and acted on, but havent  ultimately had an impact on what  I think  is 
a fair outcome.
my final decision
My final decision is that I require The Society of Lloyds  to pay Mr and Mrs M £4,250 in 
compensation for the trouble and upset  theyve been caused. Im doing so on the basis that 
The Society of Lloyds will need to ensure that there  arent further delays at its end getting 
done what has already been  agreed to.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5127845