K820x#14complaint
Mr P complain s that the intere st rate schedule in his credi t card agreement with Capital One 
(Euro pe) plc has mistakes and that Capit al Ones practice of hiking the interest rates is 
illegal. As a resul t, he thinks his credi t agreement is unenforceabl e. To settle matters hed 
like all monie s paid back with interest.
background
Mr P entered into a credi t card agreemen t with Capital One in 2005 . He says his credi t card 
agreem ent allows Capita l One to vary the rate of interest appli cable to his accou nt for any 
reason and without having to give him notic e. He thinks this is a unilateral variation which 
is unfair and non-b inding pursuant to the Unfa ir Terms in Cons umer Contracts Regulations 
1999 (Regu lations).
He thinks the interest rate schedule in his credi t agreement  is full of mistakes such  that its 
not poss ible to work out what the applicable rate of intere st is. In particular he says the 
annu al percentage  rate (APR ) and the mont hly interest rate detail ed in his credit card 
agreem ent are wrong because when  the APR is divided by 12  this doesnt equate to the 
stated monthly interest rate.
He thinks the interest rate provisi ons were  drafte d by Capit al One to allow it to change the 
interest rate at any point and for any reason. He thinks this is unfair  and the increases in 
the intere st rate have  pushed  him towards his maxim um credi t limit.
Mr P complai ned to Capital One but it didnt uphold his complaint. Unhappy with Capital 
One s response, Mr P referred his comp laint to our service. 
Our investi gator explained that our service cant assess the legali ties of regula ted credit 
agreements or decide whethe r or not any specific terms are in breach of the Regulations. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
terms and conditions of the credit  agreement which Mr P had signed  allowed Capital One to 
vary the rate of interest.
Our investigator referred  to screen shots of two occasions when Capital One notified Mr P of 
interest rate changes. He was given the option  to terminate his agreement  if he didnt agree 
with the change so she could nt agree hed been treated unfairly.
Our investigator also noted that Capital One had refunde d some interest it had applied to Mr Ps 
account - and this brought his account  to zero. She also noted that Capital One closed his 
account and it also removed late payment marks from his credit file so she thought this was 
fair and reasonable. 
Mr P disagreed with the investiga tors view. He provided detai led comments for our 
consideration. His main concern was that whilst  Capital One may have  notified him of the 
intere st rate variation, the Regul ations  also require it to give a valid reason for increasing the 
rate of interest  and he says Capital One didnt do this. He says his credit card agreement  
allows Capital One to increase the rate of interest for any reason  and he thinks this is 
illegal because the Regulations require a lender to have a  valid reason before unilaterally 
varying the rate of interest. 
Ref: DRN52469732He thinks the interest variation clause has allowed Capital One to hike the rate arbitrarily to 
maximise its profitability and he thinks this is in breach of the Regulations - because he 
thinks the Regulations aim to prevent busin esses from pursuing  rip-off schemes.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why we couldnt look into Mr Ps 
complaint for the whole of the period hed like and that we could only look into what had 
happened in the six years before  he complained to Capital One in March  2019.
With regard to those  parts of Mr Ps complaint that I thought we could consider  in other 
words for those events  that happened  in the six years before Mr P complained  to Capital 
One in March 2019  I thought Capital One had treated  him fairly and that I didnt intend to 
uphold Mr Ps complaint.  This is what I said in my provisional decision:
I must  also explain  that we are an informal  dispute  resolution  service  and not a court  of 
law. So whilst  Mr P makes  lengthy  submissions  in support  of his complaint  and the 
reasons  he believes  his credit  agreement  is unenforceable  I don't  have  the power  to 
determine  whether  or not specific  terms  are in breach  of the law or in breach  of the 
Regulations  as these  are matters  that a court  would  need  to decide.  But what  I can, and 
have,  considered  is whether  Capital  One treated  Mr P fairly  and reasonably  taking  into 
account  the relevant  regulations.
I've looked  at Mr P's credit  card statements  from March  2013  to December  2018  - when  
Capital  One wrote  off his card balance  to nil. His credit  card statements  for this period  
show  he didn't  make  any new transactions  and throughout  this period  Capital  One 
charged  him Standard  Purchase  Interest  of 31.050%  on his outstanding  balance  each  
month.
The statements  I've referred  to above  show  that Capital  One charged  him the same  
amount  of interest  during  the period  I am able to look into and it didn't  increase  the amount  
of interest  he was charged  during  this period  either.  It follows  that I have  no basis  to look 
into Mr P's concerns  that Capital  One unilaterally  varied  the rate of interest  without  giving  
him a valid  reason  because  I haven't  seen  anything  to suggest  it varied  the interest  rate 
during  the period  we are able to look into.
Mr P is also concerned  about  the lack of clarity  regarding  the applicable  rate of interest  
and the discrepancies  between  the APR  and monthly  interest  rate. Capital  One explained  
to us that it isn't necessarily  possible  to calculate  the monthly  interest  rate by dividing  the 
APR  by 12 months.  Appendix  1.2 of The Consumer  Credit  Sourcebook  (CONC)  sets out 
a formula  to be used  and rules  to calculate  the APR.
Ref: DRN52469733The terms  and conditions  of the credit  card agreement-  which  Mr P signed  - allow  Capital  
One to charge  interest  and also allow  it to vary the rate of interest  and make  other  changes  
to the agreement.  So I don't  think  Capital  One made  an error  in applying  interest.  I've also 
looked  at the statements  Capital  One sent to Mr P during  the period  we are able to look 
into. The rate of interest  applied  to his account  is clearly  set out on each  of the monthly  
statements.  I therefore  think  Capital  One treated  him fairly  and I think  he ought  reasonably  
to have  been  aware  of the rate of interest  applied  to his account  from these  monthly  
statements.
I can also see from Mr P's statements  that Capital  One wrote  off Mr P's outstanding  
credit  card balance  in full in November  2018  and it also confirmed  that it had removed  
late payment  markers  from his credit  file. It follows  that I think  this is fair and reasonable  
in the circumstances.
I invited both parties let me have any further comments  before I reached a final decision.
Capital One hasnt provided any further comments for my consideration.  Mr P provided  
further detailed  comments for my consideration. In summary:-
He says I failed  to consider whether the provisions allowing Capital One to increase 
the rate of interest are unfair under the Regulations and, if so, whether they are 
unenforceable
He thinks I havent  understood the limitation  rules - and that we should be able to 
look into matters before 2013.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr P believes we should be able to look into his complaint  for the period  prior 
to 2013 so Ive explained  in a little more  detail in this decision why we cant do so. Mr P has 
referred to the Limitation Act but it isnt the Limitation Act we must consider when deciding if 
a complaint has been made in time. The relevant time limits we must consider are set by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority in the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP).
The DISP  rules say that our service cannot  consider a complaint if the complainant  refers  it 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service  more than:
(a)six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b)three  years from the date on which the complainant  became  aware (or ought 
reasonably to have  become  aware) that he had cause  for complaint.
The rules  also set out some limited  circumstances where we can consider a complaint made 
outside these  time limits  but I dont consider that they are applicable  in the circumstances  of 
Mr Ps complaint.
Ref: DRN52469734Mr Ps complaint concerns the wording of the credit card agreement  he signed  in 2005 - 
which states that Capital One can vary the rate of interest and his concerns about the 
unclear wording detailing the way interest would be calculated. Mr P didnt complain to 
Capital One about these  issues  until 21 March  2019. This means that under the first part of 
our rule I can only look into Mr Ps concerns in respect of events that happened in the six 
years prior to his complaint to Capital One.
For those parts of Mr Ps complaint that Ive explained are outside the six year part of our 
rule, Ive also thought  about whether Mr P complained within  three years of the date on 
which he became  aware (or he ought  reasonably to have become  aware)  he had cause for 
complaint, because if he did he will have  complained in time notwithstanding the fact that he 
complained more than six years  after those events happened.
If Mr P was unclear about the way interest  was calculated or about  Capital  Ones  ability  to 
increase the rate of interest he was charged  I think he ought reasonably  to have been aware 
he had reason to complain about this sooner than he did  around the time that any interest 
rate increases were made.
Mr P hasnt complained  about any specific increases in the interest  rate that hed like us to 
consider and, due to lapse of time, Capital One hasnt been able to provide details of all the 
interest rate changes  that took effect after Mr P entered  into his credit card agreement. 
However, it provided details to our service of two interest rate variations in January and 
October 2009. If Mr P had concerns about these interest rate changes he would have 
needed to complain by late 2012 at the latest. As Ive explained  above  Mr P didnt complain 
until March 2019  so Im satisfied his complaint is outside the three  year time limit  and as 
Ive explained  above Mr P hasnt asked our service  to consider any specific increase in the 
interest rate.
For the reasons  Ive explained above this service can only into Mr Ps complaint against  
Capital One in the six years prior to his complaint to Capital One in March  2019. Dealing 
now with the way Mr P was treated  in the six year period prior to his complaint to Capital 
One in March 2019, I have considered carefully Mr Ps further  comments.
I would like to reassure  Mr P that although  his complaint to our service was about  the 
wording used in the 2005  credit card agreement  he signed with Capital One, in looking into  
the way Mr P was treated  in the six year period prior to his complaint to Capital One in 
March 2019 I have also considered changes made  to the terms and conditions of Mr Ps 
credit card agreement over the course of his relationship with Capital  One. Having done so, 
the terms and conditions allowed Capital One to charge interest on Mr Ps outstanding credit  
card balances so I cant say that Capital One made an error in applying  interest  as it did.
I can also see from Ps statements that Capital One wrote off Mr Ps outstanding credit card 
balance in full in November 2018  and it also confirmed it had removed late payment markers  
from his credit file. 
I therefore see no reason  to depart  from the conclusions I set out in my provisional 
decision.  
Ref: DRN52469735my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2021.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5246973