K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the service they received from Union Reiseversicherung AG 
when they made a claim on their travel insurance policy. 
Background
The full background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision.  Ive attached a 
copy and it forms part of this, my final decision.  
In summary,  Mr and Mrs L were abroad  in a remote area when  Mrs L experienced a 
haemorrhagic stroke.  This happened  on the second day of their holiday.  The clinic where 
she was didnt have  the facilities to treat her so she needed to be moved  to a different 
facility, around 450 miles away.  
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint was that they received poor service  from URV, particularly during 
the period of time when  they were trying  to arrange  an air ambulance. Their key complaint 
points were:
there were delays and poor service which left Mrs L experiencing pain and distress 
for far longer than was necessary at a time when she was seriously ill
calls Mr L received  from URVs doctor  were  poorly handled
the accommodation arrangements made  for Mr L during the time his wife was 
recovering, and for both of them following Mrs Ls discharge from hospital,  were 
poorly handled
No nurse  escort  was provided for their return  to the UK 
They didnt receive the wheelchair assistance  theyd been  promised
URV have tried to avoid paying for some items theyve  claimed  for, such as kennel  
facilities
URV have tried to charge them an additional  premium for undisclosed medical 
conditions. 
I upheld Mr and Mrs Ls complaint as I didnt think  URV had handled their claim promptly  and 
fairly. I thought there were  delays  in logging the claim,  the calls between  URVs doctor  and 
Mr L were poorly handled, there were issues with arranging their accommodation  which 
could have been avoided and there was lack of assistance on their journey home. 
I explained that I considered the delay  in logging the claim to be serious because acting 
quickly was important in the context of this case. I concluded URV missed  a window of 
opportunity to move Mrs L which led to her spending far longer than necessary at a clinic 
which didnt have the means to treat her or offer her adequate relief  from her symptoms. 
I thought this poor service was then compounded by the content  of the calls with URVs 
doctor, issues with arranging accommodation and the lack of help theyd been promised on 
their journey  home. Whilst URV  had offered  the maximum curtailment benefit under the 
policy, waived the additional premium and paid some of Mr and Mrs Ls costs  I didnt think 
Ref: DRN55771612this adequately reflected the distress  and inconvenience they experienced, particularly when 
they were in a vulnerable situation.
I said that I was intending  to put things right by directing URV to pay an additional £5000 in 
compensation which is within the severe  and extreme range for our service.  This was in 
addition to the existing offer URV had made. 
Mr L accepted  my decision and made some further comments. In summary he said:  
He was unaware he was speaking with a doctor from URV
He could provide  evidence  of suffering from bronchitis after his wife was taken ill
He didnt know that attempts were being made  to arrange an air ambulance
He remains of the view they should have received a medical  escort on the way home 
Some of the conditions URV said hadnt been  disclosed were  conditions he suffered 
from, not Mrs L
URV should cover the cost of the pet accommodation  as their flight was delayed  due 
to Mrs Ls illness. 
URV didnt  respond  to my provisional  decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the further points made by Mr and Mrs L but they dont change  my thoughts 
about the settlement I outlined in my provisional decision. I say that because:
The doctor Mr L named in his response  to my provisional decision is the same  doctor 
I referred to in my provisional decision
I took into account Mr Ls testimony about  his bronchitis as part of the overall 
settlement I set out in my provisional  decision as it related to the overall distress and 
inconvenience they experienced
As I outlined in my provisional decision URV  were  happy to provide a medical  escort 
but Mr and Mrs Ls son declined  that offer. And the certificate confirming  fitness to fly 
didnt say that one was needed
URV agreed to waive the additional premium  so, even  if the medical conditions were  
Mr Ls, I think this has been resolved by the premium being waived
I remain satisfied that the pet care claim doesnt fall within  the scope of this policy for 
the same  reasons  I set out in my provisional  decision. So I dont think its 
unreasonable for URV to decline  this aspect of the claim.  
Putting things  right
Ref: DRN55771613For the reasons  Ive set out above,  and in my attached provisional decision,  I direct URV to 
pay Mr and Mrs L a further £5000 to reflect the trouble and upset caused by poor claims 
handling and customer service. This amount  is in addition  to settlement URV already 
offered, which should also be paid if it hasnt  been already. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint about  Union Reiseversicherung  AG and direct it to 
put things right in the way Ive outlined  above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to accept or reject my decision before 
4 August 2019.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN55771614COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy  with the service they received from Union  Reiseversicherung  AG when  
they made a claim on their travel insurance policy. 
background 
Mr and Mrs L were  abroad  in a remote area when  Mrs L experienced a haemorrhagic stroke.  This 
happened on the second  day of their holiday. The clinic where she was didnt have the facilities to 
treat her so she needed to be moved to a different facility, around 450 miles away.  
Mr and Mrs L say they received poor service from URV, particularly during the period  of time when 
they were trying to arrange  an air ambulance. In summary,  they are unhappy because they say:
there were delays and poor service which left Mrs L experiencing pain and distress for far 
longer than was necessary  at a time when she was seriously ill
calls Mr L received from URVs doctor were poorly handled
the accommodation  arrangements made for Mr L during the time his wife was recovering, and 
for both of them following  Mrs Ls discharge from hospital,  were  poorly handled
No nurse escort was provided for their return to the UK 
They  didnt receive the wheelchair assistance theyd been  promised
URV have  tried to avoid paying for some items theyve claimed for, such as kennel facilities
URV have  tried to charge them  an additional  premium for undisclosed medical  conditions. 
URV issued a final response letter offering £5,000 to cover the curtailment of the holiday  as a gesture 
of goodwill plus £250 towards  the cost of phone bills. They also paid around £800 toward the other 
expenses Mr and Mrs L had claimed for. URV  said the doctors manner was well intentioned but 
acknowledged it was not always effective.  They also waived the additional premium of around £50. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold  the complaint. She acknowledged 
there had been failings in the service provided, particularly in relation to the accommodation 
arrangements and the wheelchair assistance. But she thought the settlement URV had offered was 
fair. 
Mr L didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review  the complaint.  In summary, he said that URV  
hadnt acted quickly enough and wants compensation for all the stress they caused. He told us £250 
was an insult. 
I asked URV  to provide  further  information, including copies of calls between Mr L and URVs doctor. I 
also asked for clarification and supporting evidence in relation to a number  of actions recorded  in their 
case notes. I asked Mr L to provide copies of his telephone  records as he said hed tried to contact 
URV numerous times but didnt get a response. So I now need to make  a decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN55771615The relevant rules  and industry guidelines say URV has a responsibility to handle  claims promptly and 
fairly. Im not satisfied thats what happened in the circumstances of this case. 
were there delays in logging the claim? 
The first issue  for me to decide is when Mr L first contacted URV for help. He told us he first logged a 
claim at around 02.00  or 03.00 UK time but URVs logs show a case wasnt set up until shortly before 
07.00 UK time. Where the evidence  isnt available, or isnt clear, I need to decide  whats most  likely to 
have happened. 
There is a time difference of several hours between the UK and the country Mr and Mrs L were  
visiting. Mr L says his wife first became ill at around 07.30 local time (00.30 UK time). 
Mr L says he contacted  URV about an hour later and spoke to a female  member  of staff. 
Mr L has told us her first name and says she provided him with a case reference  number, telling him 
hed be contacted within an hour. He told us that two subsequent calls he made  were  also not 
returned.   
URV says they didnt have anyone  in the assistance team of that name, but at that time they were  
using another company  to support with overflow  calls.  However, as they no longer work with that 
company its not possible to access the records.
Mr L has provided his phone records. The first call made to the emergency  number listed on the 
policy document was made at around 10.15 local time (03.15 UK time). There  are a further four calls 
to the Emergency Assistance Facilities emergency telephone number. I note that one of the calls 
lasted for around  seven minutes.  I can also see that between 04.00  and 06.45 UK time eight more 
calls were made to the emergency  number listed on the policy document. I can see that some of the 
calls were relatively short but there are three calls which  lasted for around five minutes. 
Mr Ls son contacted URV at 06.48 UK time. During  the call the son said hed been dealing with this 
since about 03.15 UK time (09.15 local time). URV has provided  screenshots  showing they tried to 
call Mr L three times shortly  after they ended the call with his son. Thats consistent with the time that 
the case  was first logged by URV,  as it was shortly before 07.00  UK time.  
The timings Mr L has given are consistent with the medical report sent to URV  by the treating 
hospital. It says Mrs L had a headache and had been vomiting since 08.00  local time (01.00 UK time). 
And the typed  diagnosis, timed  at 11.00 local time (04.00 UK time), said shed suffered a brain 
haemorrhage. When Mr L spoke to URVs Doctor shortly  before 11.00 UK time he also mentioned 
hed been dealing with the situation  for around eight hours. 
Taking all of the above into account  I am satisfied its most likely Mr L started trying to contact  URV for 
help at approximately  0300 UK time.  Ive found his evidence to be credible,  consistent and persuasive 
on this point.  Its also consistent with the information in the phone records and reflects  what  both Mr L 
and his son said during  telephone calls with URV  at the time.  
All of this persuades  me that Mr L did contact URV for help much earlier than their logs suggest. And I 
think its most likely the assistance  case  wasnt correctly logged or actioned until Mr Ls son 
telephoned, around three  hours later, to chase  things up. I think this is important in the circumstances 
of this case for the reasons Ill go on to explain.  
As Ive outlined above Ive seen screen shots which  show  URV did attempt to contact Mr L three 
times after their son had called. URV also contacted their son again  when they couldnt make contact 
with Mr L and explained the information they needed to move forward. 
were there delays in arranging  the air ambulance once the claim was logged?
Ref: DRN55771616URV contacted their agents to obtain  a medical  report which was uploaded onto URVs  system at 
around 09.00  UK time, about two hours after the file was opened. It said,  
Brain CT Scan  has confirmed intracerebral haemorrhage, the patient needs to be sent to 
more advanced hospital  in XXXXXXXX by air ambulance as soon as possible. 
At 10.30 UK time (17.30 local time) theres a note on the logs saying that the airport was due to close 
in two hours time as Mr L had contacted URV to make them aware of this. The medical  report was 
being reviewed at this time and an air ambulance was authorised within about  15 minutes of URV  
receiving the information about the airport closing. 
I also can see that URV were proactive  about trying to arrange  the air ambulance as soon as 
possible. The emails show they were in contact with the agents  throughout the day arranging this, 
stressing the urgency  of the situation and how ill Mrs L was. 
The agent thought that they had located an available  air ambulance and they were instructed to 
proceed with this straight away. Unfortunately, as it wasnt  possible to get authorisation for the flight  
due to the time, this was later cancelled by the agent. This information was passed  to Mr L within 
around 15 minutes. 
URV started  looking into other options and were able to organise an alternative  within two hours. The 
agent located  an available aircraft and put a schedule  in place to move Mrs L. 
Whilst she wasnt moved until the early hours of the following morning,  around 22 hours after she was 
first taken ill, the repatriation plan shows that the team assembled at 11.00  local time and completed a 
journey of around six hours to get to her. Mrs L was picked up from the clinic and flown to a facility  
which could treat her.
Taking all of this into account Im satisfied that, once the claim was logged,  it was handled with 
urgency and reasonable  steps were taken move things forward.  
did the delay in logging the claim prevent Mrs L from being transferred on the same day as her 
diagnosis?
Mr Ls central complaint point is that had URV acted sooner Mrs L wouldve avoided  spending the 
night in the local clinic  in a lot of pain. Its not in dispute that during that time she was in a critical 
condition and urgently needed life-saving treatment. 
Mr L described her as being in agony during that time. He says the clinic was very unclean  and the 
nurses were asleep on duty. He spent the night on the floor of the clinic.  Mrs L says she is 
traumatised by the experience and has ongoing nightmares and sleeplessness as a result. Mr L says 
hes developed stress related bronchitis. Theres a note on URVs system  to say he was suffering  
from bronchitis  dated 22 March. But I havent seen any medical evidence  confirming this.  
The first air ambulance was arranged by around 11.30 UK time (18.30 local time), which was around 
four and a half hours after the claim  was logged. URV  told us that the flight couldnt go ahead 
because it wasnt possible  to get the green light from the airport. This is confirmed by emails 
between URV  and their agent. A further email explains  that the air ambulance couldnt make it that 
day because it was night-time.  
Its not possible  to know for certain whether  a flight or aircraft  would have been available. Ive 
therefore considered whats most likely  to have happened  had the claim been  correctly logged when  
Mr L first contacted URV at around 03.15 UK time (10.15 local time). 
Ref: DRN55771617The best indication  of the likely timescales involved in arranging the air ambulance is that it took URV 
four and half hours to find one. So applying the same  timescales,  had the claim  been correctly logged, 
that means the aircraft  availability is most likely to have been known  by around 07.45  UK time (14.45  
local time). And, it also seems likely an aircraft would have been available as the hospital  group  had 
one ready  to go. This wouldve left much more time available to get the green light from the airport, 
rather than the request being made in the evening, shortly before the airport was due to close. 
Taking all of this into account Im persuaded, on balance, its more  likely  than not the delay in logging 
the claim meant that URV missed a window  of opportunity to get Mrs L out of the clinic before the 
airport closed at around 19.30 (local time). 
I dont know the exact time the air ambulance  crew collected Mrs L but it seems to have been around 
05.00 or 06.00 (local time). So, I think  URV are responsible for Mrs L spending in the region of an 
extra ten to twelve hours at the clinic, rather than at a medical facility equipped to deal with her 
condition. Consequently, it caused a delay in her receiving  treatment including surgery.
During that time Mrs L was in a lot of pain and received very limited  treatment. Its not in dispute the 
clinic was very basic in terms of the facilities, care and hygiene levels. Mr L described her as 
screaming in pain and its clear from the phone calls that Mr L was worried she might  not survive  the 
night. Mr L slept on the floor of the clinic as he was so concerned about Mrs L and the care she was 
receiving. I understand  Mrs L still has nightmares and poor sleep  as a result of what  she went  through  
that night.   
Mrs L had experienced a haemorrhagic  stroke and needed urgent  medical care to avoid death and 
manage the risk of losing functionality  and further bleeds. So acting quickly was very important  in the 
circumstances of this case. Based on the evidence  Ive seen I think URV failed to act promptly when 
carrying out their responsibilities under the contract of insurance because they delayed  things 
unnecessarily by not logging the claim. 
It is right to say URV isnt responsible for the standard of care in a foreign  hospital. But I think those  
delays meant  Mr and Mrs L spent far longer than necessary at the clinic, which didnt have the means  
to treat Mrs L or offer her adequate relief from her symptoms.   
could URV have offered  better  customer service  whilst Mrs L was waiting  for the air ambulance?
As Ive outlined above URV arent responsible for the standard or quality of care in a foreign  hospital. 
But I would expect them to offer a reasonable level of assistance, as they have a responsibility  to 
handle the claim promptly and fairly. So Ive considered whether URV couldve done more to help Mr 
and Mrs L, from a customer service perspective, during the time they were waiting to be transferred. 
Unfortunately, due to the location, URV told us no other assistance would have been available  other 
than providing a nurse for translation purposes. However,  the nurse  wouldnt have been able to carry 
out any medical procedures. So Im satisfied with URVs  explanation about why other options werent 
considered by their agent. I think thats a reasonable  explanation bearing in mind  where Mr and Mrs L 
were located  and what theyve said about the level of care available in that country.   
did URV send  a text confirming the air ambulance was booked?
Mr L says he had a text to say the air ambulance was on the way but it didnt turn up. He said this was 
from a company Ill refer to as V, who he was told were URVs local agents.  I dont doubt that it was 
sent to Mr L  I can hear from his reaction in the call with URVs doctor that he was genuinely relieved  
to hear the air ambulance  was on the way when  he received  this text message. 
Ive seen no evidence this was sent on the instruction  of URV or their agents. Ive looked  through the 
correspondence from the agents  who confirmed this company was nothing  to do with them and they 
hadnt instructed this air ambulance. So, whilst I appreciate this was highly  frustrating for Mr L, I dont 
Ref: DRN55771618think this was a result of something URV did wrong  as they werent in contact with that company  
during the management of the claim.  
calls with URVs doctor
Ive listened to the calls between Mr L and the doctor which Mr L complained about.  Whilst they may 
have been well-intentioned I think they did little to reassure Mr L during a highly  distressing and 
stressful time. 
For example, I dont think it was particularly helpful to discuss the differences between the types of 
aircraft or explain in such detail the relationships between URV, the assistance company and the 
medical team  in the circumstances. As Mr L clearly  articulated  during the call, he just wanted  to know 
when the air ambulance would  arrive. 
During the call the doctor said hed only been  made  aware of the issue less than an hour ago, which 
is consistent with the notes URV have provided. But he went to on tell Mr L that it wasnt as easy as 
clicking your fingers  to arrange this.
I can understand why Mr L found this particularly  frustrating as hes described his wife as screaming 
in pain at this point. And, as Ive outlined  above, Mr L had been trying to get help for around eight 
hours by this point in time and knew time was running  out to move Mrs L because of the airport 
opening times.
There was a second call with the same doctor the next day. Mr L explained he had just had his first 
meal and was resting for the first time in around  40 hours. As Ive outlined above, hed spent the 
previous night on the floor of his wifes  room at the clinic.
The call lasted for 45 minutes  and, whilst it may have been well intentioned, I dont think it was the 
right time to discuss some of the subjects that were covered  for example the doctor referred  to 
having had three people break  their necks because  of turbulence during the course of his career and 
outlined some of the wider challenges the NHS budget is facing  due to clinical negligence  claims. 
Mr L had little opportunity to speak  during  these calls and I can understand why the tone and content  
added to his distress at what was already  an incredibly  difficult time. 
issues with accommodation 
Mr L had arranged  accommodation via the hospital which was convenient and cost around £30 per 
night. URVs  doctor recommended  a hostel which other customers had said was very good and said 
he would get this organised.  
Mr L says the accommodation which was recommended was further away and not appropriate 
because it wasnt a suitable setting  for example,  it offered nightly karaoke which  wasnt right for him 
taking into account the circumstances. I think the doctor was genuinely trying to offer Mr L the benefit 
of his experience,  based on previous cases because theyd had positive feedback about the hotel. 
However, its disappointing that further enquiries  werent  made about the convenience of the location,  
as it was over a 30 minute walk from the hospital.  And there  werent further discussions with Mr L 
about confirming the booking before it was made. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr L to want to stay in the hospital accommodation to be nearer 
to his wife, especially as it was relatively reasonably priced and convenient. I also bear in mind  theyd 
been through  a highly distressing experience and Mrs L was recovering  from major  surgery in a 
foreign country.  
Mr L was told on the 18 March that it would  be a minimum of three weeks after the surgery before Mrs 
L would  be allowed to fly. And, when Mrs L was discharged around ten days  later her next 
Ref: DRN55771619appointment was on the 19 April for a follow  up scan. I do note that Mr L was made aware they might 
need to change their room  part way through their stay at the first hotel.  But equally URV  were aware 
Mrs L needed to stay in the country until shed had her scan. 
URV hasnt provided a detailed explanation  for why the accommodation wasnt booked  continuously. 
But looking  at their case file it seems this was because the GP records hadnt been  obtained. I 
appreciate URV  were verifying the claim and I note they first requested the medical notes on the 18 
March. 
However, the notes suggest  this wasnt chased up until the day Mrs L was discharged  from hospital 
which was several days later. The GP needed a payment,  which took more  time. The case  then had 
to be referred  to the underwriter which  also took time.  Had the notes  been chased up sooner I think it 
is most likely  these issues could have been resolved  more quickly, and prior to Mrs Ls discharge. So 
Im not persuaded  this aspect of the claim was handled  promptly  and fairly. 
Taking all of this into account I think this caused Mr and Mrs L additional worry and upset when  they 
were in a very vulnerable  position. I dont  think  that was reasonable in the circumstances of this case, 
given that Mrs L was recovering from major brain surgery. Fir example, on one occasion  they told us 
they were locked out of their room on the morning that the accommodation  was due to expire.  
the additional premium
URV is entitled  to validate  the policy  which includes  reviewing the GPs  medical records to ensure  
relevant conditions  have been disclosed. 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs L felt uncomfortable about this as they felt their integrity  was being 
questioned. However, validating the claim by checking medical history  isnt uncommon and is 
standard industry practice. I dont think it was unreasonable for URV  to ask for this information, 
although I dont think this was chased up as quickly as it should have been for the reasons  Ive 
already explained. 
The medical  records were reviewed and said Mrs L had a pre-existing medical history  of hypertension 
and type two diabetes,  which were declared  during the medical screening process. However, URV  
referred the case to the underwriter because a number  of conditions hadnt been declared including  
breast cancer with surgical excision of the cancer, hypothyroidism, hiatus hernia,  gallstones  and left 
ventricular hypotrophy. 
URV initially asked Mr and Mrs L to pay an additional premium based on what  they would have  
charged had the information about Mrs Ls medical  history been more accurately given at the time the 
policy was incepted.
I can understand why this was frustrating,  in the context of the poor service Mr and Mrs L received at 
the beginning of the claims process. But URV  has now waived the additional  premium which  I think is 
reasonable taking into account the wider  circumstances of this case. 
lack of assistance on the return  journey
Ive listened to the calls between Mr and Mrs Ls son and URV relating  to the flight  home. URV  said 
that if Mr L wasnt happy acting  as a non-medical  escort theyd make arrangements for a nurse. I think  
they did make  it clear  to Mr Ls son, who was by then the main contact point,  that if Mr L had doubts 
or felt uncomfortable acting  in this capacity then they could get a nurse  to fly out. 
Mr and Mrs Ls son confirmed hed discussed  this with Mr L and that URV  should go ahead. I also 
note that the final medical report didnt recommend  a nurse escort.  So I dont think  URV acted  
unreasonably by failing to provide a nurse escort. 
Ref: DRN557716110During those  calls Mr and Mrs Ls son explained Mr L was anxious  and worried about transferring  Mrs 
L from the hotel to the airport and through the airport. He was told the only point Mr and Mrs L would 
be left alone on their journey  was when they were sitting on the aircraft. Unfortunately,  the driver 
didnt want to help Mr L when they arrived at the airport so he said he had to insist on this. So this 
caused further  upset and stress. 
pet care
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy  that URV have declined to pay the pet care benefit.  Ive listened to a call 
between Mr L and URVs doctor where  its clear Mr L was worried  about  who was going  to care for 
their dog, because their dog sitter was going on holiday. 
Ive looked at the policy  term which says: 
We will pay £25 for each 24 hour period up to a maximum of £300. If
You are delayed  following the delayed  arrival in the UK, Channel Islands or BFPO of 
your pre-booked  flight, train,  coach  or sea trip on the return journey which  results in 
you incurring additional kennel or cattery fees
Your cat or dog needs treatment as a result of an injury which  occurred whilst your 
cat or dog was being cared for by a friend, relative  or professional carer in the United 
Kingdom, Channel  Islands or BFPO  whilst you were on your trip. 
Mr and Mrs Ls extended stay was due to Mrs Ls recovery  time. Unfortunately, the scope of the pet 
care cover is limited to two situations, where  a policyholders flight is delayed or where a dog needed  
treatment following injury.  So I dont think its unreasonable for URV to reject this aspect  of the claim 
taking into account the policy wording. 
putting things right
I think  the failure to record the claim when Mr L first contacted  URV was serious, especially taking into 
account the gravity of Mrs Ls condition. Its disappointing to see that none of the calls made in the 
initial hours correspond with URVs logs and action was only taken when Mr and Mrs Ls son made  
contact to chase up a response.   
I think  this initial poor experience was compounded by the content of the calls with URVs  doctor.  
There were  also issues relating to accommodation  during Mr and Mrs Ls stay which I think couldve 
been avoided had the GP records been  chased up earlier. And, on arrival  at the airport,  they had to 
insist on getting the assistance theyd been promised.  
URV have waived the additional premium,  which  I think is reasonable. Theyve  also offered the 
maximum curtailment benefit which is £2500  per person for unused accommodation,  flights and 
excursions. Mr and Mrs L were on the second day of their trip when  Mrs L became  ill so their trip was 
effectively curtailed at that point and so they didnt use the accommodation, trips and flights  theyd 
booked. So, in line with our usual approach, Id expect URV to have paid that benefit as part of the 
settlement of the claim rather than as a gesture  of goodwill.  And, taking into account that this 
happened on the second  day of their trip, I dont think its unreasonable  for URV to pay the maximum  
benefit, which  is what  theyve offered. 
Ive also taken  into account the guidance from the FCA. In their Approach  to Consumers publication 
in July 2018 they defined  vulnerability as:
someone who, due to their personal  circumstances, is especially susceptible to detriment, 
particularly when a firm is not acting with appropriate levels of care.
Ref: DRN557716111Taking all of the above into account  I dont think the overall settlement URV has offered is fair. And I 
think further compensation needs to be paid to Mr and Mrs L, particularly for the severe  distress and 
inconvenience they experienced due to the failure  to log the claim. 
On that basis  Im intending  to award Mr and Mrs L a total of £5000 in compensation   which is within 
the severe and extreme ranges for our service  - to reflect the trouble and upset caused by poor 
claims handling and customer service. Thats in addition to the existing offer URV has made. 
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint to the extent  Ive outlined above and direct Union  
Reiseversicherung AG to put things right as set out above. Mr and Mrs L and URV should  let me 
know by 2 July 2019 if they have anything further to add which might make a difference to the 
outcome of this complaint. 
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5577161