K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage  payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a mortgage  in 2004. Mr 
and Mrs W applied for the PPI over the phone.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint because they werent  eligible for the policy.  
This is because Mrs W was not working  sixteen or more hours per week. This means the 
policy wasnt of any use to them because it required  them  both to be eligible.
I dont think Mr and Mrs W wouldve bought  the policy if theyd realised they werent  eligible. 
So I think Mr and Mrs W have lost out because  of what Santander did wrong. 
Ive taken into account Santanders comments,  including what  it said about how eligibility  
wouldve been checked during the sale  and suggesting that Mrs W therefore would have 
been eligible despite her recollection suggesting otherwise. Its pointed out that Mrs W has 
been unable  to provide  documentary evidence of how many hours per week  she was 
working. But I still think I should uphold the complaint. 
While Santander says eligibility wouldve been  checked during the sale, I understand it holds 
no evidence of what the sales process wouldve been at that time. There  are no call 
recordings, sales process documents or call scripts available. And the only records 
Santander has provided from the time that show Mrs Ws employment status say that her 
occupation wasnt provided, but that she was employed. I think  this suggests that Santander 
collected very little information about  Mrs Ws employment status during the phone  call.
So, in my opinion,  the best evidence we have of Mrs Ws employment status at the point of 
sale is her testimony. Santanders  records dont  contradict what she says. I think  its 
understandable that she doesnt  have records of how many hours she worked per week 
fifteen years ago. And as such  I think its reasonable to rely on what  she has told us. 
Ref: DRN57731082putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs W in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs W the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.  
If Mr and Mrs W made a successful  claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs W a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5773108