K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Certus Financial Planning Limited (Certus) gave him unsuitable advice.
In particular, he says the advice  to transfer deferred benefits from a defined benefits pension  
scheme (DBS) to a drawdown  plan was not reviewed  properly  despite  the transfer value 
being reduced by over £130,00. He says that despite going ahead with Certuss 
recommendation he has not been able to retire  or pay off his mortgage, both of which  were 
key objectives.
Mr D also complains about  the time taken by Certus to advise him on transferring his 
pension.
background
It appears that Mr D met a financial adviser at another  business in January 2017  to discuss  
retirement planning. Mr D had deferred  benefits  in a DBS. The cash  equivalent  transfer 
value of these  benefits was over £610,000.
The adviser did not have the necessary permissions to advise on transfers from defined 
benefits pension  schemes. It contacted Certus on Mr Ds behalf  and asked  it to provide him 
with advice on whether  he should  transfer  his deferred benefits from his employers pension 
scheme.
Certus says it did not meet or speak to Mr D to gather information about  his personal and 
financial situation before  it made its recommendation. It says it instead  relied  on information 
provided by the introducer and a risk questionnaire it asked Mr D to complete.
Based on the information provided, Certus  recommended that Mr D should transfer his 
deferred benefits to a flexible drawdown  plan.
On 9 June 2017 Certus  met Mr D to discuss its recommendation. It had already written a 
suitability report advising Mr D to go ahead with the transfer ahead  of this meeting.
In its suitability report Certus set out that Mr D was 62 years  old and had recently retired.  His 
wife was 49 years old. It noted  that both Mr and Mrs D were in good health and had no 
dependants.
The report  said Mr D had an outstanding  repayment mortgage of around £126,000 and a 
personal loan with an outstanding balance of £29,000. It said Mr D had around £10,000 on 
deposit which serves  as an emergency  fund.  Your only other financial asset is your pension.
The report  also set out:
As I understand you have now retired, you currently have no income in the current tax year.  
The notes provided  by [name of Mr D's adviser]  indicate that [Mrs D] may be employed with 
a gross salary of £15,512. It's not clear whether [Mrs D] has also now retired:  as such I have 
not relied on this income when assessing your current circumstances.
It set out that Mr Ds priorities, in order of importance, were:
1. Access to the maximum level of tax-free  cash
2. Lump  sum death benefits on death  after retirement
3. Spouse's benefits on death after retirement
Ref: DRN540397624. Provision of an increasing pension
5. Obtaining the highest possible level of pension income
6. Securing a guaranteed  income payable for life
Certus recommended that Mr D should  transfer  his deferred benefits to a drawdown plan 
and should then ...immediately withdraw  the maximum level of tax-free cash and use this to 
repay your mortgage and other debt. The remaining fund should  be used to provide income 
or capital  lump sums  to meet your cost of living in the early  years and to supplement your 
state pensions  later in retirement.
It said this recommendation met Mr Ds stated objectives because it would allow him to 
withdraw more tax free cash than if he took his benefits immediately from his occupational 
scheme. It did not explain how the recommendation would meet Mr Ds other priorities  
including the highest possible  level of pension income or secure a guaranteed income  
payable for life'.
After this report was issued the trustees of Mr Ds DBS reduced  the transfer value available. 
Mr Ds cash equivalent transfer  value was reduced to £477,505. The pension  Mr D was 
entitled to from his occupational pension scheme  if he didnt go ahead  with the transfer  
remained the same.
So, despite  the reduction in the transfer  value Mr D would still be able to receive a tax-free 
lump sum of £49,748  and an annual pension of £15,011 per year from his occupational 
pension. Or Mr D could  choose a higher tax-free lump  sum of £87,212 and a lower annual  
pension of £13,081.
Certus issued a revised suitability report to reflect the lower  transfer  value. As the cash  
equivalent transfer value was reduced to £477,505 the maximum tax free lump sum Mr D 
would receive if he went  ahead with the pension transfer was reduced to £119,375.
Certus still recommended that Mr D should  transfer  his deferred benefits out of his DBS. It 
said that if Mr D took the maximum  tax free cash available, he would be able to repay his 
personal loan in full and reduce his mortgage  debt to £35,625 with the lump sum. It 
suggested that he could then draw  additional taxable funds from his plan in order to repay  
his mortgage in full.
Mr D went ahead with Certuss recommendation  and transferred his deferred pension 
benefits into the drawdown plan recommended.
In mid 2018  Mr D complained to Certus. He said the he regretted going  ahead with the 
transfer and he felt Certus  should have reconsidered its advice after his transfer  value was 
reduced. In particular,  Mr D said he hadnt  been able to retire  or pay off his mortgage and 
both objectives  had been ...a strong  part of the reason to consider  the transfer.
Mr D also said he felt the advice process had taken  too long. He said he first spoke to his 
financial adviser in early 2017,  but the transfer didnt go ahead  until September 2017. Mr D 
said he felt the transfer  could  have  gone ahead before  his transfer value  was reduced if 
Certus had acted more quickly.
Certus didnt uphold  Mr Ds complaint. It accepted that it had not met Mr D to discuss  his 
pension transfer  until June 2017. It said it had requested information about Mr Ds personal 
and financial  situation from the introducer. It said it hadnt received all the information it 
Ref: DRN54039763needed until mid March 2017. Once it received the information it needed it said it had made 
its recommendation within three months. It said it felt this was reasonable given the 
complexity of a pension  transfer.
It also said it was satisfied  that the advice it gave Mr D to transfer his deferred benefits out of 
his occupational scheme was suitable. It said the tax free lump sum of £119,375 allowed Mr 
D to clear his unsecured  debt and reduce his mortgage by around 70%.  It said the suitability 
report acknowledged that this did not fully meet Mr Ds objective to repay his mortgage  in 
full. But it said its advice  to transfer  brought Mr D closer to meeting his objectives than taking 
the benefits available to him from his occupational scheme would have done.
It also said Mr D could use the drawdown plan to take ...whatever income you require to 
meet your retirement income  needs  directly from this fund. Our analysis showed that in the 
early years you could comfortably draw down  the £972 a month  you require to meet your 
cost of living, the additional £300 a month you require  for discretionary and leisure  
expenditure and whatever additional sums  are required  to service your mortgage.  While this 
level of drawdown  is unlikely to be sustainable  indefinitely, our analysis shows  it should be 
comfortably sustainable  until your and [Mrs D's] State Pensions become payable.'
Mr D wasnt satisfied with Certuss response and brought  his complaint to this service.  An 
adjudicator reviewed Mr Ds complaint and said he felt it should  be upheld  in part.
He said he didnt think Certus had unnecessarily delayed Mr Ds pension transfer. He noted 
the cash equivalent transfer value  Mr D had received wasnt  guaranteed. He said that once 
Certus had all the information  it felt it needed  to make a recommendation it had not caused 
any undue  delay. Given the complexity involved in advising on pension transfers he said he 
didnt think it was unreasonable  for Certus to have taken several weeks  to prepare its 
recommendation.
However, he said he was of the view that the advice  to transfer  Mr Ds deferred benefits to a 
drawdown plan was unsuitable,  particularly  once the transfer value  had been  reduced.
The adjudicator noted that Certus had recommended the transfer  as it said it was the best 
option to meet Mr Ds objective to be debt fee in retirement. But, with the reduction  in the 
transfer value  to around £477,500 Mr D was only able to take £119,375 as a tax free lump 
sum. This meant that Mr D wasnt able to fully repay  both his unsecured  loan of £29,000 and 
clear his mortgage of £126,000.
In view of this he said he didnt think the advice met Mr Ds needs.
He accepted that if Mr D had been  advised to take the benefits from his occupational 
scheme, he would  not have met his objective  of becoming debt free. He noted Mr D would 
have been able to take around £87,000 tax free cash  and he would have received an initial 
income of £13,081  per year,  and this income  would have increased  each year.
This would have allowed for him to pay off his unsecured loan and reduce his mortgage by 
around £58,000. This in turn would have reduced Mr Ds outgoings by around £703 per 
month, assuming  that his secure  loan would have been paid off and his mortgage payments 
reduced by 50%.
He noted that Certus  did not explain that Mr Ds occupational pension would increase each 
year. And he said he didnt think the value of the spouses pension  Mrs D would be eligible 
Ref: DRN54039764for, if Mr D died before her, was properly taken into account. This was of particular value as 
Mrs D was around 12 years younger  than Mr D.
He also noted  that Mrs D was working  and earned  around £15,500. He said he felt Mrs Ds 
income should have been  taken into consideration, particularly as Mrs D was only 49 years 
old at the time the advice was given.  Instead the recommendation  was made on the basis 
that both Mr and Mrs D had retired.
The suitability report said that one of the main reasons for recommending the pension  
transfer was that Mr D would face financial difficulty until he was eligible for his state  pension  
at age 65. But this was based on the assumption that Mrs D wasnt working. This meant  Mrs 
Ds income of around £15,500 per year was not taken into account.
He also noted  that although  Mr Ds attitude  to investment risk was recorded as six out of ten 
- medium  to high  - Mr D also gave several conflicting answers in relation to his attitude  to 
risk. In particular Mr D said he had no capacity for loss, and he believed it was reckless to 
take financial risks.
In view of this our adjudicator said he was not satisfied that Mr D was willing  or able to take 
on the investment  risk involved in transferring his deferred benefits  to a drawdown  plan.  And 
he said he didnt think Mr D fully understood the risks involved  in the course  of action Certus 
was recommending.
Certus did not accept our adjudicators view. It said, in summary:
Given that Mr D had retired  with very little savings, a large outstanding mortgage  (which he 
had no means to repay) and an income shortfall, we cannot accept that advice to take 
benefits from his occupational  scheme  was best advice.  The transfer to a personal pension 
allowed them to repay a much larger amount of debt, with the capacity to fully repay the 
outstanding debt tax efficiently and shortly.
It also allowed them access to capital and the ability to vary income  and to protect  the value 
of the fund for the future,  in the event of Mr D's death Mrs D would be in a far better position 
than were she to receive spouse benefits  from the DB scheme.
For absolute clarity  we will reiterate  the key points:
 Our Defined Benefit transfer  process  follows the FCA guidelines  (COBS  
19.1.7G08/06/2015)
 Our advice was based  on Mr and Mrs D having the objective of retiring  together,  as stated 
in our suitability report  and confirmed by the client.
 On this basis  the benefits  provided by the DB scheme were not sufficient to meet the 
client's essential needs and stated financial objectives.
 The suitability of the recommendation to transfer is not contingent on future investment 
growth
 The recommended drawdown strategy  is shown to be sustainable even where little or no 
investment growth  is achieved
 Taking benefits directly  from the DB scheme  would  have exposed  Mrs D to the potential  of 
severe financial difficulty in the event of Mr D's death before her State Pension age
 The recommendation to transfer solves the immediate income shortfall and the issue  of 
death benefits for Mrs D
 if Mrs D did elect to continue working  our new analysis indicates  that the transfer was still 
in the client's best interests,  even  in the event  of low investment growth  and early  mortality.
Ref: DRN54039765Certus also said that it had asked the introducer whether Mrs D was also planning to retire. It 
said the introducer indicated that he thought she was, but these assurances felt vague. 
This lack of firm detail was a major  driver for our later insistence  on meeting the client 
directly.
It also noted that:
 Mr and Mrs D had previously worked for the same employer. It seemed reasonable that 
they may choose  to leave employment  at the same  time
 Mrs D has no retirement provision other  than her entitlement to State Pension.  Unless  it 
was her intention to continue working  until her State Pension Age of 66 (a further 16 years,  
by which  time her husband would be aged 79) both partners would need to be self-sufficient 
on Mr D's provision alone
 Mr D was 13 years older than his wife and so it seemed perfectly reasonable to assume 
that they would wish to enjoy retirement  together.
The report  which  we prepared and discussed  at great length during our meeting with the 
clients in June 2017 makes clear  that we had not included Mrs D's earned income. The 
clients agreed this should  not be considered when analysing  their financial circumstances 
and objectives.
An investigator then re-considered  Mr Ds complaint. Having looked at the issues  she said 
she didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld.
She said that she didnt  think Certus  had delayed the pension  transfer  or that it could have 
completed Mr Ds pension  transfer before his cash equivalent transfer value was reduced in 
June 2017.
She noted that Mr D was made aware of the reduced transfer value of £477,505  in August 
2017.
In view of this she said she felt Mr D would  have known that the 25% tax-free  cash  element 
would not be enough to repay his debts entirely. She said she was of the view that the main 
reason Mr D went ahead with the transfer  was to access the higher  tax-free  cash  lump sum 
than was available from his former employers pension  scheme.  She also said that she 
thought Mr D went ahead with the recommendation so that his beneficiaries  could benefit  
from a larger  pot of funds.
She noted that the suitability report provided to Mr D in June 2017  set out that Mrs Ds 
income had not been considered. Certus said this had been  discussed at the meeting in 
June 2017 with Mr D and he had agreed  that it should not be considered.
She said if Mr D wasnt satisfied that his attitude  to risk recorded in the suitability report  was 
correct, he could have  raised this at the time.
She also noted that text messages between Mr D and Certus showed that Mr D was keen to 
receive his tax free cash paid promptly.
She said she thought  Mr D had been keen to go ahead with the transfer. She felt he had 
made an informed decision to go ahead once he read the suitability report. She also noted 
that Certus had emailed  the pension trustees  in September 2017,  copying in Mr D, to say:
Ref: DRN54039766Mr D has confirmed to me that he would  like to proceed with the transfer  despite  the reduced  
transfer value.
She noted that Mr D did not challenge  this email.
Mr D was not satisfied  with this revised view on his complaint. As this was the case  his 
complaint was passed to me to be determined.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 26 May 2020. By way of my provisional 
decision I set out why I considered this complaint should be upheld  in part and how I 
considered the matter  should be fairly settled. 
I set out my provisional  decision as follows:
did Cetus delay the transfer?
Having carefully considered this aspect of Mr Ds complaint I said I didnt think  Certus  had 
unduly delayed  the transfer. Once it had received the information it felt it needed to make  a 
recommendation, I didnt  think  it delayed the process. Even if Certus had gathered the 
information it needed more quickly, I said I didnt think there would  have been  enough  time 
to complete the transfer before the cash equivalent transfer value was reduced.
I said it was very unfortunate that the transfer value was reduced  before the transfer  went  
ahead, but this wasnt something Certus could  control. And, as our adjudicator  noted,  the 
cash equivalent transfer value Mr D had received wasnt guaranteed.
In view if this I said I didnt  think this aspect of Mr Ds complaint should be upheld.
I then considered the suitability of the advice Mr D received.
know your customer
I explained that COBS 2.1.1R  required a business  to act honestly, fairly  and professionally 
in accordance with the best interests  of its client' . In order  to ensure this was the case, and 
in line with the requirements  COBS 9.2.2R, Certus needed to gather the necessary 
information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr Ds objectives.  It also needed to 
ensure that Mr D had the necessary experience  and knowledge  to understand the risks he 
was taking. Broadly  speaking, this section sets out the requirement for a regulated advisory 
business to undertake a fact find process.
I said I was concerned that Certus did not meet or speak to Mr D ahead  of making its 
recommendation to transfer his deferred  pension benefits from his former employers 
pension scheme. It said it had relied on information provided by the introducer.  But there 
were gaps in the information provided. Despite  knowing  that it did not have information that 
would have a significant impact on the advice it gave, Certus simply made assumptions 
about what it thought was the case. In particular I noted it set out in the suitability report:
As I understand you have now retired, you currently have no income in the current tax year.  
The notes provided  by [name of Mr D's adviser]  indicate that [Mrs D] may be employed with 
a gross salary of £15,512. It's not clear whether [Mrs D] has also now retired:  as such I have 
not relied on this income when assessing your current circumstances.
Ref: DRN54039767However, Mr D confirmed  and provided  evidence to this service  to show  that both he and 
Mrs D were still working. As one of the key drivers  for Certuss recommendation was its 
assumption that neither Mr nor Mrs D were working,  I said it appeared that its failure to 
obtain sufficient  fact find information  meant that it relied on incorrect  assumptions.
I noted that in its response to this service  Certus said it had asked the introducer whether 
Mrs D was also planning to retire. It said the ...introducer indicated that he thought she was, 
but these assurances  felt vague. This lack of firm detail was a major driver for our later 
insistence on meeting  the client directly.
But this meeting didnt take place until after Certus had made its recommendation that Mr D 
should transfer his deferred  benefits. I said I accepted that Mr D may have  told Certus at this 
meeting that it didnt  need to take Mrs Ds earnings into account  in its recommendation. But I 
said I was not satisfied that Mr D would have  understood  the impact  this would have on the 
recommendation Certus  made.
Likewise, I noted  that Cetus  had said:
Mr and Mrs D had previously worked  for the same employer. It seemed reasonable that they 
may choose to leave  employment at the same time... Mrs D has no retirement provision 
other than her entitlement  to State Pension...'
I said it seemed very surprising that Mrs D would have no retirement provision other than 
her entitlement to State  Pension' if she had been  working for the same employer as Mr D 
and he was eligible  for a final salary  pension with this employer. I noted  that Certus  had not 
explained this apparent  discrepancy. Again, given this would have a significant  impact on Mr 
and Mrs Ds retirement planning I said I would have expected Certus to have gathered  
information to support  its claim  that Mrs D had no retirement provisions (aside from a state 
pension).
I noted that Mr D had also told this service  that he has found it difficult  to meet his financial 
obligations despite now having some  self-employed earnings. He said he had used his tax 
free lump  sum and was drawing £1,000  per month  from his pension  but he said ...I am 
having to draw down  cash  sums from my pension fund and will need  to find a further 
£150,000 in 6 years time to pay the outstanding balance  on my mortgage.
Based on Mr Ds comments  I said it appeared that the breakdown  of Mr and Mrs Ds 
expenditure set out in the suitability report significantly  underestimated their regular 
expenses. I noted that these figures were not checked with Mr D before the recommendation 
was made.  I said the expenses seemed  to me to be very modest. In total the adviser only 
allowed £972 to meet Mr and Mrs Ds monthly living expenses and made no allowance for 
additional ad-hoc expenses such as replacing  a car, or home maintenance. The breakdown 
also only allowed £300 per month  for discretionary and leisure expenditure. From Mr Ds 
comments to this service it would appear  that the living expenses Certus used significantly 
understated Mr and Mrs Ds monthly outgoings.
I said I was also concerned to note that Mr D had said his mortgage  balance outstanding 
was £150,000 when, based  on the information Certus  used  to make its recommendation it 
said his outstanding mortgage  was £126,000.
I noted that, in the suitability report,  Certus said:
The main  benefit  of this arrangement [the drawdown  plan recommended]  over the first 
scenario is the option to significantly reduce your mortgage immediately. It eliminates the 
Ref: DRN54039768worrying income shortfall in the early years  and leaves  you free to enjoy the first years  of 
retirement.
It appeared that this has not been  Mr and Mrs Ds experience as both Mr and Mrs D have 
had to continue  to work and have not yet been  able to retire.
In view of this I said I was not satisfied  that Certus had taken adequate steps  to ensure that 
it had gathered sufficient  information about Mr Ds personal and financial circumstances in 
order to make a suitable recommendation.
attitude to risk
The attitude to risk questionnaire sets out that Mr Ds attitude to risk was six on a scale  of 
one to ten. It was described as a medium to high attitude to risk.
But I noted that in the risk questionnaire  Mr D gave a number of conflicting answers in 
relation to his attitude to investment risk. In particular  I noted that hed said he felt it was 
reckless to take financial risks, that compared  to the average person he takes lower financial 
risks, and that he does  not feel comfortable  with financial  uncertainty.
Most concerning in answer to the question:
How much of this investment could  you stand to lose without having  a significant impact  on 
your future?
Mr D answered  none  or very limited losses. I said I thought  this was an accurate reflection 
of Mr Ds personal and financial situation.
Given Mr Ds circumstances, I said I didnt think he had any capacity for loss. He had 
£10,000 in savings and no investments. He also had unsecured debts of around £29,000 
and an outstanding mortgage of £126,000  according  to the suitability report.  From the limited 
fact find information  available  it appeared his DBS benefits were his sole retirement  
provision.
Mr D was in his early 60s and wanted to retire so he had little, if any, time before retirement  
to make up any lost pension assets.
I said that an analysis  of Mr Ds position couldnt, in my view,  reasonably  produce  the 
conclusion that he had the capacity  for the loss of his pension  funds.
In the suitability report, under the heading  Capacity for Loss Certus said:
Whenever you invest you have to accept there  is a risk to your capital. Any capacity  for loss 
is based on what you are prepared to lose, or can afford to lose, which  is based on your 
personal circumstances. Having agreed  your attitude to investment risk, you discussed with 
[name of introducer] how this could impact on potential losses  to your remaining fund.
The Financial Life Modelling analyses  discussed  in this report show that fluctuation in the 
value of your drawdown fund would not prohibit you from achieving your stated goals  and 
maintaining your standard of living, and therefore  we have been happy to recommend a 
starting investment  portfolio in harmony with your stated attitude to risk.
I said that, as Id set out earlier, I didnt think the fact find information Certus relied upon 
when making its recommendation was an accurate reflection of Mr Ds circumstances. This 
Ref: DRN54039769recommendation did not allow Mr D to achieve his stated goals and maintaining your 
standard of living'.
suitability
Once the fact finding was complete, COBS 9.4.7R requires a business to explain why the 
firm has concluded that the recommended transaction  is suitable  for the client - in other 
words, it needed to provide its customer with a report setting out its advice and the reasons  
for it.
COBS 19.1.6 sets out:
When advising a retail  client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme  or other scheme with safeguarded  benefits whether to 
transfer, or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be 
suitable. A firm should only then consider  a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable  if it 
can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer or opt-out is in the 
client's best interests.
I said I didnt think, based  on the evidence and information that had been provided to this 
service, that Certus had demonstrated that transferring Mr Ds DBS benefits to a drawdown 
plan was in his, or Mrs Ds, best interests.
In particular I noted that Certus provided a lengthy  explanation about why it felt Mr D should 
go ahead  with the drawdown  plan it had recommended but had little to say about  the 
benefits Mr D was giving up. I didnt think it gave  a fair and balanced  account  of the benefits 
Mr D was entitled to from his DBS. Given Mr Ds very limited capacity for loss I didnt think  
the value of the guaranteed and increasing annual pension he would  receive from his 
occupational scheme was adequately  discussed.
In the suitability report the under  the heading Loss of Guarantees', Certus said:
It is of paramount importance to fully understand  that on transferring your benefits  from the 
[name of employer] pension scheme the guarantees that you currently  enjoy  will cease to 
apply.
Your benefits will instead become dependent upon  the future investment returns achieved by 
Royal London.
But the report did not set out in any detail what these guarantees were,  I said I was 
particularly concerned that the suitability report did not make clear that by going  ahead with 
the pension transfer Mr D was giving up a secure  and increasing  income  for the rest of his 
life.
Likewise, it did not discuss  the spouses  pension that Mrs D would receive if Mr D were to 
die first. Given that Mr D was 12 years older than Mrs D this was an important benefit and Mr 
D was being advised to give this up when he went ahead with Certuss  recommendation.
I noted that the suitability report referred to the calculations and projections Certus  had 
provided to Mr D. It referred to these projections  throughout  the report. For example, it said:
At your assumed mortality date of 2044  the total value of your joint estate is forecast to be 
£1,850,982. This is a vast increase on the £941,090 illustrated in the first report. The entirety 
Ref: DRN540397610of your remaining  pension  fund could pass to [Mrs D] on your death  and means she would 
again be able to maintain  the same  level of expenditure for the remainder of her life. At her 
assumed mortality date of 2056 the net value of your joint estate  is forecast to be £3,165,877 
(compared to £1,364,228 in the first scenario). The vast majority of this (£2,294,449) is held 
in your drawdown pension  arrangements.
But these  calculations were (as I set out above) based on Mr D taking an income from his 
drawdown plan that was too low to meet his actual expenditure.  I said I thought  that the 
repeated use of figures based on flawed modelling led Mr D to think he would be much 
better off if he accepted  Certuss recommendation.
I said I didnt think the report made  it clear  that Mr D and his wife would be reliant  on the 
investment performance  of his drawdown  plan to last for the next 40 years, based on the 
mortality rates used  by Certus.  After tax free cash,  a fund of £355,000  was to last both Mr 
and Mrs D for 40 years or more.
Instead Certus said that based on the calculations it had made  Mr D would not be able to 
meet even your basic living expenses' for two years until he reached  state  retirement age if 
he took the benefits available  under  his occupational  scheme. But it appears that having  
taken Certuss advice Mr D was not able to meet his living expenses and has been  unable to 
retire.
I noted that Certus  said that it did not provide a transfer value analysis as Mr D intended to 
take his benefits immediately.  But I said it was still required  to make sure that Mr D 
understood both the short  and long term implications of its advice. In the absence  of a clear  
explanation of the value  of the benefits  Mr D was giving up I said I was not persuaded that 
Certus made the risks involved clear to Mr D.
summary
I said I didnt think the advice Mr D received to transfer his deferred benefits to a drawdown 
plan was suitable. Even if the higher transfer value  of over £610,000  had been  paid by the 
trustees I was not persuaded that giving up his defined benefits was suitable  as Mr D had no 
capacity for loss.
When the transfer value was reduced  by over £130,000 to around £477,000, I said I thought  
Certus should have very carefully re-considered the advice  it had given.  I was not satisfied 
that it did so.
In particular I didnt  think the value of the benefits  Mr D was giving up were adequately  
explained to him. And I didnt think he understood that there  was a significant risk that he 
would end up worse  off over the longer term by going ahead with the pension  transfer.  Even 
if Mr D was attracted to the opportunity to receive a larger tax free cash  lump sum than he 
could receive from his occupational pension scheme, Certus  was required to give suitable 
advice and explain the long term risks and disadvantages of this option. I was not satisfied  
that it did so.
My provisional decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint in part. In order to put 
matters right I said that a fair and reasonable outcome  would be for Certus to put Mr D, as 
far as possible, into the position  he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice.
Ref: DRN540397611Mr D responded to say he accepted my provisional  decision and did not have any further 
points he wished to make.
Certus also responded.  It said it did not accept my provisional  decision  and made a number  
of comments. In summary it said:
We believe that some clarification is needed as to the exact complaint made by Mr D. 
Accepting that the Ombudsman agrees  that there was no undue time delay, we reiterate that 
we believe that the second part of the complaint where Mr D says "I was not properly 
advised once  the figures  had changed" was summarised accurately and succinctly in the 
Investigator's report, and that Mr D was perfectly  well aware of the effect  of the changed 
transfer value.
That notwithstanding we believe  that we have provided sufficient information  here to 
evidence that we had obtained appropriate knowledge of Mr D's circumstances prior to 
giving any advice; his priorities were clearly stated and confirmed by him, and we believe 
that assumptions made by the Ombudsman about  the fact finding  and information obtained 
prior to the advice  to transfer are misguided.
Mr D took tax free cash from the transferred funds in order to repay  most  of his debt in 
October 2017. We do not understand why he now tells the Ombudsman that he still has a 
mortgage of £150,000. While our recommendation could not have taken account of any debt 
which was not disclosed to us our subsequent  analysis shows  that the recommended 
transfer would have allowed the client to achieve  his objectives with no investment growth 
whatsoever; that cash-like returns would have  allowed his goals to be met and provided  
additional capital  for use at his discretion; that mid-rate investment returns appropriate to the 
recommended investments would have provided  substantial additional wealth even after 
deduction of capital to clear  the additional  debt.
It is clear that his foremost priority  was to achieve  the maximum possible lump sum;  and his 
desire to realise  the cash sum has been evidenced in his texts and e-mails already provided 
to the FOS as well as his intentions  being clearly communicated in the Retirement Options 
and Pension Transfer  Attitude  questionnaires.
We cannot agree that taking the occupational  scheme benefits, leaving him with a debt of 
£68,000 in retirement,  with no means  of repaying that, coupled with a lower fixed income,  
could have been appropriate for Mr D, given his clearly stated objectives. That the transfer  to 
a personal pension achieves  this and also provides him with a fund to provide flexible and 
sustainable benefits in retirement results, in our view confirms that the advice to transfer  was 
completely appropriate.
We urge the Ombudsman  to reconsider the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and having  carefully  considered all the points Certus had raised in response 
to my provisional decision I remain of the view that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld  in 
part. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN540397612Mr Ds complaint
Certus says that in his complaint Mr D did not refer to his decision to transfer  the 
occupational scheme to the personal pension but that his complaint  referred  to the time 
taken for the transfer and that "I was not properly advised once the figures had changed"  
the recent provisional  decision  goes beyond the specific complaint when considering the 
appropriateness of the transfer.
I appreciate Certuss point, but Mr Ds complaint  that he wasnt  properly advised once the 
transfer figure had reduced is effectively, in my view, a complaint about  the advice he 
received. And I dont  see how this could reasonably be interpreted any other way. 
But even if Im wrong on that, this service has what is often referred  to as an inquisitorial 
remit. In other words, I am able to go further than just considering a complaint as it is written 
or explained. I must consider  what lies at the heart of the complaint and consider the whole  
picture. And in this instance, Mr Ds concern about  the transaction generally, including  the 
failure to review the proposal after the reduction in the transfer value, would enable me to 
consider the suitability aspect.
know your customer
Certus says it felt that we have provided  sufficient  information here to evidence  that we 
had obtained appropriate knowledge  of Mr D's circumstances prior to giving any advice; his 
priorities were clearly  stated and confirmed by him, and we believe that assumptions  made  
by the Ombudsman about  the fact finding and information obtained prior to the advice to 
transfer are misguided.
I have carefully considered all that Certus has said about the information  it gathered  about  
Mr Ds personal  and financial circumstances.  It says it provided a draft copy  of its 
recommendation to the introducer  to fact check and approve . But, as Certus will know, it 
was responsible for the suitability of the advice it gave, not the introducer. 
Certus has not explained  why, if it had checked the information with the introducer, the 
suitability report that was presented to Mr D still included  assumptions it had made  and did 
not refer to Mr and Mrs Ds actual situation. In particular, I remain  of the view that the 
suitability report should have recorded their actual circumstances. I note that the suitability 
report said:
 It's not clear whether  [Mrs D] has also now retired: as such  I have not relied on this income 
when assessing  your current circumstances.
Certus says Mr D  confirmed that all of the information contained within  the report was 
accurate and complete, including the details of his £126,000 mortgage debt and the fact no 
ongoing earnings for his wife should be included, and signed a document  to attest to this 
fact. 
I have re-reviewed the factfind information  Certus relied on when making its 
recommendation. Having done so I remain of the view that, even if I accept that Mr D told 
Certus that it didnt need to take Mrs Ds earnings into account in its recommendation, I dont 
think Mr D would have understood the impact this would have on the recommendation 
Certus made.
Ref: DRN540397613I also note that Cetus  had not provided  anything in its response to my provisional decision to 
explain why it said Mrs D had no retirement  provision  other  than her entitlement  to State 
Pension' if she had been working for the same employer as Mr D and he was eligible for a 
final salary pension with this employer. 
I remain of the view that this would have  a significant impact  on Mr and Mrs Ds retirement 
planning. I would have expected Certus to have gathered  information  to support its claim 
that Mrs D had no retirement provisions (aside from a state pension).
Likewise, I note that Certus has not addressed the points I raised in relation to the 
breakdown of Mr and Mrs Ds expenditure set out in the suitability report. In my provisional 
decision I said that Mr D had also told this service that he has found  it difficult to meet his 
financial obligations despite now having some  self-employed earnings. He said he had used 
his tax free lump  sum and was drawing £1,000 per month from his pension but he said ...I 
am having to draw  down cash sums  from my pension fund and will need to find a further 
£150,000 in 6 years time to pay the outstanding balance  on my mortgage.
Based on Mr Ds comments  I said it appeared that the breakdown  of Mr and Mrs Ds 
expenditure set out in the suitability report significantly  underestimated their regular 
expenses. 
I said the expenses  seemed  to me to be very modest. In total the adviser only allowed £972 
to meet  Mr and Mrs Ds monthly living expenses  and made  no allowance  for additional ad-
hoc expenses such as replacing a car, or home maintenance. The breakdown also only 
allowed £300 per month  for discretionary and leisure expenditure. From Mr Ds comments  to 
this service it would  appear that the living expenses  Certus  used  significantly  understated Mr 
and Mrs Ds monthly outgoings.
In its response to my provisional decision Certus said:
The Ombudsman also questions  the level of expenditure set out in our suitability report, 
which again, with respect,  we would counter that we relied upon the information provided  by 
the client and again, which he accepted when signing the contemporaneous  confirmation  
that the information we relied upon was accurate.
But Certus  is a professional financial adviser  and it was being paid to give Mr D suitable 
financial advice. I dont  think  it was fair or reasonable for it to take such low expenditure 
figures at face value.  This is particularly the case given the very long term consequences for 
Mr and Mrs D if Mr D was left with too low an income in retirement.
Its not unusual  for consumers to significantly underestimate their monthly  outgoings and as 
a professional financial adviser  I think Cetus  should have provided advice and guidance to 
Mr D to help him to properly work out what he and Mrs Ds future outgoings were  likely to be. 
I note Certus now says that it allowed; An additional £350/month of additional  
miscellaneous expenditure has been assumed to cover, for example, home maintenance 
or replacing  a car.
I dont agree that this is correct. In the suitability report it set out:
The following  is a breakdown of your current regular  outgoings  as I understand them  based  
on our conversation:
Ref: DRN540397614Mortgage repayments £412
Loan repayments £507
Council tax £135
Buildings and Contents Insurance £37
Gas & Electricity £80
Water £40
Mobile phones  £40
TV £25
Broadband/landline £50
Groceries £350
Car - fuel £100
Car - Insurance/tax/servicing £65
Clothing £50
Recreation & entertainment £200
Holidays £50
Birthdays & Christmas £50
These figures are represented as monthly  amounts. Some of these  may be payable  at 
different frequencies but have been  calculated on a pro-rata monthly  basis.
Your total of these monthly figures is £2,191, £919 of which relates  to servicing  debts and 
mortgage repayments. Of the remaining  £1,272, £972 relates to the cost of living;  £300 
relates to discretionary and leisure  expenditure.
There is no allowance for an additional £350/month of additional miscellaneous 
expenditure in these  figures.
I also note that Certus says if Mr D had additional debt this was not disclosed to us; if he 
has accrued further  debt since  then this has no bearing on the advice given at the time.  In 
either case we cannot be criticised as a result.
Again, I think  that, as a professional adviser,  Certus  should have done more to explain to 
Mr D why it was important  that it was fully aware  of his personal and financial situation.  Mr D 
has been open with this service about  his financial situation so it seems  unlikely that he 
would have deliberately sought  to provide incorrect information to Certus. It seems more  
likely to me that Mr D felt that as a recommendation had already been made there seemed 
little value in correcting any discrepancies as he did not appreciate  that this might 
significantly change the advice given.
Having carefully re-considered the factfind information Certus relied on I remain of the view 
that it did not take adequate steps  to ensure that it had gathered  sufficient accurate 
information about Mr Ds personal and financial circumstances  in order to make  a suitable 
recommendation.
suitability
In its response to my provisional decision Certus said:
The client  confirmed that he was happy with the recommended  investment, the potential  
risks having  been  explained to him, and that he wished to proceed with the transfer.
Ref: DRN540397615But, as I set out in my provisional decision I dont think Certus gave a fair and balanced  
account in the suitability  report of the benefits Mr D was entitled to from his DBS. Given  
Mr Ds very limited capacity for loss I dont think the value  of the guaranteed and increasing 
annual pension he would receive from his DBS was adequately discussed.
Certus gave a lengthy explanation about  why it felt Mr D should go ahead  with the drawdown 
plan it had recommended  but had little to say about  the benefits Mr D was giving up. The 
report did not set out in any detail  what the guarantees Mr D was giving up were  and did not 
make clear  that by going ahead with the pension transfer Mr D was giving up a secure and 
increasing income for the rest of his life.
Likewise, it did not discuss  the spouses  pension that Mrs D would receive if Mr D were to 
die first. Given that Mr D was 12 years older than Mrs D, this was an important benefit and 
Mr D was being advised to give this up when  he went ahead  with Certuss recommendation. 
Mrs D had no documented need  for a lump  sum,  and the value of a spouses pension from 
the DBS would have offered a significant  benefit and flexibility in deciding upon her own 
employment future.
Certus says that Mr Ds ...foremost priority was to achieve the maximum possible lump 
sum. 
And it says it cannot agree that taking his occupational scheme  benefits  would  have been  
appropriate for Mr D. 
But as I explained  above it did not have a full picture  of Mr and Mrs Ds personal and 
financial situation when  it gave its advice  which is a significant  problem  here. The income  
Mr and Mrs D required in retirement  was significantly understated and I think  it should have 
been clear to Certus  that this was the case. Likewise, it did not query why the introducer 
claimed Mrs D did not have any pension benefits,  despite having worked at the same 
employer as Mr D - who clearly had a defined  benefits pension.  It also based  its advice on 
the assumption that Mrs D was not working when this was not the case.
Certus says:
We cannot agree that taking the occupational  scheme benefits, leaving him with a debt of 
£68,000 in retirement,  with no means  of repaying that, coupled with a lower fixed income,  
could have been appropriate for Mr D, given his clearly stated objectives. That the transfer  to 
a personal pension achieves  this and also provides him with a fund to provide flexible and 
sustainable benefits in retirement results, in our view confirms that the advice to transfer  was 
completely appropriate.
But the advice  Mr D received didnt, in any case,  meet his objectives.  The lump sum was 
insufficient to repay Mr Ds mortgage, the income  is not sufficient to meet  Mr and Mrs Ds 
monthly outgoings and Mr D has had to continue  to work. 
The difference between the tax fee lump sums  available  from the DBS and a transfer  
arrangement, after the reduction in the transfer value, was £32,000. But this would have 
been more than compensated for by the value  of the guaranteed income Mr D would receive 
for the rest of his life.
Had Mr D instead retained  his DBS benefits  and taken the maximum tax free cash, he would 
have repaid much of his secured and unsecured debt and had a guaranteed income (with 
guaranteed spouses benefits in the event of his death), with which he could have continued 
to service the debt until it was repaid.  
Ref: DRN540397616Having very carefully  considered this matter  I remain  of the view that the advice to transfer  
Mr Ds defined pension benefits  was unsuitable.
what the business must  do to put things right
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part, and that a fair and reasonable outcome 
would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible,  into the position he would  now be 
in but for the unsuitable advice.
Certus Financial Planning  Limited  must undertake  a redress calculation  in line with the 
regulators pension review  guidance  as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in 
October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published (as at the date of that decision). In accordance with 
the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate 
provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.
Certus may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain Mr Ds 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any past loss 
(i.e. extra net income or tax-free cash Mr D would already have received from the 
occupational scheme) should be paid to him as a lump sum.
The compensation in respect  of any future loss should if possible be paid into Mr Ds 
pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If the future loss payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance  
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making  a notional 
deduction to allow for future income  tax that would otherwise have been paid.
For example, if Mr D would have been yet to take a tax-free cash sum from the occupational 
scheme, 25% of the future loss would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20% so making a 
notional deduction  of 15% overall from the future  loss adequately reflects this.
But if a tax-free  cash sum from the occupational scheme has already  been taken into 
account in the payment for past loss above, the remaining future  loss is in respect of taxable  
income only. So, it would be appropriate to make  a notional deduction of 20% in full.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr D 
within 90 days of the date Certus receives  notification of his acceptance  of my final decision.
Ref: DRN540397617Further interest must be added to the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 
90 days, that it takes Certus to pay Mr D this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  - and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In order  to put matters right Certus 
Financial Planning Limited should  pay the amount  calculated as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2020.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5403976