K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains that John  Lewis Financial  Services Limited wont  refund  to her the money 
that she paid for a kitchen and the other  costs that shes claimed. Her complaint is made 
against John Lewis Financial Services under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
background
Ms C used her John Lewis Financial Services credit  card to pay a total of £9,325.42 for 
some kitchen units to be supplied to her. She made  payments  of £1,000  and £5,379.94 in 
June 2017 and £2,945.48  in November 2017.  When the kitchen was being  installed in 
November 2017,  it became  clear that there were a number  of issues with the units  and some 
of the design features. There were then significant  delays in the kitchen being  fitted   and it 
wasnt installed by Christmas as Ms C had wanted.  The supplier offered to refund £5,000 to 
Ms C. But she claimed £16,325.42 from John Lewis Financial Services  under section 75 
which was a refund of the amount that she paid to the supplier and other costs  that she says 
that shed incurred. John Lewis Financial Services said that the suppliers offer of a refund  of 
£5,000 was still available and it offered to refund the remaining £4,325.42 that shed paid to 
the supplier and to pay her £1,500  for her consequential losses.  It paid her £150 
compensation because of some service issues. Ms C didnt accept its offer and complained 
to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld  in part. She was 
satisfied that thered  been a breach of contract  by the supplier. And she said that it would be 
fair and reasonable for John Lewis Financial Services to refund to Ms C the £9,325.42  that 
shed paid to the supplier  and to pay her £3,000 (£500 for the costs  shed incurred and 
disruption of not having a functioning kitchen  - and £2,500 to cover  the cost of the fitting 
work). And she recommended that it should also cover the costs  for storage and removal  of 
the kitchen (if Ms C was able to provide evidence of those  costs) and to arrange the removal 
of the kitchen (if it was still in place).  
Ms C has asked for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  She has responded 
in detail and says, in summary, that:
the supplier didnt offer to fit the kitchen;
the subsistence  costs that shes  claimed  are reasonable;
shed already paid £4,500 for fitting   and the kitchen she now has is slightly different 
so shes had to incur further additional costs; and 
John Lewis Financial  Services has already offered  her "inconvenience" 
compensation of £1,500  and that offer should stand.
So she says that should receive £19,135.94 from John  Lewis  Financial Services.  And she 
says that she fundamentally doesn't agree that, given the timescale of getting this matter  
sorted, her claim is unreasonable. She says that, at the very least she should have:
the cost of the kitchen refunded to her;
all of her out of pocket  expenses  honoured;
the cost of removals and storage of the old kitchen refunded;
any and all expenses incurred in the fitting  of the original kitchen returned to her; and
the offer of £1,500  of compensation  currently on the table from John Lewis Financial 
Services honoured (if not more).
John Lewis  Financial Services says that it feels that the offer of resolution that it made  to 
Ms C was fair and reasonable given the circumstances.
Ref: DRN53969112my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Ms Cs complaint about  John Lewis  
Financial Services, I must be satisfied that theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the kitchen supplier and that John Lewis Financial Services'  response  
to her claim  under section  75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im not determining the outcome of 
Ms Cs claim  under section  75 as only a court would be able to do that.
John Lewis  Financial Services responded to Ms Cs claim in March  2018 and said that it 
was:  prepared to make an ex-gratia  offer of £5,824.42 in full and final settlement of 
[Ms Cs] claim and without admission of any liability basis.  This is a full refund of the 
contract, plus £1,500 for consequential losses (which I believe would also cover any minor 
fitting costs incurred, if any), minus £5,000 offered by the retailer. And it said that it had: 
asked for evidence of the loss [Ms C] incurred for fitting,  however [shes] not provided any 
invoice/receipts for this. As no fitting  took place  (as the fault was noticed  before  installation), 
I can only assume no costs were incurred by you.
Ms C didnt accept that offer and complained  to this service. She says that her relationship  
with the supplier has broken down so she wants John Lewis  Financial Services to refund the 
full amount that she paid to the supplier and she included a detailed breakdown of the other 
costs that she was claiming.  One of those  costs was £4,500 for the fitter  but of that, £1,000 
was for a plasterer, £500 was for taking out the old kitchen and removing it and £500 was for 
removal of the old tiles  and Ms C wouldve incurred  those  costs  if there  hadnt  been any 
issues with the units. The other items  on that invoice totalling £2,500 are additional costs 
relating to the units provided by the supplier and dealing with the issues  caused by the 
supplier.
Neither the supplier  nor John Lewis Financial Services has admitted that theres  been  a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier.  But Im persuaded that theres  
enough evidence  to show that there were a number of issues  with the units and some  of the 
design features.  I consider that to be a breach of contract by the supplier  and John Lewis 
Financial Services is jointly liable for that breach  of contract under section 75.
And I find that it would  be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for John Lewis  
Financial Services to rework Ms Cs credit card account as if the payments totalling 
£9,325.42 hadnt been made to the supplier for the kitchen. And I also find that it would  be 
fair and reasonable for it to reimburse  Ms C for £2,500 of the costs that she paid to the fitter 
and which  relate  to the kitchen from the supplier  and the issues  arising with it. But Im not 
persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require John Lewis Financial  
Services to reimburse Ms C for any of the other  fitting costs that shes incurred. 
Ms C has provided evidence to show that she paid £200 for the units to be transported  to a 
storage facility in June  2018 and that she paid £120.76 in June 2018 and £127.68 in July 
2018 for the units  to be stored.  I understand that the units  remain in storage and that shes  
made further payments to the storage facility. I consider that it would be fair and reasonable 
for John  Lewis  Financial Services to reimburse Ms C for the transportation and storage  costs 
that shes incurred  (with  interest). 
Ref: DRN53969113Ms C has suffered distress, inconvenience  and other costs as a result of the breach of 
contract. And I agree  with the investigator that £500 compensation for those issues  is fair 
and reasonable in these  circumstances. John Lewis Financial Services offered to pay her 
£1,500 for her consequential losses  not for her inconvenience. And Im not persuaded that 
a higher award of compensation is justified in these  circumstances. Nor am I persuaded that 
it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require John Lewis Financial Services to reimburse  
Ms C for the subsistence  costs and the other  expenses that shes  claimed.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Ms Cs complaint in part. And I order  John 
Lewis Financial Services Limited  to:
1.Rework Ms Cs credit card account as if the payments totalling  £9,3235.42  hadnt 
been made to the supplier, and - if that puts the account into credit - to pay interest at 
an annual rate of 8% simple on the credit  balance for the periods  that the account 
was in credit (and it should also refund that credit  balance to Ms C).
2.If Ms C has repaid the £9,325.42  (or any part of it) to John Lewis  Financial Services 
but doesnt have a credit balance, to pay interest  on the amount that shes  repaid at 
an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
3.Pay £2,500  to reimburse  Ms C for part of the fitting costs.
4.Reimburse Ms C for the costs that shes incurred for transporting  the units to a 
storage facility and for storing the units since then.
5.Pay interest on the amounts at 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple  from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
6.Pay £500 to Ms C to compensate her for the distress  and inconvenience  and other  
costs that shes incurred.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires John Lewis Financial Services to deduct tax from the 
interest payments  referred to above. John Lewis Financial Services  must give Ms C a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted  if she asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5396911