K821x#15complaint
Mr J has complained about the advice that he received from Pi Financial Ltd ("Pi")  in 
2008:
To transfer  his four existing pension plans to a new complex  income drawdown 
pension plan and
To contract out of the State Earnings  Related Pension Scheme  (SERPS)  using 
a Rebate Only Pension Plan (ROPP).
Mr J says his attitude to risk was not determined correctly. He is also unhappy  with the costs  
that he incurred  on the transfers into the new drawdown plan. Mr J now believes that he 
would have been better off if he had not transferred.
background
On 18 August 2008 a factfind was completed by Pi. This recorded that Mr J was then aged 
59 and employed  full time. He wanted to review his pension plans and to investigate  the 
possibility of investing in fine wine with part of his fund or by using the tax free cash  that 
would be available. Mr J was planning  to retire at age 65. Mr J owned his own property that 
was subject to an interest  only mortgage  of £115,000. The factfind also records  he wanted 
to:
ensure that growth is protected along with capital protection. Mr [J] is keen  to 
ensure that his wife is also fully protected should he die before and after he has 
taken his pension.
The fact find recorded  Mr Js attitude  to risk as 2 on a scale  of 1-6. This was described  as 
Cautious to Realistic and was further described as:
 You would like to benefit  from long term investment  returns but are wary of stock  
market volatility and would like to make some compensation by means of lower  risk 
investments. Investments  in this area will include:  With Profits Funds, Cautious 
Managed Funds and Corporate Bond Funds.
Mr J had approached  the advisers from his current providers about his existing pension  
plans but was advised by them  to leave his policies where they were.  The plans were worth  
about £90.000 in total. However Mr J was still keen to access  the tax free lump  sum and this 
is why he contacted Pi. 
As Mr J was concerned about the investment returns on his funds Pi suggested that he 
might like to consider a guaranteed income  investment  going  forward and it provided a 
number of illustrations.
On 29 September  2008 Pi proposed that Mr J transfer to an income drawdown arrangement 
with a secure income option. This would allow him to access the tax free lump sum and then 
have an income going  forward that would not be less than £3,020 per year.  This income  
could be paid if Mr J did not take out more than the guaranteed level of income. This income  
could increase in future if the future investment returns permitted it.
On 30 September  2008 the business  wrote to Mr J setting out details  of the four pension 
plans that he held. The total transfer value was just over £94,000. The letter stated that all of 
Ref: DRN57725162these funds were invested and could be affected by market forces.  I note that during 2008 
stockmarkets around the world fell significantly.  The letter set out that Mr J was interested in 
taking the all or part of the tax free cash sum available  to possibly invest in fine wines and to 
secure a minimum level of income  from his funds that could increase in the future.
Mr J was also concerned to ensure that in the event of his death his wife was fully protected. 
Illustrations were then obtained from three  different drawdown providers. These showed that 
the annual management costs of the new drawdown arrangement varied  between  2.6% and 
3.0%. 
The letter also recommended that Mr J contract  out of SERPS so that he could take a further  
tax free cash payment in the future  from the new ROPP. It noted that no cash lump sum 
would be available  from the SERPS  arrangement. Mr J accepted  the advice and on            
29 September 2008 a new ROPP was set up. 
Later, on 5 November 2008  the new drawdown plan was set up and approximately £80,000  
was transferred into it.
In December 2008 Mr J withdrew the tax free lump sum of about  £20,000  from the new 
drawdown plan.
On 13 August 2013 Mr J took benefits from his ROPP  under triviality rules. He received a 
gross amount of about £5,000.
I note that between 2008 and 2016 Mr J took income from the drawdown plan that 
amounted  to over £21,000.  However  in 2016  Mr J fully surrendered  the balance in the 
new drawdown plan under the pension  freedoms rules. He received about £60,000 
(gross) .
On 21 June 2016 Mr J complained to Pi about the advice he had received to transfer  to the 
new drawdown plan and also about  the advice that he had received to contract  out of 
SERPS. 
Pi did not uphold  the complaint on the basis that it was recorded that Mr J had wanted to 
access the tax free lump sum and to have some  security of the income  amounts that he 
would receive in the future. This it noted could only be achieved via an income drawdown 
arrangement. It could not be achieved using his existing pension  plans. Pi argued that Mr J 
had wanted to access the tax free lump sum and this is why the transfer  to the new plan 
went ahead.
Pi also considered  that the advice  to contract  out of SERPS was appropriate for Mr J given  
his circumstances.
Mr J then complained to the Financial Ombudsman  Service about the advice he had 
received to transfer into the drawdown  plan and also the advice he had received to contract 
out of SERPS.
An adjudicator  then investigated  the complaint  and issued  her view on 15 February  2017  
in which  she concluded  that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She considered  that whilst  
the new drawdown  plan did offer guarantees  she did not consider  these  were  valuable  to, 
or understood  by, Mr J.
Ref: DRN57725163The adjudicator  noted  that despite  the fact that Mr J wanted  to retire  at age 65 the new 
drawdown  plan was set up with a normal  retirement  age of 75.
With regards  to the advice  to continue  to contract  out of SERPS  the adjudicator  noted  that 
Mr J was almost  60 years  old and was planning  to retire  at age 65. She considered  that 
Mr J should  have  been  advised  not to contract  out of SERPS.  This was because  the 
rebates  received  by the ROPP,  if Mr J contracted  out, were  not large  enough  to ensure  
that it was likely  that he would  be better  off when  he retired.
The adjudicator  upheld  the complaint  and set down  a method  of determining  redress.   Pi 
stated  that it was minded  to agree  the adjudicators  findings  in an email  dated  28 June  
2017.  It stated  that it just wanted  to see the conclusion  in the calculation  of redress.  
However  on 16 August  2017  Pi argued  that the complaint  had been  made  too late. This 
issue  was addressed  by me in a jurisdiction  decision  dated  20 December  2018.  In this 
decision  I stated  that both aspects  of the complaint  could  be considered  by the 
Financial  Ombudsman  Service.
Pi has been asked  by email by this service  in September 2019  if it had any further 
submissions to make before it was referred  back to me for the final decision. I note that it 
has made no further submissions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
1.Transfer to a new Income Drawdown Plan
At the time of advice  to transfer into a new complex  income drawdown  plan in August 2008 
Mr J was 59 years old and he was planning to retire  at age 65.  
It would have been apparent to the business from the illustrations obtained  that the proposed  
new contract was significantly more expensive than Mr Js current arrangements.  Indeed the 
business noted that the reduction in yield figures on the illustrations were around  2.4%. This 
charge is significantly  higher  than the charge of up to 1.5% allowed on a stakeholder  
pension plan. The higher the reduction in yield means that given all other factors remaining 
unchanged the returns after expenses to Mr J would be reduced.
Given the high level of charges on the new plan and Mr Js cautious  to realistic attitude  to 
risk, I consider that Mr J should have been  advised not to transfer his four pension plans to a 
new, expensive income drawdown plan. 
I have seen no evidence  on the file that Pi told Mr J that he should leave his existing pension 
plans where they were  and that he should not transfer. 
I have then looked at the recommendation letter dated 30 September  2008 from Pi to Mr J. 
This firstly set out the current  transfer values available  and then set out that two of the four 
policies would suffer a penalty on transfer but one would receive  an uplift. It stated that the 
aim of the proposed transfers  was to allow Mr J to access  the tax free cash sum and to 
reduce the impact of market movements going forward  on the remaining funds.
Ref: DRN57725164Mr Js representative has submitted that whilst  Mr J he withdrew the maximum tax free lump  
sum from the new arrangement he did not invest it in fine wines but used it instead  to pay off 
some loans and to reduce his mortgage. 
There is again no evidence that Mr J actually understood the expensive guarantees that the 
new product provided  or that he understood the higher costs he would incur going forward.  
The product  recommended did have  minimum income guarantees but the high costs of 
providing these  guarantees made  growth  less likely. 
If Pi had told Mr J that on retirement, after transfer,  it was likely that he would be worse off, I 
consider it probable that Mr J would not have transferred. I say this because  Mr J was not a 
pension expert and was relying on the Pi to provide him with best advice. . 
Given Mr J was recorded as having  a cautious to realistic attitude to risk the lower risk 
assets that he would be invested  in would have little chance of providing the returns that 
would lead him to be better off on retirement. The new arrangement had to provide for the 
costs of the guarantees in the policy.  As a result I have concluded that the advice from Pi to 
Mr J should have been not to transfer.
2.Contracting Out of SERPS
I have then considered  the advice that Mr J received in 2008 to contract out of SERPS using 
a ROPP so that he could  access 25% of the accumulated fund on retirement.  This tax free 
lump sum would not be available from the SERPS  arrangement. 
It is important  to realise when considering contracting out of SERPS that the Government 
Actuary sets down the terms  that are available.  If an individual  contracts out of SERPS then 
the National Insurance Rebates are paid into the ROPP plan which will then grow  with 
investment returns.  The accumulated fund at retirement will be used to provide  benefits. The 
Government Actuary determines  the level of the rebates that will be paid to the ROPP plan if 
an individual elects to stop accruing further  benefits  in SERPS.
The higher  the level of the rebate into the ROPP  the greater is the chance that an individual  
would be better on retirement  off by contacting out. Conversely if the level of rebates is set 
too low it would be expected that on reasonable assumptions of future  investment  
experience that an individual  would  be worse off by contracting  out. 
It was only after 1988 that an individual was allowed  to contract out of SERPS using a ROPP 
arrangement. Initially  the terms for contracting out were  very attractive  for younger people as 
the level of the rebate  was expressed as a flat percentage of earning  between the Lower 
Earnings Limit and the Upper Earnings Limit.  
In 1993 the terms  available for contracting out were made less generous  by the Government  
Actuary (the level of the rebates paid into a ROPP  were reduced)  but it was still considered  
likely to be attractive for younger people to contract  out. 
However after April 2003 the Government  changed  the method of determining the rebates. 
From this point on the rate of rebate  would  increase  with age. 
In April 2003 many pension providers considered that level of age related rebates offered 
would not generous enough to ensure that there  was a high probability that an individual  
would benefit  from being contracted out.
Ref: DRN57725165Given that Mr J was recorded as having a low attitude to risk (2 on a scale from 1 to 6) and 
was close to his intended retirement age I consider that he should  have  been  advised to 
remain in SERPS.
I note that the business recommended that Mr J opt out of SERPS as he was concerned 
about a potential reduction  in his income  in future  years.  By Contracting out of SEPS Mr J 
would be able to build  up a fund that could be used to provide an income in future life. 
However the point  to realise is that by contracting out an individual gives  up a guaranteed 
pension for a payment in to a money purchase arrangement. On retirement the fund will then 
be used to buy benefits. 
The attractiveness of the decision to opt out of SERPS depends on the rebates that are paid 
into the new plan.  The bigger the rebates the greater will be the chance that on retirement in 
the future  the benefits will be greater from the ROPP  than from SERPS.  
Since 1993 many providers have concluded that the rebates are not large enough to make  it 
worthwhile to take on the risks of contracting out of SERPS.
I therefore also uphold  the part of the complaint about contracting  out of SERPS.
Redress 
Income drawdown policy
1.As at the date of encashment determine  the total of the notional transfer values 
for Mr Js original  plans on the assumption that the appropriate  percentage of the 
actual withdrawals from the drawdown  plan were taken from the existing  plans at 
the same  time.
2.As at the date of encashment of the drawdown  plan obtain  the actual transfer 
value of the plan.
3.Determine the past loss as at the date of encashment as (1)-(2)
Rebate Only Pension  Plan.
4.Carry out a pension review loss type calculation as at the date of encashment in 
respect of the new ROPP  plan.  This should compare the value of the benefits 
that would  have been provided to Mr J by SERPS with the value of the benefits 
from the new ROPP policy.
This calculation should  be carried out using the methodology set down by the 
regulator and should use the latest  assumptions  available at the date of 
encashment.
5.Determine the loss (if any) from effecting  a new ROPP policy  instead of getting 
benefits from SERPS.
Total loss 
6.Determine the total loss as at the date of encashment as (3)+(5)  
Ref: DRN57725166Accumulate the sum in (6) to the date of settlement at the rate of 8% per annum 
simple.
Redress due
7.As the redress due should have been used to provide pension  benefits  25% of 
the redress would have been  used  to provide a tax free lump sum and the 
remaining 75% would be used to provide an income that would be taxed at 20%. 
Therefore in order to ensure that Mr J is no better the business must pay him 
85% of the loss determined in (6). 
8.In addition Mr J must  be paid a further £150  for the distress  and inconvenience  
that he has suffered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Adrian Hudson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5772516