K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal London Mutual  Insurance Society Limited  (Royal London) 
allowed a payment of £19,000 away from his pension plan without his authorisation. The 
withdrawal request was initiated by an unknown third party. Mr M believes that Royal London 
should have done more  to prevent the request being  processed.
Mr M is represented  in this complaint by his financial adviser (adviser).
background to this complaint
During 2018 Mr M was a victim of fraud when an unknown third party gained access  to his 
private email  and arranged to withdraw  £19,000 from his Royal  London pension plan. Its not 
disputed that what happened was an act of fraud.  So Ive used the term fraudster 
throughout this final decision to refer to the unknown third party. I understand the matter has 
been reported to the police and Action Fraud but it seems theres  little prospect the £19,000  
will be recovered. The fraud  occurred  as Ive described below.
On 24 April 2018 Mr Ms adviser received an email titled Withdrawal from Mr Ms known 
private email  address.  In that email the fraudster,  pretending to be Mr M, stated he wanted to 
withdraw £19,000. The fraudster didnt specify from what investment or account the £19,000 
should be withdrawn. He told the adviser he was unwell and unable to speak on the phone.
The adviser replied  to acknowledge receipt of the withdrawal request. He stated  hed 
assumed the £19,000 should be withdrawn  as a tax-free cash  sum from Mr Ms pension plan 
and that hed requested the relevant withdrawal form from Royal  London. The fraudster 
replied and confirmed  that the advisers assumption  that the money should be withdrawn 
from Mr Ms Royal London pension plan  was correct.
On 25 April 2018 the fraudster emailed the adviser to chase  the money. On the same day, 
the adviser replied  and confirmed the relevant Royal London withdrawal form had been 
posted to Mr Ms home address. The fraudster replied and asked the adviser  not to contact 
him by post because  he was out of town (the fraudster then sent a separate  email to Mr M 
from what appeared to be the advisers email  address telling him the withdrawal form had 
been posted in error  and that he should  disregard it).
There followed further email exchanges  between the fraudster  and the adviser. All contact 
was by email. This culminated in the adviser  receiving the completed withdrawal form from 
the fraudster  this included  what appeared to be Mr Ms signature and details of the bank 
account into which the £19,000 should be sent.  The adviser sent the form to Royal London.
In line with the withdrawal request received, Royal London sent £19,000 from Mr Ms 
pension plan into the nominated bank account,  as specified on the withdrawal form. Royal 
London didnt  check the authenticity of the bank details provided.
Shortly after the money had been  withdrawn, Mr M became aware he had been  the victim of 
fraud. He complained to Royal London.  He felt it should have done  more  to prevent the 
request being  processed, including warning him and his adviser  that it wouldnt check  the 
bank account  details provided  on its withdrawal  form.  Consequently he blamed Royal 
London for his financial  loss. To put things right, Mr M instructed Royal  London to provide 
compensation equivalent to £19,000 plus any lost investment  growth.
Ref: DRN51363812Royal London didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said it had acted  in good faith based on the 
information provided on its withdrawal form received from Mr Ms adviser. As a result,  it 
didnt agree it was responsible for remediating Mr Ms financial loss.
Mr M was unhappy with Royal Londons  response  and referred the matter to us. Our 
adjudicator didnt recommend upholding this complaint. Our adjudicator said, in summary, 
that:
Royal London, receiving a withdrawal instruction from Mr Ms known agent that 
appeared to bear his signature, wouldnt have had any reason to question the 
authenticity of the instruction received;
Royal London was not party to the email exchanges that took place between the 
fraudster pretending  to be Mr M and his adviser and it wouldnt have known that the 
only contact was by email;
Royal London wouldnt  have had cause to ask Mr Ms adviser how he came by the 
signed withdrawal  form;
It wouldnt have been appropriate for Royal London to question Mr Ms motives for 
withdrawing £19,000 from his pension plan because providers typically rely on 
financial advisers to ensure that any transaction is in their clients best interests; 
Once it had processed the withdrawal form, Royal London asked its bank to make a 
payment to an account with another bank. Data protection rules at the time meant 
that neither Royal London nor its bank could  check whether  the recipients  name 
given on the withdrawal form corresponded with the account  number.  And there 
wasnt any requirement on the part of the receiving bank to check the details  given or 
to feed back any conflict;
Lump sum withdrawals from a pension plan are usually infrequent,  with often just one 
payment  for that reason, its usually inappropriate to put in place any sort of coded 
instructions or pre-set account details;
Royal London could  have given warning that there was no check  on the recipient 
bank account  details provided   either  by it or any of the banks involved  but the 
most appropriate place for that warning  would have been on the withdrawal form. 
However, since Mr M didnt complete the withdrawal form, he wouldnt have been in 
a position to heed that warning had it appeared; and
Royal London had arranged the withdrawal  of £19,000 in good faith based on the 
completed withdrawal form it had received from Mr Ms adviser.
Mr M didnt  accept our adjudicators findings.  He continued to believe that Royal  London 
should have done more  to prevent the fraud. In particular, he believed  Royal  London was in 
breach of COBS  4.5.2R  because it had failed to provide sufficient warning about the way in 
which it processes withdrawal requests. Since agreement  couldnt be reached, this 
complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision. 
Ref: DRN51363813my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our adjudicator and for much  the same reasons. 
For the avoidance of any doubt,  Ive read and considered the whole file including the 
advisers most recent  letter dated  4 April 2019. Ive confined my comments  to what  I think is 
relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point made its not because  Ive not thought 
about it or missed it, but because I dont think I need  to comment  on it in order to decide 
what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome in the wider context of the complaint thats 
been made.
Scope of this final decision  
Im aware that Mr M has recently referred  to this service a separate  complaint  about his 
advisers actions in connection with the withdrawal request at the centre of this complaint. 
Under this final decision  I can only consider  the acts or omissions of Royal London.  
Therefore Ive considered whether Royal London  made an error or treated Mr M unfairly  and, 
if so, what impact this had, if any.
Mr Ms complaint about his adviser will be considered separately by this service at a later 
date.
Would the fraud have  occurred but for Royal Londons failures?
Its not disputed  that Mr M is the victim of fraud  after his private email was infiltrated by the 
fraudster. Mr M didnt  complete the withdrawal form that his adviser forwarded to Royal 
London and so was unaware  of the fraud  until after the money had been withdrawn from his 
pension plan.
Ive reviewed the chain  of emails that led to the fraud - from the initial email the fraudster 
sent to Mr Ms adviser through  to submission of the withdrawal form to Royal London. All 
contact was through email. Neither Mr M nor Royal London was aware of these email 
exchanges or how the withdrawal request came about until after the fraud  had been carried 
out.
Mr Ms adviser has asked Royal London to explain  a number of matters including,  amongst 
others, how the fraudster  managed to obtain an accurate copy  of Mr Ms signature, whether 
there are any CCTV pictures of the fraudster  setting up the recipient bank account  and how 
Mr Ms email  was infiltrated.  I dont think these are matters for Royal London to answer. I say 
this because I havent seen any evidence that acts or omissions by Royal London led to the 
fraudster obtaining  a copy of Mr Ms signature  which was then used on the withdrawal form. 
Or that Royal London is responsible for allowing the fraudster to open the recipient bank 
account or gain access to Mr Ms private  email.
Ref: DRN51363814Mr M and his adviser believe that Royal London  breached COBS 4.5.2R because  it failed to 
provide sufficient warning  about the way in which it processes withdrawal requests and the 
security checks  it carries out. I dont think Royal London telling Mr M and his adviser this 
information would have changed the outcome. Like our adjudicator, its my view that the 
most appropriate place  for such a warning would  be on the withdrawal form. And since  Mr M 
didnt complete the withdrawal form, he wouldnt have been in a position to heed that 
warning had it appeared.
One of the main thrusts of Mr Ms complaint about Royal  London is that it failed to carry out 
adequate security checks on the recipient  bank  account. Mr Ms adviser thinks  Royal London  
is at fault for not questioning receipt of different  bank  account details provided  on its 
withdrawal form (compared to those  details it already held). And that Royal London should 
have done more to establish whether the withdrawal instruction it received was genuine.
As explained by our adjudicator, data protection rules at the time of the fraud  meant that 
neither Royal  London  nor its bank could check that the recipients name given on the 
withdrawal form corresponded with the account  number. And there wasnt any requirement 
on the part of the receiving bank  to check the details  given or to feed back  any conflict. 
Royal London received the withdrawal form from Mr Ms adviser. Like our adjudicator, I 
consider that Royal London, receiving a withdrawal  instruction from Mr Ms known agent that 
appeared to bear his signature, wouldnt have had any reason to question the authenticity  of 
the instruction  received or the recipient bank details  provided. So I cant  find that Royal 
London is at fault in processing the withdrawal request.
Conclusion 
Ive considerable  sympathy with Mr M for the situation he finds  himself in through  no fault of 
his own. It must have been deeply  distressing to discover that he was the victim of fraud and 
had lost £19,000 of his pension savings. But for the reasons Ive explained, I cannot 
reasonably conclude that it was failures by Royal London  that allowed the fraud at the centre 
of this complaint  to occur. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Royal London to pay Mr M compensation equivalent to 
£19,000 plus any lost investment growth or to take any other  action in response to this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my final decision before 25 May 2019.
Clint Penfold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5136381