K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that Hitachi Capital Vehicle Solutions Ltd (Hitachi Capital) charged  him too 
much for excess mileage on a car he had financed through them.
background 
I issued my provisional decision in December 2018.  In that decision I explained  that I was 
expecting to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. An extract of that decision is set out below.
Mr H took receipt of a new vehicle  in early 2015. He financed the deal through  a hire 
agreement with Hitachi Capital. He believed his mileage allowance  was 17,000 per year but 
when he returned  his car, at the end of his contract, he was told by Hitachi Capital that he 
owed them over £4,000 for the excess mileage  hed completed. They explained  that his 
contract allowed  for 17,000 miles over the three  year term of his agreement: it wasnt  an 
annual mileage allowance.
Mr H was disappointed  with their response so he referred his complaint to this service and 
our investigator took a look. He didnt think Hitachi Capital had done  anything wrong as he 
noted the contract hed entered into, explained  that the 17,000 mile allowance was over the 
full three  year term of the contract. And he noticed that Mr H hadnt done  17,000  miles per 
year. Hed done  30,000 more over the term of his contract and the investigator  therefore 
didnt think this demonstrated Mr H had thought hed signed up for 17,000  miles per year.
But Mr H was still dissatisfied. He explained that not only did he think  he had a contract for 
17,000 miles per year: he thought hed paid for a contract of that type.  He provided a couple  
of quotes from the same  broker hed used to establish his deal with Hitachi.  They  were  for 
the same  car; over the same three  year period  and with the same three month  initial deposit. 
But one was for 6,000 miles per year and the other was for 17,000.  He said the quote for 
6,000 miles per annum  was actually about £30 per month lower than what  he had been 
paying for the same car, under what Hitachi Capital  said was a 6,000 mile per annum 
contract but 3 years  earlier. And he went on to explain that if inflation was taken into account 
the difference would  be even more. So he thought it was likely that he had been signed  up to 
a more expensive  17,000  mile per annum deal. The quote he provided  for 17,000  miles per 
year was for £19 more  than he had been  paying. Mr H suggested  that if inflation was taken 
into account this quote would be a similar amount to what hed been paying. So he thought it 
was clear hed been  paying for a higher  mileage  contract.
He went on to explain that his job required him to travel extensively  and that there was no 
way a contract for only 6,000 miles would have  been  suitable.  He provided a copy  of his 
current car lease deal which showed  he was now signed up for 25,000  miles per annum. 
He also said that he didnt feel the contract  was very clear. He provided a couple  of other 
contracts, from other  companies, in which he said the annual  mileage and excess,  was 
much more clearly set out. Overall, he disagreed with the view of the investigator and he 
asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ref: DRN56781282I dont currently agree with the investigators opinion  and Im expecting to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Theres no dispute that the hire contract Mr H entered into says that the allowance  is 17,000  
miles over the three year term. It says that the total allowed  mileage is 17,000 and then 
sets out what the payment will be for every  excess mile.
I can understand that Hitachi  Capital would want to rely on the contract. It is after all, the only 
thing they have that demonstrates what was agreed with Mr H.
But I think the information Mr H has provided  is very persuasive. Hes explained:
he travels  more  than 17,000 miles per year so the allowance  Hitachi  Capital say he 
signed up for would  be far too little
hes provided identical quotes from the same  broker  that suggest  an annual  mileage  
deal of 6,000 for the same car, under the same terms, would be £30 per month  
cheaper in todays market. 
hes provided a quote,  on identical terms, from the same broker that suggests hed 
pay only £19 per month more than he was paying,  if he sourced a 17,000 mile deal 
today
hes provided a copy  of his current hire deal. Its a 25,000 mile per annum deal not 
one for 6,000  miles
So it appears that Mr H had no reason to seek a contract that allowed him to drive less than 
6,000 miles per year. 
I checked the quotes Mr H provided. I can see that the exact  variant of the model he had is 
no longer available: the engine is now a 1.5 not a 1.6. But I think the model appears 
comparable and I was able to find a 3 year, 17,500  mile per annum, 3 month initial  deposit  
deal for less than what Mr H paid for his 6,000 mile per annum  deal three years ago. So Im 
persuaded that its most likely he was paying for a 17,000 mile per annum deal but the 
details had been entered on his contract incorrectly.
Ive also thought about what  Mr H would have  understood  from the contract he was 
presented with. I agree that its not the clearest of contracts. It refers  to total  allowed  
mileage and doesnt refer to annual mileage. I think its feasible  that if Mr H thought hed 
been given a 17,000  mile per year contract  he may not have looked into the small print 
where the charges are developed further. And, from the point at which the agreement was 
signed, Mr H would  not have had any further  contact with Hitachi Capital. So there  wouldnt  
have been a chance for him to realise the deal, he thought hed signed, wasnt the one he 
wanted.
I think the fact the contract isnt the clearest is also a reason why the mileage may have 
been recorded incorrectly. Theres nowhere that the annual mileage can be recorded. 
Ref: DRN56781283Theres just a space  for the total contractual  mileage.
So Im persuaded  that the deal Mr H was sold was for a higher mileage and the one Mr H 
signed wasnt representative of the agreement he would  most  likely have been seeking or 
have agreed to. I therefore  think Hitachi  Capital need to do something to put things right. 
my provisional decision
Im expecting to uphold this complaint and tell Hitachi Capital Vehicle Solutions Ltd to:
recalculate the excess mileage charge as if the contract were  based on an annual 
mileage of 17,000,  and advise  Mr H what he is then liable for
remove any adverse information  thats been  reported to Mr Hs credit file in relation to 
this issue
I asked Mr H and Hitachi Capital to get back to me with any additional comments they 
wanted me to consider before 1 January 2019.
Hitachi agreed with my decision and Mr H didnt provide  any further comments.  So my 
provisional findings remain unaltered. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and tell Hitachi Capital Vehicle Solutions Ltd to:
recalculate the excess mileage charge as if the contract were  based on an annual 
mileage of 17,000,  and advise  Mr H what he is then liable for
remove any adverse information  thats been  reported to Mr Hs credit file in relation to 
this issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5678128