K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains Society of Lloyds unfairly refused to pay his motor  insurance claim.
background
In November 2018 Mr I took out a seven day Lloyds motor  insurance policy.  During that 
week he made two claims on it. He said his van had been  damaged  in two separate 
incidents. In the first one another driver collided with Mr Is unattended van. In the second it 
was again unattended.  It was damaged during a serious crime involving a security vehicle.   
Lloyds initially said it didnt accept  either  incident  had happened in the way Mr I claimed they 
had. It referred to a term of his policy that says it will not pay for any loss if a false statement 
is made or the claim is fraudulent. So it refused  to pay both claims. 
But Lloyds later agreed to pay the second claim. It accepted that had been  a genuine 
accident. It deducted the cost of the damage  that happened in the first incident  from the 
value of Mr Is van, settling the claim for about  £2,650. After  he complained Lloyds still 
refused to cover the first incident. He wasnt happy  with its investigations into the claims. 
Lloyds still refused to pay the first claim. It said hed made false  statements to support it. It 
said its investigation had been reasonable. And it said it had done enough to recognise any 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience by not deducting the salvage value of Mr Is van 
from his settlement.
Mr I complains Lloyds still hasnt paid him £1,900 for the damage to his van from the first 
incident, plus £850 to cover  the cost of a hire vehicle and garage costs of £350. Hes still 
unhappy about the investigations. He feels he was accused of being involved in a crime. 
An Investigator at this service said Lloyds had acted fairly and reasonably. He didnt 
recommend it do anything differently. Mr I didnt accept that. So the complaint  has come to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making Lloyds  
pay the first claim or do anything differently. 
Lloyds referred to a fraud term in Mr Is policy. It says it wont cover  any loss if he makes a 
fraudulent claim or false statement to support  it. Fraud is a serious  accusation  that can have 
consequences beyond  the claim decision itself. So Lloyds should  only rely on that term 
when theres good reason to do so. In this decision I havent decided  if the claim was 
fraudulent, supported by a false statement or not. Instead Ive considered whether Lloyds 
been fair and reasonable in its treatment of Mr I  and that includes its decision to rely on the 
fraud condition. Having done  so, I think its treated him fairly  and reasonably.   
During its investigation of the claims Lloyds discovered Mr I and the other driver in the first 
incident were associated.  It says during an interview Mr I denied knowing the other  driver.  
But after he was given information to show their association he admitted hed known him for 
30 years.  Lloyds says Mr I then ended  the interview  and refused to provide a statement.
Ref: DRN59256362Lloyds doesnt  feel the damage  to the van happened  in the way Mr I reported it. The cost of 
repairing it was around £1,200. Lloyds  accept it possible Mr Is van was genuinely  damaged 
by an unidentified driver. But it says in that case he would have faced an additional  £500  
excess on top of the standard  £500.  So Mr I could benefit from being able to identify the 
other driver.   
Ive listened to the call when Mr I first notified  Lloyds of the claim.  He said someone left a 
note on his van to say hed caused the damage. He spoke  about receiving an email  from the 
other driver.  But he didnt mention having  known that person. Lloyds says its unlikely a note 
would have been left if the two had known each  other. It says this all casts doubt on the 
legitimacy of the claim. 
Mr I told this service  he only denied knowing the other driver as the Lloyds Investigator  was 
putting so much pressure  on him. But in correspondence with Lloyds hes denied ever 
claiming he didnt  know the other driver. 
When this service asked Mr I about the incident he said the other  driver  had called him to tell 
him about it. He didnt  mention a note. When later asked about this inconsistency  he said a 
note was left and a call made. There may be reasonable explanations for Mr Is 
inconsistency. But I havent been  provided  with them. 
Mr Is unhappy with Lloyds investigations  into the claims. I feel it acted reasonably 
considering the circumstances   including there  being two claims during a seven day policy 
and Mr I not declaring his association  with the other driver. What  Ive seen supports Lloyds 
view that he provided  false information  to support the claim. So overall its treated him fairly 
and reasonably by referring the fraud term in the policy.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Society of Lloyds pay the claim or do anything  
differently. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5925636