K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mrs S says MBNA  Limited  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think MBNA made it clear  that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this. MBNA  have  
provided me with a copy of the credit  agreement completed at the time by post. I can see 
there was a section  where Mrs S could  select  or decline  the PPI. There was a yes box 
and no box. The yes box has been selected  and Mrs S has signed the agreement.  If 
Mrs S didnt  want the PPI she could  have selected the no box.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs S got the information  she needed to decide if it was 
right for her.
Its possible the information MBNA gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable  at 
the time.  So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking 
out the cover.
Which means MBNA doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because: 
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because  MBNA didnt tell Mrs S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs S has said but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does  not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mrs S.
Ref: DRN57318442But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Mrs S any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5731844