K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) lent to him in an irresponsible 
manner.
background
Mr A was given three loans by Cashfloat  between  May and August 2017. Each of the loans 
was due to be repaid  in three  or four monthly  instalments. Mr A appears to have faced some 
problems repaying  his final loan and a balance remained  outstanding when he made his 
complaint. A summary of Mr As borrowing from Cashfloat is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 01/05/2017 29/06/2017 £ 400
2 29/06/2017 23/08/2017 £ 500
3 31/08/2017 - £ 500
Mr As complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  She didnt think  Cashfloat 
should have agreed to give any of the loans to Mr A. So she asked Cashfloat to pay Mr A 
some compensation.
Disappointingly Cashfloat didnt respond  to that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt 
been resolved  informally,  it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the 
last stage of our process. If Mr A accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr A could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashfloat should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN54335442the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr A could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Trading guidance on Irresponsible Lending, and 
later the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC),  define sustainable  as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
Cashfloat asked  Mr A for some information  about his income and his expenditure before 
agreeing the loans.  And it gathered further  details about Mr A finances by performing a credit  
check before  each loan too. On the face of it I think these were a reasonable set of checks 
given the length of the relationship that Mr A had with Cashfloat,  and considering  the loans 
he was asking to take.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt enough. A lender must also react 
appropriately to the information that any checks show.  And I think the checks  that Cashfloat 
did, and in particular  the results of the credit  checks, should have suggested that Mr A was 
facing financial problems.
When Mr A asked  for his first loan Cashfloats  checks showed  that he had open loans with at 
least two other short  term lenders. And he was already committed  to repaying over £900  to 
those lenders around the same time that he would need to make  a repayment to Cashfloat. 
I think that the extent  of Mr As other short  term borrowing should  have  put Cashfloat on 
notice that he was having serious problems managing his money. I dont think it was 
reasonable for Cashfloat to conclude  that this loan could be repaid in a sustainable manner.
And the situation,  as shown in the credit checks and by Mr As borrowing history, didnt  
improve over the remaining time that Mr A borrowed from Cashfloat.  The numbers of other 
short term loans Mr A was already committed to repaying increased, as did the amounts that 
he needed to repay  each  month. Mr A repaid  his loans to Cashfloat  early before taking 
another loan almost  immediately. I think that should have suggested to Cashfloat that it was 
likely that Mr A was having  to borrow further to cover the hole repaying  his previous loan 
was leaving in his finances and that Mr As indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Ref: DRN54335443So I dont  think that Cashfloat should have agreed  to give any of the loans to Mr A. Cashfloat 
needs to pay him some  compensation.
putting things right
I dont think Cashfloat  should have agreed to give any of the loans  to Mr A. So for each of 
those loans Cashfloat should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr A on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr As credit  file in relation to the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must 
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and direct  Western Circle Ltd to put things 
right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5433544