K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI) to her alongside  a credit card in 2002. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs D disagreed  with that view 
and so the matter  has been passed  to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
After considering all of the evidence before me, Ive decided  not to uphold this complaint. Ill 
explain why below. 
RBS has provided us with a copy of Mrs Ds credit card application form. From that 
document, it appears  to me likely  that Mrs D applied for both her card and the PPI policy  by 
post. To that end, I think she would have been  able to complete the application  in her own 
time and at her own pace.  
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Mrs D would have known the PPI policy was 
optional and she didnt  have to buy it if she didnt want it. I can see from the application that 
RBS said it strongly recommended that Mrs D take out this cover. But I dont think that 
suggests Mrs D didnt  have a choice. I can see she ticked a box to request PPI was added to 
her account.  And if she didnt want a policy, I think it was clear she could have left this box 
blank. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest that RBS said this policy was right for Mrs Ds personal 
circumstances. But it still had to give her enough  information about the cover so she could 
decide for herself whether  it was a good fit for her needs. That information had to be clear, 
fair and not misleading. 
From the application form, I dont  think the cost of the policy  is clearly  set out. And I dont  
think its clear  that Mrs D would have had to pay interest  on her premiums  if she didnt repay 
her balance in full every month. So the question  for me now is whether Mrs D would have 
acted differently if RBS had told her everything  it should have  done.  To help me decide what  
shes likely to have done, I have looked  at the terms and conditions  of the policy.  Ive also 
thought about what she told us about her personal  circumstances at the time. 
I can see that if shed  had to make  a PPI claim, 10% of Mrs Ds credit card balance  would 
have been repaid every month  for up to 12 months  if she became unwell or if she lost her 
job. Mrs D told us that she didnt  need  a PPI policy because she had 6 months full pay and 6 
months half pay from her employer if she was off sick. But I think  this policy  would have paid 
out in addition to and for longer than the means  she already had in place from work. 
Mrs D told us that her parents would have repaid her credit card if she ran into financial 
difficulties. I dont doubt that it would have been the intention of Mrs Ds family members to 
Ref: DRN58068962help her out if she needed them.  But circumstances  can change and theres no guarantee 
this help would have been available to Mrs D as and when she needed it. 
Mrs D also told us she had some savings.  And again, I dont  doubt  that this was the case. 
But I can see that Mrs D used her credit card regularly and she paid interest on her balance. 
So it looks  as though she wanted to keep her savings. And with the PPI policy,  she could 
have used those  funds for her other essential expenditure at what  would have no doubt 
been a very stressful time for her if she was out of work. 
Mrs D told us she was in good health  when  she bought PPI. So I dont think  shed have  been  
affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I havent seen anything  
unusual about  her employment  circumstances  that would have stopped  her from making  a 
successful claim  if she needed to. 
With that in mind, I dont  think Mrs D would have  acted differently if RBS had told her 
everything about the PPI it should have  done. I appreciate she doesnt now remember, but I 
think that Mrs D probably chose to buy PPI at the time.  And Ive set out above how it could 
have been helpful for her if she found  herself  out of work. That means RBS doesnt  have  to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D. 
But RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs D about that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mrs D, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
If it has not already  done so, RBS has to pay back to Mrs D any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. RBS should also pay back  to Mrs D any 
extra interest she paid because of that.
Again, if it has not already done  so, RBS should  re-work the credit  card account and pay 
back to Mrs D the difference  between what she owes  and what  she wouldve owed if the 
commission and profit share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. RBS should  
also pay Mrs D 8%* simple interest if she paid off her credit  card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs D can claim this back  if she doesnt pay tax. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D. 
But if it hasnt already done so, The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to 
Mrs D any commission  and profit share  it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Ref: DRN58068963Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March  2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5806896