K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Fidelius Ltd is responsible for the investment loss he suffered following 
the delay in transferring his pension fund and investment platform to new providers. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 18 April 2019. Its attached and forms part of this decision. 
Mr S welcomed my findings that there had been  shortcomings on Fidelius part. But he said 
the start date for calculating compensation should  be 25 October  2016,  not 1 January 2017, 
as Id proposed  in my provisional decision. In summary he said:
Id noted Fidelius  advisers failure to provide a timescale in response to the request 
in his email of 25 August 2016.  The adviser  had emailed Mr S the next day saying 
there was a fair bit to talk through so that a reasonable  timescale  could be 
estimated. That conversation took place on 2 September 2016, supplemented  by a 
further call on 12 September 2016.  But, despite  the critical importance (for both the 
basis of the transfer and the timescale) the discussions werent confirmed by email   
unlike what had happened previously, during  the thirty years Mr S has been  a client,  
when significant  advice has been given  over the telephone. 
Fidelius didnt make  a written record of its telephone advice. He queried how it was 
possible for a financial  adviser  (to whom he was paying over £5,000 a year in fees) 
not to record crucial advice about a transfer of over £500,000.   
The purpose of the telephone calls was to get a reasonable estimate of the 
timescale. The adviser didnt send any estimate. Mr S made  every  effort  to get an 
update on the timescale  for the whole process. Fidelius must bear substantial 
responsibility for allowing him to authorise  the transfer on that basis that he 
reasonably thought  it would take four to six weeks.
The start date for compensation Id suggested (1 January 2017) appeared to be in 
part based  on what hed said about  wanting the transfer to be done by the end of 
2016. He did say that. But when  he authorised  the transfer he did so on the basis  he 
expected the whole process to be completed within, at most, six weeks.   
The start date also appeared to be based on my view that completion  of the transfer 
by the end of December 2016  should have  been achievable. But it could and should 
have been achieved long before then. From  the outset there were inexplicable  and 
unjustified delays.  Although Fidelius  had said on 30 September 2016  the switches  
were more or less complete Mr S recalled (from monitoring progress on line) that 
they werent actually  completed until about  10 October 2016  which is consistent 
with him not receiving  the new set of forms until 14 October 2016. 
He queried how the fund switches  and encashments  could take as long as four 
weeks when for years  his transactions  had been executed within  24 hours,  using on 
line platforms, with cash transferred to his account typically  within  five days.  
He asked if I was sure, if the whole process  had been implemented from the outset 
with urgency and efficiency, it couldnt  have been completed  by 25 October  2016  or 
very soon thereafter. The only time he was responsible for any delay was at the end 
of November 2016 when he was abroad  and which was long after everything should 
have been finalised.  
Fidelius responded to my provisional decision saying it had no further information to add. It 
had calculated redress based on what Id said in my provisional decision.  It attached  its 
calculations and asked  that we agree them so that, assuming my final decision was as 
Ref: DRN58506322expected, it could conclude things quickly. It proposed, as Mr S was retired  with no known 
pensionable earnings, his tax relievable  contributions were restricted to £3,600 pa so only 
about half of the redress  could be paid into his pension, to make  payment direct to Mr S and 
on the basis that hes a basic rate tax payer. 
We shared Fidelius  calculation with Mr S. He agreed it was in line with what Id suggested.  
But he reiterated he hoped Id revise the basis for compensation  by bringing forward  the start 
date.  He queried if the compensation was taxable in which case as a deduction for income 
tax had been made hed pay tax twice. He pointed out that a deduction of 20% (not 15%)  
might be more appropriate as his pension  was already fully drawn down and he had no 
entitlement to further tax free cash. He agreed with Fidelius suggestion to pay redress direct 
to him rather  than trying to pay part into his pension fund. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive paid particular  attention to what Mr S has said in response to my provisional  decision 
about why he thinks compensation  should be paid from an earlier  date  25 October 2016 or 
thereabouts. 
I agree  that it would have helped if what was discussed about likely  timescales  on 2 and 
12 September 2016 had been  confirmed by email. I can understand why Mr S is critical of 
the advisers failure to do that or make a file note. I also take the point that knowing  how long 
things were likely to take was important and something Mr S would have  wanted  to know 
before agreed  to go ahead and, importantly, decided to effect the transfer  50% in cash. 
But its difficult to say that Fidelius adviser gave Mr S a timescale of four to six weeks for the 
whole process when theres no contemporaneous  record of that. And in any event  Id have 
expected any timeframe given to have been qualified  for example, the original report  
referred to how long the transfer typically should take. In that sort of situation wed look at 
how long the transfer actually took and why it wasnt possible to meet  any indicative or 
typical timescale. Thats particularly the case when as here there are a number of other  
parties involved.
In selecting a start date of 1 January 2017 I recognise Mr S position is that hed authorised 
the transfer on the basis it would take a lot less time than that. And that by the time he 
started to press  for the transfer to be completed by the end of the year the whole process 
had been going on for some time. I dont think there was any suggestion  at the outset that 
the matter was urgent. Mr S no doubt wanted  (and was entitled  to expect) the transfer  to be 
done without undue  delay. But I dont think thats quite the same.  But by December 2016 the 
matter had become  urgent. And Fidelius should have picked up on that and done more. 
Ive looked again as to what happened  (or hadnt  happened) up until then. But I dont think it 
would be reasonable to say that the transfer  could  or should  have been completed before 
the end of October 2016 and that it was Fidelius  fault that didnt happen. Amongst other  
things, the fund switches werent  completed as quickly as Mr S might have anticipated. I 
note what hes said about his experience in switching funds but I dont  think  its quite the 
same where there are multiple switches. And the SIPP with the new provider wasnt  set up 
until towards late October 2016.  There were then some delays in November 2016 but I dont 
think those were down  to Fidelius.  It looks like the new provider may have been slow in 
Ref: DRN58506323contacting the old provider. And Mr S was away during November too. I take his point that 
hed expected it all to have been completed  before then but that doesnt mean it was 
Fidelius fault that it wasnt.
Fidelius has calculated  the redress due on the basis I set out in my provisional decision. It 
wants to make a payment  direct to Mr S as it would be complicated trying to pay part of the 
redress into Mr S SIPP  as he doesnt  have sufficient pensionable  earnings. Mr S thinks  that 
would be best too. 
Mr S has queried the tax position. Our understanding is that compensation for investment  
loss isnt subject  to income  tax. But we make a deduction to represent notional  tax so that 
the consumer  isnt overcompensated. Here, if things had gone as they should have, Mr S 
money (the part that hed switched to cash) would have been invested sooner. And the 
return that money would  have earned would be in his pension  fund.  But, when he came  to 
take it out as income, hed pay tax on it. So if the money is going to be paid direct to him it 
can be reduced to allow  for the tax that Mr S would otherwise have had to pay. 
Fidelius allowed  for the fact that 25% of a pension fund can usually be taken as a tax free 
lump sum.  Mr  S has very fairly pointed out that hes taken  all his tax free cash  entitlement.  
So a reduction of 20% rather  than 15% would  be appropriate.  
But Fidelius has confirmed that, in the interests of settling this matter, it would still be 
prepared to pay the amount it calculated - £5,828.74  and to include a payment  for distress 
and inconvenience.  
Fidelius should pay the compensation within  28 days of being notified  that Mr S has 
accepted my final decision. If payment  is delayed  beyond that interest at 8% from the date of 
my decision  to the date of payment  should  be paid on any sums outstanding. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Fidelius must pay Mr S £5,828.74 plus interest, if any. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN58506324PROVISIONAL  DECISION dated 18 April 2019
complaint
Mr S complains that Fidelius Limited  is responsible for the investment loss he suffered following  the 
delay in transferring his pension fund from one provider and investment platform to a new provider 
and platform. 
background
Mr S had a SIPP (self invested personal  pension) with a provider  Ill refer to as the old provider.  Mr 
Ss pension  fund was invested through an investment platform in a number of funds. In the 
spring/summer of 2016,  Mr S and his advisers  from Fidelius re-assessed the performance of the 
pension. Fidelius was unhappy with the existing investment  platform  and advised that Mr S switch to 
another platform operated by a different SIPP provider.
Fidelius produced an Investment Platform Migration  Report dated  21 June 2016. This report  advised  
on both the new recommended investment  platform for Mr Ss investments and the mechanics  of the 
switch. Fidelius  recommended a new investment  platform linked to a new SIPP provider and advised  
on an investment strategy after the transfer. Fidelius  said there were two ways the transfer could be 
done. First,  a cash transfer, where all the assets are sold prior to the transfer and then cash  is sent 
from the old platform to the new one. The alternative was an in-specie  transfer or re-registration 
where the existing assets are transferred in their original state. 
Fidelius advised  that the problem  with cash is that although the transfer typically takes place in a 
shorter timeframe  the funds are out of the market for the time it takes the transfer to complete. 
Fidelius said that transferring by re-registration takes longer (typically  4-6 weeks) but with the 
advantage that the investors funds would stay in the market. 
Fidelius summarised its recommended method  of transfer with a heading in the report Preferred  
Method of Transfer which went  on to say I recommend your assets are transferred using the in-
specie/re-registration method 
 
In preparation for the transfer Fidelius recommended  that Mr S switch  his investments, which  were 
held in a large number of funds, to one multi-asset  fund and then re-register these investments with 
the new platform.
 
Mr S was unhappy  with some of the recommendations  in the report. Following further discussions 
Fidelius produced an addendum dated 22 July 2016  to the migration report. This second report  
records that Mr S wanted to add two or three funds instead  of the one fund Fidelius had 
recommended. He was also unhappy with the performance of the suggested discretionary fund 
manager (DFM)  for the new platform. In reply  Fidelius recommended a diversification  into two funds 
for the transfer process. And a different  DFM  for the new platform. 
Mr S had further discussions  with Fidelius in August and September.  On 9 September 2016  Fidelius 
produced an additional report. It recorded, about the investment strategy for the new platform, that Mr 
S wished to change from the DFM previously recommended and wanted part of his investment to be 
managed by a named fully bespoke  DFM. 
The report said there was a further  level of complication  with this choice which required the 
establishment of a full SIPP  and that The re-registration process is slightly  more complicated  as the 
investments are not integrated with the SIPP  therefore it will take longer  to establish  the new 
investments. The report records Fidelius  recommendation that, prior to the migration,  the existing 
investments be reduced to two funds. But it also notes that Mr S hadnt yet decided on whether  the 
transfer was to be through cash or re-registration.
Ref: DRN58506325The report included  a form for Mr S to choose the way the assets were to be transferred: option 1 was 
switching all to cash; option 2 was 50% cash and 50% (25% each)  in the two recommended  funds; 
option 3 was switching  all to the two recommended  funds. Mr S signed the form on 12 September 
2016 confirming he was happy to proceed with the transfer of his pension using  option 2. 
Mr S says that he made that choice because he thought it would quicken the process. He says 
Fidelius adviser told him over the phone on 2 September 2016 that the transfer would be completed 
before the end of September 2016. Mr Ss understanding was, at the outside, the transfer process  
would take four to six weeks from when  Fidelius received  his signed switch  form on 13 September  
2016. 
But the transfer wasnt  completed until towards the end of February  2017.  Mr S complained  to 
Fidelius and also to the old and new providers.  He said hed lost out as a result of the delayed transfer 
because 50% of his investment was in cash throughout this period.
timeline
Ive set out a timeline for the transfer,  which started with Mr S switching  some of his investments to 
cash. I hope  what  Ive said is more or less complete but there may be other emails or telephone calls 
which I havent  seen. And there  are some emails which  arent directly  about  the progress of the 
transfer so I havent referred to them.
13 September 2016: Fidelius received Mr Ss signed switch form.  
21 September 2016: Fidelius told Mr S that the switches  are in progress and should  be completed by 
the end of next week.  Fidelius  would  then be in a position to send out the next set of paperwork.  
30 September 2016: Fidelius emailed Mr S saying that the switches were  now more or less 
complete.  And  it would be sending him further paperwork in the next few days. 
14 October 2016: Mr S had received the forms by then. He raised a couple of queries with Fidelius.   
25 October 2016: The new SIPP provider  confirmed  the new SIPP had been set up. 
27 October 2016: Fidelius emailed a further form to Mr S which the new provider  required.  
27 October 2016: Mr S signed the new providers transfer authority form.
11 November 2016: The new provider  sent that form to the old provider.
14 November 2016: The old provider  received the form. It discharge forms to the new provider  for 
completion by it and Mr S. A current valuation  of the assets held was enclosed.  It showed  a total fund 
value of £525,932.85,  roughly half of which  was held in cash. For in specie re-registration  the new 
provider had to complete the relevant  section  confirming that the assets were  acceptable. 
 
15 November 2016: Fidelius checked with the old provider who said it had the paperwork  from the 
new provider and had sent a valuation  to the new provider. Fidelius  emailed Mr S to confirm that had 
happened. Fidelius said it would call the old and the new providers later in the week to get a more 
exact time as to when the funds should get to the new provider. 
23 November 2016: Fidelius received the old providers discharge form (sent  by email by the new 
provider) for Mr S to sign.  Fidelius forwarded it to Mr S. 
30 November 2016: Mr S signed the old providers discharge forms. 
2 December 2016: Fidelius received the signed paperwork from Mr S. Fidelius emailed  it to the new 
provider for checking. 
Ref: DRN585063265 December 2016: The new provider confirmed the forms were  in order.  Fidelius posted  them  to the 
new provider. Fidelius diarised the matter for one month (to allow for the Christmas break). Fidelius 
says it expected  the old provider  and the new provider  to liaise direct. 
20 December 2016: Mr S emailed Fidelius (apparently  in response to Fidelius email of 15 November 
2016). Mr S said he hoped we are now nearing the end of this saga.  He said he monitored  the value  
of his assets at the end of each year so it was important  to have access to the new investment 
platforms by then. 
3 January 2017: Mr S emailed  Fidelius.  He wanted an update. He said he didnt  know if hed 
misunderstood but he was under the impression that the whole process would  be completed in four to 
six weeks. Hed understood  that switching  the funds into cash and just two funds prior to re 
registration would speed things  up. He wanted to know what it was taking so long and when  the 
transfer should be completed. 
4 January 2017: Fidelius emailed Mr S saying it would  contact both the old and the new providers. 
5 January 2017: Fidelius phoned both the old and the new providers to check  progress. Fidelius  
ascertained that the investment providers for the new SIPP were  ready  to receive the transferred 
funds. 
6 January 2017: The new provider emailed Fidelius  to say it had been waiting  confirmation  that one of 
the new investment providers accounts had been opened. That had been confirmed and so the new 
provider had told the old provider that the transfer could  go ahead. 
9 January 2017: Fidelius emailed Mr S saying the old provider had everything from the new provider; 
all accounts had been set up, the old provider  had passed  re-registration details to the new 
investment provider;  on re-registration the transfer of funds  would take place. 
11 January 2017: The new provider asked Fidelius  to complete investment information on the new 
investment providers  platform.   Fidelius did that. That generated a form for the new provider to sign 
and return to the investment provider. Fidelius sent the form to the new provider who forwarded it to 
the investment  provider.
12 January 2017: Fidelius emailed Mr S saying  it had spoken  to both the old and the new providers  
and would be speaking  to them the next day to try to get a more definitive timescale for completion of 
the transfer. 
16 January 2017: Fidelius emailed Mr S again saying  the old provider hadnt responded  so Fidelius 
would contact  it again.  In another email Fidelius  said the old provider  was being a bit annoying with 
providing information  about  timescales. As soon as Fidelius had an answer it would let Mr S know.  
Fidelius added that as the re-registration was only two funds the process  should  be easier going 
forwards. The re-registration would take place  first and when complete  the cash transfer would  follow. 
17 January 2017: The new provider emailed Fidelius  to say the old provider was still awaiting 
confirmation from the investment provider  that the re-registration  could proceed. The new provider 
said it would chase the investment provider  and report back.  Fidelius did that. 
18 January 2017: Fidelius chased the new provider  again. It said the old provider  was progressing the 
transfer and the re-registration was proceeding. 
31 January 2017: One of the investment  providers (Fidelius having  chased it up) said that it was 
waiting for the re-registration to complete.
6 February 2017: The investment provider  contacted Fidelius to say that what had been  said on 5 
January 2017  that it was ready to receive  the funds  had been wrong.  One of the funds listed on 
Ref: DRN58506327the application form hadnt been available on its platform. But it had now been added  and so they 
were definitely  ready to receive  the funds.  They  had told the old provider that and the re-registration 
was again underway. 
10 February 2017: Fidelius called the old provider who said re-registration was underway. 
15 February 2017: Fidelius accessed Mr Ss account with the old provider  on line. It showed only the 
cash element  remaining. So the funds were in transit and in the process  of being  re-registered.  
17 February 2017: Fidelius emailed Mr S to say that both providers had confirmed the transfer had 
been made.  Mr Ss pension with the old provider should just show the cash element  which would be 
transferred after the in specie  transfer had taken  place. 
24 February 2017: The new provider emailed Fidelius  confirming  that £265,069.32 had been received 
in cash  and £274,215.70 in specie.  The new provider had asked for investment  instructions. Fidelius 
emailed Mr S with a copy of the email.  
27 February 2017: The new provider told Fidelius that the re registration  and the cash  transfer had all 
been completed. The new provider was in the process of sending the cash to the investment 
providers.
10 March  2017: Fidelius checked with the new provider  that the transfer was complete.  The old 
provider told Fidelius that it would be conducting an internal investigation into why the transfer took so 
long. 
our investigators view
Our investigator didnt think Fidelius had misled  Mr S about the timescales involved. The period 
mentioned (four to six weeks) was an indication  of the timescale that would apply when all the 
documents required  by the providers had been signed and submitted  to allow them  to complete the 
transfer. He said the transfer process only started when all the forms had been issued, signed and 
returned. That was in December 2016. The transfer completed in February  2017.  Our investigator 
thought that wasnt too far from the four to six weeks suggested by Fidelius.  The adjudicator didnt 
think Fidelius gave Mr S incorrect information about the timeframe for the transfer. Nor had Fidelius  
delayed things. So the adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  
Mr S disagreed. In summary he said Fidelius had made no distinction between  the pre-transfer and 
the transfer process itself  he reasonably believed the four to six weeks quoted would  cover both. 
And, in any case, Fidelius told him in a phone call that the whole  process would  be completed by the 
end of September 2016. 
our further enquiries
We asked  Fidelius  whether  four to six weeks was a reasonable estimate of the likely  timescale  
involved in this type of transfer. Fidelius gave  us an example of a transfer in February 2016 for a client 
with two investments  each  containing a single  fund and transferring in-specie to a new platform  in less 
than two weeks. Fidelius also cited a transfer of a clients  pension with a portfolio of 25 - 30 funds  
completing within seven weeks. Fidelius  said its experience  was that an in specie transfer of a 
complex portfolio would  take longer than transferring  a single fund. But it described a 23 week 
transfer timescale as unprecedented. 
It said it had advised Mr S in June 2016 to simplify his portfolios into a single  fund before the transfer 
began. It was cautious and despite the quick turn round in the first example  given it suggested a four 
to six week  typical timescale to Mr S. Fidelius  was advising some clients to leave the old providers 
platform due to certain inefficiencies. Fidelius  didnt think the old provider  would  be as quick as two 
weeks but it had no reason  to believe it would take anywhere near as long as it did. Four to six weeks 
was a very reasonable  estimate based on its previous experience. 
Ref: DRN58506328As to what had caused  the delay Fidelius said that an in specie  transfer takes  place between the 
investment providers.  It had no part in the process other than to obtain the necessary forms which it 
did without delay.  It suggested the forms were  sent to it in a somewhat piecemeal fashion.  One or two 
of the later forms were unexpected. Filling out all the forms took longer than anticipated. But it had 
acted properly  and hadnt caused any delays. 
Mr S had decided  against  Fidelius advice  to convert half of his pension fund into cash. It was only 
the other half that was to be transferred in specie. Fidelius said it didnt think  any of its other clients 
had done that. Fidelius described that as a very unusual, perhaps unique, decision. 
The logical result of Mr Ss decision was that the cash would transfer fairly quickly  within  two to four 
weeks (as estimated in the June 2016  recommendation letter). The in specie transfer, running 
concurrently, would complete after about  four to six weeks. So it had good reason  to believe the total 
transfer should have completed within about six weeks. 
But that didnt happen.  In mid January Fidelius learned  that the old providers  systems were less 
efficient  it wouldnt  transfer the cash element  until after the in specie transfer had been completed.  
So Mr Ss decision to place half his money in cash meant that money  was left with the old provider 
and in cash during the transfer process which  took much longer than expected.  In January 2017 it 
would have been entirely inappropriate to advise  Mr S to reinvest the cash  the investment period 
would have been a few weeks at most and possibly only a few days  as the in specie transfer was by 
then underway.  
Fidelius referred to the second  addendum  to the reasons  why letter dated  9 September  2016. Fidelius 
said it didnt recommend  a cash transfer  the letter  discussed the in specie fund selection  (which 
follows on from the reasons why letter of June 2018 and the first addendum  letter). Clearly Mr S was 
by then considering a cash  transfer. Fidelius gave him that option but didnt recommend it. Fidelius 
again recommended an in specie transfer via a single  fund. Mr S challenged and rejected  Fidelius  
advice more  than once and eventually  took the unusual decision for a hybrid transfer,  partly in specie 
and partly in cash. 
That wasnt what Fidelius had recommended  if Mr S had followed Fidelius advice the situation 
wouldnt have arisen. If Fidelius  had known  in September 2016 that a hybrid transfer would have led 
to the cash being held by the old provider  until after the in specie transfer had been  completed it 
would have advised Mr S against his chosen course. But as it was such an unexpected consequence  
that Fidelius couldnt reasonably  have known  or anticipated  it. 
About why he decided to transfer 50% of his investments  into cash  Mr S says (in his email to us of 2 
July 2018) that I take full responsibility for the decision to transfer 50% in cash. He added but I 
would not have done so if I had been advised that the whole process could reasonably  be expected to 
take much longer than the 4 to 6 weeks mentioned in various ways at different times.
As Ive mentioned above, Mr S has also raised  complaints about  the time taken with both the old 
SIPP provider and the new provider. Ive had access to those complaint files.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr S is disappointed  that it took so long to transfer his pension to another provider. As his money was 
held in cash  during this period he lost out financially as a result. And given the size of his fund,  
missing out on investment growth on half of his pension fund wasnt insignificant. I can understand Mr 
Ss unhappiness with the time it took. Fidelius  itself has described the time taken  some 23 weeks  
as unprecedented. 
Ref: DRN58506329As Ive noted  there  were several parties involved in the transfer. As well as Mr S and Fidelius, there 
were the old and the new providers and several investment platforms. Im only looking at Fidelius role 
in the matter.
I dont agree with what Fidelius says about it having no part in an in specie  transfer. Fidelius  was Mr 
Ss adviser.  Fidelius  had oversight of the transfer and a role in facilitating  and coordinating the 
transfer and chasing up, if necessary, any of the other parties involved; as well as keeping Mr S 
informed. And Fidelius accepts that, even  though it wasnt directly involved in the transfer process  
once all the forms were  completed,  it continued  to press  the other companies concerned to complete  
their work and it kept Mr S updated. So its against  that background that Ive considered  what  Fidelius 
did and if it could and should have done more. 
Fidelius did advise Mr S to transfer.  Fidelius  said that was because  of inefficiencies it had 
experienced with the original investment platform. But Fidelius didnt advise Mr S to do the transfer in 
the way he did  by switching  half of his pension  fund to cash and transferring  the other investments 
to two funds  and then transferring them in specie. Fidelius letter  of 21 June 2016  is clear in 
recommending an in-specie/re-registration  transfer as the funds  would remain  in the market. And Mr 
S very fairly  acknowledged (in his email to us of 2 July 2018) that he took full responsibility for the 
decision to transfer 50% in cash.  
Im not entirely  clear why Mr S decided  to do that. I think it might speed things up. Fidelius  letter  of 21 
June 2016 suggests that if the transfer had been all in cash it would be quicker than re-registration.  
But Fidelius  didnt recommend that as the money would be out of the market. Leaving  50% in cash  
and the rest to be transferred in-specie meant that it all wouldnt be transferred at the same time and 
thered still be a wait for the re-registration process to complete.
In an email in August 2016 Fidelius adviser refers  to Mr S possibly holding  money  in cash in light of 
current market value. That could suggest Mr S may have been considering  transferring to cash  not to 
quicken the transfer  process  but to take the money (or some of it at least) out of the market because 
of the then current  market  conditions.
But whatever the reason, it was still up to Fidelius  to do what it could to make sure the transfer 
completed without undue delay. Particularly  as Mr S says his decision  was based on how long he 
understood from what Fidelius  had told him that he transfer would  take to complete. Mr S said (in his 
email of 2 July 2018) but I would not have done so [ie opted to transfer 50% to cash  and transfer the 
rest in specie] if I had been advised that the whole process could reasonably  be expected to take 
much longer than the 4 to 6 weeks mentioned in various ways at different times. So Ive looked  at 
what Fidelius said about  the likely timescales. 
I dont think theres any dispute (subject to what I say below about the transfer being  done in two 
stages) that Fidelius did initially indicate a four to six week timeframe.  I note what  Fidelius has said 
about whether that was a reasonable estimate of the likely time involved   in this type of transfer and 
the examples Fidelius gave.  So it seems that estimate  was based on Fidelius experience  of previous 
transfers.
The original migration report talks about the re-registration part of the transfer taking four to six 
weeks. The report then goes on to discuss consolidating the existing funds into one as a preparation 
for that transfer although  no timescale is allocated to that. I think it was fairly clear  that thered be a 
first stage of consolidating the funds and then a second stage of actually transferring them.  The 
process was then made more complex as Mr S added another  fund to the pre-transfer stage and 
wanted a bespoke DFM which required  a transfer to a full SIPP.
Mr S says that, in his phone call with Fidelius adviser  on 2 September 2016,  he was assured the 
whole process  could  be completed by the end of September.  The adviser cant recall this and theres 
no written confirmation of it. I think it likely that Mr S and the adviser would  have discussed the 
timescale in the phone call on 2 September 2016. But its difficult to be sure that Mr S was given  an 
assurance that it would all be completed by the end of September. 
Ref: DRN585063210I note in his email of 25 August 2016 Mr S asked for a timescale. But he didnt get one. The Fidelius 
adviser was instead somewhat vague, telling  Mr S that this is Not a quick process  from here to 
conclusion though. That might suggest it unlikely  that only a week or so later the adviser  was 
prepared to commit to completion  by the end of September  2016. 
It may be that Mr S was told that the consolidation  process would complete by the end of September 
2016. That was process that Fidelius  had control of and which  in fact appears to have happened as 
recorded in Fidelius emails  of 21 and 30 September 2016. In the earlier  email Fidelius  told Mr S that 
the switches  were in progress  Fidelius having received  Mr Ss signed switch form on 13 September  
2016  and should be completed by the end of the following  week. And in the later email Fidelius told 
Mr S that the switches were now more or less complete.  
Overall I think  it was reasonable for Mr S to expect that the consolidation  process, which  had to 
happen before the transfer itself, would  be completed by the end of September  2016 but that setting  
up the new SIPP and the new investments would take longer. . 
On 25 October 2016 the new provider  confirmed  that Mr Ss application  had been  accepted.  So it was 
really only then that the transfer was set to go ahead. I think Mr S might reasonably  have thought that 
it would take a further  four to six weeks or so from then, the preliminary hurdles of switching funds  
and setting up a new SIPP having been cleared.   
On that basis  hed have been expecting the transfer to be completed by, say, late November/early  
December. 
But it wasnt completed  until the end of February 2017.  Ive looked at what  happened during the four 
month period from the end of October 2016 to the end of February 2017. 
Mr S had signed the new providers  transfer authority form on 27 October 2016. But it wasnt sent to 
the old provider  until 11 November 2016. I dont know if there was a delay in the new provider getting 
the form or if the new provider  didnt  sent it to the old provider promptly. But it meant that a further two 
weeks passed  by. Even if the delay wasnt on Fidelius part, I think it should  have chased the form up 
and made  sure it reached the old provider without delay. 
The old provider  dealt with the form promptly  it sent discharge forms to the new provider  for it and 
Mr S to complete. It seems  it took a week for Mr S to sign and return the old providers discharge 
forms (sent  to him on 23 November 2016 but not received back by Fidelius until 2 December 2016).
Fidelius then diarised the matter on 5 December  2016 for one month.  I know that was to take into 
account the holiday period. But, given the length of time the matter  had already going on, I think  
Fidelius should have been pushing to get the transfer completed quickly. I dont think allowing a 
further month or so, in the hope that, between them,  the old and the new providers would complete  
the transfer, was wise.  
I further note that, despite  Mr S contacting Fidelius on 20 December 2016 saying  he needed things 
completed by the end of the year, Fidelius  didnt  take the opportunity to check  how the transfer was 
progressing or take any steps to try to ensure that Mr Ss end of year deadline  was met. So when Mr 
S contacted  Fidelius  in the New Year it didnt have any news for him. And Mr S then expressed 
dissatisfaction about how long things were  taking.  
That does seem  to have  prompted Fidelius  to be more proactive. Fidelius did chase up both the old 
and the new providers on 4 January 2017.  Fidelius ascertained that the both investment providers  for 
the new SIPP  were ready to receive the transferred funds. It seems that Fidelius was given to 
understand that everything was in place   Fidelius  told Mr S that on 9 January  2017.  
Unfortunately the new provider then had further requirements. I dont think Fidelius  could have known  
that. And there was a problem with the new investment  platform  and one of the funds not being 
available which Fidelius hadnt been told at the time  it had been told everything was in place.  
Ref: DRN585063211But it seems  the old provider was wasnt dealing with things  as Fidelius had expected.  It appears that 
Fidelius thought the old provider would transfer the cash element first. Fidelius didnt  find out, until mid 
January 2017, that the cash element wouldnt be transferred until after the in specie transfer had been 
completed. I can see that by then it wouldnt have been appropriate to advise Mr S to reinvest the 
cash  the investment period  would  have been a few weeks at most and hopefully only a few days as 
the in specie transfer was by then underway. But the problem is that, by the time Fidelius  found out 
that the cash  element wasnt transferred first, 50% of Mr Ss fund had already been in cash for over 
three months. 
Fidelius has said that if it had known in September 2016 that a hybrid  transfer would have  led to the 
cash being held by the old provider until after the in specie transfer had been completed it would have 
advised Mr S against his chosen course. But as it was such an unexpected  consequence Fidelius  
couldnt reasonably have known or anticipated it. 
I dont agree. I think Fidelius should have checked with the old provider at the outset or earlier on in 
the process exactly how the part cash/part in specie  transfer would be done.  Particularly if that was 
very unusual  and so Fidelius wouldnt have known how the old provider  (who according to Fidelius 
wasnt very efficient anyway) would  deal with it. 
If Fidelius had advised Mr S that the cash element of the transfer  would be held up pending 
completion of the in specie part of the transfer Mr S might have opted  instead for the full in specie 
transfer that Fidelius had recommended. Alternatively Mr S may have decided to switch  all his 
investments into cash as that should prove simpler and quicker.  
But leaving  that issue aside,  I think Fidelius  should have done more.  It doesnt seem to have 
appreciated that the process was taking much longer than Mr S  and Fidelius  itself  was expecting. 
Fidelius could have  pressed the old provider  for a proper timescale and stressed to all parties  
involved the urgency of the matter. I dont  think Fidelius  recognised that the delay meant the matter  
had become urgent. Fidelius should have recognised  that and reacted appropriately by doing more to 
drive the transfer  forward.  
Its impossible to say now with certainty what the timescale would  have been if Fidelius  had been  
more proactive and had insisted  that all parties treat the matter as urgent. Or what timescale could  
have been achieved had Mr S decided to opt for a full in specie transfer. Or indeed if hed decided to 
switch everything  to cash.  But Mr S wanted the transfer done  by the end of 2016. I think that should 
have been achievable. 
If the transfer had been completed earlier  the 50% of Mr Ss fund that was held in cash  would  have 
been invested  earlier. I could ask Fidelus  to work  out what return Mr S would have got on that money 
if hed invested earlier in the same funds that he actually  invested in a couple  of months later.  
But working  all that out would be complicated   I assume it will involve  a large  number of funds. So, 
as an alternative and to keep things simpler, a benchmark index which  broadly corresponds to the 
overall level of risk of his SIPP portfolio with the old provider represented  can be used. If, for example, 
it looked  to be a higher risk portfolio Id suggest the FTSE UK Private  Investors  Growth  Total  Return 
Index (prior  to 1 March 2017, the FTSE  WMA Stock Market Income total return  index).  If the portfolio 
was more medium risk, the FTSE UK Private Investor Income Total Return  Index  would be 
appropriate. The benchmark  should be applied  to the cash element of Mr Ss fund from 1 January 
2017 to 24 February 2017  thats the date the new provider told Fidelius that it had received 
£265,069.32 in cash to be reinvested in accordance with Mr Ss instructions. 
Ideally the redress should be paid into Mr Ss pension  plan to increase its value by the amount of the 
compensation. The amount  paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
Compensation should  not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection 
or allowance.  If it cant be paid into the pension  plan Fidelius should pay the redress direct to Mr S. 
Ref: DRN585063212But had been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income.  Therefore the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated  using Mr Ss expected/actual marginal  rate of 
tax in retirement. 
my provisional  decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Fidelius  must calculate and pay him compensation as Ive set out above. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5850632