K820x#14complaint
Ms As complaint against Creation Consumer Finance  Ltd (Creation) is that its treated her 
unfairly in respect  of an insurance policy she held with it.
background
In January 2019, Ms A used a broker to find a car insurance policy with Creation. She 
completed the necessary paperwork,  and a credit agreement was sent to her. However, it 
transpired that once an error in her application was corrected (not Creations error), her 
monthly premiums reduced. 
Because of the change in the payment amounts, Ms A didnt want to send back  the signed 
credit agreement, and wanted a fresh one with updated (reduced) figures to be sent to her 
instead. 
Creation explained that it couldnt send a new agreement, and that Ms As payments would 
remain at the reduced amount. It said it charged  her £10, in accordance with its terms and 
conditions, for its non-receipt of the signed  agreement. And confirmed that the policy 
remained in place even  without that. 
Ms A complained, but Creation didnt think it had done anything wrong. So she brought her 
complaint to our service. She felt shed been  treated unfairly, and shouldnt have been  
charged the £10 for not returning the signed agreement. She felt Creations documentation 
was misleading.
Our Investigator  carefully considered all of the information, and sought  further  evidence  from 
both parties. He concluded that Creation hadnt made mistakes,  or treated Ms A unfairly, and 
so he couldnt  uphold the complaint. But he did ask Creation  to send her a letter confirming 
all of the updated financial information  pertinent to her agreement, including what shed 
already paid and what  she was still due.
Ms A disagreed, and asked for an ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that this isnt a complaint I can 
uphold.
I cant say Creation made a mistake in its credit agreement. It was correct at the time of 
printing. But the sums due each month were reduced when  Ms As information  was updated. 
I can appreciate why Ms A would have felt more comfortable with a new credit agreement 
with the updated figures.  But given what Creations told us, I dont think it was necessary.
Its since written  to Ms A with a summary of what shes  paid,  and what  shes still due. I think  
thats sufficient reassurance for her in the event things go wrong. 
Ref: DRN52847992Overall, I cant say Creations acted unfairly,  or that its been misleading in its 
documentation. Its explained why it charged  its £10 fee, and that Ms A can still get this back 
by sending back her signed copy of the agreement. Its also reassured her that the reduced 
monthly premiums shes been paying are correct, albeit the agreement  contains the original 
figures.
While whats happened here isnt ideal, I cant say Creations behaved  unreasonably  or 
unfairly towards Ms A. I think its acted decently towards her since  she complained, and I 
dont think the impact of what  happened  is sufficient to ask it to pay compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5284799