K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three payday  loans that Quick Quid provided to Mr M from June 
2009 onwards.  Mr Ms last loan was provided  in September  2009.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ms complaint and thought that he shouldnt  have been provided 
with any of his loans. Quick Quid disagreed. So the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for these loans would most likely have 
shown that the repayment  required for them would have taken a significant  portion of Mr Ms 
low monthly income. In these circumstances,  there  was a significant risk that Mr M wouldnt 
have been able to repay  these loans without undue  difficulty  or borrowing further. I think  that 
the deferrals and late fees in Mr Ms repayment history played out what  Quick Quid ought to 
have been aware  of in the first place.  
Ref: DRN50406852Mr M had to pay interest and charges on loans that Quick Quid  shouldnt have provided him 
with. So I think that he lost out because  Quick Quid did something wrong. This means  that 
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint and Quick Quid should put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans  one and two;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
deduct all interest  and charges applied from the outset of loan three from the current  
outstanding balance. An outstanding  balance  is likely to remain  even after all 
adjustments are made. So Quick Quid can deduct this outstanding balance  from the 
compensation it now needs to pay Mr M for loans one and two should  it wish to do 
so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC (trading 
as Quick Quid) should pay Mr M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019. 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5040685