K822xComplaint
Mrs N complains that National  Savings and Investments (NS&I) delayed  a withdrawal from 
her investment account. 
Background 
Mrs N contacted NS&I in October  2018 to find out how she could  withdraw funds from her
investment account  with a view to closing it. During the call, Mrs N explained that since the
account was taken out, shed moved address and changed her name. 
The agent  Mrs N spoke  to sent some withdrawal forms to her new address. She instructed 
Mrs N to write a covering  letter  explaining that her details had changed. She asked Mrs N to 
sign the letter, and arrange for a witness to sign it too.
Mrs N returned the forms with a signed  covering letter in November 2018, but didnt  receive
anything in response. Mrs N says that she called in January 2019 to chase things up, and
was reassured  the forms had been  received, but hadnt yet been processed.  
Mrs N called NS&I again in February 2019.  The agent she spoke to said NS&I was waiting
for her to provide some information. Mrs N said shed  completed and returned the forms
shed been sent already, and no-one had been in touch  to say there was a problem.
Mrs N was contacted  by a manager  who confirmed NS&I had received her withdrawal forms.
He said that NS&I would have sent a response, but it might have got lost in the post. He told
Mrs N to send a letter asking why the withdrawal  hadnt been processed,  as he could  only
share limited information over the phone. Mrs N wrote to NS&I,  and asked  it to log a 
complaint about  the delays. 
NS&I responded  to say that it had written to Mrs N when it received her withdrawal forms to 
explain that it required her previous signature  as well as her current  signature. It said it might 
have sent its information  request to an old address. It enclosed  new withdrawal forms for 
Mrs N to complete and paid her £50 compensation.
Mrs N returned the forms, and received the funds  at the start of April 2019. But she
remained unhappy with the length of time the withdrawal had taken, and didnt feel that
NS&Is offer of compensation  was adequate.  
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 4 September  2019. Ive included an 
extract below. I said:
NS&I has said that as the account was opened  in Mrs Ns previous name,  it required her
previous signature  as well as her current signature  to be able to process the withdrawal. 
Mrs N made  it clear  that the account  was registered under her previous  name  during the
very first call in October 2018. So I think she should  have been made aware at that point that
her previous  signature  would be required.  NS&I  has accepted in its submissions to our
service that the agent didnt make this clear to Mrs N.
Ref: DRN51593882Had Mrs N been told her previous signature  would be required, I think  its likely she would
have included it on the covering letter. NS&I therefore would have been able to process the
withdrawal when it first received Mrs Ns original  forms. Mrs N has since  been told this
process usually takes around eight working days. So if everything  had gone as it should, the
funds ought to have been in her account  by the end of November 2018.
As Mrs N wasnt made aware  of this requirement,  she only signed the forms in her married
name. NS&I has said it wrote to Mrs N on the same day it received  the forms to explain that
it needed her previous  signature as well. Its said it sent this request to the address Mrs N
put on the forms, which turned out to be an old address, so it cant be held responsible  for
the fact she didnt receive it. But Im not persuaded thats a reasonable explanation.
Mrs N had already made NS&I aware  of her new address during the call in October 2018,
and thats the address the blank withdrawal forms were sent to. Mrs Ns covering letter bore
her new address in the top right hand  corner. And she also included it again separately  in
the main body of the letter, with a corresponding explanation  that shed lived there
permanently since 2011.
I accept that Mrs N shouldnt have included her old address on the form itself, as shed been
told by the agent to enter her new name and new address. But considering  the evidence in
the round,  I still think NS&I had enough  information  to have understood which  address Mrs N
lived at. So I think NS&I  does need  to take responsibility for the delays that arose from it
sending its information  request to Mrs Ns old address.
Mrs N has said she called  NS&I to chase  a response in January 2019. NS&I doesnt  have a
record of this call. But given the specificity of Mrs Ns recollections  about it, Im satisfied  it
took place. I think  its unlikely Mrs N was told there was any information outstanding  during
this call, otherwise  she wouldnt  have called  to chase for a response again in February 2019.
Ive listened to the calls from February  2019. The first agent confirmed Mrs Ns withdrawal
forms and covering letter had been  received.  He said NS&I had requested  her previous
signature but hadnt had a response. Mrs N misheard the agent, and thought NS&I hadnt
received her original forms.  The call became unproductive as Mrs N and the agent were
talking at cross purposes.
The manager who subsequently contacted Mrs N then gave her a different message, which I
think caused confusion. He said NS&I  would likely have  responded but this might have got
lost in the post. And while it could be that NS&I needed her previous signature, shed  need
to write to NS&I to find out for certain as he could only share limited information over the
phone. But this caused further delays, and Im not sure it was necessary.
The previous  agent had verified Mrs Ns identity using information from her credit file. Its
clear this enabled him to see her account history because he then made reference to the
letter requesting her previous signature. So it seems that the manager  should also have
been able to review  the account history, which would have enabled him to clarify with
confidence during the call what  information  was outstanding.
It was only when NS&I  issued its final response letter  to Mrs Ns complaint in March 2019
that she was told categorically that her previous signature would be required to process  the
withdrawal. At that point,  Mrs N was asked to fill out new forms, some four months after
shed submitted her original forms to NS&I.
Ref: DRN51593883Taking everything into account,  Im not satisfied £50 recognises the impact of NS&Is actions
on Mrs N. Had things gone as they should, the withdrawal would have been completed by
late November 2018. And Mrs N wouldnt have had to chase NS&I by phone and in writing,
or submit new withdrawal forms in March  2019. I therefore intend to award  a further £100,
which would bring  the total amount of compensation to £150.
Responses to my provisional decision
NS&I accepted my provisional decision and agreed to increase its offer of compensation by 
an additional  £100. Mrs N didnt provide a response.  
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has raised any additional points  for me to address. Ive reconsidered all of the 
information and see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct National Savings and Investments 
to pay Mrs N an additional £100 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Mike Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5159388