K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Arrow Global Limited gave  him the wrong  balance  for his account  and 
misled him into thinking hed paid off his debt when he hadnt. 
background
Arrow Global  bought  Mr Fs account  from another company in 2015.  It used  another  
company (company B) to manage the debt.  In May 2017 company B told Mr F he owed 
about £160 and he arranged to pay the outstanding amount in instalments. Mr F paid off that 
amount by August 2017. Arrow Global then noticed that some payments had been 
duplicated on the account and Mr F actually owed £450. Mr F queried that and company B 
said it would  ask Arrow Global to investigate.  Company B subsequently apologised for the 
delay in approaching Arrow Global and paid Mr F £40 for the inconvenience  caused by that 
delay.     
Arrow Global  accepted  it had given Mr F misleading information about  his account. It 
therefore upheld  that aspect of his complaint and offered to pay him £200. However, it didnt 
accept that the balance  on his account was incorrect and said he should contact company B 
about making further payments towards  the outstanding debt. It also sent him an account 
statement and said hed need to provide evidence if he believed hed paid off more of the 
debt than it had recorded. 
Mr F thought the debt should be written off and approached this service. He said he didnt 
receive statements  on his account and questioned whether his account  had been mixed up 
with his partners  account. Our investigator  didnt  uphold  the complaint as he thought Arrow 
Global had done enough to resolve his complaint. He thought  the offer of £200 was fair as it 
recognised the impact  of the mistake  on Mr F. And he didnt think it would be fair to write off 
the outstanding amount on the account  as that was a debt that needed to be paid.
As Mr F remained  unhappy, the complaint  has been passed to me to make  a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr F isnt happy with the service provided  by Arrow Global. He rightly  
believed hed repaid the debt he owed but was then told he still had £450  to pay. Arrow 
Global accept it made an error, apologised and paid £200 compensation for misleading  Mr F 
by telling him hed repaid the debt when he hadnt.  It explained what  had happened and said 
it had only noticed  an error had been  made after it had told him hed repaid the debt.
I dont underestimate  how annoying and frustrating  it would have been to be given the wrong 
information about the debt and then have to wait to find out what had happened. But bearing 
in mind the particular  circumstances  of this complaint, I think  the £200  Arrow Global has 
offered Mr F is proportionate  to the distress and inconvenience it caused  and provides  fair 
and reasonable compensation. As such, I dont think it needs to do any more. Mr F has 
confirmed hes received the cheque for £200.
Mr F wants the debt to be written off but I dont  think that would be appropriate. Where things 
have gone wrong,  I would expect a business  to try to put the consumer back  in the position 
Ref: DRN56328312theyd have been in if the error hadnt  occurred. In Mr Fs case, if Arrow Global had correctly 
informed him of the amount he owed,  he could have planned his repayments accordingly  
and he wouldnt have  had the distress and inconvenience  of being misled into thinking hed 
repaid the debt when he hadnt.  But hed still have  needed to repay the debt. So I dont think  
its unreasonable to expect  him to do the same now.
Mr F has questioned whether the balance on his account is correct  and wonders whether 
Arrow Global  has mixed his account  up with his partners because its quoted different 
reference numbers.  But the evidence Ive seen doesnt support that. Arrow Global has told 
this service that both client reference numbers relate to the same loan account for Mr F and 
although it changed the reference number, it had no impact on the balance.  
Arrow Global  also explained  that the payments were duplicated when Arrow Global updated 
company B about five payments it had applied to the balance,  and company B then applied 
the same  payments to the account  again. From  the evidence Ive seen, I think thats a 
reasonable explanation  for what happened. Arrow Global and this service have asked Mr F if 
he has any evidence to show hes made payments that arent shown  on the account 
statements. But the evidence  hes provided  only show  payments that are recorded on the 
statements. If Mr F thinks hes paid more of the debt than Arrow Global has recorded, I 
would advise him to provide evidence of those payments to Arrow Global.
my final decision
Arrow Global  Limited has already paid £200  to settle  the complaint and I think this amount is 
fair in all the circumstances. I dont  think it needs to do any more.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Richard Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5632831