K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has unfairly declined a claim she made 
under her buildings  insurance.
background
Mrs Ds property had a large retaining  wall along the right hand boundary of the property. In 
August 2017 Mrs D arranged to meet  with a structural  engineer  to discuss this wall as she 
had seen some signs  of cracking.
In September  2017 part of this retaining  wall collapsed. Mrs Ds engineer  visited  again in 
October 2017 and produced a structural report. This report contained photos of the damage,  
potential solutions  to repair and rebuild the wall, commentary around the previous 
construction, and historical photos  provided  by Mrs D.
Mrs D provided  this report to UKI when  making a claim under her buildings insurance policy.  
UKI reviewed this and declined the claim in December 2017. It said the report confirmed the 
damage had been  ongoing for some  time,  and the wall had given  way as a result.  And it said 
under the policy  it wouldnt  cover  any damage  caused gradually that she ought to have been 
aware of and was reasonable  for her to have prevented.
Mrs D provided  a further report in March  2018  produced again by her engineer. The 
engineer said his comments around adequacy of the build were misinterpreted,  and in his 
opinion Mrs D couldnt have anticipated the collapse  of the wall. This was because the wall 
showed excessive  efflorescence, and so could have been reducing the thickness of the 
brickwork on the earth  side of the wall over time.
UKI said while it appreciated Mrs D had arranged for a structural engineer to attend after she 
noticed cracks in the wall, it didnt change the fact that the damage wasnt  caused  by an 
insured peril.
Mrs D complained and brought  her complaint to our service. She said it was unfair  for UKI to 
decline the claim due to a lack of maintenance as there had been no required maintenance 
for 20 years until a few months prior when cracks first appeared. Mrs D also said it was 
unfair for UKI to say the damage was of a gradual nature, as she could not see through  the 
brickwork to determine what  level of damage  was present.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. He agreed Mrs D had noticed  the 
cracks appearing  in 2016, and began discussions about the wall with her structural engineer  
in early 2017. He said Mrs D had been  unable to arrange a visit from her engineer until 
August 2017 due to scheduling  conflicts.
The investigator said he was satisfied that garden walls are covered under the policy terms. 
And having reviewed  the reports,  he agreed with UKIs comments  that the damage was 
gradual. But the investigator  said for UKI to fairly rely on this exclusion,  it should  be able to 
demonstrate Mrs D ought to have been aware  of the gradual damage.
Ref: DRN56930182The investigator felt the engineers comments showed the wall had been in place for a 
reasonable amount of time, and the monitoring  of weathering or debris and pressure behind 
the wall wasnt practical or possible.  And he highlighted the engineers comments  that the 
collapse couldnt have  been anticipated.  He also considered that Mrs D had reported the 
cracking to her engineer as soon as any a sign of movement took place.
So the investigator said UKI had applied the exclusion  unfairly, and he didnt think it was fair 
to say Mrs D ought to have been aware of the gradual damage  and when she was aware 
she took steps to begin repairing it. He suggested UKI award Mrs D £100  for distress and 
inconvenience and reassess the claim without applying the gradual damage exclusion.
UKI disagreed and said photographic evidence  had been provided by Mrs D that showed 
she was aware of the cracking to the wall in 2016.  Yet it said she hadnt taken any 
substantial action until around a year later in August 2017. UKI also said the wall was visibly 
in a state of disrepair with the cracks indicating the structure of the wall was compromised   
particularly as a retaining wall.
UKI said if Mrs D had acted in a timelier manner or instructed an alternative structural  
engineer (due to scheduling conflicts) the extent of the damage would have been 
significantly decreased.  So it said it still felt it was fair to consider the damage had occurred 
gradually, and that Mrs D was aware  of this risk and the potential implications of not acting 
sooner than she did.
These comments were put to Mrs D. She said the policy didnt specify  how long a customer 
has to action a claim  and felt it was unfair  for UKI to decide this.
Mrs D provided  further history of the wall. She said it had previously collapsed  in 1995 and 
was rebuilt in 1999. And she said between 1999 and 2016 there was no visible  evidence  of 
any deterioration at all. She said the photos  taken around 2017  show minor cracks in the 
wall, and she took no remedial action at the time as she didnt consider it to be necessary. 
Mrs D said the condition  of the wall then deteriorated rapidly leading to its collapse.
UKI still felt it had acted  fairly. It said, given the size of the wall (around  six metres in height) 
and the previous collapse, it is fair for UKI to consider Mrs D should have commenced 
investigations at very least in 2016  when the crack  was first noticed.  It said the implications 
of a crack  on a retaining wall were very serious,  and it was unreasonable to take a wait and 
see approach.
UKI also said there was no insured peril,  so even if it were  to consider the claim again it 
wouldnt cover  this event. For example, it said accidental  damage would require an event to 
happen suddenly,  but this took place over a prolonged period of time. Mrs D disagreed  and 
said the wall had collapsed suddenly.
Because UKI disagreed,  the complaint was been  passed to me for an ombudsmans 
decision. I issued  a provisional decision on 15 February 2019 explaining why I intended to 
not uphold the complaint. Ive summarised my reasons below:
Ref: DRN56930183I explained when  considering this complaint  I would  have to first ask whether the 
damage claimed for is covered as an insured peril under  this policy.  And under her 
policy terms the insurance provided  cover for loss or damage caused by certain  
insured perils  such as storm  damage, escape  of water,  fire and others. If the 
damage or loss was covered,  Id then need to consider whether UKI had fairly  
applied its terms and exclusions  when  considering the claim.
I found there was no persuasive evidence put forward  to show the wall had collapsed  
because of any one, or combination,  of the specified events. And I said it wasnt 
disputed that the wall collapsed due to its deteriorating condition  over time. Having 
read through  Mrs Ds policy carefully I was satisfied  this damage didnt fall under any 
of the insured events set out in the core cover provided in the policy.  So I was 
satisfied UKI declined this claim in line with its policy terms as there wasnt an 
insured peril for it to cover. 
I explained UKI had also relied on exclusions when  declining this claim.  For the 
reasons Id given  I said there wasnt an insured event  here for it to cover.  But for 
completeness I considered UKIs  application of the exclusion it has relied on anyway.
Mrs Ds policy outlined what the insurance will not cover.  This includes Any damage 
caused gradually that you ought  to have  been aware of and that it was reasonable 
for you to have prevented.
Under ICOBS 8.1.1 (3) UKI must  not unreasonably reject a claim. The report 
produced by Mrs Ds structural engineer commented on the retaining wall. He said 
The recent collapse of the retaining  wall obviously indicates that the construction is 
inadequate.  UKI said it didnt arrange its own engineer to visit at this time as Mrs Ds 
report had already been completed so wasnt necessary. I believed the report was 
comprehensive and agreed with UKIs interpretation  of the engineers comments   
that they indicated there was a fault in the walls  construction. So I thought from the 
report UKI was reasonably able to determine that there was no insured peril, and 
decline the claim as it did.
Mrs Ds engineer later suggested  previous comments were misinterpreted  and that it 
wouldnt have been possible  for Mrs D to be aware  or monitor  ongoing weathering or 
debris behind  the wall. But from the photos  Mrs D provided, I said it appeared there 
was visible damage from at least August 2016  across the front of the boundary wall 
including visible cracking.
Mrs D and her engineer suggested she took steps immediately once she noticed 
these cracks. But I said this didnt seem  to be the case as an appointment wasnt 
arranged until around a year later. Given the significance and height of the wall, I 
thought it was reasonable to expect  steps to have been taken earlier to prevent 
further damage. And I thought if this had happened, its likely the impact of the 
damage wouldnt have been  so severe.  So I didnt think  UKI had unfairly applied  this 
exclusion.
I explained while I was sympathetic  towards  Mrs Ds situation, I was satisfied UKI 
had fairly  applied the policy and there  was a significant period from Mrs D noticing 
the deteriorating wall to addressing the problem.
So in these circumstances  I didnt think it would be fair or reasonable to require UKI 
to pay for the damage that wasnt  covered, as no insured event had occurred. And 
least still because the damage had been apparent  for some time but insufficient 
action was taken.  
I explained I would consider any further evidence before issuing my final decision. 
UKI didnt  provide me with anything else to consider.
Ref: DRN56930184Mrs D disagreed and said she felt my interpretation of the engineers comments were  
incorrect, and it was unfair for UKI to rely on the reports she had commissioned as this had 
saved UKI costs. She also said she had contacted her engineer  as soon as cracking  had 
developed, and she felt it was unfair to say she shouldve  taken action  earlier than she did.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully appreciate Mrs D feels so strongly about  this claim, and I am truly sympathetic to her 
situation. However her comments have  not persuaded  me to change my decision.
My interpretation of the engineers comments hasnt  changed and I still believe UKI has 
acted reasonably by relying on the report she commissioned for the reasons Ive given 
previously. In terms of the timeline  of events Mrs D has challenged, I still believe the photos 
from August 2016 show visible cracking had appeared, so an appointment made around  a 
year later shows  insufficient action was taken.
Overall, while  I understand she disagrees  with my interpretation  of the evidence and the 
timeline of events, ultimately  there  is still no insured event for UKI to cover.  So I wont be 
upholding this complaint or asking it to cover  this claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5693018