K822xcomplaint
Mrs P complains, on behalf  of her daughter Miss P, about Nationwide  Building Society 
retaining Miss Ps information longer than it shouldve after her relationship  with Nationwide 
ceased.  
background 
Nationwide upheld the complaint. It paid £250 compensation for the trouble and upset 
experienced. 
Mrs P remained dissatisfied with Nationwides response,  as it still hadnt managed to delete 
Miss Ps information, and referred the complaint to our service.  
Nationwide, having  reconsidered its position, offered to pay an additional £100 
compensation. It also made the following key submissions:
Its unable to delete Miss Ps details at present due to technical issues,  it shouldve  
told Mrs P this and that its working on a solution. 
It has arranged for Miss Ps current address to be the only address on her profile  
rather than the old address.  
Mrs P disagreed with Nationwide. In summary, she said she wanted  Nationwide to do the 
following:
Delete the information it held about Miss P with immediate effect. 
Delete the information it held incorrectly about  other children.
Carry out a review and improve its handling  of data protection  complaints and 
processing. 
Mrs P also complained about her experience when she went  into branch on 8 September  
2018. She says the member of staff shouldn't have told her that she should've  advised  
Nationwide earlier about a change of address for Miss P. 
It seems  the relationship  between Miss P and Nationwide had ceased  many years previously 
when her child trust fund was transferred  from Nationwide to another  business.  
Mrs P says she moved house  in 2011  and 2013,  and would've  informed  the new business of 
a change of address. Shes unhappy  that Nationwide has still held on to information about  
Miss P, given the years  that have passed since the transfer. 
Mrs P had also gone into branch to open  a card account for Miss P, and due to Nationwide  
holding the incorrect  address, she was unable to open the account  then and there. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld.  
In short,  he said:
Having considered all the evidence, he feels that the complaint should  be upheld,  
and Nationwides  increased offer to pay £350 compensation for the overall trouble 
and upset is fair and reasonable. 
Its not for us to consider if Nationwide has breached data protection laws. Its for the 
Information Commissioners Office  (ICO) to decide. 
Ref: DRN58479052Were not the regulator, so we wouldnt ask Nationwide  to do what  Mrs P has asked 
regarding deleting  others information, although  we can consider  the impact  of the 
errors on Mrs P and Miss P. 
Nationwide appears to accept that it breached data protection rules in its final 
response by holding Miss Ps information  longer than it shouldve.  It says it has 
developed a data retention strategy  and road map under its General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR) programme with consultancy support. Whilst it has the capability 
to delete some of the personal  data held on its systems, other  data held in a similar 
way makes it difficult to separate. Therefore, Nationwide  needs to balance  the 
requests of existing  and former  members  with the efficient running of its systems. Its 
systematically working through this in three  to six month  batches.  
Nationwides response  is evidence that its working to resolve the technical  issues  
that is currently preventing it from resolving  the issues. 
It has also amended its records to reflect Miss Ps current address. 
The complaint  shouldve been  registered  by Nationwide  on 8 September  2018. The 
final response letter (FRL) is dated  8 November 2018, so slightly  outside the 56 days. 
Mrs P has referred to the complaint not being passed on to the branch manager on 
10 September 2018, but he hasnt seen  clear evidence that didnt happen.    
Branch staff shouldve  given Mrs P a clearer  expectation about her complaint.  
Mrs P disagreed with the investigators view and, in short, made  the following key 
submissions:
Shes clear that Miss P ceased her relationship with Nationwide  in late 2007/early  
2008, its not just a belief. 
Shes offended that the investigator has offered a view but hasnt used facts to 
support his conclusion. 
She questions why Nationwide addressed the complaint to her 13-year-old daughter 
Miss P and not herself. 
She and Miss P are unhappy  that theyve not personally received an apology. 
Nationwide breached the deadline  within which to respond.  Whether it was slightly 
over or not it was a breach; this shouldnt be condoned by our service.  
Shes had no further contact about when Miss Ps details will be deleted. 
Nationwide has misunderstood  the complaint despite accepting that its made a 
mistake.
Nationwide has been offensive and defensive in its handling of her complaint. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for substantially the same 
reasons. Im going  to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence and on balance, I dont think  the business initial offer to pay 
£250 compensation was reasonable. I think its subsequent offer to pay £350 compensation, 
after the complaint was referred to our service, is broadly fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
Ref: DRN58479053Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note that I very 
much recognise Mrs Ps, and no doubt Miss Ps, strength of feeling  about this matter.  I note 
Mrs P is particularly  unhappy about her and Miss P not having received an apology from 
Nationwide. 
Mrs P has provided detailed submissions to support  the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered very carefully. However, my findings  focus on what  I consider to be the central  
issues and will not go into as much  detail, which I hope Miss P will not take as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mrs P and Nationwide  and reach what  I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based  on the overall  facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice, but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
I note Mrs P makes clear  that her complaint isnt about the level of compensation but about  
Nationwide retaining  Miss Ps details, and Nationwide not being able to provide a date by 
which itll stop retaining her information, and the consequences of this. Im conscious Mrs P 
is also thoroughly  unhappy about the way that Nationwide  has dealt with the complaint from 
the very outset and has very eloquently articulated  all of the complaint points, including why 
she doesnt agree with the investigators view.    
I dont think theres any merit in my repeating the points here again. Despite what  Mrs P 
says, on balance Im satisfied her points  have been  dealt with fairly by our investigator.  I 
know Mrs P disagrees with this, but overall I think the investigator has reached a reasonable 
conclusion.  
Im sorry  Mrs P feels  the investigator was casting doubt on what she was saying;  I dont think 
it was his intention. I think  he was trying  to make clear the points that were  attributed  to Mrs 
P rather than any other party. I certainly dont think hes calling her a liar and I apologise that 
Mrs P felt that way. Its entirely possible that the September 2018 events in branch  took 
place exactly as Mrs P described, but it wasnt a conclusion that the investigator  was able to 
safely reach based on a balance  of probabilities  - in other words, on the basis of what was 
more likely than not to have happened. But this doesnt mean that the investigator  thinks Mrs 
P isnt telling the truth.
I dont feel like I need to make a judgement on this specific issue in order  to make my 
decision on the overall case; I dont think the case hinges on it. But, for the record,  on 
balance I dont see any reason to doubt Mrs Ps narrative and the difficulties Miss P faced in 
trying to open an account. That notwithstanding, I still think  the overall redress is broadly fair 
and reasonable.   
I acknowledge the investigator has made the point  clear, but I ought to reiterate that were 
not the industry regulator its not for us to tell Nationwide how to run its business or to punish 
it for its failures  thats the role of the industry regulator. This doesnt  mean  we condone  its 
behaviour. In this instance the business  quite rightly accepts it has to delete the old 
information it held on Miss P.  
If her complaint specifically involves  a data breach, then its likely  to be a matter for the ICO, 
who, unlike  our service, are subject to a different set of rules and are likely  to be in a position 
Ref: DRN58479054to impose a fine on Nationwide and require  it to change the way it handles former and 
current customer information  if necessary.   
Nationwide has effectively  explained  thats  its doing  its best to resolve  the situation, and Im 
satisfied that it is, notwithstanding the difficulties its facing given its interdependent systems. 
I understand that its a relatively delicate process and its doing the job in 3 to 6 month  
batches so as to minimise the impact  on its business and probably other customer 
information that its trying to retain.    
I appreciate that Nationwide cant  give an exact date as to when itll have  deleted  Miss Ps 
information, but in the circumstances I dont think I can blame it for not being able to give a 
precise time.  Thats not to say its an open-ended task and I certainly dont think  its 
deliberately taking its time or trying  to make matters  worse  for Miss P. 
So, in the circumstances, despite what Mrs P says, the only reasonable redress  open  to me 
is financial redress for the trouble and upset caused  as a means of compensating Miss P. 
And on the face of the evidence and on balance, despite what  Mrs P says, Im satisfied the 
offer to pay £350  compensation  for the overall  trouble  and upset caused - increased from 
£250 already paid - is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. And, in my opinion, takes into account the poor service  it provided not only in 
dealing with the complaint, but also the difficulties faced in branch preventing  Miss P 
opening a card account. 
Its not clear why Nationwide said it paid money to Mrs P, the cheque is evidently  addressed  
to Miss P who is the customer and also person in respect of whom this whole issue arises.  
This may also explain why Nationwide wrote to Miss P rather  than Mrs P. Similarly, I think  
any reference made to the deletion of Mrs Ps details was a typographical oversight, and 
what its likely to have intended  to refer to was Miss P. If, for whatever reason, Mrs Ps 
details were deleted,  shes  welcome to complain to Nationwide and refer the complaint to 
our service  if she remains unsatisfied.   
In the circumstances, other than paying compensation to Miss P, I dont think  Nationwide  is 
under a duty to explain or facilitate how she might cash  the cheque. I note it mentioned  Cash 
Converters as an option, which I understand Mrs P is unhappy about. An option might be 
that Miss P opens an account, either  with Nationwide  or elsewhere,  so she can cash her 
cheque without having to incur a commission.   
In this instance, Mrs P, as the representative  of Miss P, is not someone that I can order  
redress for; I appreciate  thats not what  Mrs P is asking for. But if Nationwide wished to pay 
Mrs P £50 or any other  amount for any trouble it feels shes experienced in representing 
Miss P, its free to do so  its not a matter I need to consider in reaching my decision in this 
case. I note Nationwide says that its paid Mrs P £50, but Mrs P hasnt received it. 
Nationwide may want  to consider re-sending this money as a gesture of goodwill. 
Im mindful of the points Mrs P makes  about the referral shes  made to the ICO. It might  be 
that the ICO reach a different conclusion in these circumstances  because  it has a different  
mandate to our service, dealing specifically with the data breach.
I note Mrs P had intended to forward any further  response to us from the ICO, but, given 
what Ive said, its not necessary  for me to have this before I can reach  my decision.   Im 
satisfied that I have all the information  I need to enable me to make  my decision.  
Ref: DRN58479055Despite what Mrs P says, on the face of the evidence and on balance,  Im satisfied that 
Nationwide is apologetic for its actions, as is evidenced by its offer to pay compensation. It 
might be that it needs to reiterate its position  clearer than it has thus far and offer an apology  
to Miss P. 
I appreciate Miss P will be unhappy  Ive reached  the same conclusion  as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what she might want to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, despite upholding the complaint Im unable give her what she wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Nationwide Building  Society should  pay Miss P £350, less any amount that it has already 
paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 October  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5847905