K820x#14complaint
Miss C is says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  her an income protection policy. 
background
Lloyds sold Miss C an income protection policy in 2013 (the policy). Many years  later Miss C 
says she was made redundant and when  she sought to claim on the policy, she was told that 
the policy didnt  cover that event. 
Miss C says the policy was mis-sold to her; she specifically recalls  being told by Lloyds 
representative, when  taking out the policy, that she would be covered in the event of 
sickness and redundancy. Unhappy, she complained to us.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Miss Cs complaint. So her complaint  has now been passed to 
me to look at everything afresh and make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. I know 
Miss C wont be happy with my decision but hopefully, shell understand the reasons why Im 
not upholding her complaint when I explain why. 
Lloyds advised  Miss C to take out the policy so it needed to ensure that it as suitable for her 
needs. It also had to ensure that it provided Miss C clear, fair, and not misleading 
information about the main terms of the policy. 
Miss C has told us that the reason  why she made  an appointment to speak with Lloyds 
representative about an income  protection  policy was because her friend had sadly  suffered  
an aneurysm and wasnt able to work  for some time. So, Miss C wanted  cover in case she 
was too ill to work for a significant period of time. The documents from around the time of 
sale support this too. 
I can see that Lloyds  representative asked questions around Miss Cs sick pay and its 
reflected that she said she was entitled to six months full sick pay and six months half sick 
pay. So, although Miss C had to be unable to work due to accident or illness for 12 months  
before being able to claim the monthly benefit,  I dont think that made the policy  unsuitable 
given Miss Cs circumstances  at the time.  And I havent seen anything else to suggest that 
the policy was unsuitable for Miss Cs needs  at the time it was recommended  to her.
Miss C says shes  dyslexic and Lloyds representative went  through the paperwork with her 
during their meeting. I cant know for sure what was said but the paperwork sets outs the 
main terms  of the policy  including the policys deferral period, the monthly  benefit  and how 
long it would be paid for in the event of a claim,  the monthly premium, the policy  end date, in 
what circumstances the policy  would pay out and the main  exclusions. So, I think  its more 
likely than not that Miss C was notified of these  features.
Although its, of course, possible  that Lloyds representative told Miss C that redundancy 
cover was included,  on balance, Im not persuaded that this did happen because:
Ref: DRN58228532Miss C signed a declaration confirming shed received and read certain  documents  
including the quotation and key facts and theres nothing  in the paperwork which  
says  or suggests in any way  that the policy covers redundancy. The quotation  
confirms that shed be covered if in the event of accident or sickness  shes unable  to 
perform the material and substantial duties of her insured  occupation.  Again, theres 
no mention of redundancy. So if Miss C was told that the policy  also covered her for 
redundancy, it wouldve been  contrary to what was written in the documents;
it looks like Miss C was asked questions about  her sick pay, but the paperwork 
doesnt suggest that she was asked any questions about her notice  period  or 
whether she was entitled to an enhanced  redundancy  payment which I wouldve 
expected to see if redundancy cover was being  considered or discussed.
When making this finding Ive taken into account that the letter addressed to Miss C, setting 
out the reasons for the recommendation and enclosing various  documents  relating to the 
policy and the advice received - dated two day days after the date of the meeting  is 
addressed to the wrong property; Miss Cs house  number is 18  not 16. 
So, I dont know whether Miss C ever received  or read this correspondence. But in the 
circumstances of this particular complaint, Im not persuaded that this means the policy  was 
mis-sold. Thats because,  for the reasons  Ive explained  above,  I dont think Miss C was told 
at the meeting when the policy was sold that it included cover  for redundancy. And the 
paperwork she ought to have received after the meeting wouldve only confirmed that. 
Further, it was open to Miss C to chase the policy documents up if shed not received  them.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Miss C to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5822853