K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mr M took out with a store card in 2001. Its been 
agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, 
Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why below.
FICL has sent us a copy of Mr Ms application  form for the store card.  This included  a 
section on PPI, with a space for him to sign if he wanted to take it out. And Mr M has signed 
in the space.
Based on this, I think FICL made  it clear  to Mr M that he had a choice about the PPI, and 
that Mr M chose to take it knowing he didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Mr M any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to him. This means FICL didnt have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Mr M. But it did have to make sure he got the information  he needed to decide if 
it was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than Mr M has told us he wouldve 
been entitled to full sick pay. And Mr M has told us he didnt have any other means he 
couldve used to make  his repayments  if he wasnt earning. So it looks like the PPI couldve 
been useful to him. And so I dont think better  information about the PPI wouldve  put Mr M 
off taking it out.
Ref: DRN54480722my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5448072