K821x#15complaint
Ms J complains that BUPA Insurance Limited has turned down her claim for her taxi 
expenses to and from hospital under her travel  insurance policy.
background
Ms J has travel  insurance cover provided  by BUPA. She fractured her arm during a skiing  
holiday. The clinic she was taken to gave her a temporary cast.  The following two days  were  
public holidays,  and the clinic arranged for her to go to a local hospital on the second day. 
When she returned home she claimed for her expenses, including  return  taxi fares  for both 
the trip to the clinic and the hospital.
BUPA paid only the taxi fare to the clinic,  as it would otherwise have paid for an ambulance.  
It said that under its policy terms taxi fares were excluded unless it had agreed to pay for 
them. Unhappy with this, Ms J came to us.
Our casework manager recommended that BUPA should pay for the taxi fares to the 
hospital on the bank holiday,  together with 8% simple interest. She said Ms J couldnt 
reasonably have got to hospital by public transport. BUPA didnt  agree  with her 
recommendation so the complaints come to me for review. Ms J complained that the fares 
were still outstanding after around  one year and that wed not recommended  the return fare 
from the clinic be paid as well.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments put forward both by BUPA and Ms J. Having  done  
so, I think our casework manager recommended  a reasonable settlement. So Im going to 
require BUPA to pay Ms Js return taxi fares to the hospital for surgery  on the public holiday 
(250 Euros each way). Ill explain  why.
The policy says that the costs of taxi fares arent  covered  under the policy, unless agreed by 
it under  the Medical emergency and other related  expenses section  of its policy. But I can 
step outside the strict policy terms where I consider it fair and reasonable to do so, and thats 
what Ill do here. 
Ms J didnt call BUPA  to authorise the taxi fares. She explains she hadnt realised she could  
call BUPA during  the bank holidays,  as her reading  of the policy  was that its offices were 
closed. In fact there was a 24 hour emergency  assistance line but I accept she didnt find 
that out until after her surgery.  
The medical evidence  is that Ms J had an impacted and displaced fracture of her arm. The 
surgery included inserting a plate in her arm. So Im satisfied the treatment fell under the 
policys medical emergency expenses. Ms J says, and I accept, that she was told by the 
clinic that due to the holiday period it wasnt possible for her to have surgery  on the day of 
the injury, and the earliest she could have  surgery was two days  later. 
BUPA has also suggested that Ms J delayed surgery to spend the following day with her 
family. But I dont think theres any evidence to support that. I see that BUPA says that if 
Ref: DRN58353572shed not opted to return to her family the clinic would have arranged  transport to the other  
hospital for surgery. It also says there was a closer  hospital with a 24 hour emergency 
department. That may be so, but I think Ms J made her decisions based  on the information 
she was given by the clinic. I dont think it was reasonable for her to make her own enquiries 
to check the information shed been given by the clinic was correct. 
Ms J needed  to be at the hospital fairly early in the day for surgery.  Given  the nature of her 
injury and the fact it was a bank holiday I dont think she had any real option but to take a 
taxi to the hospital. I also think its likely  BUPA would have authorised the cost of her travel 
to the hospital if shed  called. And, even  it wouldnt  have done, I think its fair for BUPA  to 
pay the taxi fare to the hospital. 
I note that BUPA has since said it would have been responsible for returning Ms J to her 
accommodation following  general anaesthetic. Its fair for it also to pay for the return  taxi 
fare. It must add 8% simple interest to the two taxi fare payments, as set out below.
Like our casework manager, I dont  think BUPA  must pay the return  taxi trip from the clinic 
on the day of Ms Js injury. I know  she didnt  have any other  transport. But I dont think 
BUPA would have  covered this journey, and I dont think its fair to order  it to do so. And 
though I appreciate Ms Js comments about the time the dispute  has taken I dont think 
theres been any delay by BUPA  in responding to the complaint and our communication. Its 
entitled to disagree  with our casework  managers opinion and ask for an ombudsman review. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold this complaint. Within 28 days  of the date on which  we 
tell it Ms J has accepted  this final decision  I require BUPA Insurance Limited to pay Ms Js 
claim for the taxi fares to and from hospital  on the day of her surgery (a total of 500 Euros).  It 
must add interest* to the claim payment at the rate of 8% simple  from the date of claim to the 
date it pays Ms J.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019 .
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If BUPA Insurance Limited considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms J how much its taken off. It should  also 
give Ms J a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5835357