K820x#14complaint
Mr K is complaining about advice given by Corneby Rose  & Co (Corneby) to transfer his 
deferred benefits in a former employers pension scheme  to a section 32 policy  with National 
Provident (now part of Phoenix  Life).  Mr K says the advice wasnt suitable. And he didnt get 
a 25% pension commencement  lump sum (PCLS) when  he wanted to take his pension 
benefits. 
background
Ive considered this complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 19 November 2018. 
In it I set out the background to the complaint.  Ive recapped it here:
Mr K was made  redundant in 1991.  Hed been  a member of his employers pension scheme.  
When he left his deferred pension was £591.72  per annum plus annual increases. His 
projected pension  at age 65 was £2,088.96 a year. Corneby advised a transfer  to a section 
32 policy. The transfer value was around £3,700. It included protected rights  benefits  a 
guaranteed minimum  pension (GMP).  
In early 1999 Corneby wrote to Mr K asking if hed like to have the transfer checked to see if 
hed been correctly advised to transfer. It seems  Mr K didnt reply to the first letter Corneby 
sent so it wrote to Mr K again on 1 February  1999.  Mr K did reply to that letter and asked for 
his case to be checked. 
In September  1999 a further letter was sent saying  the advice Corneby had given didnt 
comply with the Financial  Services Act 1986.  That was on the basis that Mr K retiring  early 
(before age 65) hadnt  been discussed. But Corneby went on to say that it thought Mr K 
would have made the same decision anyway.  And that it had carried  out a review  which  
indicated that Mr K hadnt suffered any financial loss. Mr K confirmed he received  that letter. 
But, based on what it said,  he didnt  think  he had any reason to be based on what  it said 
hed didnt think he had any reason  to be concerned.  
In 2017, when Mr K was coming up to his 65th birthday (in early 2018), Phoenix Life wrote to 
him setting  out the benefits the section 32 policy would provide  a tax free lump sum of 
£38.81 and a pension  (guaranteed for five years) of £533.52  a year.
Mr K complained that hed been  badly  advised  to transfer and that the section 32 plan had 
been mis-sold. He said that he thought the GMP would no longer be available after hed 
transferred. So he believed hed be able to take 25% of his pension  as a PCLS.  As his 
pension fund was around £20,086  hed been expecting to get about  £5,000  as a PCLS.
In my provisional decision I said that Corneby  had objected to us looking into the complaint  
it said Mr K had complained too late. I explained in my provisional  decision why I didnt 
agree and why I thought Mr K had complained  in time. Essentially, although his complaint 
had been made more  than six years after the event complained of  Cornebys advice to 
transfer  Mr K had complained within three years of when he became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have  become aware) he had cause for complaint. 
I went on to consider the merits of the complaint. But for the reasons I set out I didnt think it 
should be upheld.  I said:
Ref: DRN59705152Corneby reviewed the transfer as part of the then regulators  industrywide  Pension Review. 
It came about following concern by the regulator that investors had been  given unsuitable  
pension advice. So the regulator required firms to carry out a review of all pension advice 
given during a specified  period. 
Firms were required to follow  the regulators pension review guidance in completing  the 
reviews. The way the reviews were  conducted  and the loss assessment  calculations 
completed were subject to strict  internal and external quality control  checks  to ensure that 
the guidance was followed.
The regulator required  firms to carry out the reviews  and any loss calculations  at that time. 
The aim was effectively to draw  a line under any pension  mis-selling and put matters right, if 
need be, at that time, rather than wait until individuals actually reached retirement age. One 
of the reasons was that if it had been  left up until retirement (which in some  cases could be 
twenty or more years  away) many people  wouldnt  have got any redress even if they had 
suffered a loss because  the business responsible  would have ceased to exist.  . 
But because the calculations had to be done earlier a number of actuarial assumptions  had 
to be used. The regulator set down the methodology and assumptions  that all firms  had to 
use. Unfortunately the assumptions  didnt  mirror  what  has actually happened during the 
intervening period. In particular, since the calculations  were carried out, annuity rates (the 
rates at which the pension fund is turned into income)  have  fallen significantly.  That,  coupled  
with poor investment returns, has meant that some  people  are in fact worse off at retirement  
even though the Pension Review calculations indicated that they hadnt  suffered a loss. 
Cornebys review included looking at if Mr K was worse  off by transferring. I havent  seen  the 
actual calculations. But I dont have any reason to assume they werent done in accordance 
with the regulators  directions.  It seems they showed  they showed  that Mr K hadnt suffered 
a financial loss as a result of the advice to transfer.
Mr K may actually be worse  of as a result  of the advice he was given to transfer out of his 
former employers pension scheme  despite Cornebys 1999 loss calculation  indicating 
otherwise. 
But I still dont think it would be right to uphold his complaint. As Ive explained, the Pension 
Review was designed  to draw a line under any pension mis-selling. I dont think it would be 
right now to revisit the advice when was reviewed  at the time and in line with the then 
regulators requirements. 
I understand Mr Ks disappointment that he cant access 25% of his pension fund as a tax 
free lump  sum. But I dont agree with the adjudicator  that should be treated as a separate 
complaint. Mr Ks complaint is about the overall  suitability  of the advice to transfer. He may 
now point to the inability to take 25% of the fund as a lump sum as a particular reason why 
he doesnt think the advice was suitable.  But thats part and parcel of a complaint that, for 
whatever reason, he shouldnt have been advised  to transfer. For the reasons Ive explained 
I think thats been dealt with earlier. 
Mr K didnt comment on my provisional decision. Nor did Corneby.
Ref: DRN59705153my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also thought  again  about jurisdiction  
that is if we can consider  the complaint. I still think we can. 
But, and in the absence of any comments,  new information or evidence from either Mr K or 
Corneby, my views  remain as set out in my provisional decision.  I dont think Mr Ks 
complaint should  be upheld.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 21 March 2019.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5970515