K820x#14complaint
Mr F is unhappy  because Swinton Group  Ltd has cancelled his personal  accident insurance 
policy. 
background
Mr F took out a personal accident insurance policy with Swinton in 2011.  He paid a monthly 
premium for the cover. 
In August  2018  Swinton  tried to take the monthly  payment but it failed. They tried to take the 
payment again  but it failed again. Swinton  wrote  to Mr F in August to say they hadnt  been 
able to collect the premium and hed need to contact  them if he wanted the cover  to 
continue. The policy was cancelled in September 2018. It cant  be reinstated and Swinton no 
longer sell this policy.  
Mr F says he didnt  get the letter, sent in August, until after the policy was cancelled  in 
September. Hes unhappy  Swinton didnt try to contact him by email or phone  before the 
policy was cancelled.
Our investigator didnt  think Swinton had acted  unreasonably. She said Swinton had acted in 
line with the policy terms and conditions. She explained the payment had failed twice and 
Swinton had written  to Mr F at the right address to say he needed to contact them  if he 
wanted the cover to continue. As Mr F didnt get in touch she didnt think  it was 
unreasonable for Swinton  to have cancelled the policy. 
Mr F didnt  agree. He says, in summary,  Swinton  shouldve done more  to try and contact him 
before cancelling the policy. He wanted  our investigator to see if Swinton would make an 
offer because theyd  cancelled  the policy. The investigator explained she wouldnt ask 
Swinton to make an offer because she didnt think theyd done anything  wrong.  So I need to 
make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN51584772The policy terms say: 
This policy is for an indefinite period and will run from month to month from the 
Commencement Date for each monthly  period for which  we accept a monthly 
premium. Each premium is payable monthly  on the date specified in the schedule. 
Each premium paid purchases cover under the terms of the policy for the relevant 
monthly period.  In the event that Swinton are unable to collect  a monthly  premium  on 
the due date Swinton have the right to try and collect your payment  again via the 
same payment method. If Swinton are still unable to collect the premium due, or 
where Swinton,  in their absolute discretion choose  not to try again, the policy will be 
automatically cancelled.  Any such cancellation  will be confirmed to you. 
Im satisfied that Swinton have treated Mr F fairly because: 
Theyve provided evidence which shows they tried to take the payment twice  and it 
wasnt possible to do so. So they acted in line with the policy term Ive outlined above
Under the policy terms Swinton couldve cancelled  the policy automatically. But 
before they cancelled  the policy they wrote to Mr F to say he needed  to contact them  
if he wanted the cover to continue.  So I think they took reasonable steps to let Mr F 
know about the problem
Swinton has provided a copy of the letter which shows  it was correctly addressed. Id 
normally expect correctly addressed mail to arrive and Mr F hasnt mentioned any 
wider problems with receiving his post.  Although Mr F says he didnt receive the letter  
until after the policy was cancelled  I dont think thats as a result of anything Swinton 
did wrong 
Although the letter  didnt specifically  refer to the policy being cancelled it did say 
Swinton had been unable  to take that months payment and Mr F needed  to contact 
them as soon as possible to arrange a payment  if he wanted to continue  with his 
cover. So I think they made it sufficiently clear to Mr F that he needed to take action if 
he wanted to cover to remain  in place
I dont think Swinton have treated Mr F unfairly  so Im not directing  them  to pay him 
compensation or make him an offer of compensation. I also dont  think  its fair to 
direct Swinton to reinstate the policy as Im satisfied Swinton took reasonable steps 
to collect the payment  and contact Mr F to let him know there was an issue  with the 
payment. I appreciate  Mr F cant take out the same policy with Swinton, because  
they dont sell it anymore,  but this doesnt change  my thoughts about the outcome of 
this complaint.  
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  
Im required  to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision  before 15 February 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5158477