K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Mr S says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him the MPPI. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ss complaint  as Mr S didnt  agree,  the complaint has 
been passed to me for final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr S says that it wasnt clear that the PPI was optional. Santander isnt able to provide any 
paperwork from the time  but this isnt unusual  for a sale that took place over 25 years  ago 
 and businesses  arent required to keep  records indefinitely.  But because  of the lack of 
information, I dont  have enough to say that Santander didnt give Mr S a choice in taking out 
the MPPI,  so I cant uphold his complaint for this reason.
Santander recommended  the MPPI  to Mr S, so it would have had to check  that the MPPI 
was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that 
it was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI.  And 
while Mr S has told us he was entitled to generous  sick pay from his employer, and had 
savings, the MPPI couldve paid out on top of his existing cover   and protected his savings 
for other expenses. 
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr S about the MPPI  wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went  wrong.  
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back the cost of the MPPI  to Mr S.
Ive taken into account Mr Ss comments,  but these  points dont change my decision. 
Ref: DRN59844812my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5984481