K822xcomplaint
Ms B complains  about the poor service she received from Santander UK Plc over a 
prolonged period.
background 
Ms Bs various complaints  fall broadly  into the following four main categories: problems 
accessing her account online; Santander unreasonably blocking her account;  Santander  
incorrectly telling her that she could open a student account when she could not and poor 
customer service  both in branch and on the telephone.  
Ms B has asked for at least £750  compensation for the time she has had to spend resolving 
matters and for the stress  Santander has caused her. The latter has resulted in her failing 
her exams  and dropping  out of her course.
Our investigators findings can be summarised  as follows:
online banking 
Ms B rang Santander in September  2018  because she wanted  to make an online payment 
and was unable  to access her account. The records show that when she had last attempted 
online access in July, the account  had been  blocked  because she entered either an incorrect  
passcode or password. Following the September  call Santander sent Ms B new security 
details and she successfully changed her online credentials. But unfortunately she then 
again appears to have  made a mistake  accessing  her account and it was blocked  for a 
second time. Ms B called  the bank again on 11 October and another  set of online credentials 
were sent to her. When Santander  spoke  to Ms B on 19 October  it said she should  contact  
them again  if she didnt  receive the new credentials.  There is no record that she did so, 
although she told us in December that she still couldnt access her account online. 
Santanders notes  show that Ms B has successfully been using  her account online from 14 
January 2019.
Having considered the interactions between Ms B and Santander about her online banking,  
our investigator considered that the bank had acted reasonably.
account blocked
During a phone call to Santander about her account,  and as part of its security procedures,  
Ms B was asked for her date of birth. Ms B was unable to answer  promptly.  Santander 
suspected she might be someone other  than who she claimed to be, and so blocked the 
account. Ms B was asked to visit a branch  with identification, which she did, and the block  
was removed.
Having listened  to the phone call our investigator  considered that Santander could not 
reasonably be criticised for placing restrictions on Ms Bs account until she proved her 
identity by visiting a branch.  
student account
Ref: DRN53934292Santander made a branch appointment for Ms B to open a student account.  But when she 
arrived she was told  correctly  that she was ineligible for that type of account. She 
complained and was told that a manager would  write to her, but this didnt happen.
Santander has agreed that someone  should  have phoned Ms B before the appointment to 
tell her that she was ineligible, and to discuss other possible options.  It also said that it 
should have written to Ms B as it said it would. 
Our investigator found Santander to have  provided poor customer  service in this instance, 
which she took into account in making  her final recommendations  on appropriate 
compensation.
customer service
Ms B has complained about  overall poor service  from Santander both on the phone, but 
particularly in branch.  She has said she has found  staff to be consistently rude. She believes 
they have been laughing at her and their attitude has dramatically affected  her health and 
that of her family.
Ms B highlighted the following  particular instances of service  she has been unhappy about.
Ms B was a full-time student and Santander rang her one day whilst she was in the college 
library. Ms B wanted to leave the library before answering the banks security  questions,  but 
the bank put her under a lot of pressure to take the call there  and then. Santander has 
agreed that it didnt  handle  that call as well as it should have done and offered Ms B £50 
compensation.
Having listened  to the call our investigators view was that Santanders customer  service 
should have been better  than it was during that phone  call. But she thought £50 fair and 
reasonable compensation for its service shortcomings.
Ms B said she had told Santander that because she was a student she couldnt  take phone  
calls before 5pm, but the bank rang before this time on a number of occasions. Santander 
denied that Ms B had mentioned not calling before 5pm, but having listened to Ms Bs phone 
calls our investigator found that she had made  this time constraint clear.
Ms B wanted to make  a large transfer from her account and so she visited  her branch. But 
as she didnt have  her debit card, or other  proof of account ownership, the staff said they 
couldnt agree the transfer. There then seems to have followed a protracted and sometimes 
heated discussion  between Ms B and various  staff members both in the branch and on the 
phone, which also involved  Ms B phoning  the police. Ultimately, Santander decided  to 
exercise its discretion  and it allowed the transfer to proceed.
Having taken account of statements from Ms B and Santander about what happened on that 
occasion, and having listened  to the available  phone calls, our investigator  concluded  that 
the bank had done nothing wrong in initially refusing Ms Bs transfer request given that she 
had no proof  of account ownership.
In addition to offering  £50 compensation for the badly handled phone call when Ms B was in 
the library, Santander  offered  a further £60 for Ms Bs wasted branch visit and its failure  to 
send the promised letter.
Ref: DRN53934293Our investigator considered £60 too low, and instead recommended £110 making a total of 
£160.
Santander agreed to pay this but Ms B rejected it. She said Santander had caused her 
significant stress over a long period, which resulted in her failing her exams and leaving her 
course. Her student  fees had therefore been  wasted, and she considered  Santander to be 
largely responsible.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B has plainly encountered a number of practical problems in successfully operating her 
Santander account compounded by difficulties in her interactions with bank staff in trying  to 
resolve these difficulties. My findings  on the specific issues she has raised are as follows: 
online banking 
Ms B attempted to access her account online in July and apparently  made a mistake  in 
entering the necessary details. This resulted in her online access being  blocked. But Ms B 
then seems to have done nothing about  this until she next wanted to use her online account. 
I have listened  to her phone call about  the account  being blocked and she was unhappy that 
Santander couldnt just sort everything out there  and then. She didnt want  to have to wait for 
new online  credentials  to be sent through the post.  But Santander is entitled to operate  the 
system it considers maintains the security of its customers accounts  whilst best meeting  its 
business needs. And it seems to me reasonable, and in line with the practice adopted  by 
many other banks, that online  security information  is sent to customers  by post.
Ms B plainly  received this as she reset  security  on her account, but then later seems to have 
made errors in accessing the account.  Once  again  online access  was blocked  and Ms B was 
sent another set of security  details and told to contact the bank if she was still having  
problems.
From her comments  to us in December  it would seem that she was still having difficulties, 
but I have seen no evidence that she contacted  Santander about the matter. But Santander 
has told us that as of January 2019, Ms B has successfully  been accessing her account  
online.
And so having  considered what happened here Im afraid that I cannot find that Santander 
has done anything  wrong, or provided  poor customer  service, in trying  to assist Ms B with 
her online difficulties. 
account blocked
I have listened  to the phone call leading  to Ms Bs account being blocked and it is my view 
that this was a reasonable response from Santander. Ms B was asked for her date of birth 
and she said she needed to leave the room. She was asked a number of times, and warned 
that her account would be blocked if she didnt answer. But for whatever reason she didnt. 
Understandably in my opinion, Santander  was suspicious that she might  not be who she was 
purporting to be. And so in the interests  of customer  security it blocked the account until she 
Ref: DRN53934294had visited a branch  with identification. I cannot  reasonably criticise Santander for its actions 
here.
student account
Santander has recognised that it provided poor service in not contacting Ms B about what  it 
knew would  be a futile trip to the branch to open an account for which  she was ineligible.  It 
has also acknowledged that it should  have  sent the letter it promised her during  her 
unnecessary branch  visit. My view is that Santanders customer service fell below 
reasonable standards here and that it should therefore pay Ms B compensation.
customer service
Ms B has complained about  poor service from staff both on the telephone and in branch. 
With respect to the phone calls available to me, and with the exception  of the one made  by 
the bank when Ms B was in the library, it is my view that staff have done their best to assist 
Ms B in so far as they were able to do so over the phone and I do not consider them to have 
been rude or discourteous.
The call made when  Ms B was in the library was not well handled by Santander, and the 
bank has agreed  it was not.
With respect to Ms Bs interaction  with branch staff, Im afraid that as I wasnt there I cannot 
know what actually happened. The incident  highlighted  by Ms B is her attempt to transfer 
£700, which Santander initially refused to process as she didnt have the necessary proof  of 
account ownership. 
I recognise that this caused Ms B great  distress  and upset on the day, but Im afraid that I 
cannot reasonably  find that Santander was wrong to ask her for proof that the account  was 
hers. It may be that she felt that staff should know who she was and she says she had made 
account transfers previously. But be that as it may,  I would not expect banks to action a 
transfer  particularly of a relatively large sum as this was  in the absence of a debit card or 
similar. Ultimately,  it would  seem that Santander decided  to exercise its discretion and 
process Ms Bs transfer. That was a decision  it was entitled to make,  but I make no criticism 
of it for its initial insistence that Ms B must present  some form of proof of account ownership.
Ms B has made various complaints about  branch staff being rude to her and being  unhelpful.  
I do not doubt that is how Ms B feels she was treated, but these are serious allegations and 
Im afraid that  I would need  more evidence  than I have to make  a formal finding  that staff 
treated Ms B badly. 
Santander has agreed to pay Ms B £160  for various  acknowledged instances of poor 
customer service.  I consider this to be fair and reasonable compensation based on the 
evidence I have seen.  
my final decision
My decision  is that Santander  UK Plc should pay Ms B £160.
Ref: DRN53934295Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5393429