K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained about the way Hitachi Capital  (UK) Plc has dealt with a claim he made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (s.75).
background
In August  2013  Mr A entered into agreement with a company called Crystal Windows  and 
Doors Limited (Crystal) for the supply and installation  of a solar  panel system.  The system 
cost £7,500 and Mr A paid by way of a fixed-term loan that Crystal arranged  with Hitachi.
Mr A says that the system  wasnt working properly and so he hasnt received the financial 
benefits that he was told the system  would  provide  him.  He also claimed that the installation 
of the solar panels  caused damage to his satellite dish and guttering.
Under s.75 a finance provider can be held responsible for misrepresentations and breaches 
of contract  to the same extent as the supplier of goods or services.  So, Mr A made  a s.75 
claim to Hitachi.
Mr A said that he was first made  aware the system wasnt  working  when a British Gas 
engineer advised him that the solar panels had only generated  1 unit of energy.  Hitachi  
disputed this and took the view that Mr A must have known the system wasnt  working and 
had failed to do anything about  it.
Hitachi referred the matter  to Crystal who attended Mr As property and arranged for the 
guttering to be fixed.  Crystal said it would  need further evidence to decide  if compensation 
should be offered,  but it did initially offer £150  to Mr A, but subsequently offered  £350 in full 
and final settlement. Hitachi said it couldnt assess that element of the claim until the system  
had been operating properly for a year.
As Mr A remained unhappy, he referred a complaint to this Service.   One  of our investigators 
looked into Mr As concerns and concluded  the complaint should be upheld.
The investigator said he thought Mr A would have raised concerns about the system earlier if 
he had known it wasnt working  and he couldnt  reasonably have been expected to 
regularly check if the system had stopped  working.   
The investigator recommended  that Hitachi compensate Mr A for the losses  he suffered as a 
result of not receiving financial  benefits  for the period the system  wasnt working.  But  he 
said that Hitachi didnt  need to do anything  in relation to damage Mr A says was caused to 
his satellite dish or water ingress due to problems  with his roof.  He also noted  Mr A had 
claimed that the systems inverter needed  replacing, but said Hitachi wasnt  responsible as it 
stopped working  outside of the 5-year warranty  period.
Mr A accepted the investigators view in the main.  But he did claim that he had reported the 
issues with the inverter to Crystal  previously within the warranty  period  but he couldnt 
provide evidence of this.
Hitachi didnt accept  the investigators  view.   It referred to the investigators  correspondence 
to Crystal  who responded with comments for consideration.  It re-iterated that Mr A should 
have been checking that the system was working on a quarterly basis,  as it would have been 
Ref: DRN57504952evident there were  problems when he wasnt receiving income from the system.   But it says 
Mr A never mitigated his position.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  has been  passed to me to review afresh 
and make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator.
I should point  out that Im aware that Mr A has recently raised concerns that even when the 
solar panel  system is working, there is a significant shortfall in the income  he was promised 
it would  generate.  But as Mr A has not raised this issue with Hitachi  specifically, it doesnt 
form part of this complaint  and I cant  consider  it in this decision.  If Mr A wishes to explore  
that point, he would need to raise this with Hitachi  separately.
For there to be a valid claim under s.75 there  must be an appropriate debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship.  Having reviewed  everything  Im satisfied that exists here and as 
Hitachi has accepted  responsibility for the claim, I wont expand further.
Ive reviewed everything but I consider  there are several issues  for me to decide:
If its fair and reasonable for Hitachi to compensate Mr A for the period when his 
system wasnt  working and generating income.
If the installation  of the solar panels is responsible  for damage to Mr As roof and 
satellite dish.
Whether the system inverter should  be replaced under the terms of the system 
warranty.
Ive considered whether Mr A was likely  aware that the system was not operating  correctly.  I 
understand Hitachi (and Crystal) say it would have been evident something was wrong, as 
he was receiving no income from the system.   But Im persuaded otherwise  as having paid 
£7,500 for the solar panels, I dont think he would have just ignored problems and knowingly 
missed out on income.
The system was not working properly, and it was not Mr As fault.  So, I consider it fair and 
reasonable for Hitachi to compensate Mr A for that. To do that, it should base the 
compensation on the FiT income and energy bill savings  Mr A ought  to have received whilst 
the system wasnt working. 
Ive also considered the damage Mr A says was caused by the installation  of the solar 
panels.  The  installation  was in 2013  and if Mr A had thought  that damaged his satellite dish,  
I think he would have  raised it before 2017.  
Im also aware Mr A says that there was also damage caused to the roof which  has resulted 
in water ingress into his home.  But in late 2020  Crystal arranged for a solar agent to attend 
the property and investigate.  The agent concluded  the water  ingress was not caused by the 
solar panel  installation, but said it was caused as a result of lack of maintenance and 
missing roof materials.  
Ref: DRN57504953I consider it reasonable for Hitachi  to rely on the conclusions of a specialist that has 
inspected the property, and so I cant reasonably say it should compensate Mr A for the 
damage claimed for.  But I do note if any further  investigation reveals that water  had only 
entered Mr As property  as a result  of an error  with the system  installation, then Crystal will 
consider the cost of putting it right.
The final issue for me to decide is in relation to the inverter  for the system.  All the parties  
agree that the inverter is now outside its 5-year warranty period  and so Crystal has offered 
to replace the inverter for a fee. Whilst I note Mr A says he reported issues  about  the inverter 
before the warranty had expired, when  the investigator asked for further information, Mr A 
was unable to provide  evidence.  So, on balance, I cant  reasonably  conclude  Hitachi should 
be reasonable for the cost of replacing  the inverter.
putting things right
As set out above, I consider its fair and reasonable for Mr A to be compensated  for the 
period when the system was not working  correctly and didnt generate  any income.  Whilst 
Ive considered a number  of options, I consider fair compensation would be for Hitachi  to 
calculate the FiT income and energy  bill savings Mr A ought to have received whilst the 
system wasnt  working. It should  then pay that sum to Mr A with 8% simple interest from the 
date he should  have received the benefit  to the date of settlement.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint against Hitachi  Capital (UK) Plc.  To put 
things right it should pay Mr A the fair compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2021.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5750495