K820x#14complaint
Miss D is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) have passed her debt onto a third 
party debt collection agency (the third-party agency) to manage.  
background
Miss D holds a credit  card with Santander. She fell into arrears  and entered into a payment 
arrangement in 2013. Miss D says she has been  making regular repayments  since then, and  
was unhappy  to learn that Santander  had sold her debt on to be collected by a third-party  
debt collection agency  in November 2018.  She complained to Santander because  she 
doesnt like dealing with the third-party  agency, and wants them to buy back the debt and 
recall her account.
Santander said they hadnt  sold the debt, and it was still owned by them. However, following 
a review, Santander decided that some of their accounts in default  should be managed by 
the third-party agency, who would oversee the administration of the account.  Santander  said 
this was a legitimate commercial decision they were  entitled to make, and it was made in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions of Miss Ds account.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Miss Ds complaint, as she agreed  that Santander were  
entitled to appoint a third party to manage the account, and that it didnt appear  theyd  done  
this unfairly. Miss D disagreed, so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
The terms and conditions  of Miss Ds credit card account state:
23.3 We may transfer to any other person  or business any or all of our rights  under this 
agreement at any time and our dutiesIf the arrangements for servicing your account do not 
change as a result of this assignment,  we may do this without notice, but we will tell you if 
and when the arrangements do change.
Santander have  confirmed that they have not sold Miss Ds debt onto a third party collection 
agency, but rather theyve passed  on the administration of the account.  Santander  still own 
the debt, but even  if they had disposed of the debt itself to the agency, they would be 
entitled to do so under the above  terms and conditions of the account. So I dont think  
theyve acted unfairly by simply asking  a third party to help administer the debt. 
I can see that Santander also wrote to Miss D  in accordance with the terms and conditions 
 on 30 November 2018, where  they explained that her account would now be managed by 
the third-party agency. They also set out that any arrangements that had been  put in place 
with Santander  would  remain unchanged, but that the agency  would  be monitoring the 
payments going  forwards. 
Im satisfied that Santander have acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
Miss Ds account in choosing to transfer the administration of her debt to the third-party 
agency, as well as writing to her to give notice of their intention to do so. So I dont think 
Ref: DRN52959452Santander have  treated  Miss D unfairly  in the circumstances,  and I will not be asking them to 
do anything further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2019
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5295945