K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that Pareto Financial Planning Limited failed to provide him with sufficient 
information when  it advised him on the consolidation of his pension benefits, held with three 
separate providers,  into a new plan with a single provider.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued last month. 
An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat that 
information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  Both Mr O and Pareto have said 
they accept my provisional  findings. And Mr O has clarified  that his only other source of 
income is his state pension so he is currently a non-taxpayer. 
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given the both Mr O and Pareto have 
accepted my provisional decision  I see no reason  to alter the conclusions  I previously 
reached. It follows that I uphold this complaint and Pareto needs  to pay Mr O some 
compensation.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr O should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice and his pension  fund hadnt been switched to 
a cash investment for a period of time. 
what should  Pareto do?
 
To compensate Mr O fairly, Pareto must:
Compare the performance of Mr Os investment with what it would be worth  if it had 
remained in the original investment. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, 
there is a loss and compensation  is payable.  If the actual  value is greater than the fair 
value, no compensation is payable.
 
If there is a loss, Pareto  should pay into Mr Os pension  plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation. The amount paid should allow  for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Pareto is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Os pension plan, it should  pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  
Ref: DRN55267932The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Os actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. But since Mr O has confirmed he 
expects to be a non-taxpayer it seems  reasonable that no deduction is applied.
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the calculation date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the calculation date had it remained in 
the original investment.
Any additional sum that Mr O paid into the pension should be added  to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually  paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the pension should  be deducted from the 
fair value  calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return  in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Pareto totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint and direct Pareto Financial Planning 
Limited to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN55267933EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr O complains that Pareto Financial Planning Limited failed to provide him with sufficient information 
when it advised him on the consolidation  of his pension benefits, held with three separate providers, 
into a new plan with a single  provider.
background
Mr O held pension benefits with three separate providers.  As he approached the point at which  he 
would need to draw  on those benefits he took advice from Pareto on how to crystallise the investment 
returns from each of these plans and position the assets to provide a flexible and sufficient income for 
his future retirement. Mr Os wife took similar  advice  from Pareto with regards to her pension  benefits  
at the same time.
Pareto advised Mr O to consolidate his pension  benefits into a new arrangement  with a single 
provider that I will call P. As part of that consolidation Mr O was advised to take a small portion  of his 
pension as an Uncrystallised Funds Pension Lump Sum (UFPLS)  leaving the remainder  in a pension 
plan to provide benefits  that he could access  in the future. Mr O accepted Paretos recommendation  
and his advisor  completed an application  form that Mr O signed in February 2016.
As part of that application Pareto recorded that Mr Os Selected Retirement Age (SRA)  was 65 years. 
At the time the application  form was completed Mr Os 65th birthday  was just four months away.
As Mr O reached his SRA he was written to by P asking what he wished to do with his benefits. P also 
sent a copy of the letter  to Pareto. As Mr O didnt respond to that letter  and provide a revised  SRA his 
pension fund was moved into a cash investment. And the commission that hed agreed to pay to 
Pareto was cancelled.
Pareto had a regular review  meeting with Mr O in November 2016. At that time he showed the 
correspondence to Pareto and the investment change was noticed. Pareto  arranged for the funds to 
be changed back into Mr Os originally  chosen  investment. But due to them  being  placed  in a cash 
fund for approximately five months, Mr Os investment growth  was less than he had expected.
Mr O complained about this loss to Pareto.  As a result Pareto complained  to P, on Mr Os behalf, 
about the investment switch. P didnt accept that complaint and thought that its actions had been  
entirely in line with its stated terms  and conditions for the plan. And Pareto didnt think it had been at 
fault either so it didnt  agree  with Mr Os original complaint. So Mr O brought  his complaint about 
Pareto to this Service.
One of our adjudicators  has looked at Mr Os complaint. He thought that although  Pareto hadnt made  
it clear enough about what would happen at SRA, the letters Mr O received from P should have 
corrected that mistake. He didnt therefore think that Pareto was responsible for the loss of investment 
returns that Mr O had experienced, but he asked Pareto to pay Mr O £150 for the trouble and upset 
the original  mistake had caused. Pareto accepted that assessment and offered to pay the 
compensation to Mr O.
Mr O didnt agree with that assessment, or accept the offer that had been made by Pareto. So, as the 
complaint hasnt been resolved  informally,  it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time.
Ref: DRN55267934In deciding this complaint I have taken account of the submissions that have been made by Mr O and 
by Pareto. There are some differences in that information. So where  the evidence is unclear,  or there 
are conflicts,  I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have 
looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide  what  I 
think is more  likely to have happened.
At the outset I think  it is useful to reflect  on the role of this service. This service  isnt intended to 
regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a business. 
Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things right by 
placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position  they would have  been if the problem  hadnt 
occurred.
It seems to me that there  is little disagreement that Pareto completed the application form for the new 
pension on behalf of Mr O. Mr O signed that form and so it is also reasonable to assume  that he had 
checked the contents and was happy with them. But this was an advised  sale - so, in addition to 
ensuring that it provided Mr O with clear, fair and not misleading information  on the pension, Pareto  
was responsible for taking reasonable steps to ensure that the product it recommended was suitable  
for Mr Os needs, or if in part it was unsuitable, clearly drawing this to his attention.
The form that needed to be completed  in order to set up the pension account was relatively  long  it 
ran to some  24 pages.  And, to help advisors  with completing the form,  P provided  them with a 
technical guide. I only have  a copy of the guide that was issued a year after Mr O was sold the 
pension, but I understand there was a similar version  in place at that time. The technical  guide  I have 
seen runs to some 74 pages. Mr O wasnt particularly  experienced in financial matters so given the 
complexity of the application form, and the information he needed to provide,  he was heavily reliant 
on the expertise of Pareto in making his application.
It doesnt  seem to me that Pareto had appreciated the importance  of the section on the form that 
asked Mr O to select a retirement age. That date needed to be chosen  to reflect a future anniversary 
of Mr Os birth  in other words his birthday. But it could be chosen  to be anytime  up to the age of 
75 years. Pareto completed that date to reflect Mr Os next birthday   his 65th. But I dont accept  that 
this date had any relevance to state pension  age or similar. The date that Pareto chose for Mrs O was 
also her next birthday  but that was her 62nd.
If I had to try and explain  why I thought Pareto chose  that date I would conclude  it was most  likely 
because Mr O had indicated that he wanted to take some pension  benefits  immediately. And that he 
expected to take further  benefits over the coming years. So I would think  that Pareto chose that date 
thinking it would allow Mr Os pension to be set up in such a way that he could access the benefits at 
any stage.
But that wasnt  the case  in fact Mr O could  access the benefits  without penalty at any time after his 
55th birthday.  So the SRA had little impact on that choice.  But at the SRA some other things did 
happen. And those are laid out in the technical guide that P provided to Pareto. At SRA P stopped 
paying any commission on the pension  to Pareto. And unless Mr O had revised his SRA his 
investment would be switched into a cash fund  that would naturally protect the value of his pension, 
but it would limit the investment growth it could  achieve. 
In its discussions with Mr O, Pareto had noted that he didnt expect to start taking his pension benefits  
in earnest for another 4 to 5 years. So I think it would be reasonable for Pareto to recommend a 
pension that allowed  Mr Os pension fund to grow, in accordance with his investment objectives, over 
that time. And I think it very unlikely that Pareto only wanted to take four months commission from 
Mr Os pension. So that would lead me to conclude that Pareto simply didnt understand the impact  of 
the SRA that it chose  for Mr O.
In line with its normal policy, P wrote to Mr O as his SRA approached. But the first of those letters  was 
sent less than three weeks after Pareto had confirmed to Mr O that his pension had been  set up. 
Ref: DRN55267935Although it is clear that Mr O received that letter, as he showed it to Pareto  later in the year,  he says 
he thought it was just general information about the set up of his pension.  Given  the proximity  of the 
letter being sent to the account being opened  I think that is an entirely reasonable explanation. 
And I think the same applies to the further letters that were sent to Mr O. He received another 
reminder a month or so later. And then in August he received a letter confirming the changes that had 
been made  his investment  had been switched  to a cash fund, and the advisor  commission charges 
had been stopped. But given his relative  inexperience  in financial matters Mr O says he didnt 
appreciate the impact  these changes would  have on his pension savings. Once again  I find that 
explanation entirely plausible.
When setting up Mr Os pension Pareto  failed  to understand the importance of the SRA it selected for 
him. And so it failed to ensure that the pension it recommended was suitable for Mr Os needs  
within a very short space of time after the sale, P would change  the investment  basis of the funds. 
Pareto, at the very least, needed to make Mr O explicitly aware that change  would  be forthcoming and 
ensure that he understood the actions he needed to take to ensure his funds remained  invested in 
line with his requirements.
It is true that Mr O did have the opportunity to mitigate the error  that Pareto  had made. But he had 
been given detailed advice by Pareto just a few weeks earlier. I think  he had a reasonable 
expectation, given the proximity of that advice to the changes  changes that Pareto  should have 
known would be made  that he could reasonably  expect he wouldnt need to do anything else. He 
reasonably relied on Pareto,  as his professional advisor, to direct the actions he needed to take.
Mr Os pension  fund remained invested in the cash fund until he made  Pareto  aware of the problem.  
I accept that Pareto had no responsibility to provide  an on-going monitoring  of Mr Os pension and 
find the problem outside  of any annual  reviews. But Pareto did have a responsibility to ensure  that the 
pension it recommended was suitable for Mr O, not just at the start,  but over a reasonably 
foreseeable period.  And as it failed to do so, I think it remains responsible for the investment losses 
that subsequently occurred.  So Pareto needs to pay Mr O some compensation.
Ref: DRN5526793